-- Cautious Australians Ignore Rate Cuts as Housing Sags
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-24T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cautious-australians-ignore-rate-cuts-as-housing-sags.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s 125
basis points of  interest rate cuts  since November have failed to
spur demand for mortgages, deepening concern one of the world’s
costliest housing markets will extend its record decline.  The annual growth of outstanding home loans has slowed to
the weakest pace since at least 1977 as Australians repay loans
and boost savings instead of borrow for housing.  Home prices  are
down 6.1 percent from their mid-2010 peak and have slumped for a
record five-straight quarters.  That contrasts with the last two periods of declining
 interest rates . After the 2008 credit freeze, demand for
mortgages picked up within two months of the first of six
interest rate reductions, helping fuel a 21 percent surge in
home prices to their high two years ago. Rate cuts in early 2001
also spurred a surge in lending growth that helped propel
Australian home prices to 2 1/2 times U.S. levels today.  “Prices have started to come down, and we haven’t yet seen
the normal reaction to lower interest rates,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion. “Attitudes towards
housing have changed, so in the past, there was sort of a solid
confidence that house prices only rise, and therefore as soon as
interest rates come down you’d see a pretty quick response,
whereas this time around the response has been a lot slower.”  Unaffordable Homes  The annual pace of growth in Australia’s A$1.2 trillion
($1.23 trillion) of outstanding housing debt slowed to 5.1
percent in May, the weakest since central bank data begins in
1977. The median price of dwellings, including apartments, in
the country’s capital cities was A$460,000 last month, according
to the RP Data Rismark home value index. That compares with
$189,400 in the U.S., according to the  National Association of
Realtors .  The nation of 21.5 million people has the second-least
affordable homes behind  Hong Kong ’s, with dwellings in its
cities costing 6.7 times the median  household income , according
to a Demographia study of prices in Australia,  New Zealand ,
Ireland, the U.K., the U.S.,  Canada  and Hong Kong. Homes in the
U.S. cost 3.1 times income, and 5 times in the U.K., it said.  “It is a very dangerous idea to think that dwelling prices
cannot fall. They can, and they have,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a speech in Sydney yesterday. “But it has to be
said that the housing market bubble, if that’s what it is, seems
to be taking quite a long time to pop - if that’s what it is
going to do.”  No Boom  From the RBA’s perspective, and that of holders of
Australian bank debt, the newfound restraint among buyers is
welcome. The slowdown in demand for loans means the nation’s
banks are funding an increasing share of lending from deposits,
helping insulate them from rising global funding costs stemming
from  Europe ’s ongoing fiscal crisis.  The deposit share of Australian bank funding has climbed to
53 percent, allowing lenders to “be selective about accessing
global wholesale funding markets,” the RBA said in minutes of
its most recent board meeting released July 17.  Stevens last month said decisions to cut interest rates in
November, December, May and June were made easier by the board’s
judgment that there was a low risk of reigniting a boom in
borrowing and home prices. The board paused this month, holding
the rate at 3.5 percent.  “One thing we should not do, in my judgment, is try to
engineer a return to the boom,” he said in a June 8 speech in
Adelaide. “The intended effect of recent policy actions is
certainly not to pump up speculative demand for assets.”  Prices Double  That’s what happened in the last easing cycle, when the
central bank cut its benchmark rate from 7.25 percent in
September 2008 to 3 percent in April 2009.  House prices  surged
21 percent in the 15 months to June 2010, according to
government data, boosted also by increased handouts to first
home buyers of as much as A$21,000.  Lending and prices also took off after the overnight cash
rate was lowered from 6.25 percent in February 2001 to 4.25
percent in December of that year. House prices almost doubled in
the following decade as household’s debt-to-disposable income
ratio jumped from 97.7 percent in March 2001 to a high of 156.3
percent in September 2006, according to  central bank  data. That
ratio was 149.7 percent in March this year.  The slowing housing market isn’t stopping offshore
investors from piling into Australian mortgage-backed debt,
seeking assets in an economy that’s expanding for a 20th
straight year.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest bank,
is the third-biggest seller of covered bonds globally in 2012,
accounting for 4 percent of the market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Covered Bonds  Australian lenders have issued the equivalent of $34.8
billion this year of the securities, which are typically rated
AAA and remain on the bank’s balance sheet, the data show. The
nation’s government passed laws in October allowing covered bond
offerings for the first time.  Australian covered bonds sold in Europe, where the
securities were invented in the 18th century, yield an average
62 basis points more than government debt, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. That compares with spreads of
106 basis points on notes sold by British lenders and 619 on
Spanish covered bonds, the gauge shows.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the nation’s second-biggest lender,
priced 1 billion euros of seven-year covered bonds to yield 55
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate on July 2. Euro
covered bonds due in five to seven years offer an average spread
of 144 basis points, the Merrill Lynch index data show.  ‘Dampen Demand’  “The positive sentiment currently surrounding Australian
covered bonds always needs to be considered against most
investors being very well aware of the housing price
developments in Australia,” said Leef Dierks, head of covered
bond research at Morgan Stanley in  London . “Provided no soft
landing can be achieved, the price declines might dampen demand
for mortgage-backed debt going forward.”  Smaller lenders are also returning to offshore funding
markets with RMBS issues, leading the busiest three months of
such issues since the second quarter of 2007.  Resimac Ltd., which issued Australia’s first residential
mortgage-backed security in 1988, and Members Equity Bank Pty
led $670 million of U.S. dollar sales last quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The two lenders say they’re planning
further offerings while Brisbane-based Firstmac Ltd., which
manages A$5 billion of mortgages, is considering its debut sale,
according to company executives.  Offerings of residential mortgage-backed securities, where
the home loans are parceled up and removed from the seller’s
balance sheet, peaked at A$59.7 billion in 2006 before slumping
after the U.S. subprime collapse, according to data from
 Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Slow Adjustment’  There has never been a default on an Australian prime RMBS,
according to S&P. Among non-conforming transactions, there has
only been one missed interest payment on a subordinated portion.
Non-conforming RMBS are backed by loans that don’t meet
traditional lending criteria, such as proof of income.  “A slow adjustment to house prices gives borrowers time to
adjust and lenders time to work through their problem loans,”
said Vera Chaplin, a Melbourne-based managing director of
structured finance at S&P. “For the performance of structured
finance transactions, it contributes to stability.”  Mixed Picture  Government reports since the RBA’s latest decision have
painted a mixed picture of the economy: retail sales rose by
more than twice the pace forecast and  consumer confidence 
strengthened, while the  unemployment rate  increased in June and
home-loan approvals unexpectedly sank.  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since prospectors set off a gold rush in the 1850s. The
latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural gas -- is
bringing investment projects the government estimates to be
worth A$500 billion. The nation’s unemployment rate,  at 5.2
percent  last month, is lower than 8.2 percent in the U.S. and
11.1 percent in the euro area.  “With recent signs that the domestic economy had a little
more momentum than had earlier been indicated, members saw no
need for any further adjustment to the cash rate at this
meeting,” the RBA’s minutes released in Sydney July 17 showed.  “Australian householders remain firmly in de-gearing mode,
hence the subdued credit growth and house prices that we’re now
seeing,” said Chris Viol, a credit analyst at UBS AG in Sydney.
“Together with the advent of new funding sources like covered
bonds, the result has been an improvement to Aussie banks’
wholesale funding profiles. This is music to rating agency and
credit investors’ ears.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  