-- CFTC Proposes Swaps Clearing Determinations Under Dodd-Frank Act
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-24T23:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cftc-proposes-swaps-clearing-determinations-under-dodd-frank-act.html
Interest-rate and credit-default
swaps must be guaranteed by clearinghouses starting this fall
under a proposal approved by the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  to reduce risk in the $648 trillion global market.  The proposal, approved 5-0 by CFTC commissioners in a
private vote, would require that four types of  interest-rate
swaps  denominated in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and
Japanese yen be settled at clearinghouses that stand between
buyers and sellers, according to an agency statement released
yesterday.  The measure would govern swaps conducted by companies
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Cargill Inc. Credit swaps in two indexes would face clearing
requirements under the proposal, the CFTC said.  “One of the primary benefits of swaps-market reform is
that standard swaps between financial firms will move into
central clearing, which will significantly lower the risks of
the highly interconnected financial system,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act directed the CFTC and Securities
and Exchange Commission to reduce risk in the market after
largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis
that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
U.S. bailouts of companies including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  The agencies are striving to meet an end-of-year
deadline set by Group of 20 member nations to bolster oversight.  Public Comment  The CFTC has 90 days to complete proposed determinations,
which may lead the first swaps to face mandatory clearing
beginning in late October or early November. In a separate 5-0
vote, CFTC commissioners yesterday approved a rule governing
when banks and other firms must comply with clearing
requirements. The rule requires swap dealers to be first among
firms to clear swaps 90 days after the determinations are final.
If the determination is completed by November, swap dealers
might need to complete the requirement by February.  Clearinghouses operated by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
guarantee swaps. The determinations proposal will be open for 30
days of public comment.  The measure would require clearing of credit swaps tied to
North American and European indexes. Clearing wouldn’t be
required for tranches of credit indexes.  The CFTC may later decide to require clearing for energy,
agricultural and equity indexes, the agency said.  ‘Safety and Fairness’  “These rules bring safety and fairness to the swaps
customer, while protecting the U.S. taxpayer in the next
crisis,” James Cawley, board member of the Swaps and
Derivatives Markets Association, said in a statement. The group
includes Newedge USA LLC,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and R.J. O’Brien
& Associates among other members. “The list of clearable swaps
is rather complete and consistent with what clearinghouses are
currently processing,” Cawley said in a telephone interview.  Gensler said in 2010 before Dodd-Frank was enacted that he
expected clearing for many standardized swaps. “I believe that
a significant portion of the market will be subject to this
mandatory clearing requirement,” Gensler said in a July 1, 2010
 letter  to Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, that
cited industry estimates that as much as 75 or 80 percent of the
swaps market was standard enough to be cleared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  