-- China Vows to Secure More Overseas Energy After Cnooc Purchase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-24T07:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/china-vows-to-secure-more-overseas-energy-after-cnooc-purchase.html
China ’s government said it will
“proactively” invest in energy projects abroad to secure
reliable supplies for its expanding  economy , a day after the
announcement of two overseas acquisitions for $16.6 billion.  Authorities will boost financial aid and guidance for
energy investments, the Beijing-based National Development and
Reform Commission, the country’s top economic-planning agency,
said today in a state plan for the period through 2015.  The report signals leaders may seek to build on
transactions including yesterday’s announcement that  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, will buy Canada’s
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  for $15.1 billion in the biggest overseas takeover by
a Chinese company. China is the world’s second-largest importer
of crude oil and Yi Gang, head of the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange, said July 21 that the nation faces a window of
opportunity to venture overseas.  “China will invest in overseas energy and mineral resource
development projects to secure long-term, stable, reasonable and
secure supplies of energy and resources,” the NDRC said in the
23-page plan. “China will diversify sources of energy imports
to ensure supply security.”  Nexen is one of two major Chinese energy acquisitions
announced yesterday. China Petrochemical Corp. agreed to spend
$1.5 billion for a 49 percent stake in Calgary-based  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s U.K. unit after spending $2.2 billion last year to
buy Daylight Energy Ltd., also of Calgary.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Baizhen Chua in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  