-- China Developers Rise on Nanjing Housing Policy: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-24T07:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/china-developers-rise-on-nanjing-housing-policy-shanghai-mover.html
China’s property stocks rose, with
the gauge tracking developers on the Shanghai Composite Index
advancing for the first time in five days, after a report that
said the city of Nanjing offered incentives for some homebuyers.  The property  measure  increased 1.1 percent at the local
close, the biggest gain among five industry groups on the
benchmark index.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer
on mainland exchanges, climbed 1.3 percent to 9.33  yuan  in
Shenzhen, the biggest gain in more than a week.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, added 2.1 percent to 11.44 yuan.  Nanjing, in the east, proposed yesterday to promote the
 property market  by offering housing provident fund loans to
first-time homebuyers and subsidizing purchases by so-called
qualified professionals, China News Service reported yesterday
after a press conference by the local government. The city will
also allocate as much as 2 billion yuan ($313 million) of
provident fund loans to social housing construction by the end
of the year, it said.  “It’s a signal that the local governments are trying to
further boost the property market,” wrote  Eric Zhang , a
Beijing-based property analyst at China International Capital
Corp., the country’s biggest investment bank, in a note to
clients today. “No big relaxation could be accepted by the
central government for now, so they chose a smart way of
supporting first-home buyers and social housing.”  China won’t relax property controls and ordered local
governments that have eased housing policies to “strictly
implement” them to prevent a rebound in prices, Xinhua News
Agency reported last week, citing an “urgent notice” jointly
issued by the land and housing ministries. Local governments
should not relax property curbs without authorization, while
those that have already eased should immediately correct them,
the notice said.  Sales volume will stay “robust” in July, Deutsche Bank AG
Hong Kong-based analysts, led by  Tony Tsang , said in a report
today, citing pricing, availability of  mortgage loans  for first-
home purchases, and improving buying sentiment.  The possibility of further tightening measures is slim,
while the government will strengthen implementation of current
policies, the analysts wrote.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  