-- China Manufacturing Gauge Shows Slowdown May Be Ebbing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-24T06:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/china-manufacturing-may-contract-at-slower-pace-hsbc-index-says.html
China ’s manufacturing may contract
at a slower pace in July after two interest-rate  cuts  and a
rebound in lending spurred demand in the world’s second-largest
economy, a private survey indicated.  The preliminary reading was 49.5 for a  purchasing managers’
index  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
If confirmed, that would be the highest since February. In June,
the final number was 48.2.  A  slowdown  triggered by weakness in exports, a crackdown on
housing speculation and past monetary tightening has sent
Chinese stocks to their lowest level since 2009. Standard
Chartered Plc estimates expansion will rebound to above 8
percent this quarter after sliding to 7.6 percent in the April-
June period.  “Earlier easing measures are starting to work,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist for HSBC, said in
a statement. “That said, the below-50 July reading implied
demand still remaining weak and employment under increasing
pressure. This calls for more easing efforts to support growth
and jobs.”  A final reading below 50 would cap a nine-month run, the
longest in the index’s eight-year history and surpassing the
stretch from August 2008 to March 2009.  The preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is based on
85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of more than
420 companies, according to HSBC. The government’s own monthly
index, due to be released on Aug. 1, had a June reading that was
the lowest since November.  Yuan, Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent as of 2:38
p.m. local time, while the yuan was little changed at 6.3857 per
dollar. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of stocks was little changed.  Separately today, the Conference Board said its leading
index for  China’s economy  rose 0.1 percent in June from May,
citing a preliminary reading. That compares with a 1.1 percent
gain in May, the New York-based research group said.  The HSBC/Markit survey showed production, new orders and
new export orders may improve while employment may worsen. The
production gauge’s preliminary reading for July was 51.2, a
nine-month high and the first time above 50 in five months,
compared with a final reading of 49.3 in June, HSBC said.  The employment gauge may decline in July to the lowest
level since March 2009, HSBC said.  ZTE Profit  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest maker of
telecommunications equipment, said this month that first-half
profit may have declined as much as 80 percent. At the same time,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, reported accelerating
first-half sales growth as Chinese and U.S. demand helped its
premium Audi division and namesake VW brand.  “Conditions are deteriorating in the global economy with
the European fiscal crisis resurfacing,”  South Korea ’s  Finance
Ministry  said today in a report to parliament.  A preliminary manufacturing index is due in the U.S. today,
with analysts predicting a reading of 52 for July down from a
final 52.5 in June, according to the  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg News survey. Also in the U.S., the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  releases a home-price index and the Richmond
Federal Reserve gives manufacturing survey results.  Manufacturing and services data is due today in  France ,
 Germany  and the euro region.  Yen Concern  In Asia, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  indicated
increased concern about the yen’s advance, a signal that the
government could intervene in foreign-exchange markets.  “It’s obvious that recent one-sided moves in the yen fail
to reflect the real state of the Japanese economy,” Azumi said
at a press conference in  Tokyo  today. “We won’t rule out any
possible options to counter excessive moves” he said, adding
that he is “ready to act decisively if needed.”  The People’s Bank of China has cut interest rates twice in
the past two months and widened the discount on benchmark
lending rates that banks can offer to clients.  Chinese banks may issue 1 trillion yuan ($157 billion) of
new local-currency  loans  in July as “the government’s stimulus
policies are transmitted to the real economy,”  Zhang Zhiwei, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a
July 19 note to clients. China’s gross domestic product growth
bottomed in the second quarter and will rebound in the second
half, he said. Loans totaled 919.8 billion  yuan  in June.  Investment Pickup  Fixed-asset  investment  excluding rural households
accelerated in June, with the government reporting 20.4 percent
growth in the first half from a year earlier, up from 20.1
percent in the first five months of 2012. The government has
boosted its planned railway investment this year by 9 percent,
based on a statement dated July 6 on the website of the National
Development and Reform Commission’s Anhui branch.  China’s property market may be starting to rebound after
government restrictions pushed down prices. New home prices in
June rose in the most number of cities tracked by the government
in 11 months as buyer sentiment improved with lower  interest
rates .  Not all signs are pointing to an immediate acceleration in
the nation’s economy.  More than 2,000 Hong Kong-owned factories in the  Pearl
River Delta  may close this year as export orders fall and wages
rise, Stanley Lau, deputy chairman of the Federation of Hong
Kong Industries, said last week. The organization’s members have
garment, watch, toy and footwear factories in the export hub of
Guangdong.  Labor Situation  Wen said last week that he sees a more “severe” Chinese
employment situation ahead and that the world economy faces
“more factors of instability and uncertainty” as well as
“downward pressure.”  Sany Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest maker of
excavators, lowered its annual unit-sales forecast, Vice
Chairman Xiang Wenbo said in a July 11 interview. A “meaningful
recovery” in demand for earth-moving equipment may not be
visible until the first quarter of next year, Xiang said.  Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s Bank of
China monetary policy committee, on July 21 predicted economic
growth may cool to 7.4 percent this quarter. He said a drop in
producer prices, combined with rising consumer prices, may hurt
investment returns of industrial companies, damping their desire
to expand.  China’s  export  growth in the first half cooled to 9.2
percent, down from 24 percent in the first six months of 2011,
as Europe’s austerity measures and government debt burdens
capped shipments. The nation is targeting 10 percent gains in
exports and imports combined for the year.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Zheng Lifei and Nerys Avery in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  