-- China to Flood Steel Market Hurting ArcelorMittal: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T11:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/china-to-flood-steel-market-hurting-arcelormittal-commodities.html
China, the world’s biggest steel
producer, is exporting at the highest level in two years,
exacerbating a global glut that may hurt competitors from
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  to  U.S. Steel (X)  Corp.  Monthly shipments abroad rose to 8.7 percent of domestic
output last month, the highest proportion since July 2010.
Chinese steel mills, set for a record production in 2012, are
ramping up overseas sales to avoid a softer domestic market,
where  prices  for the commodity have dropped to a two-year low.  ArcelorMittal of Luxembourg, which posted a 28 percent
slump in second-quarter profit today, and peers in developed
markets are closing plants amid slower economies and lower
prices. In contrast, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is overseeing a
$23 billion investment in new mills to stimulate automaking and
housing to reignite growth that fell in the second quarter to
the slowest in three years. The strategy already is sparking
unfair-trade charges by Western rivals.  “Increased Chinese exports take sales directly away from
American producers,”  Alan Price  of Wiley Rein LLP, which acts
as the trade attorney for  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest U.S.
steelmaker by market value, said in an e-mail response to
questions. “It is highly likely that current Chinese exports
across a range of products are being dumped.”  Three calls to Zhang Changfu, general secretary of the
China Iron and Steel Association, went unanswered.  ArcelorMittal is not currently concerned about Chinese
exports to Europe and it sees Chinese production volumes matched
by domestic demand, according to Aditya Mittal, the company’s
chief financial officer. “At this point in time we are not
concerned,” he said today in a telephone call with reporters.  Sales Decline  The company said today that sales in the second quarter
dropped 10.5 percent to $22.5 billion from a year ago as it sold
  less steel. It also took a $190 million charge in the quarter  from the closure of plants in Liege, Belgium.  The 43-member  Bloomberg Global Steel Producers index  has
lost 18 percent this year, headed for a third annual drop.
That’s a bigger loss than raw materials, the worst-performing
sector of 10 in the MSCI World Index, which fell 7.2 percent.
The top gainer on the steel index is China’s Guangzhou Iron and
Steel Co., up 18 percent. The biggest decliner is Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA of Brazil, down 45 percent.  Daily steel production in China rebounded to 2 million
metric tons in June, the second highest following a record of
2.02 million tons set in April. Output, already more than twice
the combined daily production in Japan, the U.S., India and
Russia, may climb 5.4 percent to 720 million tons this year,
further outpacing domestic consumption, according to the median
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Idling Plants  “Chinese mills have to boost exports as they don’t have
self-control on production,” said Xu Zhongbo, chief executive
officer of Beijing Metal Consulting Ltd. and a professor at the
University of Science & Technology in Beijing.  Reducing output would require idling plants and laying off
workers, Xu said. “All those things would incur losses while
competitors will come in and take up market share.”  ArcelorMittal, the biggest producer, has shuttered or idled
plants as demand waned and Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel sold its
unprofitable Serbian division this year.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the
largest in Germany, said May 15 that “intense competition”
will crimp a recovery in steel unit earnings in the second half.  European hot rolled steel has fallen about 6 percent in the
past 12 months to 517.50 euros a metric ton, according to Metal
Bulletin prices on Bloomberg.  BlueScope, OneSteel  “European companies cannot prepare themselves” for the
likely influx of Chinese imports,  Tom Muller , a senior analyst
at Amsterdam-based Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV, said in an e-
mail response to questions. “Due to the economic situation they
are already downsizing.”  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s largest mill, and rival
OneSteel Ltd. have reduced capacity as they battle a rising
Australian dollar and lower steel prices. India’s  Tata Steel
Ltd. (TATA)  reported a worse-than-expected 90 percent drop in fourth-
quarter profit, in May.  Moody’s Investors Service today put  Posco (005490) ’s a3 foreign
currency bond rating on review for a downgrade, citing
sluggishness in the regional steel industry. The South Korean
company yesterday reported a 44 percent slide in second-quarter
profit.  Profitability at European blast furnace steel mills has
plunged 23 percent in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries. The ratio of profit to sales at
Japanese  steel mills  ended March 31 was -0.3, the lowest since
2009.  European Demand  European demand in a so-called normal market is 160 million
tons compared with local production capacity of 210 million
tons, making shutdowns inevitable, industry lobby group Eurofer
said last month.  China’s output capacity may have reached 900 million tons,
including about 80 million tons that started operation last
year, the China Iron and Steel Association said on its website
April 28. Baosteel Group Corp., Wuhan Iron & Steel Group and
Shougang Corp. won government approval for new projects in May.  Steel demand in China may reach 750 million tons in 2015
and peak at about 820 million tons during 2015-2020, the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  said on its
website.  “Exports have become an important market because of
mounting pressure on domestic sales,” said Zhang Fenghua, an
export manager of Hebei Iron & Steel Group, China’s biggest
producer, by phone. Hebei Steel sells flat products mainly to
South Korea,  Southeast Asia  and  South America , he said.  Anti-Dumping Actions  Tianjin Metallurgical No. 1 Steel Group, a state-owned mill
in the northern city of Tianjin, said it’s tapping markets in
 Middle East , South America and Africa.  “We are increasing sales to these destinations to shun
regions that have taken a lot anti-dumping actions against
China,” said Lin Yan, the company’s export manager.  China is battling the slowest pace of growth since the
depths of the global financial crisis in 2009, as the  European
debt crisis  curbs exports and the nation’s own efforts to
prevent a property bubble. Premier Wen said July 8 the downward
pressure on  China’s economy  is still “relatively large” and
the government will intensify fine-tuning of policies and
continue property controls, according to the official Xinhua
News Agency.  The nation’s manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in
seven months as overseas orders dropped. The  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index fell to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said July 1.  Russian Measures  Countries in South America and Asia have joined Europe and
the U.S. in taking anti-dumping actions against Chinese exports.
Russia has already begun protective measures and put up tax
barriers to limit imports of steel products with polymer color
coating from China, according to Anton Bazulev, a member of the
managing committee of the Russian Steel consortium, an industry
group that represents Russia’s largest steelmakers.  The aggregate profit of Chinese  steel industry  fell 49
percent for the first five months this year from a year ago, the
National Development and Reform Commission said July 23. Thirty-
four percent of the 80 Chinese steelmakers monitored by the
China Iron and Steel Association incurred losses in the first
four months of this year, the group said on its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  