-- Clearwire Drops Below $1 as Funding Crunch Looms: Seattle Mover
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-24T20:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/clearwire-drops-below-1-as-funding-crunch-looms-seattle-mover.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the unprofitable
company attempting to build a wireless network across the U.S.,
fell below $1 in trading today amid concern that it’s running
out of money.  The stock fell 9.8 percent to 92 cents at the close in  New
York , the lowest level since it began trading in March 2007. The
shares have fallen 53 percent this year through today. Analysts
are projecting a loss of more than $200 million when the
Bellevue, Washington-based company releases its second-quarter
results on July 26.  Clearwire relies on  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , its majority owner
and biggest customer, for the bulk of its revenue. For
investors, Clearwire’s underlying value comes from its spectrum
holdings -- airwaves that can be used to provide wireless
services. Recent telecommunications deals have increased the
supply of usable spectrum, raising concern that Clearwire’s
assets aren’t as valuable, said Thomas Seitz, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “The stock is down because they have a funding gap, and
the way most investors thought they would fill that funding gap
was by selling spectrum,” Seitz said.  Verizon Wireless  entered a deal last month with T-Mobile
USA Inc. to swap spectrum.  AT&T Inc. (T) , meanwhile, is working with
Sirius XM Radio Inc. to make more airwaves available.  Clearwire had $1.4 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of March 31, an amount that isn’t sufficient to
fund cash-flow shortfalls and interest expense through 2013,
according to  Dave Novosel , a senior bond analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC in Chicago.  The clock is ticking, said Jonathan Schildkraut, an analyst
at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.  “While many believe their spectrum has tremendous value,
there is a chance that they aren’t going to have enough money to
get to the point where their spectrum value would be realized,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  