-- Clear Solar Film Means Power From Windows, UCLA Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-24T15:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/clear-solar-film-means-power-from-windows-ucla-says.html
Researchers at the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles  have developed a transparent film that
may be affixed to glass and other surfaces to capture sunlight
and generate electricity.  The film is suitable for windows in highrise buildings, car
sunroofs and consumer electronics such as the back of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, Yang Yang, a professor at UCLA’s  California 
NanoSystems Institute, said in an interview yesterday.  The film may eventually be sprayed on to surfaces, a low-
cost process that would bring cheap solar energy to a broad
range of new products, he said. This technique would make solar
systems easier to install than the rigid panels made from
polysilicon or thin films that are the industry’s standard
product now.  “It’s my dream that everyone’s window can be a solar panel
in the future,” said Yang. “It could be potentially very
cheap.”  The team’s polymer  solar cell  converts infrared light,
which is invisible to the human eye, into an electrical current.
The technology uses silver nanowires about 0.1 microns thick,
about one-thousandth the width of a human hair, and titanium
dioxide nanoparticles as an electrode with a near-infrared
light-sensitive polymer.  The cell is less efficient than commercial solar products
available now. It converts about 4 percent of the sun’s energy
into electricity. First Solar reported conversion efficiency of
12.4 percent in the first quarter. Yang said his team has tested
films that yielded as much as 11 percent, and aims to push
higher.  Sprayable Solar  He eventually envisions robots spraying the plastic film
onto surfaces, much like the painting processes in auto
factories now.  The substance is currently applied to glass and will also
work on any smooth flat surfaces, such as consumer electronic
devices that may be recharged by the sun. It’s not yet suitable
for the screen of an iPad, because the film may interfere with
the touch-sensitive screen, he said.  “Our idea is to fabricate the device such that it could be
a transparent film like Scotch Tape,” said Yang.  He estimated that the film may eventually be installed for
about $10 to $15 for an average home window, though a marketable
product is still several years away. The idea is attracting
commercial interest and he said he’s been contacted by “several
companies” that he wouldn’t name.  Prices for conventional silicon-based solar panels have
 fallen  more than 40 percent in the past year to about 77 cents a
watt, due to an oversupplied market. That helped push several
solar technology startups out of business, including Konarka
Technologies Inc., which developed a similar, transparent, solar
polymer that may be attached to glass and other surfaces.  “I’m confident that someone, if not me, will bring this to
the market and we will all benefit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  