-- Cocoa Usage Seen Falling as Grinders Erode World Butter Glut
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-24T11:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cocoa-usage-seen-falling-as-grinders-erode-world-butter-glut-1-.html
Global cocoa usage may drop for the
first time in three years as grinders use cocoa butter
stockpiles instead of processing the beans to meet demand in the
$108 billion chocolate market.  World bean grindings this season will probably drop for the
first time since 2008-09, according to  Jonathan Parkman , co-head
of agriculture at broker Marex Spectron Group in London.
Declines in European and U.S. cocoa grindings in the second
quarter probably turned the market into a surplus of more than
100,000 metric tons from a small shortage, Parkman said.  Chocolate demand is averting a slowdown unlike the 2009
global recession because of low cocoa butter prices. Sales
volume will rise 1.2 percent this year, according to Euromonitor
International Ltd., a consumer research company in London. When
cocoa beans are ground, 80 percent are transformed into liquor,
which is then processed into powder and butter. Cocoa butter can
be sold in solid form in boxes or as liquid.  “Some European grinders, who can, have been melting liquor
and butter to supply some of their contracts instead of grinding
beans,” said Peter G. Johnson, chief executive officer at
Morristown, New Jersey-based Transmar Commodity Group Ltd., a
cocoa processing company with factories in  Europe ,  Ecuador  and
the U.S. “The cost of purchasing boxed butter and liquor in
many cases was cheaper than producing from beans.”  El Nino  Cocoa prices in London have climbed 12 percent this year on
speculation El Nino, a warming of the  Pacific Ocean , will curb
production. Global chocolate sales are valued at $108 billion
this year, Euromonitor estimates. Cocoa for December delivery
was unchanged at 1,544 pounds ($2,397) a ton by 12:34 p.m. on
NYSE Liffe in London. The price reached 1,564 pounds a ton
earlier today, the highest since July 11.  Cocoa processing in Europe fell 18 percent in the second
quarter to a three-year low and declined 9.8 percent in  North
America . In Malaysia, Indonesia and  Singapore , where consumption
of cocoa powder had been rising, bean processing advanced 5.7
percent, the Cocoa Association of  Asia  said.  Euromar Commodities GmbH, owned by Transmar, slowed
processing at its factory in Fehrbellin,  Germany , Johnson said.
The plant has an annual capacity of 100,000 tons, according to
Transmar’s website. Delfi Cocoa (Europe) GmbH, a division of
Singapore-based  Petra Foods Ltd. (PETRA) , started to renovate its plant
in Hamburg on July 1, instead of next year, which has resulted
in slower bean processing, said Karel Menu, managing director of
the company, in Zaandam, the Netherlands. He declined to
disclose annual grinding capacity.  Butter Inventories  Cocoa butter inventories came to 150,000 tons, or 15
percent of global production, Steven Haws, founder of cocoa
researcher Commodities Risk Analysis LC, said in November.
Factories have bought back cocoa butter to stop grinding after
powder prices fell, he said last week.  Powder prices, which reached a high of 4,100 euros ($4,968)
a ton last year, have dropped to about 3,000 euros a ton,
according to Haws. Cocoa butter, which trades as a ratio to the
price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , is about 1.2 times
the exchange price, up from 1 last year, he said.  “In the last six months, butter buyers were happy to
purchase as far forward as they could because they considered
the price to be cheap, while powder buyers were happy to run
down their cover and wait for lower prices,” Haws said.  Global chocolate sales are forecast to climb to 7.1 million
tons this year, says Euromonitor. Sales volume will advance 0.6
percent in Western Europe and fall 4.8 percent in the U.S., the
researcher estimates.  Making Chocolate  “At the moment making chocolate is really cheap because of
low butter ratios, bean and liquor prices,” Marex Spectron’s
Parkman said. “Chocolate makers’ margins have improved
dramatically.”  Cocoa beans are turned into butter, needed to make
chocolate, and powder, used in ice-cream, cookies and soft
drinks. Cocoa butter accounts for about 20 percent of the weight
of a chocolate bar.  European grinders may be looking ahead and preparing for a
potential drop in demand if economies slow even more, according
to Kona Haque, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.
Processing retreated 6.5 percent in 2008-09, the biggest decline
since 1960, according to the International Cocoa Organization in
London. In Europe, grindings fell 5.7 percent in 2009.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if we ended the year worse than
in 2009,” said Javier Almela, chief purchasing officer at  Natra
SA (NAT)  in Valencia,  Spain , which buys almost 40,000 tons of cocoa a
year, commenting on Europe. “The third-quarter figures are
unlikely to be positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  