-- Colorado Attack Victims May Have Little Chance in Suits
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-24T13:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/colorado-shooting-victims-may-have-little-chance-in-suits.html
Family members of those killed and
survivors of the shooting at an Aurora,  Colorado , movie theater
may find it difficult to pursue civil liability claims tied to
the attack, which resulted in 12 dead and 58 injured.  The potential for liability would center on the safety and
security procedures at the theater where the July 20 shooting
took place, or the university where the suspect, James Holmes,
allegedly received packages of ammunition, law professors and
practicing attorneys said.  Inquiries by plaintiffs’ lawyers are unlikely to lead to
successful lawsuits because such cases require some proof that a
company or organization acted unreasonably, and knew, or should
have known, about the danger posed, said Tom Russell, a
University of Denver law professor.  That’s especially difficult to demonstrate when the crime
is as horrific as last week’s shooting, was committed by someone
who isn’t an employee of the theater, and couldn’t have been
predicted, Russell said in an interview.  “In any instance where the crime is so beyond the typical
bounds of criminal behavior like this one was, it becomes more
difficult to bring the suit,” Russell said. “This is really a
random kind of event for which I wouldn’t expect the business to
have any kind of tort liability.”  While a court may find Holmes guilty, he is a 24-year-old
former student without any apparent assets to pursue in a civil
case, Russell said. Since he is an adult, his parents couldn’t
be sued because they’re no longer responsible for his behavior.  Death Penalty  Holmes is being held without bond on suspicion of first-
degree murder, a charge that can carry the death penalty in
Colorado. Holmes was advised of his rights at a state court
hearing yesterday in the Denver suburb of Centennial. A hearing
to issue formal charges is scheduled for July 30. Holmes hasn’t
entered a plea in the case.  The theater rampage was the deadliest shooting in Colorado
since the Columbine High School massacre in April 1999 and the
worst mass shooting in the U.S. since November 2009, when 13
people were killed at Fort Hood in  Texas .  The gunman bought a ticket for “The Dark Knight Rises,”
entered the theater and watched the film for a while before
leaving, according to police. He went to a white Hyundai outside
the building, put on a helmet and ballistic vest, armed himself
and returned to the theater, police said.  Questions about security might leave the theater open to
liability, said Bob Schuetze, a Boulder, Colorado, attorney who
represented the family of an injured Columbine student.  ‘Somewhat Questionable’  “It is somewhat questionable how he was able to leave the
movie theater out the rear exit, prop it open and return as much
as 15 minutes later armed in full battle gear without some alarm
going off and someone checking that back door,” Schuetze, of
the law firm  Schuetze & Gordon LLP , said in a phone interview.  Families of victims and those injured need to consider
whether it’s worthwhile to sue, he said.  “Lawsuits are very difficult and the prospect of recovery
is going to be a very difficult process,” Schuetze said. “The
injured are facing tremendous amounts of medical bills and
potentially long-term disability and financial losses. They have
to consider whether it’s worthwhile.”  Robert Rabin, a professor at  Stanford Law School , said the
movie theater owners have an obligation to provide a safe place
for patrons. If a suspect entered from the front entrance with
weapons showing, there would be a “strong case” for liability,
he said.  Unforeseeable Actions  In the Aurora shooting, any case against the theater is
weak because the actions were unforeseeable, Rabin said. Even if
the exit door Holmes used for re-entry was unlocked, “what’s
the risk associated with that?” Rabin said. “That someone will
get to see the movie for free?”  James Meredith, a spokesman for  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) ,
operator of the Century Aurora 16 movie theater where the
shooting took place, didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail
messages yesterday after regular business hours seeking comment
on possible litigation.  Cinemark said in a July 20 statement that it was “deeply
saddened about this tragic incident” and was working closely
with police.  A lawsuit against Burbank, California-based  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., the studio that made “The Dark Knight
Rises,” would be even weaker, Rabin said. The company is
protected by its constitutional right to freedom of expression,
he said.  ‘No Case There’  “Even putting aside the constitutional arguments, to link
somehow this movie with his motivation for his act, there’s just
no case there,” Rabin said.  Susan Fleishman, a spokeswoman for Time Warner, declined to
comment on possible litigation.  Warner Bros. made an unspecified donation to aid surviving
victims and families of those who died in the shooting,
Fleishman said earlier yesterday.  Authorities found a surveillance video of Holmes picking up
150 pounds of ammunition at a Federal Express outlet in
Colorado, said a law enforcement official who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly and requested anonymity. Investigators
interviewed a United Parcel Service Inc. driver who said Holmes
had 90 packages delivered to his workplace on the  University of
Colorado  medical campus, the official said.  Governmental Immunity  Lawsuits against the university would also face hurdles,
said Bill Kowalski, an attorney who represented the Jefferson
County school district in the Columbine case.  Under Colorado law, public institutions such as the
University of Colorado are protected by governmental immunity
unless their actions are willful, Kowalski said. A successful
federal claim could be brought against the school if plaintiffs
were able to show that the university was deliberately
indifferent to a known danger, Kowalski said.  “The school would have had to know what was in the
packages or had some reason to ask,” Kowalski said.  University officials said yesterday that the school doesn’t
keep track of packages unless they’re certified mail coming to
the mail room.  “If they came in by UPS or FedEx, nobody would even know
about it,” Don Elliman, the university’s interim chancellor,
said during a press conference. “There are thousands of
packages that come into this institution every day.”  Package Deliveries  Packages that come from the U.S. Postal Service go through
a central mail facility, said Lilly Marks, executive vice
chancellor for the Anschutz Medical Campus. Only those delivered
by certified mail and requiring a signature are logged and
recorded, Marks said.  Elliman and Marks declined to comment on the number of
packages Holmes received.  “To the best of our knowledge we did everything we think
we should have done,” Elliman said.  Claims might also be filed against people who sold Holmes
ammunition, Kowalski said.  “Even though the sale is legal, it’s possible you can get
someone for negligence for not asking the question ‘Why are we
sending 6,000 rounds of ammunition to one address?’” Kowalski
said.  Stanford’s Rabin disagreed, saying that a case for civil
liability would require a regulatory violation, which so far
hasn’t been proven.  Victims who decide to sue could be in for a long wait as
civil claims might take as much as five years to resolve,
Kowalski said. Often such suits have to wait until the criminal
trial is over, which prosecutors said is at least a year away.  “I’m not saying these lawsuits would go anywhere but there
are a lot of creative plaintiff attorneys out there,” Kowalski
said.  The criminal case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th
Judicial District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware , at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  