-- Comcast Debuts $300 Internet Service in Race With Verizon
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-24T16:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/comcast-debuts-300-internet-service-in-race-with-verizon.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , going after consumers
willing to pay top dollar for the fastest Internet speeds,
introduced a $299.95-a-month service that it says beats the
speediest offering from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS.  The new tier, called Xfinity Platinum Internet, offers
download speeds of up to 305 megabits per second, Comcast said
in a statement. The Verizon FiOS business, which relies on
fiber-optic lines, introduced a plan in June that tops out at
300 megabits for $204.99 a month with a two-year contract.  By offering services that let consumers download movies in
a few minutes and photos and songs in seconds, the companies are
jockeying for bragging rights as the fastest provider of
residential  Internet service  in the U.S. The idea is to target
“really advanced digital families,” said Charlie Douglas, a
spokesman for Philadelphia-based Comcast. The speed also helps
when households have lots of digital devices sharing the same
Internet connection.  Internet traffic  is expected to increase fourfold by 2016,
according to an annual survey by Cisco Systems Inc. For now,
though, most home Internet users might not notice a difference
in speed beyond 25 to 50 megabits, according to Jonathan Atkin,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in New York. And other
broadband providers haven’t yet joined the speed race:  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest cable company, offers a
top rate of 50 megabits for $99.95.  Comcast is introducing the new speed tier in its hometown
and other Northeastern cities, including  Boston , Pittsburgh,
Baltimore and Washington. The service includes around-the-clock
technical support, with a dedicated consultant to answer
questions, a wireless gateway for connecting to Wi-Fi devices,
and a suite of online security services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  