-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Jump on Signs Europe’s Crisis Is Spreading
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-24T22:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/credit-swaps-in-u-s-jump-on-signs-europe-s-crisis-is-spreading.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
rose a third day after Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook
on the top credit ratings of  Germany , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, fueling concern Europe’s fiscal crisis is spreading.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.2
basis points to a mid-price of 116.6 basis points, the highest
since June 28, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. Swaps tied to
 Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  soared to a record and  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU)  contracts reached the highest since April 2009 as profit
forecasts fell short of analyst estimates.  Investor concern is escalating this week that contagion
from the euro-area’s financial turmoil will contaminate global
balance sheets and hamper borrowers’ ability to repay debt.
Moody’s yesterday cited “rising uncertainty” over  Europe ’s
crisis as it lowered its outlook to “negative” on the Aaa
credit ratings of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  The move “is a response to the deepening pressures within
the euro area and a reflection that the bailout mechanisms have
put an increasing burden on a dwindling number” of financially
stable countries in the currency bloc, Edward Marrinan, macro
credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.  Troika Meets  Finland was the only country in the currency bloc to keep a
stable outlook for its Aaa credit grade. A report showed euro-
area services and manufacturing output contracted for a sixth
month in July, London-based Markit Economics said today.  The troika of Greece’s international creditors, the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , returned to Athens today to review
the nation’s progress in meeting debt reduction targets. Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras must outline 11.5 billion euros ($13.9
billion) of budget cuts to maintain access to bailout funds.  Contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose 14.8 basis
points to a mid-price of 302.8 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The rise is “in line with just the general concern about
Europe,”  Mirko Mikelic , a  money manager  at Fifth Third Asset
Management in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , said in a telephone
interview. “Everyone has got an eye on what’s going on over
there. Hang onto our seats. It’s always something new in terms
of another region in Spain or something else or potential
downgrades.”  Lexmark Swaps  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Lexmark
jumped 93.8 to 644.7, according to CMA. The contracts, which
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and fall as
it improves, have jumped 258.9 basis points since July 9.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Lexmark said today third-quarter profit excluding some
items will be 75 cents to 85 cents a share, compared with an
average analyst estimate of 89 cents, Bloomberg data show.
Second-quarter earnings dropped 61 percent as the turmoil in
Europe weakened overseas demand, the Lexington, Kentucky-based
maker of laser and inkjet printers said in a statement.  “A number of U.S. companies are making it clear that the
global economic slowdown is taking a toll on their earnings
performance,” Marrinan wrote in an e-mail. “This somewhat
offsets” earnings reports by companies that are beating analyst
expectations, he said.  Swaps tied to Peabody jumped 25 to 470, CMA prices show.
The largest U.S. coal producer said today that third-quarter
profit excluding one-time items will be 20 cents to 45 cents a
share, missing the average estimate of 65 cents by 23 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  