-- Crude Trades Near 1-Week Low on Worsening European Crisis
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-24T12:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/crude-trades-near-one-week-low-on-worsening-european-crisis.html
Oil erased gains in  New York  to
trade near its lowest in a week amid concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis is deepening and will cut demand for fuels.  West Texas Intermediate pared an earlier advance of as much
as 0.9 percent. The euro fell for a fifth day against the yen
after Moody’s Investors Service cut its ratings outlook on
 Germany  yesterday amid speculation that Europe’s turmoil will
engulf Spain and Italy. Oil rose earlier after Chinese
manufacturing data signaled the world’s second-largest crude
user may be pulling out of an economic slowdown.  “Europe continues to be no closer to a solution, but
politicians seem content to keep applying short-term fixes
rather than address the underlying problems,” said Guy Wolf, a
strategist at Marex Spectron Group Ltd., a London-based broker.
“Crude markets are caught between a deteriorating demand
picture and tightening supply fundamentals.”  Oil for September delivery was at $87.98 a barrel, 16 cents
lower in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
at 1:22 p.m. London time. The contract dropped $3.69 to $88.14
yesterday, the lowest since July 13. Prices are down 11 percent
this year.  Ichimoku Chart  Brent crude  for September settlement slipped 32 cents to
$102.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $14.96, compared with $15.12 yesterday.  Oil in New York has technical support at $86.59 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy orders
tend to be clustered. Last week’s price rise stalled near the
upper boundary, signaling chart resistance.  China ’s state-run  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  yesterday agreed to pay $15.1
billion in cash to acquire Nexen Inc. in the biggest overseas
takeover by a Chinese company. Nexen is the operator and 43
percent owner of the Buzzard field, the biggest contributor to
the Forties blend of North Sea crude. Forties is one of four
grades that make up Dated Brent, the benchmark grade used to
price more than half of the world’s oil.  The Nexen purchase may help to speed up the construction of
an oil export pipeline that would ease a supply glut in  North
America  and boost the price of benchmark U.S. futures, according
to Commerzbank AG.  Tackling Oversupply  A pipeline to the Pacific “would remove the oversupply on
the North American market, which is responsible for WTI’s
current price discount as compared to Brent,”  Carsten Fritsch 
and  Eugen Weinberg , analysts based in Frankfurt, wrote today in
a report.  China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in July
after two interest-rate cuts and a rebound in lending. A
preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index released
today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was at 49.5. If
confirmed, that would be the highest since February. The final
number in June was 48.2.  A U.S. government report tomorrow may show inventories fell
for a fifth week, the longest stretch in a year.  Crude stockpiles probably fell  1.5 million barrels  and
gasoline inventories declined 500,000 barrels, according to the
median estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Energy Department report. U.S. refinery utilization
probably fell 0.5 percentage point last week after dropping 0.7
percentage point the prior week, the survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  “If the crude-inventory data comes in like the survey
results, that would be supportive,” said  Victor Shum , the
managing director of IHS Consulting in  Singapore . “The primary
factor driving some buying now is the Chinese manufacturing
data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  