-- Cuomo Aide Percoco Emerges as Behind-the-Scenes Albany Power
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/cuomo-aide-percoco-emerges-as-behind-the-scenes-albany-power.html
When  Staten Island  Borough President
James Molinaro needed New York state’s help to get a service
road built that would keep a Lowe’s hardware store from closing,
he knew whom to call: Joe Percoco.  A 43-year-old aide to Governor Andrew Cuomo, Percoco has
amassed power in  Albany  that belies his official title of
executive deputy secretary. Now, after more than 10 years of
asking the state for help with no success, Molinaro said the
service road plan is moving ahead.  “I went to him and told him there was a major problem,”
said Molinaro, who ran on the Conservative Party ticket and
endorsed Cuomo, a Democrat. “He called the right people with
orders to get it done.”  Percoco’s clout comes from his almost unparalleled access
to the governor. In his first 15 months in office, Cuomo met
with Percoco more times than anyone in his administration except
Larry Schwartz, his chief of staff, according to an analysis of
the governor’s public schedules. While Schwartz speaks publicly
and negotiates with legislative leaders, Percoco maneuvers
behind the scenes.  Lawmakers know he’s a conduit to Cuomo, said Assembly
Majority Leader Ron Canestrari, a Cohoes Democrat.  “He knows when to speak and when not to,” Canestrari
said. “We all know that, so we have confidence in him.”  Building Trust  Percoco, a former high-school football linebacker with a
reputation for pugnacity, played a key role in getting a divided
Legislature to approve a law legalizing same-sex marriage, a
pension overhaul that raised the  retirement age  to 63 from 62,
and the first consecutive on-time budgets since 2006, said
 Howard Glaser , Cuomo’s director of state operations.  “He stands at the nexus of politics, policy and
relationships,” Glaser said in a telephone interview. “Joe has
built a lot of trust. He knows the policies and has grown up in
New York state government. He is a critical player in moving the
agenda forward.”  Percoco, who declined to be interviewed through Cuomo’s
spokesman,  Josh Vlasto , is a native  New Yorker . He grew up in
the Bronx and moved to Rockland County with his family at age 6.
He graduated from Wagner College on Staten Island and received a
law degree from  St. John’s University  in Queens.  His working relationship with Cuomo, 54, dates to 1999,
when the governor was U.S. secretary of Housing and Urban
Development under President  Bill Clinton . Percoco was brought in
to arrange public events by Glaser and Todd Howe. The two
officials had overseen Percoco’s work in the early 1990s when he
had a similar position with  Mario Cuomo , a three-term New York
governor and Andrew’s father.  No Seduction  In his two previous roles, Percoco showed the same singular
focus that he’s brought to Andrew Cuomo’s administration, said
Harry Giannoulis, a former statewide ombudsman for Mario Cuomo
who is now president of the Parkside Group, a New York-based
public relations firm.  “With Joe, there’s not a lot of seduction,” Giannoulis
said. “He’ll say why he’s calling you and gets right to the
point. If he doesn’t get what he wants, he’ll call back.”  During Cuomo’s negotiations over same-sex marriage, Percoco
and  Steve Cohen , who led the effort for the governor, met with
Hasidic Jews who opposed the measure, said Cohen, who left the
administration in July 2011 and is now a partner in the New York
office of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP, a  law firm .  As Cohen and the Hasidim engaged in a robust debate,
Percoco quietly listened, Cohen recalled in a telephone
interview. When it was clear Cohen wouldn’t be able to change
their opinion, Percoco stepped in.  Brusque Reputation  “He looked across the table and said, ‘I love you all,
you’re my friends and you’ve done a lot for us,’” Cohen said.
“‘But under this issue, you’re simply wrong. That may be hard
for you, and I appreciate that, but this is going forward in the
way that we proposed.’”  That forthrightness can sometimes come off as brusque,
leaving those that don’t know him well with the impression that
he’s tougher than he actually is, Glaser said.  In an April 2010 profile, the New York Times described
Percoco as a “pugnacious aide” who had been “unleashed” by
then-Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  to “undercut his rivals and
clear a path for him to become the prohibitive favorite in the
race for governor of New York.”  ‘Anchor Man’  Senator Mike Gianaris, a Queens Democrat, who worked with
Percoco on Mario Cuomo’s last campaign said, “he’s tough when
he needs to be, but it’s a tough business.”  Inside the administration, he’s known as the “anchor
man,” who provides a calming center for staff working in a
fast-paced environment, Glaser said.  “He is the funniest guy in the administration,” Glaser
said. “He’s a mean impressionist. He can do  Ted Kennedy ,Bill Clinton, and Al D’Amato in the room together and have you on the
floor.”  Since their days at HUD, Percoco hasn’t left Cuomo’s side.  “He has stuck with Andrew Cuomo through thick and thin,”
said Senator Marty Golden, a Republican from  Brooklyn .  The thin came after Cuomo pulled out of the governor’s race
in 2002 a week before the Democratic primary. Percoco, who had
been organizing public events for the campaign, took a job in
 New York  as the managing attorney at KPMG LLP, the international
consulting firm, though was always there for Cuomo.  New Identity  “When Andrew Cuomo was out there in the political
wilderness after he lost the bid for governor, he had to rebuild
his whole identity in New York state,” Glaser said. “Joe was
at his side professionally and personally, and helped him
reconnect and listen to people around the state about what they
wanted to see him do.”  Percoco managed both of Cuomo’s successful campaigns that
followed, first for attorney general in 2006, and then for
governor in 2010. In the interim, he was Cuomo’s special
counsel. Through it all, he’s built a relationship with Cuomo
that resonates from the second floor of the Capitol, where the
governor has his office.  “One gets the impression if there’s one person on the
second floor who understands the governor’s psyche, that it’s
Joe,” Gianaris said. “He’s his most trusted confidant.
Emphasis on trusted.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  