-- Skadden, Davis Polk, Paul Weiss, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-24T17:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/davis-polk-paul-weiss-clifford-chance-business-of-law.html
Deal lawyers are having a busy week,
especially at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. The firm
is involved in six acquisitions that were announced yesterday,
ranging in value from $850 million to $1.7 billion.  “These most recently announced transactions, involving the
defense and technology, consumer, transportation and energy
sectors, provide an example of the breadth of our practice,”
Steve Arcano, the leader of Skadden’s  New York  M&A practice,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “It’s been a good Monday for us.”  Skadden advised  DigitalGlobe Inc. (DGI)  in its agreement to
acquire GeoEye Inc. for about $900 million to create the world’s
largest commercial-imagery satellite company. Kirkland & Ellis
LLP and Latham & Watkins LLP represent GeoEye. Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP represented Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as financial
adviser to GeoEye.  Skadden represented  RailAmerica Inc. (RA)  in its purchase by
 Genesee & Wyoming Inc. (GWR)  for $1.39 billion, combining  North
America ’s two largest short-line and regional rail operators.
Sidley Austin LLP also advised RailAmerica. Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP represented Genesse.  Skadden also represented Joh. A. Benckiser GmbH in its
agreement to buy  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET) , giving the closely
held German holding company about 190 specialty cafes in the
U.S. and access to an expanding grocery business, in a deal
worth about $1 billion. Cooley LLP advised Peet’s.  In  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s $1.7 billion agreement to buy GenOn
Energy Inc., which would create the largest U.S. independent
electricity generator, Skadden advised GenOn. Kirkland advised
NRG.  Late in the day yesterday, Skadden announced that the firm
was involved in two additional deals. The firm is representing
VMware Inc. in its $1.26 billion acquisition of Nicira Inc. and
Stanley Black & Decker Inc. in the $850 million purchase of
Infastech. Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP advised Nicira.  Skadden partners advising DigitalGlobe included Marie Gibson and Nancy Lieberman. For GeoEye, the Kirkland team
includes partners David Fox, Neil Eggleston and David Feirstein.
The Latham team was led by New York partner  William O’Neill .  Advice was also provided by partners Robert Zuccaro, Tad
Lipsky, Nicholas DeNovio, Samuel Weiner, John Janka, David Della
Rocca and Jeremiah Wolsk. Gibson partner Barbara Becker advised
Goldman. For more on DigitalGlobe, click here.  Skadden partners on the RailAmerica deal were Joseph Coco,
Thomas Greenberg, Regina Olshan and David Polster. The Sidley
Austin team consisted of Terence M. Hynes and Matthew J. Warren.
Simpson Thacher’s corporate partner Bill Curbow led the team
advising Genesse. Additional partners included Bill Sheehan and
A.J. Kess. For more on RailAmerica, click here.  Skadden partners advising Joh. A. Benckiser were Sean Doyle, Paul Schnell, David Rievman, Paul Oosterhuis and Bruce Goldner. Cooley’s partners included Kenn Guernsey, Barbara Borden, Mischi a Marca, Gordon Atkinson, Christopher Durbin, Ann Mooney, Tom Reicher, Robin Lee, Howard Morse and Susan Philpot.
For more on Peet’s Coffee, click here.  Skadden lawyers for GenOn included Michael Rogan, Frank Bayouth, Clifford “Mike” Naeve, and John H. Lyons.  The
Kirkland team for NRG is led by Thomas Christopher and includes
partners Gerald Nowak, Mitchell Hertz, Andres Mena and Claire
Sheng. For more on NRG, click here.  Skadden partners advising VMware included Margaret Brown,
Cliff Gross and Clifford Aronson. Pillsbury partners included
Jorge del Calvo, Allison Leopold Tilley, Cindy Schlaefer and
Brian Wainwright. For more on the deal, click here.  Skadden partners on the Stanley Black & Decker deal
included John Adebiyi, Sean Doyle, Edward Gonzalez, Bruce
Goldner, Stuart Alperin, Ian John and Frederic Depoortere. For
more, click here.  Cnooc Buys Nexen for $15.1 Billion in China’s Largest Takeover  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  agreed to pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire
 Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in the biggest overseas takeover by a
Chinese company.  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP and Stikeman Elliott LLP acted as
legal counsel to Cnooc. Nexen’s legal adviser are Blake Cassels
& Graydon LLP and Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP.
Richard A. Shaw Professional Corp. and Burnet, Duckworth &
Palmer LLP also served as legal advisers to Nexen’s board.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partners George R. Bason Jr., Howard Zhang, Leonard Kreynin and Kirtee Kapoor and
associates Brian J. Snyder and James E. Elworth. Partner Ronan P. Harty is providing antitrust advice. Partner John B. Reynolds III is providing CFIUS advice. Partners Paul Chow and Antony Dapiran are providing  Hong Kong  law advice.  Toronto mergers and acquisitions partners William Braithwaite and John Ciardullo, tax partner Ron Durand, pensions
partner Andrea Boctor and debt partner Lewis Smith worked on the
deal from Stikeman, which served as Canadian counsel. In
Calgary, Stikeman mergers and acquisition partner Chris Nixon,
energy partner Brad Grant, real estate partner Mike Dyck,
environmental partner Greg Plater, tax partner  David Weekes and
employment partner Gary Clarke also worked on the deal. In
Ottawa, competition partner Susan Hutton assisted.  Nexen was represented by in-house counsel Alan O’Brien,
senior vice president, general counsel and secretary and Rick Beingessner, vice President, chief counsel and assistant
secretary.  Blake Cassels’s team was led by Pat Finnerty. Additional
lawyers included securities partners Jeff Bakker, Ross Bentley,
John Eamon, Shlomi Feiner  and Michael Gans. Additional partners
on the deal included Jason Gudofsky, investment Canada, Caroline
Helbronner, pension and benefits, Robert Kopstein, tax, Connie
Reeve, employment, Brian Thiessen, employment, and David Tupper,
litigation.  Nexen’s U.S. counsel,  Paul Weiss , had corporate partners
Jeanette Chan, Andrew Foley, and Edwin Maynard working on the
deal.  Burnet Duckworth’s Grant Zawalsky advised Nexen’s board.  China ’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer is paying
$27.50 for each common share, a premium of 61 percent to
Calgary-based Nexen’s  closing price  on July 20, according to its
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Nexen’s
board recommended the deal to its shareholders.  Nexen will give Cnooc assets in Canada, the U.K., West
Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico  that produced 207,000 barrels a
day in the second quarter, boosting the Chinese company’s output
by about 20 percent. The deal is a second attempt to buy a North
American oil and gas producer after political opposition blocked
Cnooc’s $19 billion for bid Unocal Corp. in 2005.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Clifford Chance Elects New Managing Partner in Tokyo  Clifford Chance  LLP elected Eiichi Kanda as the new
managing partner of the  Tokyo  office, starting July 27. Eiichi
is a capital markets partner specializing in real estate,
investment, financing, securities issues, funds, asset
management and securitization, the firm said. He also provides
regulatory advice in these areas. He joined Clifford Chance as a
partner in 2001.  “We remain committed as ever to Tokyo and the outlook for
our practice is very bright,” Peter Charlton, managing partner
of Asia Pacific, said in a statement. “Despite global economic
uncertainties, we continue to see potential for growth in the
market.”  Peter Kilner, the current office managing partner, will
relocate to Hong Kong after nine years in the Tokyo office, four
of them as Tokyo managing partner.  Kilner will provide support to the banking and finance
practices in Tokyo and Hong Kong. He will split his time between
both cities, continuing to advise his Japanese clients, the firm
said.  Clifford Chance has more than 3,200 lawyers in 34 offices
around the world.  Dewey Cash Was $29.3 Million June 30, $15.6 Million on May 28  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the bankrupt  law firm  that is
collecting money from former clients to help pay more than $225
million in secured debt, said it held cash of $29.3 million on
June 30.  The total was reached after taking in $18.5 million from
accounts receivable and spending $4.9 million on lawyers’ fees,
insurance, benefits and operating expenses, according to a
filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Dewey failed on May 28 owing more than $225 million to
secured lenders, after piling on debt to expand and pay
partners.  The case is In re Dewey  & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Moves  Cozen O’Connor Announces Addition of Utilities Attorney  Cozen O’Connor announced that utilities lawyer David P.
Zambito has joined the firm as a member of the business law
department in the Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , office.  Zambito served as principal legal adviser to former
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission Chairman and Commissioner
Glen Thomas. He formerly was a principal at Post & Schell PC in
Harrisburg, the firm said.  Zambito will practice with Cozen O’Connor’s energy,
environmental and public utilities practice group, focusing his
work on regulatory and commercial issues involving utilities. He
represents and advises clients engaged in the delivery of
energy, telecommunications, water, wastewater, and
transportation services, the firm said.  Zambito was also commissioned by Pennsylvania Governor Mark
Schweiker in 2002 as a member of the Pennsylvania Homeland
Security Advisory Council.  “We are very pleased to welcome David to the firm,” Cozen
O’Connor president and executive partner Michael J. Heller said
in a statement. “With his experience at the Public Utility
Commission, and extensive industry knowledge and ties, David is
one of the most widely recognized utility lawyers in
Pennsylvania.”  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys in 21 offices where in the
U.S. and Canada.  Litigation  Australia  Judge Calls Apple-Samsung Dispute Over 3G ‘Ridiculous’  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent dispute
over wireless transmission technology is “ridiculous” and
might be best settled in mediation, the judge overseeing the
case in Australia said.  Samsung sued Apple claiming the maker of iPhones is
infringing three patents covering data transmission over the 3G
wireless spectrum. The suit was in response to Apple’s claim
that Samsung stole its design ideas for computer tablets and
phones. A trial scheduled to run for three months began
yesterday before Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett.  Apple refused to pay a license fee for the technology that
allows phones to conduct multiple tasks including taking calls
while uploading photos to the Internet, Samsung’s lawyer  Neil
Young  said at the start of the trial. Apple was willing to pay
and Samsung refused, the Cupertino, California-based company’s
lawyer  Stephen Burley  said.  “Why on earth are these proceedings going ahead?” Bennett
asked the lawyers in court yesterday. “It’s just ridiculous.”
A similar dispute between any other two companies would be
immediately ordered to mediation, she said.  “Why shouldn’t I order the parties to mediation?” she
asked. She said she would expect an answer before the end of the
week.  The Australian trial is part of a global dispute between
the two companies and a prelude to proceedings in the U.S. and
U.K.  Samsung, the biggest maker of smartphones, and Apple, the
largest seller of tablet computers, are fighting for an
increased share of a handset market that Bloomberg Industries
said was worth $312 billion last year. Apple has won a ban on
the sale of Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet in the U.S. and failed
to win a ban in the U.K., pending patent infringement trials in
those countries.  “Both companies are fighting every single battle, no
matter how small, with great intensity,”  John Swinson , a
partner specializing in intellectual property at King & Wood
Mallesons in Brisbane, said in a phone interview.  Whatever the outcome of the trial, the losing side will
probably appeal, Swinson said.  “You could say, they’re working out the issues for the
appeal court.”  The Australian case may be a rehearsal for the trials in
bigger markets, Swinson said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 