-- Democrats’ Position on Tax Cut ‘Disturbing,’ Toomey Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-24T16:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/democrats-position-on-tax-cut-disturbing-toomey-says.html
The suggestion by some congressional
Democrats that the George W. Bush-era tax cuts be allowed to
temporarily expire is a “disturbing” position that could send
the economy back into recession, U.S. Senator Pat Toomey said.  “It’s disturbing to me that these very prominent folks,
knowing that this multitrillion-dollar tax increase would very
likely cause a recession” in the current fragile economy,
“knowing that it would put hundreds of thousands more Americans
out of work, they want to do it anyway,” the Pennsylvania
Republican said in a speech today at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington.  Toomey was responding to a July 16 speech in which Senator
 Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat, she “absolutely” would
prefer to “continue this debate into 2013 rather than lock in a
long-term deal this year” that doesn’t include revenue
increases Republicans have rejected.  Other Democrats have made similar comments suggesting that
the party may be in a stronger negotiating position in January
if Congress doesn’t act and the tax cuts expire Dec. 31.  “Frankly I think there’s a certain level of cynicism in
thinking that that kind of deception is appropriate or that it
fools anybody,” Toomey said.  The Senate is scheduled to vote tomorrow on Democrats’
proposal to extend the Bush-era tax cuts through 2013 for
individuals earning less than $200,000 and married couples
earning less than $250,000 a year. Tax cuts for income exceeding
those levels would lapse.  Income Levels  Toomey said Congress should extend the Bush tax cuts for
all income levels through 2013 to give lawmakers time to
overhaul the  tax code  next year.  In addition to the tax cuts scheduled to expire Dec. 31,
$1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts are set to begin in
January if lawmakers don’t agree on a plan to replace them.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office   said  May 22
that allowing the scheduled spending cuts and tax increases to
take effect may tip the economy into a recession.  The CBO estimated that the spending cuts and tax increases
would total $607 billion, or 4 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1. The
shortfall this fiscal year is projected to be $1.2 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  