-- Denmark Wins S&P Backing for Stimulus Plans as AAA Grade Secure
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-24T09:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/denmark-wins-s-p-backing-for-stimulus-plans-as-aaa-grade-secure.html
Denmark  won assurances from Standard
& Poor’s that a planned increase in public investment won’t hurt
the stable outlook on the country’s AAA credit rating.  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt,
elected in November, wants to raise investment projects by 0.6
percent of gross domestic product as part of a series of
measures that S&P estimates will swell the budget deficit to 5.6
percent of GDP this year. The stimulus comes as Denmark’s
economic growth slows to 0.2 percent this year from 1.4 percent
in 2011, according to the rating company.  “There is room for additional public sector investment
thanks to prudent fiscal policy prior to the crisis,” Per Tornqvist, director of European financial services for S&P, said
in an interview in Copenhagen. “And we do build this into our
expectations.”  The fiscal crisis plaguing the 17-member euro zone has
fueled debate on whether austerity or government spending are
the best cure for the region’s economic woes. Thorning-Schmidt’s
Social Democrat-led coalition has argued that the European Union
should tilt its focus toward policies that place greater
emphasis on growth as the region buckles under the weight of
budget cuts.  Denmark’s bond yields have slumped as the government reaps
the rewards of its economic policies. The nation, which pays
less than  Germany  to borrow, will post debt of just over 40
percent of GDP this year and next. That’s less than half the
estimated average in the euro zone, the European Commission said
in May. While Denmark has opted out of the euro, the country has
pegged the krone to the single currency.  Boom Years  The difference in yield between Denmark’s 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity German bunds was little changed today at minus
20 basis points. Denmark’s 3 percent note due 2021 yielded 1.065
percent as of 10:53 a.m. local time.  “The public sector has not been very aggressive in
investing even in the boom years,” Tornqvist said. “Net
investment has been at or even below the rate of attrition over
the last 20 years. There’s effectively been a write-down of
public sector capital stock.”  While Denmark emerged from a recession in the first
quarter, the economy may have contracted again in the three
months through June, according to Sydbank A/S, the country’s
third-largest listed lender. According to Danske Bank A/S,
“growth in the second quarter could very well turn out to be
negative and mark the beginning of a new recession,” Denmark’s
biggest bank said in a July 9 note.  The government estimates GDP will expand 1.1 percent this
year and 1.5 percent in 2013, according to its May budget
outlook. The  budget deficit  will reach 3.8 percent of GDP this
year, and shrink to “just over” 1.7 percent in 2013, the
government said in May.  “Denmark is in a healing process,” Tornqvist said. “The
economy isn’t doing great, but the government isn’t actively
curtailing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 