-- Deutsche Bank to Strengthen Capital Ratio by Cutting Risk
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J a n h e n r i k   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-25T07:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/deutsche-bank-says-quarterly-profit-fell-42-as-expenses-gained.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, said it will reduce risk to meet a 2013 capital-ratio goal
after second-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates on
expenses tied to a weaker euro.  Net income fell to about 700 million euros ($847 million)
from 1.2 billion euros a year earlier, according to preliminary
results the Frankfurt-based lender disclosed in a statement
yesterday. That missed the 999 million-euro average estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Pretax profit slid to about
1 billion euros from 1.8 billion euros. That compares with
analysts’ estimate of 1.5 billion euros.  Investment banks are fighting to reduce costs with job cuts
as a slump in trading by clients amid  Europe ’s debt crisis
reduces revenues. Deutsche Bank said it will compensate for the
profit shortfall by stepping up “de-risking measures” to
fulfill stricter  capital requirements .  “The sovereign debt crisis is affecting the economy as a
whole and Deutsche Bank’s earnings reflect that,” said  Andrew Stimpson , a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in
 London . “The costs were higher than I had expected, apparently
because of a weaker euro, and that’s a trend that is continuing
in the third quarter.”  Deutsche Bank has plunged  22 percent  this year, more than
the 8.8 percent decline for the Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index, which tracks 38 stocks. The German
lender fell 2.2 percent to 22.95 euros at 9:15 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . A close at that price would be the lowest since Sept.
26.  Under Pressure  “Although down to a very low level, the stock should
remain under pressure,” Natixis analysts wrote in a note today.
“Our forecasts and target price are under review.”  The euro’s decline against the dollar and British pound
increased costs in those regions relative to Deutsche Bank’s
home base as Europe’s debt crisis weighed on the common currency
in the second quarter. The euro fell 5.1 percent relative to the
dollar during the second quarter.  Non-interest expenses probably rose to 6.6 billion euros
from 6.3 billion euros as net revenue fell to about 8 billion
euros from 8.5 billion euros, according to the statement. The
earnings are the first under Deutsche Bank’s new dual leadership
of Anshu Jain, 49, and Juergen Fitschen, 63, who took over from
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 64, at the end of May.  Investment Bank Jobs  The company will publish full second-quarter earnings on
July 31, as scheduled.  The bank cut about 500 investment bank jobs after scrapping
its operating pretax profit forecast of 10 billion euros for
2011 in October amid what it then called a “significant and
unabated slowdown in client activity.”  Deutsche Bank is considering cutting about 1,000 positions
at the unit as revenue declines, a person familiar with the
matter said July 19.  That’s less than some of the firm’s competitors, which may
signal that Deutsche Bank expects revenues to recover and wants
to have the staff to benefit from a rebound, said Michael Seufert, a banking analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank.  “It’s always been Jain’s strategy to target top-five if
not top-three spots in  investment banking  because that’s where
you make profits necessary to justify the investment,” said
Seufert, who recommends investors hold the stock. “To do that
you need the know-how and personnel.”  Declining Headcount  Headcount at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will decline by about 700 in
the second half, bringing total 2012 staff reductions to 4,000,
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in a July 19 interview.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  announced plans last year to cut
3,500 jobs and lower expenses by 2 billion francs.  Switzerland ’s
second-biggest bank said July 18 that it was planning to cut
costs by an additional 1 billion francs by the end of 2013,
without providing details of job losses.  Larger Zurich-based rival  UBS AG (UBSN)  disclosed 3,500 job cuts
last year, with about 1,575 of those at the investment bank.  Western European financial firms have announced more than
21,700 job cuts this year, compared with more than 107,000 in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Suisse’s plan to bolster capital by 15.3 billion
francs ($15.4 billion), unveiled July 18, prompted Bankhaus Metzler analyst Guido Hoymann and  Christopher Wheeler  at
 Mediobanca SpA (MB)  to say Deutsche Bank may feel pressure to boost
reserves. The German bank was the third-least capitalized of
Europe’s 10 largest banks at the end of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Good News’  It is “good news” that Deutsche Bank plans to mitigate
the profit shortfall by cutting risk, said  Philipp Haessler , an
Equinet AG analyst. “It seems that there is no risk of a
capital increase, which would be bad for investors.”  The firm said it can still achieve a core Tier 1 capital
ratio target of 7.2 percent for the beginning of next year, a
figure simulated to account for fully implemented Basel III
rules that begin taking effect in 2013.  “Lower full-year net income projections will be mitigated
by additional de-risking measures,” Deutsche Bank said in the
statement, referring to external analyst estimates the firm uses
as a component of its simulation of Basel III rules.  “It’s not like they have a huge batch of assets they want
or need to sell,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Frankfurt. “They’ll be looking at short-term
assets and considering, when they come to maturity, whether they
are worth prolonging or just letting them expire to release
capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Janhenrik Forster in Frankfurt at 
 jforster14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  