-- Dish Cash Hoard Signals Wireless Possibility: Corporate Finance
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-24T15:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/dish-cash-hoard-signals-wireless-possibility-corporate-finance.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  has amassed a
record amount of cash through bond sales as the second-largest
U.S. satellite-television provider seeks to expand into the
wireless business to offset a decline in its core customer base.  Dish brought its cash on hand to $5.6 billion on June 30
from about $2.7 billion in the first quarter, KDP Investment
Advisors Inc. calculated. It issued $2.9 billion of five- and
10-year notes in separate sales in May and July, including $1
billion last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, led by Chairman  Charlie Ergen , is expanding
into wireless after losing customers in six of the last nine
quarters as competition from DirecTV and cable providers
pressures revenue and climbing programming costs boost expenses.
Dish spent about $3 billion to buy wireless spectrum from DBSD
North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. that it hopes to
use to expand into mobile video, pending approval from the
Federal Communications Commission.  “He must be planning something to do with that money,”
Spencer Godfrey, an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP,
said of Ergen in a telephone interview. “The two most likely
scenarios are that he’s going to either build a network or buy
another wireless carrier that has a network.”  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, declined to comment on the
use of proceeds from the bond sales beyond the “general
corporate purposes” outlined in a July 19 regulatory filing.  Debt Level  The company has about $10.1 billion of  bonds  outstanding,
including the latest issues, and it doesn’t have any loans,
Bloomberg data show.  Dish raised $1.9 billion, up from an earlier-marketed $1.5
billion, in a two-part debt offering in May. The deal included
sales of $900 million of 4.625 percent, five-year notes and $1
billion of 5.875 percent, 10-year debt via the company’s Dish
DBS Corp. unit.  The company has since boosted its sale of the 5.875 percent
notes maturing in July 2022 to $2 billion as investors offered
to buy more securities.  “It’s not that important that they come to market right
now for all this debt if they were just looking to refinance,”
 Dave Novosel , an analyst at Chicago-based bond researcher Gimme
Credit LLC, said in a telephone interview, referring to record-
low  interest rates  reached today on U.S. government and
investment-grade corporate debt. “It would kind of be a very
conservative way of doing it and it’s possible, but it seems to
me that they’ve been kind of hinting about doing something in
the broadband space now for a long period of time.”  Notes Fall  The 5.875 percent notes, which traded as high as 102.7
cents on the dollar, were quoted at 101.2 cents at 9:27 a.m. in
 New York  today, Bloomberg prices show. The bonds yield 5.71
percent, compared with 3.21 percent for DirectTV’s $1.49 billion
of senior unsecured bonds due in March 2022.  Standard & Poor’s assigns Dish a credit  rating  of BB-,
while Moody’s Investors Service grades the company one level
higher at Ba2. S&P said the amount of debt raised won’t affect
the satellite-television provider’s credit outlook.  The two offerings will boost Dish’s ratio of debt to
earnings before income, taxes and depreciation to 3.0, up from
2.2 at the end of the first quarter, KDP estimated. That would
be the highest since the satellite-television provider had
 leverage  of 3.1 times in the third quarter of 2006 and compares
with a  ratio  of 2.5 at  DirecTV (DTV)  for the period ended March 31,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Biggest Concern’  Cash and cash equivalents at Dish will jump to $5.6 billion
after proceeds from the bond add-on deal and the May debt
offering, KDP calculated. That’s the largest  balance  since Dish
split from EchoStar Corp. in 2008, Bloomberg data show.  The increase to Dish’s leverage is “manageable,” Monica Erickson, a Los Angeles-based money manager and credit analyst
at DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $39 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The biggest concern is just that they
don’t do something really stupid. When you’re sitting on that
much cash, that’s always the risk. Making a bad acquisition,
doing something that is going to be too large for them to be
able to handle from a balance-sheet perspective.”  Dish announced a non-recurring  dividend  of $2 a share, or
almost $900 million, on Nov. 7. The company previously paid a
special dividend of $2 a share in November 2009.  “There’s a history at Dish of these kind of one-time large
dividends to shareholders, which from a bondholders’ perspective
would be absolutely the worst use of that capital,” Godfrey
said.  Sufficient Capital  Dish purchased spectrum, or airwaves that the government
has designated for sending data from satellites, in deals with
bankrupt DBSD and TerreStar. Ergen wants to use that to provide
land-based voice and data service, allowing his company to
compete with wireless providers such as AT&T Inc. and  Verizon
Wireless .  While the FCC approved Dish’s purchase on March 2, the
agency said the company wouldn’t be allowed to repurpose the
spectrum until regulators have written new rules that allow the
airwaves to be used for high-traffic ground-based networks.  Dish’s cash hoarding may be the company’s way of signaling
to the FCC that it has the capital necessary to follow through
on construction of the network, according to Godfrey.  “If you’re the FCC, that would give you a little bit more
confidence in Dish’s ability ultimately to build out that
network,” he said.  Ergen said in May that he hoped the FCC rulemaking process
would be “done by the end of the summer,” noting that the
agency can make a decision any day after June 1.  ‘Manageable Acquisition’  “I think you can expect us to be conservative in how we
enter the wireless business,” Ergen said during the company’s
May 7 first-quarter earnings call. “But that doesn’t mean that
you don’t go out and do things.”  One alternative to building a wireless network on its own
is an acquisition of a smaller wireless carrier such as  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  or  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ,
according to Erickson.  “If they were to be able to acquire a smaller wireless
provider, that would kind of get their foot in the door,”
Erickson said. Leap “would be a relatively small, or manageable
acquisition.”  Dish probably would prefer to strike a partnership with a
smaller carrier instead of buying one, according to  Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.  Spectrum Portfolio  “It is highly compelling for Dish to go to a wireless
company that’s not AT&T or Verizon, someone below, and say,
‘Let’s partner -- I’ve got a video delivery platform, you do
data and voice, two separate infrastructures, seamless to the
consumer,’” Mitchell said in a telephone interview. “Then you
can offer all-you-can-eat pricing that Verizon and AT&T are
moving away from.”  Making use of its spectrum portfolio will allow Dish to
maintain a competitive position in the telecommunications market
and offer relief to margins that have been pressured by price
battles, according to Mitchell.  “Dish has always been the low-cost leader in pay-TV, but
it doesn’t make sense anymore when two telecommunications
companies are using video as a loss leader to be the low-cost
leader,” Mitchell said. “The way people consume content is
changing. It’s much more on demand and on mobile devices.
Charlie wants to build a platform to do that. He needs to do
something.”  ‘Next Step’  Operating margin at Dish declined to 16 percent in the
first quarter from 20 percent in the year-earlier period,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with 19 percent for DirecTV.  Dish lost about 10,000 net subscribers in the second
quarter, its first decline in three quarters, the company said
in a July 19 regulatory filing. The satellite-television
provider added about 665,000 gross new subscribers in the
period, up 16 percent from the year earlier period. The results
don’t account for Dish’s decision to drop AMC Networks Inc. at
the end of the quarter after saying the programmer charged too
much for shows.  AMC contends that Dish is cutting off its networks as a
response to litigation stemming from a 2008 lawsuit that may
cost the satellite company $2.5 billion.  Dish  stock  fell 36 cents to $28.56 at 11:12 a.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 1.5 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 7.4 percent gain for the
 S&P 500 index . The shares closed yesterday at $28.92, down from
as high as $45.98 in October 2007.  Ergen “realizes that the current business model is no
longer going to work going forward,” said Novosel of Gimme
Credit. “He wants to take kind of the next step in its
evolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  