-- Disney Parks Directed to Consider Segway Use by Disabled
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-24T19:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/disney-must-consider-allowing-segway-use-by-disabled-court-says.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  must consider
letting disabled patrons use Segways at its theme parks, a U.S.
appeals court said.  The court today overturned a judge’s decision throwing out
a lawsuit by a woman with muscular dystrophy who claimed
Burbank, California-based Disney violated the Americans with
Disabilities Act by not allowing her to use a Segway. In earlier
lawsuits, she said she had to use a wheelchair.  The San Francisco-based appeals court ruled that Disney
must take into account evolving technologies that make it
cheaper and easier for the disabled to have the same experience
at its theme parks as non-disabled people. It sent the case back
to the trial court in  Santa Ana ,  California .  “We have every confidence that the organization that, half
a century ago, brought us the Carousel of Progress and Great
Moments with Mr. Lincoln can lead the way in using new
technology to make its parks more welcoming to disabled
guests,” Chief Judge Alex Kozinski wrote on behalf of the
three-judge appeals panel.  Disney may be able to bar Segways if it can prove that the
two-wheeled electric vehicles can’t be operated safely in the
parks, the appeals panel said. Any safety requirements Disney
imposes must be based on actual risks, “not on mere
speculation, generalizations or stereotypes about individuals
with disabilities,” Kozinski said.  ‘Imagination Left’  Quoting  Walt Disney  himself, the judge wrote: “As the man
who started it all said, ‘Disneyland will never be completed as
long as there is imagination left in the world.’”  Angela Bliss, a Disney spokeswoman, said the company hasn’t
allowed visitors to use two-wheeled vehicles like Segways “due
to the safety risks they present in our unique theme park
environments.”  “All this decision does is return to the trial court the
issue of whether Segways are permissible despite their safety
risks,” Bliss said in an e-mail.  The case is Baughman v. Disney, 10-5592,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit,  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  