-- DuPont Sees Profit at Lower End of Range on Economy
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-24T20:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/dupont-sees-2012-profit-at-lower-end-of-range-on-uncertainties-.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the second-largest U.S.
chemical maker, said 2012 profit will be at the lower end of a
previously forecast range because of uncertainties created by
weaker global economies and foreign currencies.  DuPont is projecting per-share of profit of $4.20 to $4.40,
excluding one-time items, the Wilmington, Delaware-based company
said today in a statement. The average of 20 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was $4.27. Profit won’t reach the top of
the range because of slower economic growth, a stronger dollar
and a higher  tax rate , Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Fanandakis said on a conference call.  “These guys tend to be very conservative when they give
guidance and this is the first time in a while that it’s at the
lower end,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors who recommends holding the shares, said today in
a telephone interview. “We are looking into a second half that
does look quite uncertain.”  DuPont Chief Executive Officer and Chairman  Ellen Kullman 
is trying to meet her target of increasing profit 12 percent a
year as the debt crisis in  Europe , which accounted for 26
percent of sales last year, threatens to further sap global
demand. The euro is close to an 11-year low versus the dollar,
eroding the benefit of higher prices for products such as crop
seeds and titanium dioxide used in paint.  Currency Impact  DuPont fell 2 percent to $47.74 in  New York .  Currency exchange reduced revenue by 3 percent in the
second quarter while sales volumes dropped 1 percent, DuPont
said. Revenue climbed 7.3 percent on price gains to $11 billion,
from $10.3 billion a year earlier. That trailed the $11.2
billion average  estimate  of 13 analysts.  Net income dropped 3.2 percent to $1.18 billion, or $1.25 a
share, from $1.22 billion, or $1.29, a year earlier.  Profit excluding one-time items was $1.48 a share, beating
the $1.46 average of 16  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Those
items were: costs to settle damage claims related to Imprelis
herbicide and litigation related to its former Invista nylon
business; costs related to the purchase of Danisco A/S last
year; and a gain from selling an equity investment.  Kullman has shifted DuPont’s focus to products that help
meet global demand for food, energy and security. The company
has beaten profit estimates  every quarter  since she became CEO
in January 2009. Kullman is targeting a 12 percent annual
increase in per-share earnings through 2015.  Titanium Dioxide  Pretax operating profit rose in five of DuPont’s seven
businesses and dropped in the electronics and safety and
protection units.  Profit rose 7 percent in the performance chemicals unit as
higher prices for titanium dioxide, which is used to make white
pigment, helped recoup increased ore costs. Pigment demand
should improve through the year, providing the business with
profit margins similar to 2011, Kullman said on the call.  The agriculture unit, the company’s largest, saw profit
rise 12 percent on higher sales of pesticides and bio-engineered
soybean and corn seeds. U.S. crop prices are near record highs
amid the worst drought in half a century.  The agriculture unit’s second-half loss may widen because
of increased investments and a stronger dollar, DuPont said. Wet
weather in  Latin America  will boost sales of fungicides and
insecticides, making up for reduced chemical demand caused by
the U.S. drought, Kullman said today on a separate call with
reporters.  DuPont probably held its market share in North American
corn and soybeans after gains since 2008 of 6 percentage points
in corn and more than 10 points in soy, the CEO said.  Monsanto
Co. (MON)  said June 27 that it probably gained share this year in U.S.
corn and soybeans.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  is the biggest U.S. chemical maker by
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  