-- LME Shareholders Approve HKEx’s $2.2 Billion Takeover Bid
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-07-25T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/lme-shareholders-poised-to-vote-on-hkex-s-2-2-billion-takeover.html
London Metal Exchange shareholders
approved the $2.2 billion takeover offer from Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., ending a 10-month contest.  The vote in London yesterday was more than 99 percent in
favor, said  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME. The board
backed the proposal June 15 after offers from rivals including
 CME Group Inc. (CME) , Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and  NYSE
Euronext. (NYX)  The proposal needed the backing of more than 50
percent of shareholders and owners controlling at least 75
percent of the stock in the 135-year-old exchange.  Hong Kong Exchanges is buying a bourse handling more than
80 percent of world trade in industrial-metal futures, setting
global prices for metals from copper to aluminum to nickel. It
is the first overseas acquisition for the Asian bourse, the
world’s second-biggest  exchange  by market value, and its first
contracts in commodities. LME members may get more access to
 China , which consumes more metal than any other nation.  “This is now the beginning of something new for the
exchange,” said  Martin Abbott , chief executive officer of the
LME. “What we’ve got now is even more resources and even more
opportunity.”  $15.4 Trillion  Metals prices more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from  emerging markets  overwhelmed supplies from mines.
The LME, home to London’s last open-outcry trading, handled a
record $15.4 trillion of contracts last year. Hong Kong
Exchanges closed little changed at HK$101.60 yesterday, leaving
the shares down 30 percent since Feb. 18, when the  South China
Morning Post  reported the bid.  The exchange is owned by LME Holdings Ltd., which issues
two classes of stock. There are 12.9 million ordinary shares,
which confer ownership and traded at 4.925 pounds last July,
before the LME said it was considering bids. Hong Kong Exchanges
offered 107.60 pounds a share.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the biggest investors, with closely held
Metdist Ltd. the third largest, LME data show.  The bourse will continue to be regulated by the Financial
Services Authority. Final approval is expected in November,
Abbott said.  Business Model  “The price is obviously good, but there is also sufficient
reassurance for the members about business model and great
growth opportunities,” LME Chairman Brian Bender told
reporters. While “there is the formality of the FSA,” the U.K.
regulator has raised no “red flag” so far, he said.  The LME has 70 shareholders, according to its  website . At
Hong Kong Exchanges’ offered price, JPMorgan’s stake is valued
at 150.6 million pounds and Goldman’s 132.3 million pounds.
Other investors include UBS AG, Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG
and Sucden Financial Ltd.  Sixty-seven stockholders controlling 12.86 million shares
voted on the transaction at a so-called court meeting, with 64
owners holding 12.82 million shares backing the bid. In a
separate tally at an extraordinary general meeting, 12.75
million shares, or 99.24 percent, were voted for the sale and
98,000 against.  INTL FCStone Inc. voted against the takeover,  Philip Smith ,
CEO for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said by phone. The New
York-based financial-services company holds 50,000 shares.  Client Concern  “We said all along that the commercial value of our
business far outweighs the shareholding,” Smith said. “A lot
of our clients were concerned and said they didn’t want any
change. We had to listen to them.”  Mining companies Rio Tinto Group and Codelco, stainless
steelmaker Outokumpu Oyj, commodity trader  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and aluminum producer Norsk Hydro ASA are
among 31 metals producers, users and merchants that control a
combined stake of 4.2 percent in the U.K. exchange.  “It’s an end of one era and start of a new one,” Michael Overlander, Sucden’s CEO and an LME director, told reporters in
London. “I’m very happy to see it to be supported in such an
overwhelming fashion.”  Hong Kong Exchanges agreed to maintain the LME’s contract
structure and open-outcry trading, conducted at the bourse on
Leadenhall Street in London’s financial district. The Asian
exchange also will keep the existing warehousing network, help
the LME develop its own clearinghouse and freeze trading fees
until at least the start of 2015.  “The LME is a great platform for commodities trading, and
there are a lot of synergies HKEx can bring forward,” said
 Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Hong Kong who
predicts stock in the Asian exchange will trade at HK$155.88 in
12 months. “This is a win-win situation longer term.”  A takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges may help the LME win more
clients in mainland China, register warehouses in the country
and clear products denominated in  yuan , Bender said in a letter
to shareholders July 9.  “It’s a clear vote, and we hope that the future of the LME
is as good,” Gabriela Grillo, managing director of Duisburg,
Germany-based trading company Wilhelm Grillo Handelsgesellschaft
mbH, told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  