-- Economy Seen Neither Too Good Nor Bad to Decide Election
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/economy-seen-neither-too-good-or-bad-to-decide-election.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is predicting an election-year economy that’s neither
here nor there: growth that disappoints yet keeps the U.S. from
slipping back into the recession billionaire  Bill Gross  has
indicated may happen.  “Nobody’s satisfied with where we are today, of course,
but there certainly has been significant improvement since mid-
2009 when the recovery began,” Bernanke told Congress on July
18. “I recognize that many Americans will still feel that the
situation is not satisfactory, but it’s going in the right
direction.”  With voters focused on the economy as their most important
issue, growth that muddles along may fail to provide Republican
Mitt Romney with the ammunition to unseat President  Barack Obama , according to  Dan Schnur , director of the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern California 
in Los Angeles. Fed officials  predict  a U.S. expansion of 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent this year, with unemployment stuck around
8 percent.  “It’s not good enough to automatically re-elect Obama, but
it’s not bad enough to automatically elect Romney,” said
Schnur, a campaign adviser to Republican  Arizona  Senator  John McCain ’s first bid for the White House in 2000. “We’re in this
in-between stage, which makes the election something of a jump
ball.”  Bernanke isn’t predicting the recession that Gross, who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., referenced in a July 16  Twitter  post. Gross said
the U.S. is “approaching recession when measured by employment,
retail sales, investment and corporate profits.”  Rising Joblessness  The  unemployment rate  will end the year at 8 percent to 8.2
percent and fall to 7.5 percent to 8 percent in 2013, Fed
officials estimate. Joblessness was  8.2 percent  in June, up from
8.1 percent in April.  “There is less than an even chance of a recession starting
in the second half of 2012,” said  Martin Feldstein , a professor
at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “Growth is
likely to be at a rate of less than 2 percent. But the risks are
on the downside, and growth of less than 1 percent cannot be
ruled out.”  Feldstein is a former president of the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  -- a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research
organization -- and a member of the NBER business-cycle
committee that decides when U.S. recessions start and stop. He
also served as chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .  ‘Significant Decline’  While some economists determine a recession by looking for
two quarters of falling economic output, the NBER committee --
which declared the last recession  ended  in June 2009 -- defines
it as “a significant decline in activity.” Among the
indicators the panel looks at are gross domestic product,
employment and real income.  Panel members also review the monthly GDP estimate by
forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers as part of their
decision making, as well as estimates constructed by two
committee members: Harvard economist James Stock and  Mark Watson 
at  Princeton University  in New Jersey.  Economists forecast a 20 percent probability of a recession
within the next 12 months, the same as in January, according to
the median response of 53 who were surveyed by Bloomberg News
from July 6 to July 10.  Strengthening Signs  The residential real-estate market has shown signs of
strength even as other parts of the economy cool. New U.S. home
construction rose in June to the highest level in almost four
years, climbing 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace after a
revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster than initially
estimated, the Commerce Department in Washington said July 18.  “We’re growing roughly at a pace that’s enough to absorb
the growth in the working-age population but nowhere near fast
enough to make up for the ground that was lost in the labor
market during the downturn,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist
in St. Petersburg, Florida, at Raymond James Financial Inc.,
which oversees $363 billion.  Employers added 80,000 jobs in June, missing the 100,000
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey, after
a revised 77,000 in May and 68,000 in April, the slowest pace in
almost a year. Through June, the economy had recovered about
3.84 million of the almost 9 million jobs lost as a result of
the 18-month recession.  Focal Point  The economy is poised to be the focal point for this
November’s election. Forty-five percent of Americans choose
unemployment and jobs as the most important issue facing the
nation, compared with 18 percent for the federal deficit and 13
percent for health care, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
of 1,002 adults conducted June 15-18. The margin of error is 3.1
percentage points.  The outlook has weakened in the last few months as the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe worsened. Concern that fiscal
tightening in the U.S. will curb growth also has damped
confidence. Fed officials in June lowered their forecast for the
expansion this year from an April projection of 2.4 percent to
2.9 percent.  “The withdrawal of government spending, plus the troubles
in Europe, have substantially cut into the recovery that had
begun in the second half of 2009,” said  Jeffrey Frankel , a
member of the NBER business-cycle committee and a professor at
Harvard. “But I would expect that we would probably escape
recession if the fiscal cliff weren’t there.”  Reductions in federal spending, a halt to payroll-tax cuts
and expiration of income-tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  are slated to take effect at year-end.  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  Frankel said while the changes don’t begin until Jan. 1,
concerns already are curbing growth.  “If political gridlock remains, then the economy could
fall back into recession even before the end of the year,” he
said.  Retail sales unexpectedly fell for a third month in June as
limited employment gains took a toll on consumers. The 0.5
percent drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in May, Commerce
Department figures showed last week. The retail figures prompted
economists at Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG to lower their forecasts for growth in
the second quarter.  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke told Congress July 17. Progress in
reducing unemployment probably will be “frustratingly slow,”
and the Fed is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate,” he said.  Easing Tools  Easing tools include further purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities, and altering the Fed’s language on
the outlook for  interest rates , Bernanke said. Another option is
to use the so-called discount window for direct lending to
banks. Last month, the Fed decided to prolong through the end of
the year its so-called Operation Twist program to lengthen
maturities of Treasuries on its balance sheet.  “The economy’s losing momentum,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “There seems to be some question” in Bernanke’s
“mind about whether we’re going to make the previous growth
forecasts -- maybe that growth is even less than moderate -- but
I certainly did not hear any talk of a recession” during his
testimony.  While Bernanke isn’t forecasting a contraction in growth,
he did tell Congress last week that a failure to avert a shock
in fiscal policy next year would “probably knock the recovery
back into a recession and cost a lot of jobs.”  Getting Worse  In the Gallup Organization tracking poll conducted July 15-
17, 57 percent of Americans said the economy is getting worse
versus 37 percent who said it is getting better. The U.S.
expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in the first quarter, down from 3
percent in the last three months of 2011. The economy grew by
1.4 percent in the second quarter, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Even if the U.S. does slip into a mild recession, that
still may fail to provide the catalyst to swing voters one way
or another, according to Schnur.  “Whether the economy is very slowly growing or whether
it’s preparing for a turn to the worse, either way voters feel
unsettled,” he said. “Either way, economic issues don’t
necessarily drive them to the challenger, but the current
landscape doesn’t provide many opportunities for the
incumbent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  