-- Egypt’s Olympic Soccer Team Emerges From Violence to Play Brazil
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-24T23:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/egypt-s-olympic-soccer-team-emerges-from-violence-to-play-brazil.html
When it comes to preparing for a
sporting event, most coaches demand focused training. For
Egypt’s Olympic soccer team, the build-up has been more about
avoiding shooting off the field than practicing on it.  All but two of the 18-member squad are signed with clubs at
home, where the professional league hasn’t played since a
February riot left more than 70 people dead. The clashes, the
worst soccer violence in Egypt’s history, marked a year after
former President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in a mass uprising.
Since then, league matches across the Arab world’s most populous
nation have been suspended as officials feared a repeat.  “It’s a hard situation in Egypt, even in my team,” coach
Hany Ramzy, 46, said in an interview in London, where his
players arrived this week for the games and play  Brazil  tomorrow
at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff. “We try to keep our
players in good physical and technical shape but it’s not easy.
They stopped the league in Egypt so it’s difficult.”  Of the 16 countries participating in the men’s soccer
competition, none has endured more violent political upheaval
than Egypt over the past year and a half. Unable to play
fixtures at home, Ramzy took his team to play matches in Uruguay
and  France  before the local soccer authorities said they could
host opponents in Egypt behind closed doors.  Soccer Fans  Egyptians are fanatical about the sport. The national team
is a record seven-time winner of the  Africa  Cup of Nations and
was the first from Africa to play in a  World Cup .  The country’s two biggest clubs, Al Alhy and Zamalek, are
also the most-successful teams in Africa, winning the Egyptian
league 47 times and taking 11 African championships between
them. Matches between the Cairo pair are screened lived across
Africa and the  Middle East  and draw capacity crowds of 75,000.  Gamal Abdel-Fattah, a 28-year-old plumber who backs
Zamalek, said the Mubarak regime used the power of soccer to
divert attention from what was going on in the country.  “Now, we could really use something to help us forget the
mess that’s been developing since the revolution,” he said.  Al Ahly supporters were at the forefront of the protests
against Mubarak and also subsequent rallies against the
military, according to Louisa Loveluck, an Egypt researcher at
 King’s College London’s  International State Crime Initiative.  “Cairo’s main two teams have got a huge amount of quite
militant supporters who can be mobilized and put on very
visually arresting support,” Loveluck said in a telephone
interview. “Al Ahly ultras were at the forefront of pitched
battles with security forces. The power change offered a chance
to confront the forces that were their nemeses.”  Divided Nation  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi was elected the
country’s president last month, taking over from a military
council that ruled since Mubarak’s ouster. The two sides,
however, are locked in a political tug-of-war that has stunted
efforts to revive the nation’s economy after the uprising.  The new government has yet to say when matches will
officially resume after the league was suspended because of the
violence at the soccer stadium in Port Said. At the match, Al
Ahly fans fought with those of local team Al Masry. Weapons
included knives, swords, clubs, stones, bottles, and fireworks,
according to Egyptian media reports.  “Why does everything in this country have to turn ugly?”
said Nasser Shehab, 24, an Al Ahly fan and waiter at a street
side café in the poorer Cairo neighborhood of Dar el-Salam.
“It’s just a game, but now it’s become part of the politics.”  Missing Out  What’s more,  Egypt ’s senior national team will miss
consecutive Africa Cup of Nations for the first time since 1968
after being held 1-1 by the Central African Republic in a
qualifying match. It was forced to play the home match of the
two-game series behind closed doors last month because the
countries stadiums have yet to be declared safe.  FIFA, the sport’s governing body, said it doesn’t have a
time frame for when matches will be allowed again.  “This is an internal Egyptian matter,” FIFA said in an e-
mailed statement. “However, FIFA has contacted the EFA to get
clarity and information regarding the situation and to properly
assess it.”  Egypt is a 50-1 underdog in the games, where only  South
Korea ,  Honduras  and  United Arab Emirates  have worse odds among
the 16 teams in the tournament. The odds mean a successful $1
bet on Egypt would bring in $50 plus the original stake. Brazil
is the favorite with U.K. bookmaker William Hill, at 6-4.  Ramzy, whose team features 15 players under 23 and three
over-age players in keeping with Olympic soccer rules, is trying
to keep soccer and politics separate in London.  The coach played a 124 times for the national team and was
Egypt’s most-expensive player in 1994. He agreed to oversee the
team two years before the start of protests against Mubarak.  “I keep my players away from the political situation,”
Ramzy said at  London ’s Wembley Stadium where the soccer final
will be played on Aug. 11. “We don’t talk about politics
because it’s kind of confusing. I keep my players away from all
this old regime, new regime stuff.”  Without matches to play, Ramzy called Egypt’s players
together months in advance of the games, asking them to train
everyday as though they would at their clubs. Ramzy said his
team knows performances can play a part in healing the nation.  “We have to show the entire world that we’re still
alive,” he said. “We have some young guys that really love
this country and this gives us a big motivation to play in
London.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Park in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  