-- Egypt’s Mursi Appoints Water Minister to Form New Cabinet
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-07-24T15:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/egypt-s-mursi-appoints-water-minister-to-form-new-cabinet-2-.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
named U.S.-trained water resources minister Hisham Qandil as the
new premier, tapping a little-known politician to steward a
nation mired in a political tug-of-war and struggling with a
battered economy.  Qandil was asked to form a government in the very near
future, the Middle East  News Agency  said, citing Mursi spokesman
Yasser Ali. Qandil “is an independent, nationalist figure who
does not belong to any political group, either before the
January 25 revolution or after it,” Ali said.  Qandil’s appointment ended weeks of uncertainty over who
would form the government that is to take power from the
administration appointed by the military council that handed
over power to Mursi on June 30. Mursi had pledged to appoint a
figure from outside the Muslim Brotherhood from whose ranks he
was drawn, as he sought to ease tensions with political groups
that were concerned that Islamists were gaining too much power.  “Ninety-nine percent of Egyptians probably never heard of
him before,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at Brookings
Doha Center, said of Qandil in a phone interview. “That is both
an advantage and disadvantage for Mursi, but I think most people
were expecting someone with more stature and a bigger profile,
someone who can shake Egyptian politics up.”  Egypt ’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  of stocks extended its
decline to 1 percent at the close in Cairo. The yield on the
country’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due 2020 advanced two basis
points, or 0.02 of a percentage point, to 6.62 percent.  Technocrat Government  Qandil said he would appoint a government of technocrats,
MENA reported.  He comes to the post with powers yet to be determined under
a constitution that has not been written, while Mursi is engaged
in a political battle with the former ruling generals over
limits to his own powers.  This appointment “will not satisfy political forces,”
Ashraf el-Sherif, a political scientist at the American
University in Cairo, said by phone. “The political gap will
continue and with the wave of demonstrations, strikes and the
high expectations people have for the new president, the
situation can only get worse.”  Qandil told reporters today that Mursi was in contact with
the military council over the defense ministry portfolio, which
is currently held by the head of the military council, Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi.  ‘Economic Background’  Egypt’s economy has been battered in the nearly 18 months
since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster. Since January 2011, Egypt’s
foreign reserves have dropped by over 50 percent while a $3.2
billion International Monetary Fund loan that has been under
discussion for a year has yet to materialize.  “The market had hoped that the prime minister would have
an economic background to implement the reforms needed to get
the Egyptian economy back on track,” Anthony Simond, a London-
based emerging-markets analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc., said by phone. “It doesn’t appear that he has this
experience.”  That Qandil doesn’t hail from any of the country’s various
political blocs or alliances means “it will be easier for Mursi
to manage him and the government,” said Said Hirsh, Mideast
economist with  Capital Economics .  “There’s a bigger picture that this appointment doesn’t
seem to address: The fact the government itself, and the
president himself, have very little power on policy making,”
said Hirsh.  Temporary Authority  The military council last month issued a constitutional
adendum stripping the presidency of some of its power and gave
itself temporary legislative authority.  Qandil was named a minister under the interim government
headed by Essam Sharaf, who took over as premier in March last
year after Mubarak’s ouster. He survived a subsequent cabinet
change and worked under Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri, the
outgoing premier. MENA put his age at 50, while the independent
Al-Masry Al-Youm newspaper said he was 49.  His name rarely figured in the list of top contenders for
the post floated by various Egyptian media. Those possible
nominees, who names were dismissed as speculation by the
presidency, included former and current central bank heads and a
finance minister.  Before he was appointed to Sharaf’s Cabinet, Qandil served
as a water resources expert at the  African Development Bank ,
according to a biography posted on the Freedom & Justice Party’s
Facebook page. He took part in talks on sharing the Nile’s
waters and was a member of a joint Egyptian-Sudanese Nile waters
authority, according to MENA.  His selection by Mursi is a “surprise, and goes back to
the era of technocratic prime ministers,”  Ayman Nour , an
opposition politician who challenged Mubarak for the presidency
in 2005, wrote on his Twitter account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible
for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  