-- Einhorn Buys Cigna in Bet Obama Health Care Plan Cut Back
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-24T21:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/einhorn-buys-cigna-in-bet-obama-health-care-plan-cut-back.html
Greenlight Capital Inc., the $7.7
billion hedge fund run by David Einhorn, said it bought shares
in  Cigna Corp. (CI)  and  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , while selling its
holdings in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Best Buy Co.  Cigna, based in Bloomfield, Connecticut, and Coventry
Health in Bethesda, Maryland, have unlevered balance sheets and
trade at single-digit price-earnings ratios, making them cheap,
Greenlight said in an investor letter dated July 23, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “There is the additional unpriced upside in the
possibility that the election changes the political landscape,
resulting in a possible modification or repeal of Obamacare,”
the hedge fund said in the letter.  Mitt Romney , seeking to defeat President  Barack Obama  in
this year’s elections, has vowed to repeal Obama’s health-care
overhaul after the U.S. Supreme Court on June 28 upheld the core
of the legislation. Greenlight, whose co-founder Einhorn is
known for betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before
it collapsed in September 2008 and putting pressure on companies
such as  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , said Cigna deserves
a higher multiple because the plan-administration business
doesn’t take risk.  Cigna Rises  Cigna rose 0.2 percent to $41.22 and Coventry Health gained
0.4 percent to $31.93. Best Buy declined 3.1 percent to $18.10
and Dell lost 2 percent to $11.57.  “They have no exposure to the European currency crisis, a
possible Chinese slowdown or other cyclical headwinds,” the
hedge fund said, referring to Cigna and Coventry Health.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based
Greenlight, declined to comment.  Greenlight returned 3.4 percent in the first half of the
year, according to the letter. Hedge funds gained 1.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Greenlight said its Dell investment was a
“disappointment” and the fund sold the shares at a loss. While
Dell has a “good” balance sheet, the firm will probably try to
use much of its cash to buy its way into a profitable business,
Greenlight said.  “At a minimum, this will erode some of the value cushion
that the cash balance creates,” it said.  Best Buy  The hedge fund said it was “worried” that Best Buy would
experience more disruptions to its business as the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company tries to come up with a strategy after
former chief executive officer  Brian Dunn  resigned in April,
amid revelations that he had an inappropriate relationship with
a female employee.  Greenlight said its largest disclosed long holdings at the
end of the second quarter were  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , General Motors Co.,
gold,  Marvell Technology Group (MRVL)  and Seagate Technology Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  