-- El Nino Indicators Strengthen as Warming Resumes Across Pacific
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-07-24T07:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/el-nino-indicators-strengthen-as-warming-resumes-across-pacific.html
Indicators of an El Nino event
strengthened, with climate models showing the weather pattern
will form this year, threatening to parch Asia and Australia as
dry conditions wither crops from the U.S. to  Europe .  El Nino-Southern Oscillation observations show a resumption
of warming across the central tropical  Pacific Ocean ,
 Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology  said on its website today. The
bureau said last week that indicators had eased slightly, while
remaining near the threshold for the weather condition.  El Ninos are caused by the periodic warming of the Pacific,
while their reverse, La Ninas are indicated by a cooling of
surface waters. The patterns effect weather worldwide and can
roil markets as farmers contend with drought or battle too much
rain. The worst drought since 1956 in the U.S. drove corn and
soybeans to records yesterday as heat waves in southern Europe
wither crops. In the next three months, parts of Australia, the
second-biggest wheat exporter, will be drier-than-normal.  “Climate models continue to suggest that El Nino will form
this year,” the bureau said. Forecasters from  Malaysia  to the
U.S. have also predicted the weather event will form in 2012.  The U.S. drought may spark a rebound in global  food prices 
from this month through October, halting a slide that sent costs
in June to the lowest in 21 months,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an
economist in  Rome  at the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization, said on July 5.  Corn reached $8 a bushel and soybeans $16.915 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday. Wheat advanced to $9.4725,
the most expensive since August 2008.  About 26 percent of the U.S.  corn  crop was in good or
excellent condition as of July 22, down from 31 percent a week
earlier, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . An
estimated 31 percent of the  soybeans  got the top ratings, down
from 34 percent. The assessments are the worst for both the
crops for this time of the year since a drought in 1988.  El Nino events are typically associated with drier
conditions across large parts of eastern  Australia . Most of the
country’s grain-growing regions are set to be drier-than-normal
from August to October, the Bureau of Meteorology said July 18.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  