-- Telefonica Is Said to Near Sale of Atento to Bain Capital
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-24T15:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/telefonica-is-said-to-near-sale-of-atento-to-bain-capital.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company accelerating asset sales to help cut 57 billion euros of
 net debt , is nearing an agreement to sell its Atento call-center
division to Bain Capital Partners LLC, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Telefonica and Bain are working on details of an agreement
valuing Atento at about 700 million euros ($846 million), which
may be announced as early as this week, the people said, asking
not to be identified as the negotiations are confidential.
Permira Advisers LLP remains in contact with Telefonica about
Atento although its interest has waned, said another person.  The sale proceeds will add to the disposal of a $1.4
billion stake in  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  last month. After
a cut in Telefonica’s debt rating by  Standard & Poor’s  in May,
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta has announced plans to
sell shares in the company’s German and Latin American assets.
Telefonica was seeking about 1 billion euros from Atento after
shelving plans a year ago for an initial public offering of the
unit, people familiar with the matter said in June.  “This low price shows how investors are concerned about
Atento’s potential growth and also labor regulation in Brazil,
where most of its workforce is based,” said Andres Bolumburu, a
Madrid-based analyst at Banco de Sabadell. “The asset is also
really hard to manage because if Telefonica quits from being a
customer, the risks for Atento are huge.”  Atento Workforce  Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Boston-based  Bain Capital ,
declined to comment, as did representatives for Telefonica and
Permira. Telefonica said July 11 that it had received several
offers, without identifying the bidders.  No final sale agreement has been reached and the deal could
still fall apart, the people said.  As part of its asset disposal plan, Telefonica is holding
talks with companies including Permira to sell its 50 percent
stake in online travel agency Rumbo, two people familiar with
the matter said. Orizonia, a Spanish tourism holding company
that owns the other half of Rumbo, could sell its stake to
Permira or buy out the unit from Telefonica, one of the people
said.  Travel Agent  Telefonica may raise as much as 200 million euros from a
sale, said another person with knowledge of the matter. Founded
in 2000, Rumbo operates in  Spain ,  Portugal  and four Latin
American countries including Brazil. Its revenue reached 485
million euros in 2010, according to the most recent available
data.  Bain Capital, the private-equity firm co-founded by U.S.
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , has backed companies
including business-software provider MYOB Ltd. and cinema chain
 AMC Entertainment Inc. (AMC)  The firm, whose investors include  Yale
University  and the government of Singapore, is raising a $6
billion fund for further deals.  With about 156,000 employees, about half of Telefonica’s
total, Atento had about 1.8 billion euros in 2011 revenue.
That’s less than 3 percent of the 62.8 billion-euro sales
reported by the parent company. Atento’s 2011  operating income 
before depreciation and amortization dropped 15 percent to 161
million euros.  Telefonica fell 4.3 percent to 8.63 euros at the close of
trading in Madrid. The stock has slumped 36 percent this year,
the worst performance among the 23 companies in  the Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services Index , which has lost 7.2
percent. Telefonica is scheduled to report earnings July 26.  European phone operators are looking to shed assets and pay
down debt as heavy regulation at home and slowing growth in
 emerging markets  weigh on earnings.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the
country’s former phone monopoly, has agreed to sell units in
Switzerland and Austria in the last year, while the Netherlands’
Royal KPN NV is seeking buyers for its Belgian business and some
wireless towers in  Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  