-- Emerging Stocks Fall for Third Day on Worsening Europe Crisis
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-07-24T21:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-europe-china.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
third day as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
overshadowed signs of improvement for China’s manufacturing.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.3 percent to 909.43
in  New York , its lowest close since June 28.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
index also dropped for a third day as Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer, fell the most since October. OAO
Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas exporter, declined 1.8
percent in Moscow, leading energy companies lower on the
 emerging markets  index.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook to negative for
the Aaa credit ratings of  Germany , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, citing “rising uncertainty.” A preliminary reading
of manufacturing in China was 49.5 in July, which if confirmed
would be the highest since February, according to a purchasing
managers index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. A reading under 50 indicates contraction.  “It’s going to take more than one decent Chinese number to
heal perceptions of an uncertain global economic outlook,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “Until the growth outlook
for Europe and the U.S. becomes clearer, it will be very
difficult to get a sustained rally in emerging markets.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets/ Energy Index (MXEF0EN)  slid 1.1 percent.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has slid 3 percent this month,
compared with a 2.7 percent decline by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and natural-gas
explorer, fell 4 percent in  Hong Kong , the most since May 7, on
concern the company is overpaying in its $15.1 billion
acquisition of Nexen Inc. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong declined 0.6 percent.  Gazprom  The Micex Index slipped 0.5 percent in  Russia . Gazprom fell
for the third day while OAO Severstal, Russia’s second-largest
steel producer by output, lost 2.1 percent.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, dropped 0.4
percent after the company began talks to buy BP Plc’s stake in
TNK-BP, adding another bidder for the U.K. producer’s shares in
the Moscow-based venture.  Vale tumbled 4.7 percent, the most since Oct. 17, as
 commodities  fell.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar , Brazil’s biggest retailer, lost 1.9 percent as concern
mounted that increased competition is eroding profits at its
electronics subsidiary.  The Mexican peso depreciated 0.9 percent against the dollar
and the  rand  weakened 0.7 percent.  Spain ’s benchmark 10-year
bond yield reached a euro-era record today amid concern the
nation may require a second bailout.  South Africa, Turkey  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  added 0.5 percent in
Johannesburg and the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 0.9 percent
in  Turkey .  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , Turkey’s biggest listed
state-run bank, advanced 2.6 percent after reporting higher
second-quarter profit.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose from its lowest level
since 2009, adding 0.2 percent. The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  lost 0.3 percent
in Taipei.  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  tumbled 1.5 percent, the most
since July 9.  “While signs of an acceleration in Chinese economic growth
would prove positive for the global growth outlook, it still
faces significant downside risks from the escalating euro-zone
sovereign debt crisis,”  Lee Hardman , an analyst at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients.  The Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , added 0.2 percent in
Mumbai.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , a unit of the world’s second-
largest consumer goods company, jumped 7.5 percent, after first-
quarter net income rose.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 368, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  