-- Tennis Channel Wins Better Comcast Cable Placement in U.S. Order
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-07-24T22:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tennis-channel-wins-better-comcast-cable-placement-in-u-s-order.html
The Federal Communications
Commission let stand an agency judge’s ruling that  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
improperly placed the  Tennis Channel  in different viewing
packages on its cable systems than the company’s own sports
programs.  The agency, in a ruling posted on its website, denied the
largest U.S. cable company’s request for a review of the
December decision by Chief Administrative Law Judge Richard
Sippel.  Comcast must carry Tennis Channel on the same distribution
tier, reaching the same number of subscribers, as it does its
own Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network, the FCC  said . It left
undisturbed Sippel’s assessment of a maximum penalty of $375,000
against Philadelphia-based Comcast.  The FCC gave Comcast 45 days to comply.  Investors in the closely held Tennis Channel include Apollo
Partners, Bain Capital Ventures,  Battery Ventures , CCMP Capital
Advisors, Columbia Capital, DND Capital Partners LLC and former
players Andre Agassi and  Pete Sampras , according to the
channel’s website.  Tennis Channel is gratified by the decision, Eric Abner, a
spokesman for the Los Angeles-based venture, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The commission’s decision constitutes a persuasive
rejection of each argument Comcast has sought to make over the
past several years,” Abner said.  Comcast is disappointed and will appeal to federal courts,
Kyle McSlarrow, the Washington president of
Comcast/NBCUniversal, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The decision will accomplish nothing other than to drive
up programming costs and enrich a group of wealthy investors in
the Tennis Channel,” McSlarrow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  