-- Equinix Change to REIT Seen Saving $312 Million in Taxes
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/equinix-change-to-reit-seen-saving-312-million-in-taxes.html
Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , operator of data
centers for companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , is
the latest technology business to consider changing its
corporate status to cut hundreds of millions of tax dollars.  Demand for Equinix’s services is booming as more companies
and consumers turn to the company to manage their Web traffic,
mobile apps and online video. As Equinix’s data centers --
essentially computer-age warehouses -- continue to sprawl, the
property required to house them has convinced Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Smith  that the time may be ripe to redefine the
business as a real estate investment trust, a designation set
aside for companies that invest heavily in real estate.  “Tax efficiency is the most important attribute of being a
REIT, so that’s certainly a positive,” said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst at Delray Beach, Florida-based Benchmark Co., who
recommends buying the shares. “REITs are valued at a premium
given that they’re highly recurring dividend plays.”  REITs typically are subject to lower taxes and pay higher
dividends than other companies, so the conversion would help
Smith return more money to shareholders, he said in an
interview. More technology-related companies that make money
from owning and operating facilities are making the switch to
REITs. Recent examples are storage services provider Iron
Mountain Inc. and  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , which leases wireless
communications tower space.  Outpacing Peers  Equinix’s stock has beaten every large U.S. technology
company in the past year as demand for its services drove a
four-fold  rise in revenue  since 2007.  Even though Equinix belongs to tech indexes run by  Standard
& Poor’s (S4INFT)  Financial Services LLC, Russell Investments and NASDAQ
OMX Group Inc., it gets more than three-quarters of sales from
renting out server space in more than 100 facilities worldwide,
meeting  criteria required to become a REIT . If it converts, the
company would pay most of its income to shareholders in the form
of a dividend, while also joining a favored asset class -- the
Bloomberg REIT Index has  topped  the  S&P 500 Index  in nine of the
past 12 years.  Equinix, based in Redwood City,  California , has surged 60
percent in the last 12 months, the  second-biggest gain  among the
116 members of the  Russell 1000 Technology Index (RGUSTL)  after
 SolarWinds Inc. (SWI)  and about six percentage points better than
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The stock fell 3.2 percent to $162.48 yesterday in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Tax Break  Even with its recent gain, Equinix trades at a discount to
REITs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For 2013,
Equinix has an estimated enterprise value to Ebitda (earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization)  ratio of
10 , compared with 17 for the  Bloomberg REIT index , a group that
includes owners of malls, storage facilities, apartment
complexes and medical buildings.  Data center operators  Digital Realty Trust Inc. (DLR)  and  DuPont
Fabros Technology Inc. (DFT) , which are not in the index, have ratios
of 15 and 13, respectively. American Tower has jumped 17 percent
since converting into a REIT on Dec. 31. Iron Mountain is up 11
percent since approving a plan to become a REIT on June 6.  “The path has been laid for additional companies to elect
to operate as a REIT,” said Mark Decker, the head of real
estate investment and corporate banking at BMO Capital Markets
in  Chicago .  The conversion would eliminate Equinix’s corporate tax and
the company would send about 90 percent of income to investors,
who would be taxed on the dividend received. Colby Synesael, an
analyst at Cowen & Co., estimates the change would save the
company $312 million in taxes between 2015 and 2016, the first
two full years that a plan would be in place.  ‘Arms Merchants’  Equinix provides data center space to more than 4,300
companies, including AT&T,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Amazon, which
rents space in some areas to deliver its Web hosting service.  Kevin Landis  owns $3.3 million in Equinix shares and counts
it as the 10th-biggest holding in his Firsthand Technology
Opportunities Fund. He’s betting on the company’s ability to win
sales from the world’s largest businesses as the need for space
and connectivity increases.  “As an investor, I love arms merchants,” said Landis,
whose firm is based in  San Jose , California. “As servers get
banished from the enterprise, can you even imagine a scenario in
which data centers don’t get more and more important?”  Landis said he didn’t have any special insight into the
REIT question, though he expects to get additional details
tomorrow, when Equinix  reports  second-quarter results. The
company is expected to say that  sales  in the period climbed 18
percent to $467.2 million from $394.9 million a year earlier,
according to the average estimate of analysts’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue Growth  That follows revenue  growth  in 2011 of 32 percent to $1.61
billion from $1.22 billion in the previous year. Equinix is
forecasting sales of $3 billion by 2015.  “We don’t want to do anything that would damage our growth
profile,” Smith said in an interview. “That’s the biggest
debate with the board.”  Smith told investors in February that Equinix had hired
advisers to help explore a conversion, and during last quarter’s
earnings call in April he added that the company will incur a $2
million expense this year for the analysis.  Another issue the company must confront is that its
 international  business accounts for 36 percent of revenue and is
spread across 12 other countries from Brazil to Singapore. The
company has said eventually more than half of sales will be
outside the U.S. Each country has a different  tax code , so to
convert globally would be an expensive, time-consuming endeavor.  While Equinix could just convert its U.S. operations and
continue to pay corporate taxes abroad, that approach would
probably change how the company is valued, because it wouldn’t
be a “pure-play” REIT, said Cowen’s Synesael, who rates the
shares “outperform.”  “The majority of growth most likely is going to come in
international markets going forward in terms of where they
build,” Synesael said. “That may impact the multiple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  