-- EU CO2 Plunge Reignites Criticism About Market Disclosure
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-24T14:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/eu-co2-plunge-reignites-criticism-about-market-disclosure.html
The biggest two-day decline this
year for European carbon permits has reignited criticism that
the Brussels regulator needs to improve how it releases key
information to the market.  Carbon for December fell 10 percent in the two days through
July 19 as the European Commission declined to comment on a
report by Oslo-based Point Carbon that it was preparing to
announce plans to reduce a glut of permits without saying by how
much. Jos Delbeke, director-general of climate at the
commission, said May 31 that the regulator would temporarily
remove some new allowances to be auctioned in the three years
starting 2013, fanning speculation it would specify a number.  “The European Commission must get its house in order, and
stop issuing or leaking contradictory information, which has
such material impacts on the market and diminishes confidence,”
Mark Meyrick, head of carbon at the trading unit of Dutch
utility Eneco Holding NV in Rotterdam, said July 18 by e-mail.
“It is profoundly damaging, and unless we see some strong
leadership very soon from the commission, this market will
implode.”  Carbon permits jumped 30 percent last month on speculation
the commission would address the surplus. They had fallen to a
four-year low on April 4 of 5.99 euros ($7.25) a metric ton on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London and traded at 7.21
euros as of 3:34 p.m. today.  Unprecedented Supply  The bloc is seeking to curb an unprecedented supply of
permits that is cutting the incentive companies have to reduce
 greenhouse gases  linked to  climate change . Carbon emitted from
cars, power stations and factories will need to be reduced by an
average of 6 percent a year to stabilize the Earth’s climate by
the end of the century, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space
Administration said in April.  Point Carbon didn’t specify the source of its information
when reporting July 18 the regulator’s plan to support prices
won’t contain the number of allowances to be withheld. Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the climate unit of the
commission in Brussels, didn’t return three phone calls, two e-
mails and a text message from Bloomberg seeking comment.  The commission will release some details of its proposal
tomorrow at noon Brussels time, the regulator said today in a
statement on its website.  Internal opposition within the regulator to the plan was
“undercommunicated” last month,  Matthew Gray , an analyst at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, said in a July 19 note. Price
movements have been “fueled by leaked information and
conflicting messages from politicians.”  ‘Clarification Needed’  The commission would propose by about the middle of this month
“a proposal to postpone the bringing to the market of a number
of allowances for auctioning,” Delbeke said May 31 at the
Carbon Expo conference in Cologne,  Germany .  The commission may not succeed in its bid to temporarily
cut supply, said Louis Redshaw, head of  emissions trading  at
Barclays Plc in London. That plan is known as back-loading
supply.  “They need to urgently clarify what’s going on,” Redshaw
said July 18 by phone. “We’ve heard the commission saying
forcefully ‘this is what we are going to do.’ Now there’s doubt
whether they will ever achieve their back-loading plan.”  Regulatory officials need to be more careful not to give
out market-sensitive information while the EU’s plan is being
negotiated and remains under wraps, Meyrick at Eneco said.  “Given the delicate state of negotiations within the
commission, this is an appalling piece of information
management,” he said. Sources of leaks should be found and
disciplinary action taken, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  