-- EU Extends Levy on Construction Material From China to Malaysia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-07-24T11:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/eu-extends-levy-on-construction-material-from-china-to-malaysia.html
The European Union extended to
 Malaysia  a tariff on a construction material from  China , saying
Chinese exporters used the country to evade the levy meant to
curb competition for EU producers like Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA.  The EU said Chinese exporters of open-mesh fabrics of glass
fibers shipped them to  Europe  via Malaysia to dodge the 62.9
percent duty. Open-mesh fabrics of glass fibers are used mainly
as a reinforcement material in construction.  The import tax “was circumvented by trans-shipment from
Malaysia,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision published today
in the  Official Journal . The extension, approved by EU
governments in Brussels on July 16, will take effect tomorrow.  The EU imposed the trade protection in August 2011 for five
years to help producers including Saint-Gobain Vertex sro -- now
called  Saint-Gobain Adfors CZ sro  -- of the Czech Republic and
 Valmieras Stikla Skiedra AS (VSS1R)  of Latvia counter below-cost, or
“dumped,” imports from China. The 62.9 percent levy is the
maximum of several rates, which depend on the Chinese exporter.
The lowest levy is 48.4 percent.  Chinese exporters including Yuyao Mingda Fiberglass Co. and
Grand Composite Group expanded their combined share of the EU
market for open-mesh fabrics of glass fibers to 51 percent in
the 12 months through March 2010 from 38.6 percent in 2006, the
bloc said last year.  The extension of the maximum levy to Malaysia is the
outcome of a circumvention probe that the EU began last
November. That inquiry was requested by European producers,
which also include Germany’s  Vitrulan Technical Textiles GmbH 
and  Hungary ’s  Tolnatex Fonalfeldolgozo es Muszakiszovet-gyarto
Bt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  