-- EU Rushes to Make ECB Single Bank Watchdog in Race for Spain
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-07-25T12:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/eu-rushes-to-make-ecb-single-bank-watchdog-in-race-to-save-spain.html
Europe ’s quest to sever the link
between Spain’s fiscal fate and its failing banks hinges on an
obstacle-strewn race to hand greater powers to the  European
Central Bank .  Until euro-area leaders overcome German doubts, ECB
concerns, and turf battles everywhere, Spain will remain on the
hook for a bailout of its banks of as much as 100 billion euros
($121 billion). Policy makers want to protect taxpayers from
losses so potentially big they risk bankrupting governments, as
happened in Ireland and Iceland.  “We have got to cut the fatal loop between sovereigns and
banks, which will otherwise bring the euro-zone project as it
exists now down,”  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said in a  London  speech yesterday. The euro
area needs “rapid progress” towards a central fund that can
directly recapitalize banks, he said.  Officials are working against a self-imposed September
deadline to thrash out plans that would hand oversight of
lenders to the ECB as the first step in a campaign to break a
cycle of banks and sovereigns fuelling each others’ debt woes.
Spain’s role as middleman in the bank bailout has helped send
its borrowing costs to euro-era record, with its 10-year yield
above 7.5 percent.  Germany ’s is about 1.2 percent.  Withdrawal Worries  “The day a Spanish bank can put a big fat sign in its
window that says ’regulated by the ECB,’ the risk of deposit
flight declines,”  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at
UniCredit Bank AG in London.  Viviane Reding , the EU’s justice-policy chief, said the
scandal engulfing Libor and other interbank lending rates shows
why centralized banking supervision is needed as soon as
possible.  The ECB needs greater powers to end the “very cosy
relationships that exist today between some national supervisors
and banks in their home country,” Reding told reporters at a
briefing in Brussels today. “We cannot continue with this
casino mentality.”  European Union taxpayers have provided 4.5 trillion euros
in capital injections, guarantees and other forms of support to
their lenders since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding
Inc., contributing to the weakening of public finances.  In drafting the measures, the European Commission is
navigating demands from the ECB that the plans mustn’t meddle
with its independence, and competing calls from lawmakers that
with greater power should come greater central bank
accountability. At the same time, the ECB is being prodded to
take on a bigger role because of its duty to support the euro.  EU Summit  A plan to move toward a banking union won support from EU
leaders at a June 28-29 summit when they pledged to allow the
European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s firewall, to lend
directly to banks once nations have deepened supervisory ties.
The initiative ignited debate in Germany, with some politicians
and banks warning they amount to backdoor pooling of debt that
will remove pressure on profligate nations.  Germany’s savings banks last month said setting up a
deposit guarantee program would create “a situation in which
German savers could be liable for saving foreign banks.”
Similarly, lawmakers in Berlin have demanded assurances that
their contribution to Spain’s banks will be channelled through
the Spanish government and will not pass directly to lenders.  Euro Divisions  Plans for centralized bank oversight go to the heart of a
split among EU nations. French President  Francois Hollande ,
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spain’s Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  are pressing for sharing of liabilities against
resistance from Germany, the Netherlands and  Finland . Britain
has no interest in participating.  Drafting the plan has fallen to the commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm. According to  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, officials are working on a text that
would make the ECB the supervisor for all  banks  in the euro
area, as well as in other participating EU countries.  This has left the commission seeking to define a slimmed-
down role for national authorities. It is also assessing how far
it can dictate what tasks the ECB delegates to the local level,
and what role should be played by the European Banking
Authority, a London-based independent agency that coordinates
the work of national regulators and settles their disputes.  Supervisory System  A supervisory system with the ECB at its center would still
have to rely on work done by national supervisors, Draghi told
European Parliament lawmakers on July 9.  Barnier told lawmakers this month that the commission is
working on the division of labor, including how the plan for a
supervisor will fit in with other parts of a banking union
advocated by the EU and International Monetary Fund.  “It’s quite worrying that the direct recapitalization of
euro-zone banks hinges on what is likely to be a messy and
drawn-out process in establishing a pan-European banking
supervisor,” Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London said in an e-mail.  “ Spain  could end up being the biggest loser from any
delays given that the bail-out loans will remain on the state’s
increasingly weak balance sheet until the regulator is up and
running,” Spiro said.  The commission intends to present plans for the other
elements of the banking union, including the setting up of a
central authority in the euro area to handle failing lenders,
once it delivers the supervisory proposals.  Awaiting ESM  A separation of responsibilities could allow the ECB to
provide short-term liquidity support to banks, while governments
would take final decisions on winding down failing lenders. This
role could be played by the ESM, whose activation is on hold
pending a German court ruling in September, or some other
collaboration among euro members.  The ECB can become a banking supervisor yet shouldn’t play
the role of a bank resolution authority with access to public
funds, Jean Pisani-Ferry, director of research group Bruegel,
said in a telephone interview.  “Whatever has fiscal dimensions is not the responsibility
of the central bank,” Pisani-Ferry said. “Distributing losses
is not something an unelected body can do.”  IMF’s Call  The IMF last week called for an “urgent” transition to
centralized supervision in the euro area because national
regulators have incentives to bury problems at banks they
oversee. The ECB in turn has said that safeguards must be put in
place to prevent it being affected by such interests, notably in
its setting of  interest rates .  Authorities need to find “exactly the arrangement that
preserves independence of monetary policy, doesn’t create any
conflict of interest and at the same time enforces an effective
supervisory mechanism,” Draghi said during his hearing with
lawmakers. “If these conditions are not in place then forget
about new powers.”  The ECB is also facing an increase in scrutiny from
lawmakers, and potentially challenges against its decisions in
the European courts.  The U.K. last year became the first EU government to take
the ECB to the  European Court  of Justice, complaining that the
bank’s policy of refusing liquidity support to clearinghouses
based outside the euro area was illegal.  The number of such cases may increase if the ECB begins
taking supervisory decisions, which can be open to judicial
challenge.  “To say that the task ahead is complex is probably the
understatement of the year,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in a speech in Brussels on July 17. “We have to
get it right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  