-- European Stocks Slide as Germany Outlook Lowered
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-24T15:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/european-stocks-climb-as-swatch-sap-profit-rises.html
European stocks  retreated for a
third day as Moody’s Investors Service lowered its credit
outlook for  Germany  and a measure of manufacturing in the
Richmond region of the U.S. plunged.  Elan Corp. tumbled 11 percent after the results of a study
for an Alzheimer’s drug failed to show that patients’ symptoms
improved.  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  fell 7.3 percent as the company cut its
dividend forecast by 61 percent after quarterly net income
missed analysts’ estimates.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  gained 2.3 percent
after posting sales and profit that increased.  Man Group Plc (EMG) 
surged 4.1 percent after saying it will double its cost cuts.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.5 percent to 250.57 at
the close of trading in  London . The gauge slumped 2.5 percent
yesterday as concern mounted that  Greece  will default and more
Spanish regions will follow Valencia in seeking a bailout from
the country’s central government.  “I would have expected the markets to recover from
yesterday’s losses especially since it seems to be quieter on
the Spanish front, but the Moody’s news plus the purchasing
managers’ index are dragging the markets down,” said Theodore Krintas, managing director of Attica Wealth Management in  Athens 
in a telephone interview.  Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had the outlooks
for their Aaa credit ratings lowered to negative by Moody’s
after markets closed yesterday. The ratings company cited the
risk that Greece will leave the 17-nation euro currency and the
“increasing likelihood” of collective support for European
countries such as  Spain  and  Italy , according to a statement.  German PMI  German manufacturing and services output contracted in July
more than economists had forecast. An index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in  the manufacturing industry  declined to
43.3 this month from 45 in June, London-based Markit Economics
said in a report. Economists had predicted a reading of 45.1.
The measure of  Germany’s services industries  slipped to 49.7
from 49.9. Economists had projected 50.  A composite index for the euro area’s  manufacturing and
services industries  held at 46.4 in July. That matched the
 median estimate of economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Officials from Greece’s troika of international creditors -
- the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- arrive in Athens today amid
doubts that the nation will abide by the commitments needed to
obtain continued financial aid.  A U.S. report showed  manufacturing  in the region covered by
the Federal Bank of Richmond slumped to minus 17 in July, the
lowest level since 2009. The  median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a reading of minus 1.  Elan Plunges  Elan tumbled 11 percent to 9.85 euros, its biggest slide in
two years. The company’s experimental Alzheimer’s treatment with
Pfizer Inc. and Johnson & Johnson failed to improve symptoms of
dementia in the first of four studies of the drug.  Royal KPN fell 7.3 percent to 6.79 euros. The Dutch phone
company that is partially controlled by  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB posted net income that decreased 24 percent to 315
million euros ($380 million) from a year earlier.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  dropped 4.3 percent to 3.77 euros,
after earlier declining as much as 7 percent.  Europe ’s largest
chipmaker forecast third-quarter revenue will grow by about 2.5
percent, indicating sales will miss analysts’ estimates amid
weaker demand for the company’s products.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , a German broadcaster controlled by
KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP, lost 3 percent to 16.30
euros, sliding for a third day.  The stock  was downgraded to
equal weight from overweight by Barclays Plc, meaning that
investors should not buy more of the company’s shares.  Spanish builder Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA
plunged 5 percent to 10.84 euros, dropping for a tenth day.
 Acciona SA (ANA)  tumbled 9.3 percent to 30.47 euros.  Gas Natural  Endesa SA (ELE)  fell 5.8 percent to 11.63 euros. A gauge of
utilities stocks posted the  worst performance  of the 19 industry
groups on the Stoxx 600.  Swatch rose 2.3 percent to 369.90 Swiss francs. The biggest
maker of Swiss watches reported  first-half profit  that beat
 analysts’ estimates  as sales of Omega and Longines timepieces to
Chinese consumers increased. Net income rose to 720 million
francs ($723 million) from 575 million francs a year earlier,
the Biel, Switzerland-based company said.  Man Group rallied 4.1 percent to 72 pence. The world’s
biggest publicly traded hedge fund manager also said it plans to
sell fewer so-called guaranteed products that generate high
commissions for employees.  Provident Financial Plc (PFG)  jumped 11 percent to 1,297 pence,
its highest price in more than 11 years. The U.K.’s biggest
subprime lender said first-half net income jumped 20 percent
from a year earlier after the number of customers taking out
high-interest credit cards increased.  Software AG  Software AG (SOW)  rallied 11 percent to 25.98 euros after the
company raised the forecast for its Enterprise Transaction
Systems in 2012. Germany’s second-biggest software maker also
posted a 46 percent increase in revenue from its Business
Process Excellence licenses in the second quarter.  SAP AG (SAP)  climbed 3.5 percent to 50.77 euros. The largest
maker of business-management software is beating rivals to
contracts as companies limit their spending amid slowing
economies, Co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said.  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  gained 6.1 percent to 2,364 pence,
its lowest price since at least 1989. The maker of cosmetic
ingredients reported first-half pretax profit before one-off
items of 67.5 million pounds ($105 million). That beat the
average estimate of 66.2 million pounds in a survey of analysts
by Bloomberg.  France Television  Societe Television Francaise 1 (TFI)  advanced 3.7 percent to 6.56
euros. The stock was raised to overweight from equal weight at
Barclays Plc, meaning that investors should buy the shares.  National benchmark indexes in 15 of the 18 western-European
markets retreated today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.6
percent, while Germany’s DAX Index declined 0.5 percent.
 France ’s CAC 40 Index dropped 0.9 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index
slumped 3.6 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 22 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  