-- Euro Crisis Damps East Europe Growth, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-07-25T09:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/euro-crisis-spreading-east-damps-growth-development-bank-says.html
Eastern European economies will
expand at half last year’s pace in 2012 as fallout from the
euro-area debt crisis spreads, the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  said.  The 29 east European and central Asian countries where the
EBRD invests will grow 2.7 percent in 2012, down from 5 percent
last year, the London-based bank forecast today in an e-mailed
report, cutting a May projection for 3.2 percent growth.  Egypt ,
Morocco, Jordan and Tunisia, where the bank is expanding, will
grow 2.1 percent, 0.1 percentage point less than seen before.  Central Europe , the Balkans and the Baltics are suffering
from contagion because of trade and banking links to the debt-
ridden euro area. Commodity producers including Russia, the
world’s largest energy exporter, are also at risk as the turmoil
threatens global demand for raw materials.  “The biggest downside risk for the transition region is a
possible further deterioration of the euro-zone crisis,” said
the EBRD, which was set up in 1991 to help transform the
economies of former communist countries. The situation “is now
impacting growth across  emerging markets .”  Emerging-market stocks fell to a seven-week low after the
 International Monetary Fund  today said  China’s economy  faces
significant downside risks. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost
0.6 percent to 904.47 as of 8:46 a.m. in London. The Romanian
leu, the Serbian dinar and the Hungarian forint have been among
the world’s 10 worst performers in the past month, sliding 3.2
percent, 2.8 percent and 0.9 percent against the euro,
respectively.  Moody’s Cut  Europe ’s debt crisis escalated this week as Moody’s
Investors Service cut the outlooks on the Aaa credit ratings of
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative and Spanish
borrowing costs soared on speculation the nation may need a
second rescue after accepting as much as 100 billion euros ($121
billion) to bolster its banks.  “A timely implementation” of measures agreed at a June
summit, where leaders opened the way to directly recapitalizing
banks using bailout funds, should mitigate risks to eastern
Europe, the EBRD said.  Russian Outlook  Russia’s 2012 growth outlook was cut more than any nation’s
except Moldova, with the EBRD lowering its forecast by 1.1
percentage points to 3.1 percent. Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia
will probably suffer “double-dip” recessions this year as
gross domestic product drops 1.2 percent, 1.3 percent and 2
percent, the EBRD said.  Still, the bank increased its growth projection for  Poland 
to 2.9 percent, citing domestic demand, and its forecast for
Slovakia to 2.6 percent because of strong exports to Germany.  Credit in eastern Europe, where western lenders such as
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  own three-quarters of the
banking industry, is suffering as stricter regulatory
requirements reduce funding to the region. Bank lending from
February to April adjusted for inflation only expanded in Poland
and Slovakia, according to the EBRD.  “Cross-border funding of local banks in the central Europe
and Baltic region and in southeastern Europe is still
shrinking,” albeit at a slower pace, the EBRD said. “Reduced
availability of cross-border finance for local banks has
translated into continued credit contraction in most of the new
EU members, notwithstanding bank efforts to at least partially
replace cross-border funding with higher deposits.”  GDP in eastern Europe and central Asia will expand 3.1
percent in 2013, the EBRD said, lowering May’s 3.7 percent
forecast. The four north African countries will grow 3.7 percent
next year, unchanged from May’s projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in Astana at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  