-- Euro Official Wieser Says Spain’s Situation Is Unpleasant
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-24T07:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/euro-official-wieser-says-spain-s-situation-is-unpleasant.html
Spain ’s refinancing costs are too
high for the country to refinance itself in the long term and
the situation there is “very unpleasant,” euro-area official
 Thomas Wieser  said.  “The financial markets are extremely nervous, the spreads
for Spain have increased massively,” Wieser, the head of a
group of senior officials that prepares meetings of euro-area
finance ministers, said in an interview on Austrian radio ORF
today. “Spain has a couple of auctions in the coming days,
before the summer, and it’s sufficiently funded well into the
autumn. I would hope for us, and for Spain, that the nervousness
subsides over the summer and spreads come back significantly.”  Spain’s refinancing costs surged yesterday, with 10-year
yields rising to a euro-era high, on speculation more regions
will follow Valencia in asking for financial aid, increasing
concern the country will need a sovereign bailout. The bond
yield fell six basis points today to 7.43 percent by 7:58 a.m.
London time.  “The truth is that such an exaggerated spread is
manageable over a few months, but of course not in the long
run,” Wieser said. “The situation in Spain is very
unpleasant.” He added that “the  euro zone  has demonstrated
that it is always ready to act in extreme cases.”  Greece Behind  Wieser said that the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , the so-called
troika, has to assess in the coming weeks how far behind  Greece 
is in its program to cut debt and return to growth, and that
decisions will have to be taken afterwards.  “We have to see what the difference to the agreed
timetable and the agreed measures really is,” Wieser said. “Is
it just the three months that were lost because of the
elections, is it more, is it less? Then we have to see what
needs to be done to bring the program back in line again.” he
said. “Are political decisions by the euro zone needed, or can
it be done by a simple adaption of the program?”  Wieser said  Germany ’s Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler was
isolated in his view that Greece could be allowed to leave the
euro currency. “I hear from all other politicians that the
integrity of the euro area isn’t put into question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  