-- Euro Snaps Five-Day Losing Streak on Rescue-Fund Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-25T21:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/euro-is-near-11-year-low-versus-yen-before-german-data.html
The euro rose against the dollar and
the yen, snapping five days of losses, as speculation that
European policy makers will boost the firepower of their rescue
fund eased concern the region’s debt crisis will worsen.  The 17-nation currency strengthened versus the majority of
its 16 most-traded counterparts as Spanish and Italian bonds
advanced after  Ewald Nowotny , a European Central Bank council
member, said there were arguments in favor of giving the fund a
banking license. The euro pared gains after sales of new U.S.
homes unexpectedly fell in June. The pound slid after the U.K.
economy contracted for a third consecutive quarter.  “Over the last few sessions we have seen the euro come off
considerably, and investors have been very bearish,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a phone
interview. “It’s possible that the upside surprise from the ECB
comments triggered a massive short squeeze.” A short squeeze is
when traders are forced to buy back a security whose price is
rising after they sold it short, expecting the price to fall.  The euro gained 0.8 percent to $1.2158 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time after dropping yesterday to $1.2043, the weakest level
since June 2010. It has lost 4.1 percent this month. The shared
currency rose 0.8 percent to 95.03 yen, paring its July loss to
6 percent. It slid yesterday to 94.12, the lowest since November
2000.  Japan ’s currency was little changed at 78.16 per dollar.  Worst Performer  The common currency has slumped 4.8 percent in the past
three months, the worst performer of the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as
the region’s debt crisis deepened. The yen gained 8.7 percent,
and the dollar strengthened 4.5 percent.  The South African rand gained against all of its major
peers as Nowotny’s comments fueled risk appetite. The currency
snapped a four-day losing streak against the greenback,
appreciating 1.4 percent to 8.3965.  Australia ’s dollar climbed
0.8 percent to $1.0307.  Mexico ’s peso strengthened as much as 1 percent to 13.5790
per dollar, the biggest intraday jump since July 13. It touched
13.7768 yesterday, the weakest since June 27.  “The move in the peso is really the embodiment of all the
risk going on,”  Mike Moran , a currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank, said in a telephone interview from New York.  Volatility Decline  Implied volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies declined for the first time in four days,
reaching 9.54 percent, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index . It rose to 9.83 percent yesterday, the highest level this
month. The average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Decreased volatility makes investments of currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive
because there is less risk of market moves erasing profits.  Key rates are 5 percent in  South Africa  and 3.5 percent in
Australia, versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  The dollar fell against most major peers before a report on
July 27 that may show expansion in the world’s largest economy
slowed in the second quarter. A Bloomberg News survey forecast
gross domestic product grew at an annualized 1.4 percent, the
slowest in a year, fueling bets the  Federal Reserve  will take
further steps to boost the economy and debase the currency.  The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of debt from 2008 to 2011
in two rounds of a stimulus strategy called quantitative easing.  “We have seen nothing but signs that give credence for the
Federal Reserve to engage in greater quantitative easing over a
short period of time,” Western Union’s Bharadwaj said.  U.S. Housing  The greenback pared losses against the euro after Commerce
Department data showed demand for new U.S. homes unexpectedly
dropped in June from a two-year high. Purchases decreased to a
350,000 annual rate, the weakest since January, the data showed.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a pace of 372,000.  The euro may appreciate to $1.22 versus the dollar if
stocks rally and risk appetite improves, Boris Schlossberg, New
York-based managing director of foreign exchange at the
investment advisory firm BK Asset Management, wrote today in a
note to clients.  The common currency gained for the first time in six days
after Nowotny’s comments on the bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism. Granting a banking license to the ESM would
give it access to ECB lending, easing concern its 500 billion-
euro ($608 billion) cash reserves won’t be enough if  Spain  or
 Italy  require aid amid the worsening debt crisis.  “There are pro arguments for this,” Nowotny, who heads
 Austria ’s central bank, said in an interview in his office in
Vienna yesterday. “It is not something that is only in the
field of monetary policy, so this is part of a broad
discussion.” He declined to elaborate.  Spanish Bonds  The yield on Spain’s  10-year bond  dropped 25 basis points,
or 0.25 percentage point, to 7.38 percent, and similar-maturity
 Italian yields  declined 15 basis points to 6.45 percent.  “The market is a little overstretched after selling off
pretty consistently,”  Standard Chartered ’s Moran said. “The
Nowotny comments have proven to be a temporary re-think of the
market’s perception of what the policy options are for  Europe .”  The euro remained higher versus the dollar and yen as
Moody’s Investors Service lowered its ratings outlook on 17
German banking groups to negative. The move followed the ratings
company’s decision this week to cut the outlook on German
sovereign and sub-sovereign ratings to negative.  The pound fell versus most major peers after the  Office for
National Statistics  said the U.K.’s gross domestic product
shrank 0.7 percent in the second quarter. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.2 percent decline.  Sterling weakened 0.8 percent to 78.44 pence per euro after
rising to 77.55 pence on July 23, the strongest level since
October 2008. The U.K. currency was little changed at $1.5498.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  