-- Euro Area Ready to Act as Spain Yields Surge, Frieden Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-24T16:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/euro-nations-ready-to-act-on-spain-as-yields-surge-frieden-says.html
The euro area is ready to act to
help  Spain  as the country’s borrowing costs soar, Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  While Frieden said no work is being done for a bailout of
the Spanish government, policy makers in the 17-nation euro area
must be prepared to move quickly.  “In such difficult times as we are in, one has to follow
the situation on a permanent, daily basis and be ready to act at
any moment,” Frieden said in a telephone interview today in
Luxembourg. “The political decisions in the case of Spain and
also of Greece have been taken to be able to act fast. That’s
what is important especially now in the summer months.”  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era
record of 7.625 percent today as the nation’s borrowing costs
rose at an auction amid concerns its banks’ and regions’ debts
will force the government to seek a sovereign bailout. Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is holding crisis talks in
Berlin with German counterpart Wolfgang Schaeuble.  A full-blown Spanish bailout can be averted if the  European
Central Bank  starts buying the nation’s bonds in large
quantities, the head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  Europe  should deploy all of
its instruments “but mostly the ECB,” OECD Secretary General
Angel Gurria said in a Bloomberg Television interview in London.
“There is the bazooka.”  ‘Remains Difficult’  The concerns about Spain helped to push down the euro and
European stocks. The European currency fell below $1.21 for a
second day, also pressured by Moody’s Investors Service’s
decision to cut its outlook for the Aaa credit ratings of
 Germany , the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  European stocks 
retreated for a third day, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  down
0.5 percent at the close in  London .  Frieden said Moody’s decision is “a confirmation that the
situation remains difficult and that we have to continue doing
whatever we can to make sure the euro zone remains a stable
area.” The ratings company was prompted “by the overall
situation in the euro zone and especially in Greece,” he said,
adding that “there are still a lot of uncertainties” about the
situation.  Still, Moody’s “didn’t give enough consideration to the
efforts and decisions made at a European level, especially
considering Spain,” the minister said. “This outlook is more a
reflection of a short-term sentiment than a long-term reality.”  Frieden said an emergency meeting of finance ministers
before September isn’t needed because all the necessary
decisions have been taken.  “What counts now is to implement what has been decided,
but implementation, as in the case of Spain, takes of course a
certain time, because the analysis on the field has to be made
and it’s the same in the case of  Greece ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  