-- Ex-Anglo Irish Chairman Fitzpatrick Arrested in Fraud Probe
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-24T12:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ex-anglo-irish-chairman-fitzpatrick-arrested-in-fraud-probe-2-.html
Former Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
Chairman  Sean Fitzpatrick  was charged following a fraud
investigation into the failed lender that has cost Irish
taxpayers 29 billion euros ($35 billion) to bail out.  Fitzpatrick was arrested today and charged with breaches of
company law, Detective Sergeant Brian Mahon said at a hearing at
the Courts of Criminal Justice in Dublin. The 64-year-old
declined to comment when charges were read to him, police said.
Judge Cormac Dunne ordered Fitzpatrick be released on bail and
appear again in court on Oct. 8.  Anglo Irish, which financed some of the country’s largest
property developers, was bailed out in 2009 after a collapse in
 real-estate prices  led to soaring losses. The Dublin-based
lender had lost more than 98 percent of its  market value  in
2008. The police’s bureau of fraud investigation and the
nation’s director of corporate enforcement opened investigations
into the lender the following year.  Fitzpatrick faces the same charges as two former
subordinates at the bank, police said in court documents. Willie McAteer, a former finance director, and Pat Whelan, a one-time
managing director of the lender’s Irish unit, were charged
yesterday in relation to  Anglo Irish ’s provision of unlawful
financial aid to 16 people so they could buy shares in the
lender in 2008.  Fitzpatrick’s Career  Mahon told the court that Fitzpatrick was arrested by
arrangement at Dublin airport at about 5:30 a.m., and was later
charged at a Dublin police station.  A chartered accountant by training, Fitzpatrick joined a
predecessor of Anglo Irish in 1974 and became the group’s chief
executive officer in 1986. He became group chairman in 2005 and
quit the bank in December 2008 after failing to disclose loans
from the lender over an eight-year period. The loans amounted to
106.8 million euros in March 2009, the bank said the same year.  Fitzpatrick was declared bankrupt in the  High Court  in
Ireland on July 12, 2010, after Anglo Irish, to whom he owed 110
million euros at the time, rejected his attempt to settle with
creditors.  Anglo Irish was nationalized in January 2009, becoming the
first of five of the country’s largest lenders to be seized by
the government as loans soured following the crash.  The lender merged last year with smaller rival Irish
Nationwide Building Society, which cost 5.4 billion euros to
rescue, and the new entity was renamed Irish Bank Resolution
Corp. in preparation for wind-down by the end of the decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  