-- Expert Networker Who Defied FBI Said to Plan Guilty Plea
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-25T13:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/expert-networker-john-kinnucan-said-to-plan-guilty-plea.html
Broadband Research  LLC founder John Kinnucan, charged with  insider-trading  in a crackdown on illegal
tipping 16 months after he publicly declared his refusal to
cooperate with the FBI, will plead guilty in New York federal
court, a person familiar with the case said.  Kinnucan was indicted in February, accused of passing
inside information to clients at two unidentified  hedge funds 
about  SanDisk Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies
Inc. (OVTI)  He was charged with two counts of conspiracy and two counts
of securities fraud in a scheme to obtain nonpublic information
about technology companies for his clients that operated from
2008 to 2010. He is to plead guilty today, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged that Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public
technology companies, obtained nonpublic information from them
and passed them to his fund manager clients.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
“including paying for their meals at high-end restaurants and
shipping them expensive food, providing them with confidential
information about other technology companies and industry trends
and providing them stock trading advice and tips.”  ‘Eager Beavers’  Kinnucan announced in October 2010 that he had refused a
request by FBI agents in New York to wear a wire and inform on
his fund manager clients, a move that presaged more than dozen
insider-trading arrests made during the federal initiative by
Bharara’s office and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New
York, known as “ Perfect Hedge .”  “Today, two fresh-faced eager beavers from the FBI showed
up unannounced (obviously) on my doorstep thoroughly convinced
that my clients have been trading on copious inside
information,” Kinnucan said in an e-mail he sent warning his
clients in late 2010. “We obviously beg to differ, so have
therefore declined the young gentlemen’s gracious offer to wear
a wire and therefore ensnare you in their devious web.”  “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in a
July 8, 2011, interview, adding he expected to be arrested.  “There’s a saying that the government indicts who they
investigate, so I have always assumed that I was a target.”  Kinnucan denied he ever received illegal tips on companies,
and insisted the kind of information he provided hedge fund
clients was publicly available.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment
on a plea. Kinnucan’s lawyer, Jennifer Brown, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. Martin Feely, a supervisory
special agent with the FBI’s New York office, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office after business
hours seeking comment about Kinnucan’s case.  ‘Campaign’ of Threats  Kinnucan has been held in U.S. custody since he was
arrested Feb. 16 at his home in  Portland ,  Oregon , unable to
raise the $5 million bond set by U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in Manhattan.  Prosecutors alleged that during the more than year that
elapsed between the approach by FBI agents and his arrest, he’d
engaged in a “campaign” of threats and anti-Semitic rants.  They argued Kinnucan posed a danger to the community and a
threat to authorities handling his case, citing at least 24
menacing voice-mail messages he left after hours at the office
phones of federal prosecutors and FBI agents and also at the
homes of two cooperating witnesses.  Batts said that while his comments were “vile” and
“filthy,” she didn’t see it as a direct threat and ruled that
he could be released on bond.  According to prosecutors, Kinnucan made numerous
representations to Broadband clients, telling them that none of
the information he obtained came from insiders at public
companies, that he didn’t pay any of his sources and that his
tips had been reviewed and approved by a compliance attorney in
 San Francisco .  Passing Tips  The unidentified insiders who conspired with Kinnucan
included employees at  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , F5
Networks and SanDisk, prosecutors said.  Donald Barnetson, a former executive at Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York on Feb. 17 and said he conspired with Kinnucan and passed
on inside information about his company.  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics manager, pleaded
guilty in federal court in July and claimed he passed inside
information to Kinnucan while working as a consultant for
Broadband Research. He said he was paid a total of $27,500 for
passing tips about his company, OmniVision Technologies, Apple
Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Expert Networking  While neither man was named in the indictment of Kinnucan,
both are cooperating with the probe of insider trading by fund
managers, expert networking consultants and employees of
publicly-traded technology companies by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York and Bharara’s office.  Prosecutors alleged that Kinnucan tipped several of his
Broadband clients after he obtained information from an F5
Networks insider that the company was going to beat analysts’
estimates in July 2010. At least two of Kinnucan’s clients
executed trades in F5 Networks stock, either earning profits or
avoiding losses totaling more than $1.5 million, prosecutors
said.  Securities fraud carries a maximum term of 20 years in
prison while conspiracy carries a term of as long as five years
in prison. Kinnucan’s plea hearing is scheduled for 11:30 a.m.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  