-- Exxon May Lead Drop in Global Oil Profits on Lower Prices
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-25T15:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/exxon-may-lead-drop-in-global-oil-profits-on-lower-prices.html
The world’s largest oil companies
are poised to report a drop in second-quarter earnings after
crude prices declined for the first time in three years.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil company by
market value, will probably say tomorrow net income dropped 13
percent from a year earlier to $9.3 billion dollars, based on
the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s top oil producer, is expected to
see profit decline 4 percent after adjusting for certain gains
and losses.  “We expect earnings to be down and for companies to miss
the current consensus,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in London. “The oil price is the
single biggest factor, and U.S. gas prices were particularly
anemic. The one area that looks good is refining margins.”  Brent crude futures, a benchmark oil price used by much of
the world, fell 7 percent from a year earlier to average $108.76
a barrel in the second quarter, the first year-on-year decline
since 2009 as economic growth slowed in China and concerns
mounted that the European debt crisis will erode demand.  Oversupplies from burgeoning shale-field output in the U.S.
pushed natural-gas prices down 46 percent to average $2.354 per
million British thermal units. Slumping prices more than offset
gains in production, including the return of Libyan fields, and
widening refining margins in the U.S. and  Europe .  Lackluster Operations  Exxon, Shell,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Spain’s  Repsol
SA (REP)  all report tomorrow.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Total SA (FP)  will announce
earnings on July 27 and  BP Plc (BP/)  on July 31.  Shares were mixed today. Shell rose 0.8 percent to 2,187
pence in London. BG fell 1.3 percent, while BP added 0.2
percent.  “With earnings momentum negative, underlying operational
performance lackluster and a perception that earnings risk
across the reporting season is more heavily weighted to the
downside, it is difficult to see 2Q reporting as a positive
catalyst for the group,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts said in a
July 20 note.  The bank expects earnings across European integrated  oil
companies  to drop 7 percent.  The 13 members of the New York Stock Exchange Arca Oil
Index, which includes Exxon, Shell and BP, fell an average 14.4
percent in the last 12 months.  BP, Europe’s second-largest oil company, is expected to be
among the worst performers in the second quarter, posting a 14
percent drop in adjusted net income, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Maintenance work on production
platforms in the Gulf of Mexico and delays starting up fields in
Angola restrained output, according to Deutsche Bank. In
refining and marketing, profit probably rose 10 percent.  24 Percent Drop  Shell had a better quarter than its London-based rival,
driven by gains in production from new fields even as
maintenance cut output from the Gulf of Mexico fields and the
Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar.  In the U.S., analysts at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said the largest
companies probably earned 24 percent less than a year earlier
because of the drop in oil and gas prices.  Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. producer, is
expected to have earned $6.4 billion during the quarter,
according to analysts’ estimates.  “Although oil remains elevated in absolute terms, Brent
was down, while exploration and production volumes will be
seasonally lower,” Nomura analysts led by Theepan Jothilingam
said in a research note. “In the U.S.,  Henry Hub  prices
remained depressed throughout the quarter.” Henry Hub in Erath,
Louisiana, is the delivery point for futures traded on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Oil demand in U.S. and China, which together consume almost
one-third of the world’s crude, stagnated at 28.2 million
barrels a day, little changed from a year earlier, according the
International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  