-- MF Global Trustee Considering Suit Against U.K. Unit
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-08-01T17:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/mf-global-s-u-s-trustee-considering-suits-against-u-k-staff.html
(Corrects story published July 24 to remove reference to
possibility of U.K. employees being sued in headline and first
paragraph.)  The bankruptcy trustee of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  is seeking to interview former London employees of
the failed broker as it considers lawsuits against the U.K.
unit.  Louis Freeh , the trustee for MF Global’s parent company in
 New York , is seeking to recover at least $233 million that was
transferred into the U.K. in the days before the brokerage’s
collapse, according to papers from a July 20 London court
hearing. Those payments “may give rise to substantial claims”
against the company, Freeh’s lawyers said in the documents.  Former MF Global Chairman  Jon Corzine , and other executives
who oversaw $6.3 billion in trades on European national debt,
may face negligence lawsuits in the U.S. for their role in the
company’s downfall, according to a June report by the separate
trustee for the MF Global Inc. brokerage arm. The trades led to
margin calls and credit downgrades before the firm filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in October.  Lawyers for Freeh appeared at a London court hearing on
July 20 to seek permission to bring claims in the U.K., and work
out a schedule for litigation. Freeh is seeking several hundred
million dollars from MF Global UK Ltd. for internal  repurchase
agreements  used to move money to the U.K. unit to meet margin
calls.  Serious Allegations  “The trustee has raised a number of serious allegations to
bolster his claim” without specifying exactly what the claim
is, Richard Heis, the insolvency administrator for the U.K.
unit, said in an e-mail. “The trustee’s actions are unhelpful
and are likely to achieve little more than to delay the return
of cash to MF Global UK creditors.”  Freeh’s spokeswoman, Diana DeSocio, declined to comment.  In the summer of 2011, MF Global UK staff told the British
Financial Services Authority they had sufficient liquidity to
meet the margin calls, even though they knew the firm wouldn’t
be able to cope with requests for $900 million, Freeh’s lawyers
said in court papers.  FSA spokesman  Chris Hamilton  declined to comment on the
claim.  Freeh has made contact with at least 11 former MF Global UK
employees including its former European treasurer Russell Haley,
his lawyers said in court documents. Freeh said they haven’t co-
operated with requests for interviews.  Duncan Aldred, a lawyer at London firm CMS Cameron McKenna
LLP who is representing former employees of MF Global UK,
declined to comment through the firm’s spokeswoman. Haley didn’t
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Disputes between MF Global’s U.K. administrators KPMG LLP
and the various trustees of the U.S. entities have tied up about
$1 billion that can’t be returned to clients or creditors until
courts decide to whom it belongs.  KPMG has only been able to pay out about 26 percent of the
money frozen in client accounts when the broker collapsed, while
its U.K. creditors haven’t received anything. Last week, the
firm got court approval to start returning shares and other
securities held on behalf of clients by MF Global UK.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  