-- FDA Seeks Meeting With Sanofi Executives After Warning on Plants
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-24T15:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/fda-seeks-meeting-with-sanofi-executives-after-warning-on-plants.html
Inspectors found “significant
objectionable conditions” at  Sanofi (SAN)  vaccine plants in  Canada 
and  France , the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said.  Regulators summoned Olivier Charmeil, the Paris-based
drugmaker’s head of vaccines, and other senior executives for a
meeting to discuss the issues, the agency said in a July 12
letter to Charmeil made public today. The Sanofi Pasteur
vaccines unit is taking steps to address the FDA’s comments and
has confidence in products made at the facilities, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  The FDA cited 24 instances in which a Toronto plant failed
to meet good manufacturing practices, including failure to
follow appropriate procedures to prevent drug contamination. Two
violations were found at a factory in Marcy l’Etoile, France,
according to the letter.  Sanofi voluntarily recalled four batches of Bacillus
Calmette-Guerin tuberculosis vaccine because the product’s
sterility can’t be assured, Australia’s drugs regulator said
last month. The vaccine was also recalled in Canada and  New
Zealand , while manufacturing at a plant in Toronto was suspended
for renovation and to improve environmental quality management
within the building, Patricia Waghorn, Sanofi’s head of
communications for Australia and New Zealand, said at the time.  “Sanofi Pasteur takes the observations outlined in the
recent FDA warning letter seriously,” Charmeil said in the e-
mailed statement. “We are working diligently with the FDA to
implement a series of immediate and ongoing steps to address
their concerns and further strengthen our global manufacturing
operations and quality systems. I have full confidence in our
products in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  