-- Federer Chases Only Title to Elude Him During Career at Olympics
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-24T23:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/federer-chases-only-title-to-elude-him-during-career-at-olympics.html
Roger Federer  has broken almost
every record and won every title in tennis, except one: an
Olympic gold medal in singles.  In three days, the Swiss right-hander returns to Wimbledon,
his most successful Grand Slam tournament where he won a seventh
title this month.  The  All England Club , which organizes the annual
championships, will be hosting the sport at the  London Games  for
the second time in its 135-year history. The Olympic tennis
event, won by then-second-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  and the 
now-retired  Elena Dementieva  of Russia four years ago in 
Beijing, starts a day after the opening ceremony on July 28.  “Now Olympic gold is a dream,” Federer, 30, said in an
interview at Wimbledon the day after he reduced  Andy Murray  to
tears in the men’s final by beating the fourth-ranked Briton in
four sets.  Federer’s win at Wimbledon, his first major title since the
2010 Australian Open, put him back at the top of men’s tennis.
Last week, he broke the record for most weeks at No. 1 on the
rankings of the ATP World Tour at 287, one more than  Pete Sampras .  Although Federer won a gold medal for  Switzerland  in
doubles in Beijing in 2008 with his friend  Stanislas Wawrinka ,
he’s never won any Olympic medal in singles in three
appearances. Federer’s best result in singles was fourth at
Sydney in 2000. He was knocked out of the quarterfinals in
Beijing, and in the second round in  Athens  in 2004.  Winning doubles gold was “one of my great, great
accomplishments of my life,” Federer said.  Wimbledon Advantage  His success at Wimbledon, where Nadal won’t be defending
his title because he’s injured, may give Federer an advantage.  “I am now the Wimbledon champion, and that gives me even
more confidence coming to the Olympics,” Federer said. “Maybe
in some way, it will take some pressure off. The Olympics is a
different animal. You only do get an opportunity every four
years, it’s not something us tennis players are quite used to.”  Although tennis was one of the original nine Olympic sports
in Athens in 1896, it was withdrawn after the 1924 Paris Games.
It returned in  Seoul  in 1988, when  West Germany ’s Steffi Graf
became the only player to complete the “Golden Slam” -- a
Grand Slam sweep topped by the Olympic title.  Murray, who was knocked out of the opening round four years
ago in  China , sees the Olympics as a fifth Grand Slam.  “I remember Novak Djokovic winning bronze in Beijing and
crying on the podium because it meant so much to him, and that’s
how us tennis players feel when we’re representing our
nations,” Murray said at a news conference at Team GB House
last week. “The Wimbledon final was a tough loss, but I had a
couple of days off to recover and practice has gone well
since.”  Olympic tennis will be a new experience for  Maria Sharapova , who won Wimbledon in 2004 at the age of 17.  Missed Beijing  The 25-year-old Russian, who won the French Open last month
to complete the career Grand Slam, missed out on Beijing because
of a shoulder injury that threatened her career.  “I was pretty bummed when I couldn’t play in Beijing,”
the third-ranked Sharapova said in an interview. “I was like
OK, well the next one is in  London , and the next one happens to
be where I won Wimbledon.”  Sharapova will carry the Russian flag at the opening
ceremony. She said she’s looked forward to competing at the
Olympics since she was a young girl.  “Coming from  Russia , the Olympics is a huge deal,” she
said. “Walking in with all the incredible athletes side by
side, it will be an incredible experience.”  Djokovic, ranked No. 2 by the ATP World Tour, will be the
flag bearer for  Serbia .  “It feels incredible, I remember being at the opening
ceremony in Beijing, and how amazing it was to be part of
that,” Djokovic, 25, said in an interview.  Close By  Like Federer, Djokovic will be staying in a rented house
close to Wimbledon rather than at the Olympic Village in East
London so he can avoid travel.  “It’s more practical and convenient,” he said. “Traffic
is terrible there, but we will go to the Village obviously to
feel the atmosphere. I believe the Olympics are the Olympic
Village; all the athletes dining together, talking to each
other, this is the most valuable experience.”  For Li Na of China, not even an Olympic gold medal would
top becoming the first Asian player to win a major singles title
at last year’s French Open.  “In China, we have so many gold medals, but only one
French Open champion,” Li, 30, said in an interview.  “But still the Olympics are very special for me,” said
Li, who lost the bronze medal match in Beijing to Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva . “It’s the last year I play for my country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  