-- Florida Appeals Court Order Blocking Cuba Contractor Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-24T22:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/florida-appeals-court-order-blocking-cuba-contractor-law.html
Florida ’s transportation department
is appealing a U.S. court order blocking enforcement of a law
barring government agencies from entering into contracts worth
$1 million or more with companies that do business with Cuba.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, signed  the
legislation  into law on May 1. It also applies to businesses
with operations in  Syria .  U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore in Miami last month
temporarily blocked the state from enforcing the measure, which
was to take effect July 1. Moore said similar statutes had been
struck down by courts in Miami and in  Massachusetts .  “The Castro and Assad governments are undeniably
repressive,” Scott said a statement announcing the appeal
today, referring to Cuban President  Raul Castro  and Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. “It is important that Florida
taxpayers do not support dictators that suppress freedom.”  Odebrecht Construction Inc.  sued the Florida Department of
Transportation to challenge the law, which the company said
would prevent it from taking government contracts because it’s a
wholly owned unit of a Brazilian company that works in Cuba.  James Moye, a lawyer for the company, argued at a June 25
hearing that the law prevents Odebrecht, “which is in complete
compliance with all federal regulations, from bidding on state
contracts.”  Paul J. Martin, an attorney for Florida’s transportation
department, said at the June 25 hearing that the state has a
right to decide where to spend its money.  Contractor Dollars  “The state of Florida no longer wishes to spend its
contractor dollars with companies which are affiliated with
companies that do business with Cuba,” he said.  In his June 29 order, Moore said there was a “substantial
likelihood that the Cuba amendment will be found
unconstitutional” because it clashes with the federal
government’s power over foreign affairs.  The case is  Odebrecht Construction Inc. v. Prasad, 12-
cv-22072, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  