-- Freitag Brothers Tick Swiss Fashionistas’ Fancy With Biking Bags
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/freitag-brothers-tick-swiss-fashionistas-fancy-with-biking-bags.html
A simple messenger bag for bikers
made of recycled truck tarpaulins has become such a fashion hit
for the  Freitag brothers  of Zurich that they liken themselves to
a Swiss version of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s founders.  “We didn’t start in a garage but in a shed behind our
house,” co-founder Markus Freitag, 42, said of an upbringing
where he and his brother Daniel, 41, made the toys their parents
didn’t get them for Christmas as kids. Three decades later, the
siblings operate namesake Freitag shops from  New York  to  Tokyo .  From a flagship store cobbled together with 17 freight
containers in Zurich’s hip Zueri West area, Freitag now has nine
stores, including on Prince Street in  Lower Manhattan , the Ginza
district of Tokyo, Berlin, Vienna and Davos, home of
 Switzerland ’s annual  World Economic Forum . Their bags, while
common on Zurich streets and among Swiss business workers, don’t
have the pricy cachet of Prada, the Italian fashion house, or
 Louis Vuitton , the French maker of laminated canvas handbags.  Raised by composting parents, the brothers aren’t looking
at the top end of the retail market. Instead, they were avid
bikers who got the seed for the business after watching freight
trucks draped in tarps pass the apartment. Seeking something
functional and rainproof, the first bags for students and bikers
were carved from truckers’ tarp handouts.  Freitag acquaintance Roland Bruemmer, owner of the Dings
shop by Zurich’s main train station, was the first to sell the
distinctive bike bags two decades ago. He just didn’t think
colorful water-repelling handbags made of tarpaulin, old
seatbelts and bicycle tubes would endure.  ‘An Evergreen’  “We thought it was exciting but never imagined that it
would last 20 years,” Bruemmer said. The brothers, a display
artist and graphic designer, sold 300,000 bags and accessories
last year, 15 percent more than in 2010 and more than twice the
140,000 of five years earlier.  “We’ve seen so many new brands and products in the past 20
years, but Freitag was one of the only brands that really pulled
it through,” Bruemmer said. “People don’t wonder if it’s in or
out, they just know it’s a good product. It’s an evergreen
now.”  The company, with more than 130 employees, designs,
manufactures and markets products from iPad covers, purses and
wallets to the best-selling, distinctive unisex biking bag. The
Museum of  Modern Art  in New York added a Freitag bag to its
designer collection in 2003.  Freitag isn’t listed on the Swiss stock exchange while an
initial public offering is a possibility for a company whose
bags clung to the shoulders of fans at Bruce Springsteen’s
concert this month in Zurich.  Biggest Challenge  “Who knows, maybe one day,” Daniel Freitag said at the
“Out of the Bag” exhibition at Zurich’s design museum that
ends July 29. “It’s never been our plan to go public. We’re a
family enterprise and we like that we can be true to ourselves
and not have shareholders telling us what to do.”  While the company has been able to grow, the biggest
challenge isn’t finances. It’s finding enough usable tarpaulin,
especially with exotic colors and designs, the brothers said.  That task belongs to four Zurich-based employees
responsible for finding tarps all over  Europe . Demand is such
for a product with no real competition that the company uses
about 390 tons of tarpaulin a year.  Once a tarp arrives at the Zurich factory in suburban
Oerlikon, it’s washed in rainwater collected in an underground
basin that’s pumped to a washing machine, air dried and
photographed. It’s then taken to a work table where a cutter
decides the design of the bag. Remnants are recycled.  Bags, iPhone  The messenger bags cost 190 francs ($192) to 398 francs
while the iPhone sleeve costs 60 francs. Freitag’s recent
Reference collection of more elegant, uni-colored handbags and
tote bags range from 440 francs to 690 francs.  “We do have ideas for further expansion but we like the
surprise effect Apple uses, where they announce it a few days
before the launch,” Daniel Freitag said. “We only like to
communicate once we know it’s ready.”  The Freitags’ biggest initial investment was 2,300 francs
for an industrial sewing machine. They later borrowed 20,000
francs from their parents to fund an expansion. The brothers
also obtained bank loans twice to finance their store in Zurich
and to equip the new Oerlikon factory.  Profits are always reinvested as the brothers try to avoid
outside financing when possible.  “Our company is our Rolls-Royce,” Markus Freitag said.
“We reinvest everything because we want to grow by our own
means. Perhaps it’s also the designer’s ambition -- the product
is the most important thing and if there’s something left, it’s
nice to be able to use that to continue to develop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthias Wabl at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net  