-- French Nuclear Dismantling Funds May Fall Short, Report Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-24T17:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/french-nuclear-dismantling-funds-may-fall-short-report-says.html
Electricite de France SA  and  Areva
SA (AREVA) , along with other French nuclear operators, may not be
setting aside enough funds to pay for future dismantling of
reactors and treatment and storage of atomic waste, according to
a parliamentary report.  Cost estimates by atomic operators don’t have a “safety
margin and risk being raised in the future,” according to a
report published today by a national panel charged with
evaluating the financial costs of atomic decommissioning.
Current estimates carry “large margins of uncertainty.”  Under French law, nuclear operators including EDF and Areva
have to build portfolios or amass funds to pay for the
decommissioning of reactors and radioactive waste storage. The
cost estimates vary, including for planned development of
 France ’s underground atomic waste site. That is estimated at
between 14.4 billion euros ($17.4 billion) and 35 billion euros,
the report said.  The costs that needed to be covered at the end of last year
reached 34.8 billion euros, for which operators have made
provisions of 31.6 billion euros, the report said. Total costs
of dismantling and treating atomic waste were estimated at 92
billion euros.  “What is not tolerable is that the funds are managed by
the operators,” French Socialist deputy Christian Bataille said
today. “They should be under state control because they are
there to manage nuclear waste for the whole French population.
Over the past six years there has been a veritable veil pulled
over this subject.”  EDF was supposed to have set aside enough money by the end
of June 2011 for decommissioning all of its nuclear assets and
waste storage. A power law gave the utility a five-year
extension on the deadline to 2016. The Commissariat a l’Energie
Atomique, another operator of nuclear sites, uses state backing
as its provisions, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  