-- French Government ‘Totally Opposed’ to Fracking, Batho Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-24T11:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/french-government-totally-opposed-to-fracking-batho-says-1-.html
The French government is “totally
opposed” to hydraulic fracturing, a drilling process to produce
natural gas and oil from shale, French Environment and Energy
Minister Delphine Batho said.  “As it stands now this technique is risky for the
environment and health and that is why  France  banned it,” Batho
said today in Paris after a meeting between Prime Minister Jean- Marc Ayrault and environmental groups. “The prime minister
confirmed we remain opposed to hydraulic fracturing. The
position is perfectly clear.”  Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, is widely used in
the U.S. The French parliament passed a law last year banning
the process because of concern it can pollute drinking water,
effectively halting plans by companies including  Total SA (FP)  to
explore for shale gas in southern France. Divisions within the
French government surfaced last week after Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  called for a debate on shale resources.  “The government is clearly leaving the door open,” Jean-
Francois Julliard, director of Greenpeace France, said today
after meeting with Ayrault. “If tomorrow the  oil companies  have
another technique, I think it would be used. This worries us.”  Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
rocks and release gas and oil. Following passage of the French
law in parliament, the previous government suspended the rights
of energy companies to explore for shale gas around Paris and in
southern France. Oil companies including Total, the nation’s
largest, and Toreador Resources Corp. had been awarded licenses
for exploration.  Shale energy will be part of a debate on environmental
policy as will any possible new taxes on carbon, Batho said
today. That debate is scheduled for Sept. 14 and 15 while one on
energy will begin afterwards.  “Hydraulic fracturing is today the only technique for
exploration and production of shale gas,” Batho said. “Today
there is no other technique, but if there is one we would have a
democractic debate.”  Geological problems are created by fracking while chemicals
used in the process can migrate to water aquifers, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  