-- FSA’s Turner Signals Interest in Succeeding King as BOE Governor
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-24T13:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/fsa-s-turner-signals-interest-in-succeeding-king-as-boe-governor.html
Financial Services Authority 
Chairman  Adair Turner  signalled his interest in succeeding
 Mervyn King  as  Bank of England  governor and set out a plan to
reform the management culture in banking.  “I would obviously not rule myself out” Turner said in an
interview in London today, when asked about taking over when
King’s term ends in June. “It is something I’ll have to think
about when the time comes.”  Turner, who has been FSA chairman since 2008, is seen as
one of the frontrunners for the Bank of  England  job. In a
separate Bloomberg Television interview, he said keeping a check
on the central bank chief will be “very important” given the
expanded powers the institution is getting over bank regulation.  Turner’s chances of succeeding King have increased this
month, according to bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc.  His odds to
replace King have improved from 9-2 to 7-2, while those of
Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  have widened to 5-2 from 9-4.  Asked if he would apply for the role, Turner said the
“challenges of the moment are sufficient to keep me very
busy.”  “They continue to mount with the challenges of the euro
zone, the challenges of the FSA transition, the challenges of
Libor,” he said in the interview. “The most intelligent thing
to do is focus on the immediate challenges and make decisions on
the future when and if they have to be made.”  Bank Culture  Tucker also laid out a plan to rebuild trust in financial
services following the Libor scandal that led to a record 290
million-pound ($450 million) fine for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and cost
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. He said banks’
executives should review their use of complex financial products
and focus on the interests of consumers.  “If the top management and board of a retail bank observes
that it is making huge profit margins on an ancillary product
sold by a commission-incentivized sales force: what does it
do?” Turner said earlier at a speech at Bloomberg’s offices in
London. “Congratulate the sales teams and increase the targets,
or ask searching questions about whether the product is truly in
consumers’ interest.”  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  