-- FSA’s Turner Says Libor, Bonus Scandals Destroy Public Trust
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-24T10:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/fsa-s-turner-says-libor-scandal-bonuses-destroyed-public-trust.html
Financial Services Authority
Chairman  Adair Turner  said banking scandals, including Libor
rate fixing, and “huge” bonuses, have destroyed the public’s
trust in the U.K. financial industry.  Turner, who has been chairman of the FSA since 2008, said
that bankers, politicians and regulators must commit to
fundamental changes to rebuild the bond with the country after
the London interbank offered rate scandal that led to the
resignation of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond .  The outrage over the U.K. banking system is “a fury about
values, provoked by the quotes revealed in the Libor scandal:
‘come over ... and I’m opening a bottle of Bollinger,’ so we can
celebrate fixing the Libor rate,” Turner said in the text of a
speech at the Bloomberg offices in  London . “Those quotes reveal
a dealing room culture of cynical greed.”  Diamond stepped down as chief executive officer of Barclays
on July 3 following the bank’s admission that it submitted false
Libor information to benefit derivatives trades and bolster its
own positions. Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by
assets, was fined a record 290 million pounds ($449.5 million)
in U.K. and U.S. probes last month.  Intense Supervision  Turner said that the country should adopt the Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendations to erect fire breaks
around consumer banking operations, and commit to more intense
supervision of the financial industry.  Still, there are limits to the regulators’ oversight. It
would have been difficult for supervisors to spot some of the
manipulation of  interest rates  at the heart of the Libor
scandal, Turner said.  In relation “to the manipulation of rates by a minute
amount for a short period in either direction, I do not believe
these problems could have been spotted from outside except via
supervision so intensive as to be prohibitively expensive,”
Turner said.  Martin Wheatley, designated to become CEO of the Financial
Conduct Authority when the FSA is split in two, will report on
whether Libor setting should be regulated and whether actual
trade data can be used to set the benchmark by the end of
August.  In addition to government and regulatory actions, banks
must change the culture that has led to Libor, and other
scandals, including the improper sales of payment-protection
insurance. Bank boards need to question basic product decisions
and their revenues, he said.  Bank Management  “If the top management and board of a retail bank observes
that it is making huge profit margins on an ancillary product
sold by a commission-incentivized sales force: what does it
do?” Turner said. “Congratulate the sales teams and increase
the targets, or ask searching questions about whether the
product is truly in consumers’ interest.”  “If it is serious about values and culture, it has to do
the latter: but that’s not what happened in most U.K. retail
banks in the case of payment protection insurance,” he said.  Turner said he was “very concerned” about the Euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis, and that the link between banks and state
funding problems would have to be cut for the currency bloc to
survive.  Banking Union  Lawmakers should speed up efforts to create a banking union
for Euro region banks, giving them direct access to state funds,
Turner said.  Spain ’s bailout of its regions risks pushing the nation
closer to needing a full international rescue as it struggles to
maintain  market access  with 10-year bond yields hovering at 7.5
percent.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos will visit Berlin today
for crisis talks with German counterpart Wolfgang Schaeuble.
After taking on as much as 100 billion euros ($121 billion) of
bailout loans to aid banks, the risk for Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy ’s government is that the additional burden of helping
regions pushes bond yields to unaffordable levels.  Turner’s chances of succeeding  Bank of England  Governor
Mervyn King have increased since last month, according to
bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc.  His odds to replace King have
lengthened from 9/2 to 7/2, while those of deputy governor  Paul
Tucker  have worsened to 5/2 from 6/4.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  