-- Gasoline Falls on Concern Europe’s Debt Crisis Worsening
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-24T19:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/gasoline-falls-on-concern-europe-s-debt-crisis-worsening.html
Gasoline fell a second day on
concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is worsening as euro-area
manufacturing contracted and Moody’s Investors Service cut the
credit outlook for  Germany .  Futures declined as Moody’s, after the U.S. market closed
yesterday, said it cut Germany’s, the Netherlands’ and
Luxembourg’s Aaa credit rating outlooks to negative, citing
“rising uncertainty” about Europe’s debt crisis. Euro-area
services and manufacturing output declined for a sixth month in
July, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  “Their manufacturing number came in less than expected,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “The situation in Europe continues to be bleak.”  August-delivery gasoline fell 5.81 cents, or 2 percent, to
settle at $2.8248 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The more actively traded September contract lost 3.8 cents to
$2.7258 a gallon.  August gasoline widened losses on speculation that a fluid
catalytic cracker at Sunoco Inc.’s Philadelphia plant won’t be
down as long as originally thought. Information provider IIR
Energy said in a report yesterday that Sunoco was forced to shut
the unit for unplanned work and the unit was expected to be
repaired and restarted within two weeks.  New York Gasoline  Conventional 87-octane  gasoline  for spot delivery in  New
York  Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex contracts, weakened
4.57 cents to 16.45 cents below futures, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since June 28.  “Yesterday, the Sunoco story got gasoline going,” said
 Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in
New York. “Today, people are thinking it might not be that big
a deal.”  Moody’s cited the risk that  Greece  will leave the 17-nation
euro currency and the “increasing likelihood” of collective
support for European countries such as Spain and Italy.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in services and manufacturing in the region was unchanged at
46.4, the same level as in June, London-based Markit Economics
said today in an initial estimate. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  “The negativity coming from Europe is the primary price
driver right now,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at
the Energy Management Institute in New York.  August-delivery heating oil rose 0.55 cent to $2.8244 a
gallon, after earlier falling as low as $2.7968. The more
actively traded September contract gained 0.57 cent to $2.8263.  BP Whiting  Heating oil gained after a report that BP Plc’s Whiting
refinery in  Indiana , the largest plant serving the Chicago
market, had a fire in a coker drum that reduced crude runs and
threatened to keep the coker shut for as long as two weeks.  The premium to futures for ultra-low sulfur diesel for
prompt delivery in Chicago widened 4.5 cents to 9.5 cents after
the report.  “Everybody quit selling, they just want to buy,” said
Lewis Adam, president of ADMO Energy LLC, a supply consultant in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.6 cent to $3.477 a gallon, according to AAA. Prices
are the highest since June 19, and are down 12 percent from a
year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  