-- Gay Marriage Produced $259 Million for New York City Economy
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-24T18:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/gay-marriage-produced-259-million-for-new-york-city-economy-1-.html
New York City reaped $259 million of
economic benefits from same-sex marriages in the first year of
the law allowing the practice, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
Council Speaker Christine Quinn said.  At least 8,200 gay-marriage licenses were issued,
accounting for more than 10 percent of the 75,000 wedding
licenses issued in New York City in the past year, Bloomberg and
Quinn said in a statement today, citing a survey conducted by
NYC & Co., the city’s marketing and tourism office, and the city
clerk’s office.  New York became the sixth and most recent state to legalize
gay marriage a year ago after Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat,
signed the measure into law. More than 200,000 guests have since
traveled from outside of the city to attend same-sex wedding
receptions, and more than 235,000 hotel room nights were booked
at an average daily room rate of $275, according to the mayor’s
statement.  “Marriage equality has made our city more open, inclusive
and free -- and it has also helped to create jobs and support
our economy,” Bloomberg, 70, said at a news conference in Lower
Manhattan.  Bloomberg has focused on tourism to diversify the city’s
economy beyond  Wall Street , with employment in leisure and
hospitality growing more than 100,000 in 10 years to 362,400 in
June, according to the state Department of Labor.  ‘NYC I Do’  The city attracted a record 50.5 million visitors in 2011,
and Bloomberg has a 2015 goal to draw 55 million people, add
30,000 jobs and increase the industry’s economic impact to $70
billion from $48 billion last year.  NYC & Co. began the “NYC I Do” marketing campaign after
the same-sex marriage law passed, with a goal to make the most
populous U.S. city the top wedding and honeymoon destination for
couples globally.  In addition to New York, same-sex marriage is legal in
 Connecticut ,  Iowa , Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont and the
 District of Columbia , according to Freedom to Marry, a New York-
based national advocacy organization.  Sixth State  This year, the legislatures in  Maryland ,  New Jersey  and
Washington state passed same-gender marriage laws that haven’t
taken effect. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  vetoed the
bill, while opponents in Maryland and Washington have November
ballot measures challenging the laws.  Quinn, 45, who with Bloomberg lobbied the Legislature to
approve same-gender marriage, benefited from the law when she
wed her partner, attorney Kim Catullo, 45, on May 19 at a
ceremony attended by the mayor, Cuomo, and U.S. Senators  Charles Schumer  and Kirsten Gillibrand.  “What you can’t quantify is just the joy that has happened
in New York City,” Quinn told reporters. “What better thing
could government do than pass laws that make people equal,
repeal laws that say some of us are unequal, and give families
the opportunity to have that once-in-a-lifetime moment when a
father can walk his daughter down the aisle.”  New York ’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  