-- Gecamines of Congo to Get $269 Million After Court Decisions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-24T12:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/gecamines-of-congo-to-receive-269-million-after-court-decisions.html
Gecamines, the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo’s state-owned copper miner, will pay off debts, boost
output and seek new financing after two court decisions released
$269 million due to it, Chairman Albert Yuma said.  Gecamines will receive more than $94 million in blocked
payments after the top court for Jersey in the  Channel Islands 
on July 17 rejected an attempt by a creditor to collect a debt
owed by the Congolese state through the mining company. Another
decision against the creditor in  Hong Kong  last year will
release $175 million in signing-bonus money “in the coming
weeks,” all of which is destined for Gecamines, Yuma said.  “Between debt and investments, Gecamines needs almost a
billion dollars,” he said in an interview in Kinshasa, the
capital, on July 20. “The money from  Jersey  will enter into the
restructuring plan of Gecamines and pay down the debt and we’ll
still look for money to finance investment.”  Gecamines, which sits on the world’s biggest deposits of
cobalt, is trying to increase production after decades of
dictatorship and war left its infrastructure destroyed and cash
reserves depleted. The company will produce about 35,000 metric
tons of copper this year, Yuma said, compared with 476,000 tons
in 1986. By 2015, output may reach 100,000 tons, he said.  Financing Agreement  Officials from the  Development Bank  of Southern Africa will
travel next week to Lubumbashi, where Gecamines is based, to
discuss a possible financing agreement, he said. Any accord may
be complicated by a $561 million International Monetary Fund
loan program with Congo, which forbids state-owned companies
like Gecamines from taking on new debt at non-concessional
rates.  Gecamines shouldn’t be subject to the agreement because it
is becoming a commercial company, Yuma said.  The IMF has brought pressure to bear on Gecamines to
increase transparency after a series of unannounced sales of its
mining assets last year. The assets were sold at below their
market value to companies linked to a friend of Congolese
President  Joseph Kabila , according to anti-corruption
campaigners  Global Witness .  Non-government organizations “have a way of seeing things
and I think that NGOs haven’t developed a single country in the
world,”  Yuma said. “And especially not an African country.”  In May, Bloomberg uncovered another  unannounced sale  of
Gecamines’ stake in a project known as Comide Sprl, which is run
by London-listed Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. Yuma said he’d
never heard of the disposal.  IMF Requests  Details of the sale were published in Comide’s company
minutes, which were signed by Gecamines Chief Executive Officer
Ahmed Kalej. Gecamines hasn’t published the Comide sales
contract, even after requests from the IMF and a decree signed
last year by the prime minister and mines minister to publish
all mining contracts. Most of the country’s contracts are now
available on government websites.  Gecamines will begin “in a few weeks” to take back
undeveloped mining concessions, Yuma said. “It will be done
legally, with the agreement of former partners,” he said.  The company’s strategic plan from August 2011 says it will
“take back mining titles from joint ventures in which partners
haven’t upheld their contractual engagements with Gecamines.”  Gecamines is also looking to certify reserves on its
existing concessions and attract new partners, he said. The
company is a minority partner in nine joint ventures already in
production, Yuma said, with companies including  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)   “If we start a new project, Gecamines will no longer be a
minority partner,” he said. “The order the president gave me
is to make Gecamines a world-class, independent operator.”  Audit  The company has begun an audit of its existing joint
ventures to ensure costs and production correspond with what was
signed in their contracts, Yuma said. The audit could result in
Gecamines receiving dividends more quickly, he said.  “If dividends come quicker, we won’t need to go looking
for financing,” he said.  Yuma also cautioned against Congo’s Mines Ministry
increasing taxes abruptly in planned revisions of the country’s
10-year-old mining code.  “We’re in the investment phase in most of the mining
companies,” he said. “You must be careful to allow the
investments to be realized and production to increase before
making the tax pressure too strong.”  Congo produced about 520,000 tons of copper last year, and
is aiming for 1.5 million tons a year by 2016, according to the
Mines Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  