-- Spain Bonds Drop Amid Bailout Concern
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-24T16:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/german-bonds-fall-on-moody-s-as-spain-notes-drop-before-auction.html
Spain ’s bonds fell, pushing five-
and 10-year yields to euro-era records, as the nation’s
borrowing costs rose at an auction amid concern its banks’ and
regions’ debts will force it to seek a sovereign bailout.  Italian bonds declined for a third day after services and
manufacturing in the euro region shrank in July. Germany’s bunds
sank, pushing up yields from near all-time lows, after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the outlook on the nation’s top rating
citing concern it will have to support weaker euro-region
members. Government debt from the Netherlands fell as its
outlook was also lowered by Moody’s, along with Luxembourg.  “It’s a desperate situation” for Spain, Robin Marshall,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $19 billion as director of
fixed income at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in
 London , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with Caroline Hyde. “Markets are slowly closing to them
so I don’t think there’s much doubt they’ll need an
international package at some point soon.”  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 7.62 percent at 5:25 p.m. in London after
climbing to 7.636 percent, the highest since November 1996. The
5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 dropped 0.75 or 7.50 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,205) face amount, to 88.265. The yield jumped
23 basis points yesterday.  The Spanish five-year rate increased as much as 18 basis
points to 7.592 percent.  Considering Options  Spain sold 3.05 billion euros of bills today, including 84-
day securities at a  yield  of 2.434 percent, compared with a rate
of 2.362 percent at an auction on June 26.  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, told Bloomberg Television
a full-blown bailout can be averted if the  European Central Bank 
starts buying the Spain’s in large quantities. The nation’s
government hasn’t ruled out leaving the euro and is considering
options including an international bailout or default, El
Confidencial reported, citing sources close to Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  it didn’t identify.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an
interview today that no work is being done for a bailout of the
Spanish government and the euro area is ready to help the
nation.  ‘Unsustainable’ Situation  The German 10-year yield rose six basis points to 1.24
percent, after matching its June 1 record low of 1.127 percent
yesterday. The Dutch 10-year yield climbed 11 basis points to
1.74 percent.  “The closer we get to a larger bailout for Spain, the more
it will start to weigh on bunds,” said Allan von Mehren, a
fixed-income strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “The
situation for Spain is unsustainable and it’s just a matter of
time before we see some kind of intervention.”  Moody’s changed the outlooks on the Aaa credit ratings for
 Germany , the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative yesterday,
citing an “increasing likelihood” of collective support for
countries such as Spain and  Italy .  “If we are to see a credible resolution to the crisis it
will inevitably mean a material increase in contingent
liabilities for the core countries,” said  Brian Barry , an
analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London.  Hajime Nagata, who helps oversee the equivalent of $124
billion as a bond investor at Diam Co. in  Tokyo , said he’s
sticking with his bet on German bunds.  “I don’t care” about the outlook cut, he said. “If we
move away from German bunds, where are we going to put the
money? If we see a drop in German bunds, that’s a time to add.”  Bund Futures  The German 10-year bund futures contract expiring in
September fell as much as 0.7 percent to 144.51.  Bunds are “under pressure,”  Richard Adcock , head of
fixed-income technical strategy at UBS AG in London, wrote in a
note to clients. After falling below a level of so-called
support at 144.83, the contract may drop to as low as 143.76, he
wrote, citing trading patterns. Support refers to an area where
buy orders may be grouped.  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by the Netherlands and Italy, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area was unchanged at
46.4, the same level as in June, London-based Markit Economics
said. A reading less than 50 indicates contraction.  Italian Slump  Italy’s 10-year bonds dropped, pushing the yield as much as
26 basis points higher to 6.60 percent, and the nation’s nine-
year rate climbed above that on similar-maturity Irish debt
today. The  yield premium  investors demand to hold the Irish
bonds reached as much as 993 basis points in July 2011,
according to generic yield data compiled by Bloomberg. Ireland
doesn’t currently have a 10-year benchmark.  Italy’s two-year note yield climbed to 5.06 percent,
exceeding 5 percent for the first time since January.  Credit-default swaps on Spain rose as much as 14 basis
points to a record 645, before trading at 640, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The risk of Spanish bonds being cut to non-investment grade
status “remains high,” according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. Moody’s rates Spain Baa3, one step above junk.
 Standard & Poor’s  has a negative outlook on Spain’s BBB+ rating,
which is three levels above junk, and  Fitch Ratings  ranks the
nation at BBB, two steps above non-investment grade.  “It is hard to envisage Spain eventually escaping a full
bailout,” Brian Mangwiro and Giles Gale, strategists at RBS in
London, wrote in a research report today. They said investors
should sell the debt of so-called periphery nations’ such as
Spain, and buy higher-rated “core fixed-income risk.”  German debt returned 4.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 9 percent, while Italy’s rose 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  