-- Germany’s Roesler Slammed After Raising Notion of Greek Exit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-24T16:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/germany-s-roesler-slammed-after-raising-notion-of-greek-exit.html
German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler was criticized internationally and by fellow officials
in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition for resurrecting the
possibility that  Greece  should leave the euro area.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras took a swipe at
Roesler without referring to him by name, telling lawmakers in
 Athens  today that foreign officials who question his country’s
ability to stay in the 17-nation euro area are “irresponsible”
and undermine Greece’s fiscal efforts.  At least one opposition lawmaker, Social Democratic Party
budget expert Carsten Schneider, called for Roesler’s
resignation, while Klaus-Peter Flosbach, a senior lawmaker in
Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc involved in finance
policy, told the newspaper Handelsblatt’s online edition that
“there was absolutely no reason to start this debate now.”  The chorus of disapproval followed comments made by Roesler
in a July 22 interview with German broadcaster ARD in which he
said he’s “very skeptical” Greece can be rescued. Roesler, who
is also German economy minister and the chairman of Merkel’s
Free Democratic Party coalition partner, said the possibility of
Greece’s departure from the euro “long ago lost its terror.”  “Of course, there are some foreign officials, who every so
often come out and assume that Greece won’t make it,” Samaras
said today. “I consider them -- I say openly and publicly -- to
be those who undermine the national effort. We are doing what we
can to keep the country upright and they do whatever they can to
ensure our failure.”  Moody’s Downgrade  Schneider referred to the decision by Moody’s Investors
Service to lower the outlook on  Germany ’s top credit rating in
view of the potential financial fallout from any fragmentation
of the monetary union.  “If the sworn-in economy minister of Germany so
irresponsibly endangers taxpayer money, the chancellor has to
let him go,” Schneider said in an e-mailed statement.  Flosbach also referred to Moody’s decision in light of
Roesler’s comments. “Speculation about Greece has immediate
consequences for Germany, as can be seen with the judgement of
one rating agency,” he said, according to Handelsblatt. “To
that end, I’d advise us all to show more responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  