-- German Ifo Business Confidence May Drop For a Third Month
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/german-ifo-business-confidence-may-drop-for-a-third-month.html
German business confidence probably
fell for a third straight month in July to the lowest in more
than two years as the worsening sovereign debt crisis damped the
outlook for economic growth and company earnings.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 104.5 from 105.3 in
June, according to the median forecast of 35 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the lowest reading since
March 2010. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 lowered the outlook on
 Germany ’s Aaa credit rating to negative, citing the risk that
 Greece  could leave the euro and an “increasing likelihood” that
countries such as Spain and  Italy  will require support. While
the Bundesbank said this week that the German economy probably
grew moderately in the second quarter, aided by domestic demand,
latest data show the manufacturing and service industries are
contracting.  “German executives have had a serious crisis wake-up
call,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “While the domestic economy will help to offset some
drop off in exports for the time being, there is now a real fear
the euro area will implode.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may have declined to
113 from 113.9 and a measure of executives’ expectations
probably slipped to 96.8 from 97.3, the survey of economists
shows. Investor confidence fell for a third month in July and
the benchmark  DAX share index  has lost 10 percent in the last
four months.  European Slowdown  Germany’s  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker, on July 18 cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts and
said it will close some stores and may also eliminate jobs after
business slowed in the first half of the year. The slowdown was
particularly noticeable in Europe, the company said.  Still,  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of business-management
software, is beating rivals to contracts as companies limit
their spending amid slowing economic growth, co-Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  “While the worries are there about the euro, companies are
still investing, and software is one of the areas they invest in
to manage this new area of uncertainty,” he said.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are also
bolstering domestic spending in Germany, helping to counteract
waning export demand.  The Bundesbank in June predicted German growth of 1 percent
this year. By contrast, the European Commission forecasts a 0.3
percent contraction for the 17-nation euro economy as a whole.  “Germany is vulnerable to the crisis because of its
dependency on foreign trade, and that will have an impact on the
economy,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“But it’s unlikely to push it off a cliff. Germany will remain
 Europe ’s rock in a stormy sea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  