-- Ghana Boosts Monitoring Foreign-Currency Operations at Banks
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-07-24T16:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ghana-boosts-monitoring-foreign-currency-operations-at-banks-1-.html
Ghana’s central bank is increasing
its monitoring of lenders’ foreign-exchange businesses to get
them to adhere to policies as the institution looks for ways to
support the local currency.  The  Bank of Ghana  suspended  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) ’s local unit
from operating a foreign-exchange business for six months after
it made illegal transfers of funds in dollars to  Nigeria ,
Cynthia Abu-Bonsra, an official with the central bank’s banking
supervision unit, said by phone today.  “Access Bank transferred amounts in excess of $10,000
without documentation on behalf of a client that was not its
customer,” she said. “That action breached the foreign
exchange law that requires documentation before transferring
more than $10,000. It also contributes to capital flight that
undermines the cedi.”  The central bank has been seeking ways to shore up the
cedi, which has weakened 16 percent this year against the
dollar. The currency traded 0.2 percent lower at 1.9575 by 12:17
p.m. in Accra, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
has enacted policies to get lenders to increase reserves in
cedis at the regulator and has boosted sales of Treasury bills
to absorb the excess amounts of the local currency.  Cedi Confidence  “Attempts to circumvent foreign-exchange laws are
symptomatic of an ongoing lack of confidence in the cedi,” Sian
Bradley, an analyst with Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, said in an
e-mail. “The effective articulation and implementation of long-
term structural reforms will be necessary in order to restore
confidence in the cedi.”  Abu-Bonsra said the central bank received a tip about the
alleged Access Bank transaction.  Nana Kyeremateng, Access Bank  Ghana  Ltd.’s deputy director
of communications, said it would be “premature” to comment
when reached by phone today. “We are still preparing a
statement, which will be ready by the close of the day.”  The licenses of five foreign-exchange bureaus were revoked
for failing to submit details on how they sold dollars, which
had been earlier given to them by the central bank, Abu-Bonsra
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  