-- Pound Approaches Strongest Since 2008 Versus Euro on Safety Bid
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-24T15:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/gilts-fall-as-moody-s-german-outlook-casts-doubt-on-haven-assets.html
The pound rose toward the strongest
level since 2008 against the euro as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening boosted demand for the relative safety of
the U.K. currency.  Gilts outperformed German bunds after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its rating outlooks for  Germany , the Netherlands
and Luxembourg, citing concern the three nations will have to
support weaker euro-region members. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict a U.K. government report tomorrow will
show the nation remains in a recession.  “There is a broad outflow of capital from Europe seeking a
safer home,” said  Paul Robson , senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London . “This is a
continuation of the trend in euro-sterling.”  The pound advanced 0.6 percent to 77.71 pence per euro at
4:53 p.m. London time after appreciating to 77.55 pence
yesterday, the strongest since October 2008. The U.K. currency
rose 01. percent to $1.5524.  Spanish bonds tumbled today as the nation’s borrowing costs
increased at an auction amid concern debt at its banks and
regions will force it to seek a sovereign bailout.  Moody’s said in a statement late yesterday that it lowered
the Aaa credit ratings of Germany, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg due to the “increasing likelihood” of collective
support for European countries such as Spain and  Italy .  Sterling has risen 4.4 percent in the past year, the third-
best performer after the yen and the dollar among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  Spread Narrows  The extra yield that investors  demand  to hold 10-year U.K.
securities instead of German ones shrank seven basis points to
23 basis points. That’s the narrowest since July 3, based on
closing prices.  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  was little changed at 1.47
percent after falling to a record 1.407 percent yesterday. The 4
percent bond due in March 2022 traded at a price of 122.635.  “Gilts could continue to outperform over the next few
weeks,” said Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-income strategist at
 Morgan Stanley & Co  in London. “Invariably they do well when
there is over a three-week gap in the issuance calendar, which
is what we have now.”  U.K. government debt has returned 4.1 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bonds gained 4.5 percent.  Debt Sale  The U.K. sold 4 billion pounds of inflation-protected bonds
maturing in March 2044 today, with 90 percent allocated to
British investors, the Debt Management Office said.  The sale through banks brought issuance for the fiscal year
that started in April to 66.8 billion pounds, compared with the
whole-year target of 164.4 billion pounds, the debt agency said.  The  difference in yield  between 10-year gilts and similar-
maturity index-linked securities, a measure of inflation
expectations known as the break-even rate, widened one basis
point to 2.36 percentage points.  The euro will find so-called support against the pound at
around 77.44 pence, the 50 percent retracement of the single-
currency’s rally from 2000 to 2008,  Karen Jones , head of fixed-
income, commodity and currency technical analysis at Commerzbank
AG in London, wrote today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  