-- Liverpool Joins Manchester Utd. in Getting Chevrolet Sponsorship
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-24T23:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/gm-s-chevrolet-to-become-sponsor-of-english-soccer-s-liverpool.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which dropped
Super Bowl advertising in May because it’s too expensive,
doubled its portfolio of Premier League soccer sponsorships by
adding Liverpool two months after signing  Manchester United .  The world’s largest carmaker signed an accord yesterday for
its Chevrolet brand to be 18-time English league champion
Liverpool’s official automotive partner.  Liverpool, which last won the league championship in 1990,
finished eighth in the 20-team Premier League last season though
won the Carling Cup and reached the F.A. Cup final. The deal
with Liverpool is for four years, one fewer than a similar
agreement with record 19-time champion United in late May.  “Liverpool supporters from around the world are known for
their undying love of their side,” Global Chevrolet Marketing
Vice President Chris Perry said in a statement announcing the
pact that runs through the 2015-16 season. “Our relationship
with  Liverpool FC  extends beyond the traditional boundaries of
sponsorship and is about engaging with supporters.”  Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Liverpool is one of the world’s most closely followed
teams, with official fan groups in cities ranging from New York
to Beijing. Its 81.5 million pound ($126.5 million) worldwide
partnership with bank  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  was made as a
result of the team’s popularity in Asia, the bank has said.  In late May,  Paul Edwards , GM’s executive director of
global marketing strategy, said the company had signed with
Manchester United because of the global opportunities presented
by the soccer team.  “We recognized that it’s not only the world’s biggest
sport, but also the world’s most engaged fans,” he said.  New Advertising  The soccer agreements follow GM’s decision to halt paid
advertising on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-networking website and
forgo next year’s Super Bowl championship game of the National
Football League in the U.S. The moves are among the first steps
of Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick ’s efforts to revamp
Chevrolet’s marketing with a new global agency and save $2
billion over five years.  Ewanick told reporters when the United deal was announced
that the  Super Bowl  had become too expensive, saying “enough is
enough, you have to pull back.”  Liverpool remains a team in transition, a long way from its
glory years in the 1970s and 1980s when it won the majority of
its championships and all but one of its five European Cups, a
record for a British team. The team, which shares its ownership
group with Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox, is currently
touring North America and will meet Italy’s  AS Roma (ASR)  on July 28
at Fenway Park in Boston before playing English Premier League
rival Tottenham Hotspur in Baltimore. It tied Toronto FC in its
first tour match.  “Partnerships with blue-chip brands like Chevy will help
ensure the long-term growth and success of our club, both on and
off the pitch,” Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said in a
news release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  