-- Goldman Sachs May Not Issue Bonds to Match Maturities
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-24T19:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/goldman-sachs-may-not-issue-bonds-to-match-maturities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, may not issue long-term debt to
match the $11.8 billion it has in second-half maturities, said
Treasurer Elizabeth “Liz” Beshel Robinson.  “Obviously, the market is a little bit more challenging
today that it’s been in the past,” Robinson said on a
conference call today for fixed-income investors, the first of
its kind hosted by the New York-based company. She said the firm
has a “number of levers” to replace the funding, including
raising deposits or shrinking the firm’s balance sheet.  Goldman Sachs, which was Wall Street’s most profitable
securities firm before converting to a bank in 2008, last week
reported its lowest first-half profit in seven years. The report
showed net  interest income  fell 25 percent in the six-month
period from a year earlier as a 5 percent decline in interest
expense failed to match the 13 percent drop in interest income.  Goldman Sachs issued $13.7 billion of unsecured long-term
debt in the first half of the year, $12 billion of which was in
U.S. dollars and the rest in Japanese yen, Robinson said. That
compared with $15.1 billion of maturities. While the bank will
“certainly” issue some long-term debt in the second half, how
much will depend on the environment, she said.  “Our view on funding has always been to raise debt
opportunistically when we see attractive opportunities in the
market,” Robinson said. “Attractive for us around funding
means term and diversity.”  ‘Raising Deposits’  The company plans to expand its regulated-bank unit to
obtain more federally insured deposits, a lower-cost form of
borrowing than the firm’s other sources of funding. Goldman
Sachs held $57.3 billion in deposits at the end of June,
compared with $1.12 trillion held by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
largest U.S. bank.  Goldman Sachs has increased deposits by $11.2 billion this
year. Much of the growth has come from brokered certificates of
deposit and relationships with broker-dealer aggregators that
sweep client cash to Goldman Sach’s bank subsidiary, Robinson
said. Those categories account for more than half the firm’s
deposits.  The CDs have a weighted-average maturity of three years,
and are 2 percentage points cheaper than funding through three-
year debt at the parent-company level, Robinson said.  “We’re raising deposits, and we’ll use some of those
deposits for private individual loans, some of it for corporate
loans,” Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said on a July 17
conference call after the firm released earnings. “We’ll use
those deposits that we have and grow them and use them wisely
for profitable opportunities.”  ‘No Impact’  Goldman Sachs Bank USA, the regulated bank unit overseen by
Esta E. Stecher, has higher credit ratings for both long-term
deposits and short-term debt than the parent company. Last month
Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings on Goldman
Sachs Group’s long-term debt two levels  to A3  and on its short-
term debt to P-2. Goldman Sachs Bank USA had its long-term
deposit rating cut to A2 and its short-term rating affirmed at
P-1.  The Moody’s downgrade had “no impact” on the firm’s
funding, and collateral outflows related to its derivative
portfolio were less than $100 million, Robinson said.  The cost of buying protection against a default on $10
million of Goldman Sachs debt for five years was $287,845 as of
July 23, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. While that’s
below the $376,642 cost for Morgan Stanley debt, it’s higher
than the rate charged on so-called credit default swaps for Bank
of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. or JPMorgan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Viniar, 57, has been the Goldman Sachs executive who has
addressed investors, analysts and the media about quarterly
earnings since the company went public in 1999. As treasurer
since 2005, the 43-year-old Robinson has the job Viniar held
before he became CFO and has been trained by him to handle the
firm’s financing and liquidity needs.  Robinson is viewed by some analysts as a candidate to
succeed Viniar if he decides to leave. Another contender is
Sarah E. Smith, the bank’s controller and chief accounting
officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 