-- Google Moves Toward Possible Antitrust-Case Settlement, EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-24T18:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/google-moves-toward-possible-antitrust-case-settlement-eu-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has reached a “good”
understanding with European Union regulators working toward a
possible settlement of an antitrust probe, an EU spokesman said.  “The commission considers Google’s proposals as a good
basis for further talks and has reached a good level of
understanding with Google,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for
the European Commission, said in an e-mail from Brussels today.
“There will soon be discussions at technical level. We hope
this process will lead to remedies addressing our concerns.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  asked Google in
May to make an offer to settle concerns that it promotes its own
specialist search services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and that its agreements with websites and software
developers stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Almunia told MLex in an  interview  earlier today that
regulators have been “exchanging views” during recent weeks of
talks on a possible settlement of the EU’s investigation into
allegations that the world’s largest search engine discriminates
against rivals in search results.  “So far, so good,” Almunia said in the interview.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and  South Korea  are also scrutinizing the company.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continued to cooperate with regulators.  Regulators asked Google to extend an initial offer to
modify its search engine to cover mobile applications for
smartphones and tablet computers, two people familiar with the
negotiations said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 