-- Libor Fixers May Face Jail in Future Under EU Markets Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-24T16:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/libor-fixers-may-face-jail-in-future-under-eu-market-abuse-plan.html
Bank staff found guilty of future
attempts to rig interbank lending rates may face jail under
European Union plans to prevent any repeat of the global scandal
engulfing Libor.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
will propose tomorrow that manipulation of Libor, Euribor and
other so-called market benchmarks should be subject to criminal
sanctions, the authority said in an e-mailed statement today.
Attempted manipulation would be punishable by fines and other
administrative sanctions, the commission said.  “No financial player, no financial product and no
financial market should escape effective regulation and
supervision,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, said in a separate statement on his website.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, has been shaken by  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond ,
who resigned as London-based Barclays’s chief executive officer
after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($451 million), told
British lawmakers this month that other banks also lowballed
Libor submissions.  The proposals will set out “specific provisions
prohibiting the manipulation of benchmarks” and making such
acts “a criminal offense,” Barnier said.  The Barclays fine has provoked renewed calls for tougher
oversight of the financial system and pushed regulatory probes
of interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  Public Fury  The scandal has provoked public “fury about values” in
the financial industry,  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, said in an event at the Bloomberg
offices in  London  today.  Interbank lending rates are used as a benchmark throughout
the global financial system for fixing  interest rates  on other
products, including consumer loans and mortgages.  “A stringent legal framework will act as a credible
deterrent for this kind of behavior,” the commission said.  Unsuccessful attempts to rig  interbank  rates and other
market benchmarks can still “have a serious impact” on
confidence, the commission said. It’s “essential” that
authorities can impose administrative sanctions on people found
to have made such attempts.  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is determined by
a daily poll carried out on behalf of the British Bankers’
Association that asks banks to estimate how much it would cost
to borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. Similarly, Euribor, the euro equivalent, is overseen
by the European Banking Federation in Brussels.  Market Abuse  Barnier said he welcomed an  online petition  in support of
jail sentences for those found guilty of rigging interbank
lending rates.  The EU should adopt his market abuse proposals
“quickly,” he said.  Barnier has said that his officials are also reviewing the
governance of interbank lending rates, and the rate setting
process itself.  Mervyn King , governor of the  Bank of England , has called
for central bankers to discuss steps to restore confidence in
interbank rate-setting during a meeting at the  Bank for
International Settlements  in Basel,  Switzerland , in September.
King chairs several BIS committees.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, central bankers and finance ministry officials from
the Group of 20 nations, will also discuss the matter,  Mark
Carney , the FSB’s chairman, said last week. He said it will be
on the agenda of the board’s steering committee when it meets in
Basel on Sept. 17.  European Parliament  The commission plans are intended to update a draft law
published last year by Barnier. The proposals must be approved
by lawmakers in the European Parliament and by national
governments before it can take effect.  Arlene McCarthy , the legislator leading work on the draft
market abuse law in the parliament, has said that the assembly
will ensure that fixing of interbank rates is covered by the
measures. The parliament last week published its own plans for
doing this.  McCarthy has said that the assembly should hold hearings
into the scandal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 