-- IHH May Buy More Hospitals After Initial Offer: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n ,   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-07-25T10:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ihh-may-buy-more-hospitals-after-initial-offer-southeast-asia.html
IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , the world’s
second-biggest health-care provider by market value, may buy
more hospitals in markets that have unmet demand, Managing
Director Lim Cheok Peng said.  IHH’s stock surged on debut today after it raised 6.3
billion ringgit ($1.98 billion) selling shares in a Kuala Lumpur
and Singapore initial public offering, the world’s third-largest
this year. Lim said IHH may consider smaller acquisitions to add
to its January purchase of a 60 percent stake in the owner of
 Turkey ’s largest hospital group, Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri &
Ticaret AS, which it bought for $826 million in cash and stock.  “I don’t think we are prepared to do another major
acquisition like Acibadem, but if opportunities arise that fit
the overall game plan, we could certainly look at it,” Lim said
in a telephone interview.  Kuala Lumpur-based IHH, whose IPO was 132 times subscribed
by institutions, already plans to add 67 percent more hospital
beds by 2017 to capitalize on populations that are becoming
richer and demanding better care. Increasing medical tourism and
private health insurance coverage will drive steady demand for
beds and services, said B. Kemp Dolliver, head of  Asia  health-
care research at Religare Capital Markets Plc.  “It’s going to be a stable business in an unstable
world,” Dolliver, who is based in Singapore, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s rising affluence in Asia and
aging populations, so the demand dynamics look very promising.”  IHH rose by 10 percent to 3.09 ringgit at the 5 p.m. close
of trading in  Kuala Lumpur . In Singapore, the stock closed 10
percent higher at S$1.23.  Health Awareness  The market for health care in the Asia-Pacific will post a
compound annual growth rate of 8 percent in the years to 2015,
according to Frost & Sullivan, which IHH commissioned to do the
market analysis in its IPO prospectus.  Consumer spending  on
health goods and medical services in Singapore,  Malaysia  and
Turkey, where IHH operates, will each grow by at least 6 percent
annually between 2011 and 2016, according to Euromonitor
International, a London-based researcher.  Countries such as  Indonesia  have medical infrastructure
that has yet to catch up with rising wealth of the population,
Dolliver said. Indonesia’s growing middle class with higher
disposable income and health awareness will drive demand for
private medical care such as what IHH offers, Rhenu Bhuller,
 Frost & Sullivan ’s Asia-Pacific vice-president for health care,
said by telephone from Singapore.  “Singapore is almost like a hinterland to Indonesia,”
IHH’s Lim said. The country, along with Vietnam, Malaysia,
Myanmar and Bangladesh, are within a three-to-four-hour flying
radius of Singapore and among the primary sources of patients
for IHH, he said.  ‘Medical Travel’  The company’s stake in Turkey’s Acibadem will help IHH
target markets in Central and Eastern  Europe , the  Middle East 
and  Africa , Lim said. Acibadem, which targets the mid- to high-
end segments of the health-care market, is a “strong fit” for
IHH, according to the IPO prospectus.  “Strategically located between Europe, Asia and the Middle
East, Turkey has emerged as one of the most popular destinations
for medical travel,” analysts at ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd.
said in a July 6 report. “IHH offers investors exposure to a
network of healthcare-jewels,” they wrote, rating the stock
hold.  IHH said its Acibadem operations would have contributed
37.5 percent of its sales last year if they had been integrated,
according to the prospectus. Singapore would have contributed
36.9 percent and Malaysia 21.5 percent, the company said.  More Millionaires  “Moving forward we will not be dependent on any country,”
Lim said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “If
you are a regional player with a regional image and reputation,
obviously you attract high net worth individuals.”  The number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region
exceeded those in  North America  for the first time last year,
according to a report in June from Capgemini SA and Royal Bank
of Canada’s wealth management unit. Singapore had the highest
proportion of millionaire households, while  Hong Kong  led the
rankings for the percentage of billionaires, according to  Boston
Consulting Group  in June.  Crabtree & Evelyn  IHH’s newest facility in Singapore,  Mount Elizabeth Novena
Hospital , offers only private rooms and is within a 10-minute
taxi ride from the Orchard Road shopping belt. Prices range from
S$578 ($459) for a standard room to as much as S$12,888 for the
Chairman suite, where patients can request visitors undergo a
security check.  To counter the antiseptic smell commonly found in
hospitals, the facility uses a blend of oils in its air
conditioners. In-room amenities include a 46-inch television set
and toiletries by Crabtree & Evelyn Ltd., and patients in some
rooms have access to Acer Inc. tablet computers.  The biggest risk for IHH is patients turning away during an
economic downturn and job losses, Bhuller said.  “They may decide to give up that perception of luxury,”
Bhuller said. “An economic downturn can drive a portion of
patients from private to public health care.”  The company may also be affected if growth in developing
markets such as Indonesia falters or the rupiah loses value, Lim
said in the television interview.  ‘Human Talent’  As part of an industry “heavily dependent on human
talent,” IHH also faces the risk of an increase in staff cost,
Low Yee Huap, an analyst at Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd.,
wrote in a July 19 report. Low rates the stock buy and has a 12-
month price estimate of 3.49 ringgit.  IHH, controlled by Malaysian state investment company
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., sold shares at 2.80 ringgit each in the
IPO, it said in a July 12 statement. The $1.98 billion offering
trails the initial share sales of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which raised
$16 billion, and  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , which
raised $3.3 billion, among IPOs this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It should be more resilient compared with other stocks
because being in health care is to a certain extent more
resilient,” said  Jason Chong , Kuala Lumpur-based chief
investment officer at Manulife Asset Management (Malaysia) Sdn
Bhd. “If you are sick you have to see the doctors.”  Most Expensive  At 2.80 ringgit per share, IHH is priced at 38.9 times the
earnings estimates for 2012 of Hong Leong’s Low. This would make
the company the most expensive health-care facilities stock
among 23 peers that have a market value of more than $1 billion
based on 2012 estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nashville, Tennessee-based  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the world’s
biggest hospital operator, trades at 7.54 times projected 2012
earnings, the data show. The 23 companies have a median price-
to-earnings ratio of 14.85 times.  Even with a steep multiple, IHH stock is  rated  buy by two
of the three brokerages to initiate coverage before the IPO.  At the IPO price, IHH had a market value of more than $7
billion, trailing only HCA and ahead of Bangkok Dusit Medical
Services Pcl, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  In 2010, IHH Healthcare, then known as Integrated
Healthcare Sdn., paid S$3.5 billion ($2.8 billion) for the 76.1
percent of Singapore’s Parkway Holdings Ltd. it didn’t already
own, beating India’s Fortis Healthcare Ltd. It agreed to buy
control of Turkey’s Acibadem the following year.  “IHH’s successful IPO validates our philosophy of
investing in high-growth regions and high-impact sectors,” said
Omar Lodhi, senior partner and Asia regional head for Abraaj
Capital. The private equity fund said today in a statement that
it exited its investment in IHH through the IPO. It first
invested in Acibadem in 2007 and subsequently in IHH, according
to the statement.  More Acquisitions  Further acquisitions must be in markets where IHH can
continue to grow, and be accretive to earnings, Lim said. The
company would buy hospitals with a “good set of doctors that
are able to practise in those hospitals,” and local patients,
he said. “If there isn’t a good population base, there’s no
point in putting a hospital there.”  In the short term, IHH has enough  cash flow , Lim said,
while he pointed to its 35.8 percent holding in the  Parkway Life
Real Estate Investment Trust (PREIT)  as another possible source of
funding. The stake has a market value of more than S$400
million.  “Anyone who cares about health care in the region is going
to pay attention to this company,” Religare’s Dolliver said.
“There’s limited amount of market cap to invest in in the
region, and when you adjust for the actual float, the scarcity
value is even higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  