-- Indonesian Bonds Decline as Europe Crisis Worsens; Rupiah Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-24T02:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/indonesian-bonds-decline-as-europe-crisis-worsens-rupiah-steady.html
Indonesia ’s government bonds
declined and the rupiah was steady as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen damped demand for riskier assets.  The Jakarta Composite Index of shares dropped 1.8 percent
yesterday, the most in a month, as overseas investors sold $14
million more local stocks than they bought, according to
exchange data. The gauge was up 0.2 percent today. Moody’s
Investors Service revised its rating outlooks for Germany, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative on “rising uncertainty”
over the credit crisis in the euro area, it said in a statement
yesterday.  “The rupiah is being driven by another round of  risk
aversion ,” said Artanavaro Gasali, the Jakarta-based head of
global markets at PT Bank ICBC Indonesia. “ Germany  is among the
most stable and powerful economies in the euro area, so its
downgrade definitely caused some concern.”  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.82 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the highest
level in a week.  The rupiah traded at 9,450 per dollar as of 9:44 a.m. in
Jakarta, compared with 9,455 yesterday, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was steady
at 8 percent.  Bank Indonesia received approval from the People’s Bank of
China to invest in the interbank Chinese bond market, according
to statements from both central banks yesterday.  “Aside from diversifying its holdings,  Bank Indonesia  may
wish to invest in yuan-denominated notes for the prospect of
currency gains ahead of 2015, when the  yuan  will be
internationalized,” Gasali said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  