-- International Ferro Metals Wants Chrome-Tax Clarity by Year-End
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-07-24T12:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/international-ferro-metals-wants-chrome-tax-clarity-by-year-end.html
International Ferro Metals Ltd. (IFL) , a
ferrochrome producer in South Africa, said it wants the
government to clarify if it will introduce an export levy on
chrome-ore exports by year-end.  Ferrochrome producers in the country, the biggest maker of
the alloy used in stainless steel to prevent corrosion, have
asked for a tax of $100 per metric ton to limit exports to
 China , which is displacing local output.  “It’s quite urgent,” Chief Executive Officer Christiaan Jordaan said by phone from  London  today. Any export levy on
chrome ore, the main ingredient in ferrochrome, would only be a
“temporary arrangement.”  International Ferro Metals’ output of ferrochrome dropped
62 percent to 18,505 tons in the quarter through June from the
previous three months as Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-
owned company that provides more than 95 percent of  South
Africa ’s power, paid the Sydney-based producer to shut down
furnaces to save on electricity, it said in a statement today.  Eskom raised power prices by 16 percent on average on April
1 and increased them by an average 27 percent in each of the
past four years to help fund a building program.  Power-price advances and a weaker ferrochrome market will
hamper International Ferro Metals, Cailey Barker and Andy Davidson, London-based analysts with Numis Securities Ltd., said
in a research note, cutting their price estimate for the London-
listed company by 22 percent to 35 pence.  Demand for ferrochrome is “probably going to remain
constant to where it is now” Jordaan said. The company is
“keeping an eye on” potential opportunities in  Zimbabwe , while
South Africa remains its focus, he said.  International Ferro Metals dropped 2.8 percent, the most on
a closing basis since July 2, to 13.25 pence by 12:32 p.m. in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  