-- Japan Flags Yen-Sales Impact as BOJ Eyes More Easing: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-07-25T07:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/interventions-last-year-stopped-yen-s-rise-japan-official-says.html
Japan ’s  Finance Ministry  said its
record foreign-exchange intervention last year was effective and
central bank Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi indicated
officials won’t hold back on easing.  The comments highlight the possibility of further action by
policy makers to counter gains in the yen. The currency rose
against the dollar this week and was near an 11-year high versus
the euro today as Japan reported an unexpected  trade surplus  and
the  International Monetary Fund  said  China  faces challenges in
securing a “soft landing.”  A Ministry of Finance official involved with international
affairs said yesterday that he would challenge any assertion
that last year’s intervention wasn’t effective. He spoke on
condition of anonymity. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  “will not hesitate”
to loosen monetary policy should the world’s third-biggest
economy face shocks that weaken the outlook, Yamaguchi told
business executives today in Hiroshima, western Japan.  “Given the deepening global slowdown, the BOJ will remain
in easing mode,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in  Tokyo  and a former central bank
official. “We can’t rule out the chance that the BOJ will
expand easing measures next month, depending on the level of yen
and discussions with new board members.”  The Japanese currency traded at 78.14 per dollar as of 3:55
p.m. in Tokyo while the euro was at 94.20 yen. Japanese Finance
Minister Jun Azumi yesterday indicated increased concern at the
yen’s advance as  Europe ’s crisis bolsters the currency’s appeal
as a haven.  Canon Forecast  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker, today cut its
full-year profit forecast because of a stronger yen and
expectations for weaker growth in the U.S., Europe and China.
The company gets 80 percent of its sales outside of Japan.  “The likelihood of intervention by the government depends
on what happens with the euro-zone sovereign debt crisis,” said
David Rea, an economist at London-based Capital Economics Ltd.
“Verbal warnings” may persist, he said.  Former Nomura Securities Co. economist  Takahide Kiuchi ,
appointed to the BOJ policy board yesterday, said “new forms of
monetary easing” may be needed and the central bank could play
a bigger role in connection with the currency.  “When the outlook turns out to be weaker than expected or
the risk associated with it intensifies, the bank will not
hesitate to implement additional monetary easing,” Yamaguchi
said today.  Foreign Bonds  Takehiro Sato, a former chief economist at Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co. who also joined the BOJ board yesterday,
said that buying foreign bonds could be an option for the
central bank. He and Kiuchi spoke to reporters in Tokyo after
their appointments.  “If we determine that a strong yen is becoming a big
downside factor for Japan’s recovery path and risks are very
high, we will probably add monetary stimulus,” Yamaguchi said
at a press conference. “It’s not like we are going to do
something now.”  The central bank, which has kept  interest rates  near zero
since October 2010, forecasts that inflation will stay below its
1 percent goal for the next two years.  “I don’t think the two new members will drastically change
monetary policy but when votes are split, they are likely to
support easing,” said Shinichiro Kobayashi, a senior economist
at Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co. “If the yen
appreciates further and stocks continue to decline, the BOJ will
probably have to bolster stimulus.”  The IMF said today China’s slowing economy faces
significant downside risks and relies too much on investment,
urging leaders to boost consumption and channel citizens’
savings away from housing.  Moderately Undervalued  While the economy “seems to be undergoing a soft
landing,” achieving it is a key challenge, the Washington-based
IMF said in a statement. “China is well placed to respond
forcefully, if needed, to a deterioration of the external
environment, in particular through fiscal policy,” the IMF
said. It repeated an assessment that the  yuan  is “moderately”
undervalued, which China disputed.  In  South Korea , the nation’s central bank said the country
risks missing a growth target for 2012 because of Europe’s debt
crisis.  “South Korea is vulnerable to changes in external
conditions,” Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo told
lawmakers today. “The economy is losing steam faster than we
expected.”  Reinforcing Japan’s stance that it will intervene in the
currency when necessary, the Ministry of Finance official said
that if Japan hadn’t bought dollars on Oct. 31, the yen could
have appreciated beyond the post-World War II record of 75.35
yen to the dollar that it touched that day.  Yen Appreciation  Japan’s currency has appreciated almost 7 percent against
the dollar since the U.S. currency reached a high for the year
of 84.18 yen on March 15. On July 6, IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said the yen is moderately overvalued.  Elsewhere in the region,  New Zealand ’s annual trade deficit
unexpectedly narrowed in the year through June, boosted by
overseas shipments of milk powder and logs. Australian core
consumer prices rose last quarter in line with economists’
forecasts, with the gauge advancing 0.5 percent from the
previous quarter.  The  Bank of Thailand  will keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 3 percent for a fourth straight meeting today,
according to all 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A report later today will probably show gross domestic
product in the U.K. contracted for a third quarter in the three
months through June, according to the median of 36 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. In the U.S., demand for new homes
probably rose in June, surveys showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  