-- Miracle on Wood Humiliating U.S. Presaged by Levi’s Theft
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/miracle-on-wood-humiliating-u-s-presaged-by-levi-s-theft.html
It was more than a routine case of
teenage shoplifting.  When the  Soviet Union ’s national basketball team visited
Phoenix in June 1969 on a U.S. tour, promising 17-year-old
forward Alexander Belov was caught stealing a pair or two of
Levi’s jeans.  In the Soviet Union, where the government-controlled
economy rendered Western  consumer goods  either unavailable or
unaffordable, Levi’s commanded huge black-market prices.  Because the Soviets had come to play against the rookies of
the  National Basketball Association ’s  Phoenix Suns , police
contacted Jerry Colangelo, the Suns’ general manager. He
persuaded them not to press charges against Belov. The  Arizona 
Republic newspaper downplayed the theft as an “unfortunate”
misunderstanding attributable to Belov’s inability to speak
English.  “I recall trying to squash it because we didn’t need an
international incident,” says Colangelo, 72, who is now
chairman of  USA Basketball , spearheading the American quest for
a gold medal at the London Olympics. “So he was given a pass.
It could have been a big deal. We were able to keep a lid on
it.”  Soviet officials gladly cooperated. The secret service --
the KGB -- helped hush up Alexander Belov’s arrest, teammate
Sergei Belov says. A KGB agent traveled with the team. Back
home, Alexander met with sports authorities and promised not to
transgress again, Sergei says.  Off the Hook  “Any other player, it would have meant the end of his
career,” says Sergei Belov, 68. “Unfortunately, the coaches
let him get away with it because of his sporting achievements.”  Thus reprieved, Alexander Belov scored the decisive basket
in the still-disputed 1972 Olympic championship game in Munich.
After a questionable ruling put more time back on the clock,
handing the Soviets two extra chances, his last-second layup
gave them a 51-50 victory that ended the U.S. streak of 63
straight Olympic wins and seven gold medals. It remains the most
famous -- and, to Americans, notorious -- upset in international
basketball history.  At an Olympics devastated by the massacre of 11 Israeli
athletes and coaches, the championship was a propaganda victory
for the Soviet Union that vindicated its communist system and
its focus on identifying and developing Olympic athletes. After
settling for four silvers and a bronze in the past five Olympic
tournaments, the USSR had beaten the U.S., basketball’s
birthplace, at its own game.  High-Water Mark  “There was a great political context,” says Russian
billionaire and  Brooklyn Nets  owner  Mikhail Prokhorov . “We saw
a bit of a  Cold War  confrontation, two nuclear superpowers
fighting it out on the basketball courts.”  The Munich Olympics were a high-water mark for the Soviet
sports program. The USSR won 50  gold medals , compared with 29 in
1968, and made incursions into American strongholds such as
basketball and sprints. Valeri Borzov won the men’s 100-meter
dash, in which the U.S. had garnered seven of the previous eight
gold medals.  Long after the Soviet Union disintegrated, the game lives
on in the memory of former citizens as a point of pride and
nostalgia for bygone glory.  If Americans remember their  hockey team ’s 1980 championship
as the “miracle on ice,” the USSR’s basketball gold eight
years earlier is regarded in the former Soviet Union as a
“miracle on wood,” says Robert Edelman, a professor of Russian
history at the  University of California  at San Diego and author
of a book about Soviet spectator sports. The players “are still
dining out on it, even to this day.”  Turbulent Career  The triumph also transformed the charismatic Alexander
Belov, with his sideburns, aquiline nose and heavy-lidded eyes,
into the USSR’s biggest basketball celebrity -- until smuggling
allegations eventually derailed him. Coveted by U.S. talent
evaluators such as Red Auerbach, architect of the  Boston
Celtics ’ dynasty, he became the first Soviet player ever chosen
in the National Basketball Association draft, presaging the
flood of Europeans into the league.  Belov’s turbulent career undercuts a stereotypical view,
which prevailed in the U.S. during the Cold War and lingers
today, of Soviet athletes as faceless grinds who subordinated
their individuality to the communist system.  While Frank Gifford, announcing the Munich game for  ABC-TV ,
described the Soviet team as a “machine,” “machine-like” and
“well-disciplined,” the squad grappled with some of the same
problems that fans of U.S. sports often bemoan: off-court
shenanigans, jealous stars, recruiting wars and coaches’
coddling.  ‘Difficult Relationships’  “The 1972 team had very difficult relationships,” says
Alexander Volkov, forward for the 1988 USSR Olympic team, who
played with several members of the prior squad in Soviet
leagues. Some of them were “tough personalities.”  The rules of basketball were first published in Russian in
1906, 15 years after James Naismith invented the sport in
Springfield,  Massachusetts . Different Soviet republics developed
their own styles, journalist Anatoly Pinchuk wrote in a 1977
essay. Russians specialized in tight defense; the Baltic
Republics in preparation and discipline; and the Georgians in
up-tempo, improvised offense. The 1972 team drew players from
all three regions, enabling it to adapt to a variety of
opponents and situations.  Starting in 1958, the U.S. and Soviet national teams toured
each other’s countries. “We learnt from the Americans, and
there were probably never such diligent students,” Pinchuk
wrote.  American Idols  Modestas Paulauskas, captain of the 1972 USSR team, says
 Bill Russell  and  Wilt Chamberlain  were his favorite American
players.  “Every other year, we were in America, playing eight
games,” says the 67-year-old Paulauskas. “I was always
considering America the basketball motherland.”  The players on the 1972 team came from diverse backgrounds
and today would have represented six different countries:
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Georgia and Paulauskas’s
homeland, Lithuania.  Its standouts, Sergei and Alexander Belov, had little in
common beyond their surnames.  “They were never friends,” says Ivan Roshin, the best man
at Alexander’s wedding. While Sergei was introverted, Alexander
“was open and happy. They never clicked.”  Siberian Schoolboy  A 6-foot-3-inch guard named the best player in European
history by the  International Basketball Federation  (FIBA) in
1991, Sergei Belov learned the game as a schoolboy in Siberia.
His family --his father was a forest manager, his mother a
schoolteacher --didn’t own a television until 1960, when he was
16. He studied electronics in Moscow, where he joined Central
Army Sports Club, the dominant Soviet team.  While as a teenager he idolized American stars such as
 Jerry West , Sergei only glimpsed them on occasional newsreels in
movie theaters, he says. “I had to follow my own path,” he
says. “When I saw the Americans play for the first time in
1963, I saw my ideas coincided” with theirs.  Almost eight years younger than Sergei, Alexander Belov
grew up in cosmopolitan Leningrad, where he starred for  Spartak ,
Central Army’s archrival. Alexander played taller than his 6-
foot-8-inch height. With long arms and leaping ability, he
excelled at rebounding and blocking shots.  “He was a prototype power forward,” similar to NBA Hall
of Famers Dave DeBusschere and Dave Cowens, Colangelo says.  Smuggled Monkey  Alexander enjoyed Western popular music, especially  Tom
Jones , Roshin says. From international tours, he brought back
rock albums and more exotic souvenirs.  “I know he smuggled a live monkey from  Peru  in 1973,”
says his widow, Alexandra Ovchinnikova. He gave the monkey to a
zoo, she says.  “It’s hard to be wise in your 20s, and he wasn’t,” says
Sergei Belov.  Five members of the 1972 Olympic team, including Sergei
Belov, played much of their careers for  Central Army ,
perennially the Soviet champion. All of the club’s players and
coaches held ranks in the Soviet Army, and new players were
required to join the Army.  Central Army’s head coach Alexander Gomelsky, a colonel,
benefited in recruiting from the Soviet Union’s compulsory
military service. He had first dibs on top players already
serving in the Army, and could keep other prospects away from
competing clubs by arranging for their induction. While Central
Army Sports Club retains its name today, it has no Army
affiliation, and features American, Lithuanian and Serbian
players.  Draft Dodging  “I didn’t want to go” to Central Army, says Alzhan
Zharmukhamedov, a 6-foot-10-inch center from Uzbekistan who
played for the club from 1969-1979. Interviewed in the glass-
roofed winter garden of a Moscow school where he teaches
basketball, the lean, gray-haired 67-year-old wore a red Central
Army T-shirt.  “I also didn’t want to go to the Army and was hiding away
from the police officers,” says Zharmukhamedov, who scored four
points in the Munich gold-medal game. “Once they came to the
gym, and told me they are taking me to the Army. I went to the
locker room to change my clothes, opened the window and rushed
to my home. Then I took a flight to Alma-Ata where I was hiding
for 10 days till the issue was solved.” In the end,
Zharmukhamedov joined the Central Army team. He was given an
Army officer’s rank, with few duties.  Two Coaches  One top player eluded Central Army. Alexander Belov, who
would score the winning basket in Munich, remained loyal to
Gomelsky’s nemesis, Spartak Coach Vladimir Kondrashin. Like the
two Belovs, their coaches were temperamental opposites. Their
enmity shaped the Soviet basketball scene for decades.  The well-educated Gomelsky was voluble in person and print,
and wrote many texts on basketball. Kondrashin had a
hardscrabble upbringing and didn’t go to college. He revealed
little at press conferences and regarded Gomelsky as a self-
promoter, says Alex Orlov, 74, a sportswriter who covered
Spartak. Kondrashin cared little for politics and at Munich
would be the only Soviet head coach in any sport who did not
belong to the Communist Party, Orlov says.  “For me, Kondrashin was really like a genius,” says
longtime Russian referee Mikhail Davydov, 64. “He got something
from the gods. He made substitutions at the right moments with
the right players. He felt the game unbelievably.”  Kondrashin also impressed Hall of Fame coach Bobby Knight,
who led  Indiana University  to three NCAA championships and the
U.S. to Olympic gold in 1984.  Substitute Father  “I never cared for Gomelsky,” he wrote in “Knight: My
Story” (2003). Kondrashin “was a guy I really liked -- he was
a hell of a coach and a really good person.”  Kondrashin was prospecting for Spartak’s junior program at
a Leningrad school one day when he noticed a tall youngster who
had been kicked out of class and was roaming the hallway.
Kondrashin chased him down the corridor and asked how old he
was. “Nine,” said Alexander Belov, and Kondrashin encouraged
him to try out for basketball.  Wounded in World War II, Alexander’s father remained an
invalid and died in 1968. Kondrashin became the younger Belov’s
substitute father. “For a long time, Alexander was living at
Kondrashin’s house,” Ovchinnikova says. “His father was very
ill and his mother didn’t want him to see it.”  Drills honed Alexander’s talent. “He could really get up
in the air,” says Phil Argento, 65, who played against the
Soviet team on its 1969 and 1971 U.S. tours. “I asked him how
he developed his jumping. He said, ‘One-leg hops.’ He could jump
on top of a table on one leg.”  Prodigy Pursued  In one training session, Alexander cleared a high-jump bar
set at two meters, or 6-foot-7-inches, Roshin says.  Soon Central Army was pursuing the Spartak prodigy.
Gomelsky expected to nab Alexander when he graduated from high
school and had to join the Army, Roshin says. By gaining his
diploma early and entering an institute with a Navy affiliation,
Alexander was able to stay with Spartak and Kondrashin.  “Gomelsky was always trying to recruit him,” Roshin says.
“‘I will take you to Europe immediately. I will get you an
apartment.’”  Gomelsky was coaching the national team when Alexander
joined it in 1969. It was a professional squad in all but name.
Sergei Belov was paid 300 rubles a month -- about twice the
average Soviet industrial worker’s salary -- plus a 1,500-ruble
bonus for winning the 1967 world championship, he says.  Soviet Streak  Players also received a meager expense allowance on foreign
tours. They retained amateur status for the Olympics and world
championships under the pretense that they were being
compensated for military duties and other jobs. The Olympics
were closed to NBA professionals until a 1989 FIBA vote opened
competition to all players.  The Soviets trounced one U.S. team after another on the
1969 tour, showing that Americans couldn’t take Olympic gold for
granted. On their way to a 90-71 loss in Las Vegas, a squad of
NBA hopefuls resorted to thuggery, slugging two Soviet players
in the mouth. Despite his shoplifting arrest, Alexander Belov
scored six points in Phoenix as the Soviets nipped the Suns’
rookies, 65-64.  In the 1970 world championships, the Soviets finished a
disappointing third, which cost them their usual bonus -- and
Gomelsky his job as national coach. The loquacious Gomelsky was
replaced by his longtime foe, Kondrashin, the Spartak coach and
mentor of Alexander Belov.  The Soviets bounced back by winning the 1970  World
University Games , where they handed the U.S. its first-ever
defeat in that competition, a promising sign for Munich. Then
they won all but one game on a U.S. tour in 1971.  Seasoned Team  “By 1972, we were a very seasoned team,” Sergei Belov
says. “We understood this was one of the last chances for many
of us. Tournaments in 1970 and 1971 let us think we were ready
to win.”  Dmitry Prokhorov, who handled international relations for
the Soviet sports committee and attended the Munich game, was
expecting a gold medal, says his son, Mikhail, the Russian
billionaire. “He said, ‘We will win for sure,’” says
Prokhorov, 47.  Others were more cautious. Authorities told the team that
second place would be acceptable, says Paulauskas. “Anytime we
were leaving for an official tournament, a task was set for
players,” he says. “Our goal was to get to the final.”  At  Munich , the Soviet team breezed through the preliminary
round. Then the killing of the Israeli athletes and coaches by
Palestinian terrorists made wins and losses seem unimportant.
One victim, wrestler Mark Slavin, had emigrated from the Soviet
Union to  Israel  only three months before.  ‘What a Fate’  “I thought, ‘Oh God, what a fate,’” says Zharmukhamedov,
who had trained with Slavin. “To leave the USSR for Israel and
be killed for that in Munich.”  Still, unlike many of the U.S. players, the Soviets agreed
with International Olympic Committee President Avery Brundage’s
decree that the games go on. “We were preparing for four
years,” Paulauskas says.  Soviet players and coaches attended the U.S. team’s games,
searching for a weakness. Noticing that Brazil’s fast tempo
bothered the Americans, Kondrashin resolved to adopt a similar
style.  Celebrities, politicians, athletes and aficionados crowded
 Rudi-Sedlmayer-Halle  arena for the epic matchup, which began at
11:45 p.m. local time to accommodate American television.
Wearing blue warm-up suits lettered with “CCCP” -- the Russian
acronym for Union of Soviet Socialist Republics -- Soviet
athletes in other Olympic sports cheered for their compatriots.  Gift Exchange  Before the game, the team captains, Paulauskas and Kenny
Davis, exchanged their national Olympic banners as gifts. Adding
speed to his lineup, Kondrashin benched Paulauskas and started
two little-used Georgians, Zurab Sakandelidze and Mikheil
Korkiya, who epitomized that republic’s helter-skelter style.  The strategy surprised the U.S., which expected the usual
deliberate Soviet offense. After Alexander Belov out-jumped U.S.
center Dwight Jones at the tipoff, Sakandelidze pushed the pace
and scored six points as the Soviets gained an early lead.
Sergei Belov kept them ahead with pinpoint shooting.  The Soviets stifled the U.S. offense. “The Russian players
know the American plays as well as the American kids” do,  Hall
of Fame  center Bill Russell said in color commentary for ABC.  With the gold medal seemingly in their grasp, the Soviets
self-destructed.  “We would have finished the game calmly if not for the
three mistakes our ‘heroes’ of the game made,” Zharmukhamedov
says.  Disastrous Gaffe  Sergei Belov lost the ball out of bounds, Ivan Edeshko
committed an offensive foul, and then Alexander Belov made a
disastrous gaffe.  After U.S. forward Tom McMillen blocked his shot, Alexander
Belov retrieved the ball near the base line with eight seconds
left in the game and the Soviets clinging to a one-point lead.
He could have passed to an open Sergei Belov, waiting 13 feet
away. Instead, he tried a longer throw to Sakandelidze, which
U.S. guard  Doug Collins  intercepted. Sprinting for a layup,
Collins was leveled by Sakandelidze and sank both foul shots,
giving the U.S. a 50-49 lead with three seconds remaining.  “At that moment I loathed” Alexander Belov, Sergei told
Pinchuk. “I personally tried to turn away from him.”  Three Seconds  As Soviet coaches clamored unsuccessfully for a timeout,
the clock ticked down to one second, with Sergei Belov unable to
advance the ball beyond midcourt. The U.S. was about to collect
gold again, and Alexander Belov, who had made only two of 11
field goals and committed the critical turnover, would be the
goat.  Then the most powerful figure in European basketball, FIBA
Secretary General R.  William Jones , emerged from the crowd.
Jones, half British and half Italian, had openly rooted for the
Soviets against the U.S. in the  1952 Olympics  and believed that
the growth of basketball worldwide required an American defeat.
Now he ordered the clock reset to three seconds -- the time left
when Collins made his shots.  “What are you worrying about? There’s plenty of time,”
Kondrashin told his team. He replaced Zharmukhamedov with
Edeshko, a Belarussian who had thrown a last-second pass for
Central Army to Sergei Belov for the winning basket against
Spartak in the 1970-1971 Soviet championships.  Soul Savers  The day before the game, two American women distributing
religious booklets had approached Edeshko and asked if he
believed in God, he says in an interview in his log home on a
one-acre estate west of Moscow. He said no, and asked if they
would prefer him to remain an atheist and the U.S. to win, or
for him to believe and the U.S. to lose. They said they would
prefer defeat if it would save his soul.  That scenario was about to unfold -- and make him a
believer. After more clock confusion nullified another futile
Soviet attempt, Edeshko shot-putted what would become known in
Russian lore as “the golden pass” to Alexander Belov.
Shrugging off two defenders, Belov caught the length-of-the-
court pass and sank an easy basket as time expired. He raised
his arms and sprinted to the other end of the court, where the
Soviet players piled on top of him.  “I only remember that Sergei Belov and I sat on the bench
and cried and that Kondrashin kept everyone away from us,”
Alexander Belov told Pinchuk.  “It was the culmination of my career, my life,” says
Sergei Belov. “Our assistant coach, Sergei Bashkin, came
towards me and hugged me. His suit was all wet from my sweat.”  U.S. Protest  Afterward, Kondrashin chided Alexander for his errant pass.
“I regretted that we had made a mess of such a game,” the
coach told Pinchuk. “I wanted to win without those three
seconds.”  The Soviet players waited for hours as the U.S., backed by
the officiating crew, protested the outcome. When a panel
chaired by Jones’s closest friend rejected the appeal, the U.S.
players refused their silver medals.  Nothing tainted the victory in the eyes of the Soviet
government and people. “The popularity of basketball went
through the roof after that,” says Ovchinnikova, who played on
the Soviet women’s team. “All boys and girls wanted to play
basketball.”  The players received bonuses of 3,000 rubles and were given
first crack at coveted Russian luxury cars such as the Zhiguli
and the Volga that were available to ordinary Russians after a
long wait. Driving home from a workout, Zharmukhamedov crashed
his new Volga into a truck. “A policeman appeared and asked for
my documents,” he says. “Then he recognized me and said,
‘Zharmukhamedov you’ve got to be careful. Who will replace you
at the team if something happens?’”  Belov Lionized  Alexander Belov was lionized. When he went to the theater,
the actors followed him into the street, Roshin says. An
American heiress came to Leningrad and asked him to marry her,
Ovchinnikova says.  “He was allowed to date her, but not too close,” says
Ovchinnikova, who married Alexander in 1977. “There was always
an agent following them.”  Such adulation chagrined Sergei Belov, whose game-high 20
points were largely forgotten.  “Sometimes history is not fair,” says Prokhorov, who
sponsored Central Army through his companies from 1996 to 2007.
“Sergei was the best player for this match. He was a little
hurt that Alexander Belov was hero.”  Like the Soviet public, NBA recruiters had eyes mainly for
Alexander. Soon after the Olympics, Alexander Belov became the
first Soviet player ever offered an NBA contract, says Sergey
Chernov, former president of the  Russian Basketball Federation .  Russian Celtic?  Chernov doesn’t recall which team made the “very high”
bid, which would have enriched the Soviet sports committee
rather than Belov. While Belov wanted to enter the NBA, top
Communist Party officials wouldn’t let him, Chernov and
Ovchinnikova say.  Auerbach wrote to Spartak in 1975, inviting Alexander to
become a Celtic, Ovchinnikova says. That year, the New Orleans
Jazz took a flier on him with the 161st pick.  Bill Bertka, then the Jazz general manager, had seen
Alexander Belov play in the 1972 Olympics on television, and his
contacts in Italy said Alexander was the best big man in Europe.
“I thought, I’ll get the rights to one of the best basketball
players in the world,” just in case the Cold War ended, Bertka
says.  When Bertka announced the pick on a conference call, some
of his counterparts at other NBA teams didn’t recognize
Alexander’s name, and asked what college he played for.  ‘No Permission’  “Alexander Belov from Russia,” Bertka replied. Elgin Baylor, the  Los Angeles Lakers ’ Hall of Famer who coached the
Jazz and was sitting next to him, “almost fell off his chair
laughing,” Bertka says.  Bertka tried reaching Alexander through FIBA, and also met
with a Soviet diplomat, to no avail. At last he buttonholed
Belov in the lobby of a Greensboro, North Carolina, hotel where
the Soviet national team was staying on a U.S. tour, and asked
if he could join the NBA. Belov barely had time to respond, “No
permission,” before Soviet security personnel whisked him away.  Bertka was ahead of his time. Georgi Glouchkov, a Bulgarian
forward for the Phoenix Suns, became the NBA’s first Eastern-
bloc player in 1985. Four years later,  Mikhail Gorbachev ’s
liberalizing regime let Soviet standouts Alexander Volkov and
Sarunas Marciulionis go.  Forgiveness Refused  Alexander Belov’s heyday was short-lived. In January 1977,
as he and his Spartak teammates were leaving to play in Italy,
customs officials in Moscow caught him smuggling Russian
religious icons out of the USSR.  He was kicked off the national team, stripped of his salary
and “master of sports” title awarded for his Olympic
achievement, and forbidden to travel abroad.  Soviet officials offered to forgive him if he agreed to
play for Central Army, Ovchinnikova says. Loyal to Spartak,
Alexander refused.  “He was depressed and drinking more than usual,” Roshin
says. “There was so much pressure on him. People were calling
him a falling star. He was coming to training but not
training.”  Belov was reinstated as the national team began preparing
for the October  1978 world championships . Soon he began feeling
chest pain, which steadily worsened. Hospitalized in June 1978,
he used to slip out of his room, jump a fence and meet Roshin by
the Neva River, where they could talk freely. Then he became too
weak. In August, he was diagnosed with a rare disease, cardiac
sarcoma, or cancer of the heart lining.  Sealed Letter  At one of their last encounters, Alexander gave Roshin a
sealed letter, to be opened after his death. In it, he asked
Roshin to bury him next to his father, and to give his Olympic
gold medal to Kondrashin.  He died at the age of 26 on Oct. 3, 1978, while the Soviet
national team was competing in the world championships in the
Philippines. The players wore mourning stripes on their
uniforms, Edeshko says. “He was training with us for a month,”
Edeshko says. “He went to see the doctors and we never saw him
again.”  Alexander “made his condition worse” through excessive
drinking, Sergei Belov says. “He became world-famous in his
20s, and that ruined him. Fame killed him.”  Kondrashin turned his office into a shrine to Alexander,
with photos, medals and letters of condolence. On the September
anniversary of the Munich victory, “I recall Belov more than
the game itself,” he told an interviewer in 1989. “I am more
sad than happy on that day.”  Hall of Fame  His adversary, the talkative Gomelsky, guided the Soviet
team to an Olympic championship in 1988. “He had everything
except a gold medal, and this was his last chance to equal
Kondrashin,” Volkov says. “We felt we had the ability to bring
him a gold.”  Gomelsky achieved one honor that escaped Kondrashin. While
 Gomelsky  entered the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame
in Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1995, Kondrashin was never
elected to it -- a slight that Orlov regards as America’s
retaliation for Munich. Still, U.S. resentment didn’t stop
Sergei Belov from being the only player from either team in the
gold-medal game to be inducted into the Hall.  Kondrashin died in 1999 and was buried near his protege,
Alexander Belov. In 2002, the widows of the two men and a cousin
of Belov’s created a foundation to keep their memory alive. It
sponsors an annual tournament in  St. Petersburg , where the
surviving members of the 1972 team are honored, and runs youth
competitions.  Oft Repeated  “After the game, we tell the kids about the Olympics and
the players,” Ovchinnikova says. “We tell the kids about the
last three seconds all the time.”  Edeshko’s memoir, “Three Seconds. And More,” was
published last year in Russia. Distributed with it was a 12-
minute documentary he produced about the gold medal game. The
video ends with a song, accompanied by guitar, with the refrain:  “Three seconds till the victory, three seconds till the
dream. If the story were told today -- we wouldn’t believe it
ourselves. We are all different now, me, you and them. We all
came down from the peak we’ve conquered, but we’ve taken our
achievements with us.”  (To read Part 1 in this three-part series, click  here .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  