-- Hispanic Ph.D.s Jump as Fastest-Growing Minority Gains
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/hispanic-ph-d-s-jump-as-fastest-growing-minority-gains.html
Marialena Rivera learned a lesson
growing up in San Antonio,  Texas , when her family struggled to
make ends meet before her parents went to college.  “As soon as my parents got their degrees, everything
changed for us,” said Rivera, 27, who’s seeking her Ph.D. in
education policy at the  University of California, Berkeley .
“They got better jobs. We moved into a gated community. We had
a pool in our backyard.”  Rivera’s studies come as the number of Hispanics with
doctorates jumped 161 percent from 1990 to 2010, almost double
the non-Hispanic rate of 90 percent, according to U.S. Census
data. People of Latin American or Spanish ancestry have emerged
as a powerful voting bloc, courted by President  Barack Obama  and
Republican  Mitt Romney  on job-creation and economic issues.  “The growth that we’re seeing in Hispanic doctoral degrees
is largely a product of the growth in the Hispanic population
generally in the last 20 years, and to a lesser degree reflects
some improvements in the economic situation and opportunities,”
said John Moder, senior vice president and chief operating
officer at the San Antonio-based Hispanic Association of
Colleges and Universities.  Nationwide, the Hispanic population more than doubled to
50.5 million in 2010 from 22.4 million in 1990, according to
Census data. Hispanics comprised 16 percent of the  U.S.
population  in 2010, America’s largest and fastest-growing ethnic
group because of high immigration and birth rates, according to
an August 2011 report by the Washington-based Pew Hispanic
Center.  Student Growth  Since 2000, Latinos and Asians have driven the growth among
young adults going to college, said Richard Fry, senior research
associate specializing in education trends at the Pew center.
Hispanics with a college degree increased to 13 percent in 2010
from 10 percent in 2000, according to Pew.  “There’s growing evidence that more young Hispanics are
eligible for college because more are finishing high school,”
Fry said.  Hispanics tend to be concentrated in states hit hardest by
the housing meltdown, including  California , Nevada and Florida.  “For some young adults, they’d rather work than go to
college but they can’t find work because of the recession,” Fry
said. “The dropout rates have declined because jobs are not
available.”  Latino students credit teachers and advisers with steering
them toward higher education by helping them find fellowships
and scholarships.  Research Career  “When I went to college, I did not even know that I could
have much of a research career,” said Felix Perez, 27, who is
in his fifth year of doctoral studies at the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles .  As an undergraduate at  California State University , Fresno,
a professor helped Perez get a fellowship with funding that
allowed him to focus on research.  “For Hispanics, that’s where they need help the most, is
to be exposed to the field,” Perez said in a telephone
interview.  U.S. immigration exploded from 1880 to 1920 as the
industrial revolution drew about 20 million foreigners seeking
manufacturing jobs and economic advancement. After the 1960s,
the bulk of immigrants shifted from  Europe  to Latin America and
 Asia , with Hispanics composing the largest group. In 2010,
Mexican-Americans made up 63 percent of the U.S. Hispanic
population, according to Pew.  Second Generation  Second-generation Hispanic-Americans are more likely than
their immigrant parents to have college degrees, higher-paying
jobs, and be homeowners, according to a 2010  report  by the
Center for American Progress in  Washington .  While white students seeking Ph.D.s at Berkeley outnumber
Hispanics almost 7 to 1, their numbers are going in opposite
directions. There were 385 Latino students pursuing doctoral
degrees in the fall of 2011, a 46 percent increase in 20 years,
according to Berkeley data. White doctoral students fell 25
percent to 2,529 in the same period.  “You have a combination of  population growth  and an
increase in the pool of students available to consider getting a
Ph.D.,” Lisa Garcia Bedolla, chairwoman of the Center for
Latino Policy Research at Berkeley, said by telephone.  Still Small  “The actual number is still not tremendously large,”
Garcia Bedolla said. “Whites are still way overrepresented in
higher education, more so than any other group.”  At the  University of Texas  at Austin, Hispanics getting
Ph.D.s increased to 53 in the 2009-2010 academic year from 32 in
1989-1990, according to university  data .  “It is clear that Hispanic students overall, particularly
in doctoral study, are underrepresented,” Gregory Vincent, the
university’s vice president of diversity and community
engagement, said in a telephone interview. “A Ph.D. is this
kind of mysterious degree. You have to make sure that first-
generation students are aware of that degree.”  Genesis Urbina, 22, of Sarita, Texas, will begin her
pursuit of a doctorate in Hispanic studies at  Texas A&M
University  in  College Station  with the help of a fellowship
providing about $100,000 for her first two years.  Urbina, whose mother is from  Mexico , said her family had
“very limited funds” when she was growing up.  “What is my career going to be in the end?” Urbina said.
“I don’t know. That’s later. At the moment, the support is
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  