-- Japan Signals Increased Concern About ‘One-Sided’ Yen Gains
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-07-24T04:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/japan-signals-increased-concern-about-one-sided-yen-gains-1-.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
indicated increased concern about the yen’s advance, reiterating
his resolve to take action against abrupt and speculative
movements in foreign-exchange markets.  “It’s obvious that recent one-sided moves in the yen fail
to reflect the real state of the Japanese economy,” Azumi said
at a press conference in  Tokyo  today. “We won’t rule out any
possible options to counter excessive moves” he said, adding
that he is “ready to act decisively if needed.”  The yen touched its strongest level against the euro in 11
years this week and has also gained against the dollar,
threatening the profits of exporters just as  Europe ’s debt
crisis weakens demand.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , the nation’s biggest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, fell to its lowest since 1975 today
after the Nikkei newspaper reported the company will probably
post a quarterly loss and plans to cut jobs.  “Japanese authorities are increasing alarm on the yen’s
gains by stepping up their rhetoric,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. “Yet, if Japan were to intervene
unilaterally when the turmoil in Europe is deepening day by day,
it’s just like a drop in the ocean.  The yen traded at 78.25 per dollar at 1:42 p.m. local time
and 94.88 against the euro. Japan’s currency has appreciated
more than 5 percent against the dollar since mid-March.  Verbal Intervention  The government’s ‘‘verbal intervention” may help to limit
excessive yen buying because investors will anticipate stronger
steps to come, said  Tomoko Fujii , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Tokyo.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.1 percent as of 1:42
p.m. local time.  The government is considering extending a 10-trillion yen
($130 billion) lending program beyond its expiration on Sept. 30
to help companies take advantage of a stronger currency by
pursuing mergers and acquisitions abroad, according to two
government officials. The officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions haven’t been made public,
didn’t elaborate on how long the program may be extended.  The facility has helped finance 15 projects worth $8.9
billion, according to the state-run Japan Bank for International
Cooperation. JBIC Governor Hiroshi Okuda, who’s also a former
chairman of Toyota Motor Corp., this month said Japanese
businesses are calling for an extension of the program.  In a separate move today, the government appointed
economists Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi to the  Bank of
Japan  policy board, the central bank said. The two analysts, who
have previously signaled support for monetary stimulus, will
hold a press conference at 5 p.m. in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  