-- Japan Stocks Fall on Europe Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-24T06:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/japan-stocks-drop-amid-renewed-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the Topix
Index falling to the lowest level since early June, as Moody’s
Investors Service cut the outlook for  Germany ’s credit rating
and the yen traded near an 11-year high against the euro.  Nintendo Co., a maker of game players that depends on
Europe for a third of its sales, fell 2.1 percent.  Sharp Corp. (6753) 
lost 1.7 percent to the lowest since 1975 after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the maker of liquid-crystal displays will
probably post a wider loss than analysts expected.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
fell 5.4 percent after saying it will cut chip production.  The Topix slipped 0.4 percent to 717.67 at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo. The gauge fell for the 12th day in 13
trading sessions, declining 7.8 percent in the period. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.2 percent to 8,488.09 today,
paring losses after Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said he’s monitoring the economic impact of the yen’s gains amid
Europe’s spreading crisis.  “It’s becoming increasingly obvious that the European
situation will take a long time to solve,” said Diane Lin, a
 fund manager  with Sydney-based fund Pengana Capital Ltd., which
manages about $1.1 billion in global assets. “Europe is a large
economy in the world and it will have a serious impact on the
export sector across the region.” She spoke in a Bloomberg TV
interview.  Moody’s lowered the Aaa credit rating outlooks for Germany,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg, citing “rising uncertainty”
about the region’s fiscal crisis. The cuts came after the first
call for bailout aid by a Spanish region sent the nation’s
borrowing costs surging, while Spain and Italy reinstated a ban
on betting on stock declines.  Monitoring Appreciation  Japanese stocks pared losses after Bank of Japan Governor
Shirakawa told parliament he’s monitoring the impact of the
yen’s gains and Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  reiterated that
policy makers are ready to take action to stem the currency’s
appreciation, if needed.  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed. The gauge lost
0.9 percent yesterday as Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose to a
euro-era high on bets more of the country’s regions will ask for
aid and a Chinese central-bank adviser said the nation’s
economic growth may slow further.  The  Nikkei 225 Volatility Index (VNKY)  slid 1 percent to 21.15,
indicating traders expect a swing of about 6 percent on the
benchmark gauge over the next 30 days. The gauge yesterday
surged 21 percent, it biggest jump since May 18.  Toshiba fell 5.4 percent to 261 yen, the lowest closing
price in more than three years, after saying it will cut
production of  flash memory  by 30 percent as weakened demand for
data storage devices helped create a glut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  