-- Japanese, Australia Stock Futures Fall on Greece, Apple Earnings
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-24T23:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/japanese-australia-stock-futures-fall-on-greece-apple-earnings.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  dropped as Greece’s creditors met to assess how far the
debt-stricken nation has strayed from bailout terms. Shares of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  suppliers may be active after the most valuable
company fell in after-hours trading on disappointing results.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s
biggest camera maker that gets 31 percent of its revenue in
Europe, lost 1.2 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo.
Losses in Japanese exporters may be limited on a report the
Federal Reserve is moving closer to taking new steps to spur
growth.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, and Taiwan’s Pegatron Corp. may pace
moves among Apple suppliers. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Australia’s biggest mining company, slid 1.1 percent after metal
prices fell.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,390 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,470
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,370 in
Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. September futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.8 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index lost 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “Signals coming out of Greece are not positive in terms of
implementing agreements, and so Europe is going to remain a key
negative for markets for quite some time to come,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “The outlook remains very difficult for
major economies and therefore for equity markets.”  Apple Earnings  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.5 percent
today as Apple’s profit and sales  missed  projections for only
the second time since 2003 as customers held off on iPhone
purchases while waiting for a new model to be introduced later
in the year.  The S&P index dropped 0.9 percent in New York yesterday, as
Greece Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is scheduled to meet with
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  in Athens this week
before seeing the “troika” of officials representing the euro
area, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary
Fund on July 27.  Stocks pared losses earlier after the Wall Street Journal
reported that the Fed is moving closer to taking new steps to
spur economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
said policy makers are studying options for further easing that
could be deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to
produce a lasting decline in unemployment.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 0.2 percent
yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell about 12 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern China’s
economy is slowing and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.6 times
 estimated earnings  as of yesterday, compared with 13 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent to 84.63 yesterday
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 