-- Jordanian Prince Says Muslim Athletes Should Get Ramadan Waiver
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-24T17:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/jordanian-prince-says-muslim-athletes-should-get-ramadan-waiver.html
Jordan’s Prince Feisal Bin Al- Hussein, a member of the  International Olympic Committee , says
Muslim athletes should be excused from fasting during the London
games.  Muslim athletes are among those from more than 200 nations
who’ve traveled to the British capital for the Olympics, which
begin with the  soccer tournament  tomorrow. Participants from
 Libya  have been waiting on the country’s top Islamic scholar to
make a decision about whether they could delay fasting during
Ramadan, which started last week. Fasting is one of the five
pillars of the faith.  “You’ll have some people who like any religion take a
very, very strict view but in the Koran it says basically God
doesn’t want to make it difficult and impossible for people to
do things and there is dispensation for people who are either on
travel or other things to make it up the rest of the year,”
Prince Feisal, who is the younger brother of Jordan’s King Abdullah II, said in an interview in  London .  During the month of Ramadan, Muslims are expected to fast
between sunrise and sunset. In many Islamic countries life slows
and business hours are changed to help believers meet the
challenge of the month-long abstention from food and water.  Libya’s Olympic Committee expressed concern earlier this
month that top scholar Sheikh Sadik Al-Ghariani has yet to rule
on whether athletes competing in London could eat regularly. In
 Egypt , the Fatwa Council of El-Azhar, the country’s main
religious authority, said athletes could break their fast.  “I’m hoping that the athletes will take that view but at
the end of the day it’s their personal conviction,” said Prince
Feisal.  Relations between  Israel  and Arab nations have become a
talking point ahead of the 30th summer games. IOC President
 Jacques Rogge  warned on July 21 athletes faces punishments if
they refuse to compete against a rival on the basis of their
nationality after being told some Egyptians were considering the
option. Prince Feisal said any boycott would be wrong. Jordan is
not among the mainly Muslim countries that don’t recognize
Israel.  “I appreciate for some people it will be but I don’t think
boycotts but I don’t believe boycotts do anything or any good
for anybody,” Prince Feisal said at London’s Grosvenor House
hotel where he’s attending the IOC’s 124th annual session.  “In original games the Greek states used to be fighting
each other but for the Olympic games they would stop, they would
compete and celebrate the victors and the competitors and then
afterwards, after the Olympic truce was over, they’d get back to
fighting.”  The 48-year-old royal has been with the IOC since 2010. For
much of that time he’s been trying to promote the access to the
games to women. Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and Brunei became the last
to send women to the games after naming females on their game’s
teams for the first time in London.  “I think it’s been a fantastic change and it’s a sign of
modern times,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 