-- Knicks Sign Ex-Bulls Guard Brewer With Shumpert Out, Agent Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-24T19:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/knicks-sign-guard-ronnie-brewer-with-shumpert-out-espn-says.html
The  New York  Knicks will sign former
Chicago Bulls guard Ronnie Brewer, his agent said.  Brewer, 27, will get the veteran’s minimum of $1.4 million,
 ESPN said , and will probably see much of the playing time slated
for Iman Shumpert, who is out with a knee injury and may not
return until January. Knicks spokesman  Jonathan Supranowitz  said
in an e-mail he couldn’t confirm the signing.  Brewer’s agent, Henry Thomas, said in an e-mail that
joining the Knicks gives Brewer an “opportunity to start and
have a significant role on a very good playoff team.” He
wouldn’t disclose terms.  “ New York Knicks  lets get it!!!” Brewer wrote on his
 Twitter page  after thanking the Bulls’ fans and players. “The
organization was great and everyone I’ve come across as well. On
to the next chapter.”  The 6-foot-7 Brewer can play shooting guard or small
forward and has averaged 9.0 points, 3.0 rebounds and 1.4 steals
for the Bulls, Memphis Grizzlies and Utah Jazz. While he’s made
only 24 percent of his shots from three-point range during his
seven-year career, he’s ranked among the NBA’s top 10 players in
steal percentage four of the past five years.  Brewer can defend bigger guards as well as small forwards
and is the latest addition for the Knicks, who have acquired
point guards  Raymond Felton  and  Jason Kidd  this offseason while
losing Jeremy Lin and  Landry Fields . New York also re-signed
J.R. Smith, who will probably share time with Brewer at the
shooting guard position.  The Knicks today announced the signing of 35-year-old free
agent guard Pablo Prigioni, a veteran of the Argentine and
Spanish professional leagues who will play for Argentina at the
2012 London Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  