-- Apple Fights Kodak in Bankruptcy Court Over Patents
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-24T18:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kodak-bankruptcy-judge-to-rule-later-on-patent-fight-with-apple.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Eastman Kodak Co.
clashed in federal  bankruptcy court  over the ownership of
patents Kodak is planning to sell as part of its restructuring.  Kodak said Apple wants to disrupt the planned auction by
claiming ownership of 10 patents and asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  to reject the personal computer
maker’s claims.  Gropper didn’t immediately rule on the issue at a hearing
today, saying he would issue a decision “as quickly as I can.”  A ruling for Kodak would bolster the Rochester,  New York- 
based company as it seeks to reinvent itself and raise money
after filing for bankruptcy earlier this year. Kodak is planning
an auction next month for about 1,100 patents.  Apple waited too long to assert ownership claims, which
arise out of joint work by the companies in the 1990s, according
to Kodak, which cited the statute of limitations.  Kodak obtained the patents and enforced them through
licensing deals “in a very public way” while Apple and
Flashpoint Technology Inc., which is also part of the dispute,
did nothing to challenge Kodak, Steven Holley, a Kodak attorney,
told Gropper.  “Apple and Flashpoint cannot claim that this issue was
only recently brought to their attention,” he said.  Pre-Trial Ruling  Kodak sued Apple in  U.S. bankruptcy court  in June over the
patents. The company was asking Gropper for a pre-trial ruling
in its favor, known as summary judgment. Apple has filed
counterclaims against Kodak, saying the bankrupt company is
claiming Apple’s technology as its own.  Apple is claiming ownership as part of an effort to prevent
Kodak from getting a fair price for the assets, or Apple wants
to buy the patents cheaply and extinguish its “very
substantial” risk of patent infringement claims, Kodak said.  Cupertino, California-based Apple contends it wasn’t
required to monitor patents Kodak obtained over time, looking
for potential claims, nor would that have been practical.  “Kodak’s decision to file patent applications based on
technology disclosed by Apple would have required extensive
efforts and difficulty in monitoring and analyzing many
thousands of Kodak patents,” Apple said in court papers.  Lost Patent Case  The hearing in bankruptcy court comes after Kodak lost a
patent case against Apple and Research in Motion Ltd. The U.S.
International Trade Commission on July 20 upheld a judge’s
findings that neither Apple nor RIM violated Kodak’s rights in
the patent. Kodak said it would appeal.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District  New York  (Manhattan).
The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-01720,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  