-- Kodak, Apple, Proview, Bugatti: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-24T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kodak-apple-proview-bugatti-intellectual-property.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  won an appeals
court ruling that it didn’t violate Apple Inc.’s patent rights
over a way to process digital images in a case that the iPhone
maker filed at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, without
issuing a formal opinion, affirmed an ITC ruling from July 2011
that an Apple patent wasn’t infringed. Notice of the decision
was posted on the court’s website.  “The court has affirmed that Apple’s legal position in
this matter was without merit,” Chris Veronda, a Kodak
spokesman, said in a statement. “Our position has consistently
been that this dispute reflected Apple’s strategy of raising
legal arguments to distract from Kodak’s central assertion that
Apple and others have repeatedly violated our intellectual
property rights.”  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, filed the case
against Kodak after being targeted in a patent suit by Kodak. In
the case Kodak filed against Apple and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
the commission on July 20 said that a Kodak patent claim for an
image-preview feature was invalid.  Kodak, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January, is
relying on its patent portfolio to help fund a turnaround. The
company is auctioning off two groups of patents and plans to
announce winners on Aug. 13.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, has said in a court
filing that Apple owes it more than $1 billion in patent
royalties. Apple, which claims co-ownership of some Kodak
patents because of a research agreement from the 1990s, could
have used a victory in this case to lower any amount it might
have to pay.  The ITC case originally involved two patents. Apple didn’t
appeal a finding that a second imaging patent it owned was
invalid, Kodak said. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,
said the company had no comment on the ruling.  Kodak has a second case pending with the ITC against Apple
and  HTC Corp. (2498)  over patents related to image transmission. That
case is scheduled for trial in February, according to the
agency’s website.  The appeal is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. U.S. International Trade
Commission, 11-1592, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital
Imaging Devices and Related Software, 337-717, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  The Kodak case against Apple and RIM is In the Matter of
Certain Mobile Telephones and Wireless Communication Devices
Featuring Digital Cameras, and Components Thereof, 337-703,
USITC.  Apple, Microsoft End Patent Fight With BlackBerry Foe NTP  Apple Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  were among companies that
reached a settlement of patent-infringement claims by NTP Inc.,
the licenser that extracted a $612.5 million settlement from
Research in Motion Ltd. six years ago.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in federal court filings
in Richmond, Virginia, seeking dismissal of suits filed by NTP
beginning in 2007. The agreements cover most of the wireless
phone industry, including phone service companies like  AT&T Inc. (Y) 
and Verizon Wireless, handset manufacturers such as  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and e-mail service providers like  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   The dispute was over wireless e-mail technology developed
by NTP founder Thomas Campana. NTP battled with RIM for more
than four years before reaching a settlement, and then sued
other companies in the phone industry.  “Each of the parties in this arrangement are in some way
making use of NTP’s, of Tom Campana’s, original wireless e-mail
invention, although they’re at different levels of the
industry,” NTP lawyer  Ron Epstein  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Some are providing wireless services,
others e-mail, others the handset, but they all are getting the
same license.”  Dismissal requests also were filed in cases against
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s Palm unit,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and HTC
Corp.  Campana was an electrical engineer who set up NTP with his
patent lawyer, Don Stout, to hold patents on inventions he
developed separate from work he did on contract. He died of
cancer in June 2004, the day after his trial victory in the case
against RIM was argued before an appeals court.  The patents cover a way e-mail is transmitted automatically
to electronic devices.  “There’s a lot of use of this term patent troll to
trivialize the discussion around what is the source of
innovation,” said Epstein, who also is chief executive officer
of patent brokerage Epicenter IP Group LLC in Redwood City,
California. “Ultimately, there was a recognition that Tom
Campana had in fact, back in the early 90s, developed a system
that did wireless e-mail.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple,  Brenda Raney , with Verizon Wireless, and Laura
Young, a Microsoft spokeswoman, said the companies had no
comment.  HTC, in an e-mailed statement, said it was “pleased to see
this issue resolved reasonably and without further litigation.”  Officials with the other companies didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  The cases have been on hold pending NTP’s appeal of the
patent-office findings that rejected elements of Compana’s
patents. An appeals court last year ordered the agency to
reconsider findings that invalidated elements of seven NTP
patents.  Facebook’s Zuckerberg Gets First Patent, for Privacy Settings  Facebook Inc. (FB)  founder and Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Zuckerberg  received his first patent.  According to the database of U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Zuckerberg is one of two inventors named on patent
8,225,376, which was issued July 17. The patent is assigned to
Facebook.  The patent covers the process of “dynamically generating a
privacy summary.” According to the patent document, many
existing privacy settings are an all-or-nothing affair.  The advent of social media has created a need for a more
refined system, in which the user can incorporate multiple
privacy settings, which will limit or permit access to various
parts of the user’s data,  Menlo Park , California’s Facebook said
in the patent.  Zuckerberg -- and co-inventor  Chris Kelly  -- applied for
the patent in July 2006 with the assistance of Fenwick & West
LLP of  Mountain View , California.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Proview Sued by Law Firm Over Its Cut of $60 Million Settlement  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , the Hong Kong company
that received $60 million in a trademark dispute with Cupertino,
California’s Apple Inc., has been sued by the  law firm  that
represented the company in that case, CNET News  reported .  The  Grandall Law Firm  is seeking its 4 percent of the
settlement, which came in a dispute over ownership of the iPad
trademark, according to CNET News.  Proview Founder Yan Rongshan said the case was “nonsense”
and said that because the company as not operating normally, the
fee agreement with the Beijing-based firm is not binding, CNET
News reported.  Scotch Whisky Trade Group Loses Trademark Battle in New Zealand  The Mill , a  New Zealand  liquor-store chain, won a trademark
dispute with the Scotch  Whisky Association  trade group, the
Otago Daily Times reported.  The association had objected to The Mill’s application to
register “Macgowans” as a trademark for its whisky-flavored 14
percent alcohol beverage, according to the newspaper.  Sally Peart, trademark counsel for the liquor store chain,
told the newspaper that her client’s products didn’t “represent
itself to be a whisky and has no mention of whisky on its
labeling.”  She said she had argued that customers who bought her
client’s alcoholic beverage, which retails for about 10 New
Zealand dollars ($7.90) per liter, were “unlikely to be the
same group of consumers who would buy a bottle of Scotch,”
costing 50 New Zealand dollars or more, the Otago Daily Times
reported.  Fake Bugatti Expected to Bring in More Than $155,000 at Auction  Even though it’s a fake, a Bugatti Type-51 car found in a
U.K. garage is expected to sell for more than 100,000 British
pounds ($155,000) at a September auction, the U.K.’s Worcester
News  reported .  The owner, who died in 2011, had believed it was the car
that won a 1931 grand prix race and told various meetings of
Bugatti fanciers in the U.K. it was genuine, according to the
newspaper.  David Sewell, an independent Bugatti expert, said that
building a replica of that particular model would cost more than
150,000 British pounds, the Worcester News reported.  If it were the real thing, the car could bring more than 2
million British pounds at the Sept. 26 auction, according to the
newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K. Internet Users Receive Fake Infringement Demand Letters  Some Internet users in the U.K. are being sent fake
copyright-infringement letters demanding an immediate fee
payment, the Broadband DSL website  reported .  The letters, which claim to be sent by the Digital Economy
Act, ask for the immediate payment of a fee of 50 British pounds
($78), according to the website.  The dunning letters are poorly written, which the Broadband
DSL website says is a deliberate tactic to weed out those who
would be too smart to respond to such a claim.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  King & Spalding Expands IP Group With Bingham McCutchen Hire  King & Spalding LLP hired William F. Abrams for its IP
practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a  statement .  Abrams, who joins from Boston’s Bingham McCutchen LLP,
where he was the former co-chair of the IP practice group. He
has handled patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrets
disputes for technology companies.  He has an undergraduate degree from  Stanford University  and
a law degree from the University of  Santa Clara .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 