-- Kontron Slumps After Cutting Profit Forecast: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   M y r i a m   W e c k e r
-- 2012-07-24T11:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kontron-slumps-after-cutting-profit-forecast-frankfurt-mover.html
Kontron AG (KBC)  fell to the lowest level
in almost nine years in Frankfurt trading after the German maker
of embedded computer boards said it will probably fail to meet
its full-year targets as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps orders.  Kontron, which is based in Eching, dropped as much as 14
percent to 4.13 euros, the lowest intraday level since August
2003. The shares traded at 4.14 euros as of 12:48 p.m. Kontron
was the biggest decliner on the HDAX Index of the 110 most
highly capitalized stocks traded on the Frankfurt exchange.  Second-quarter revenue of 138.3 million euros ($167
million) fell short of the 143.8 million-euro  average estimate 
of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income slid 70
percent to 2.3 million euros compared with 7.7 million euros a
year earlier. The reduced 2012 forecast came two weeks after
Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Gehrmann confirmed the company’s
forecast for the second quarter.  “Only two weeks ago, Kontron’s CEO said the company would
reach its targets and now they’re reporting these very weak
figures,” Marco Guenther, a Hamburg-based analyst at  Hamburger
Sparkasse , said in a phone interview today. “This breach of
investors’ confidence is the main reason for the stock crashing
today.”  Austerity measures in response to Europe’s debt crisis are
fueling a reduction in spending by Kontron’s public-sector
clients, hurting the company’s order book, Kontron said in its
second-quarter report.  2012 Targets  The company will “prospectively fail to attain its full-
year 2012 targets due to current imponderables relating to the
world economy, and continued prevailing uncertainties on many
target markets, which are accompanied by an increase in
competitive intensity,” it said in a statement.  Kontron is negotiating the sale of AP Parpro Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Kontron America Inc., as part of a
share deal to be finalized in the third quarter, the company
said, without identifying the potential buyer.  The company said it’s conducting a review of product lines
and markets as it seeks to boost profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Myriam Wecker in Frankfurt at 
 mwecker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  