-- Korea Won Near One-Week Low on Europe Debt Concern; Bonds Steady
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-07-24T06:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/korea-won-falls-bond-yield-drop-to-record-low-on-europe-crisis.html
South Korea’s won traded near the
lowest level in more than a week as renewed concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening boosted demand for safer
assets. Government bonds were little changed.  Spain’s 10-year bonds slumped yesterday, sending  yields  to
a euro-era high. Today,  Greece  will host international creditors
-- the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- amid concern the nation won’t
meet bailout commitments. China’s manufacturing may contract at
a slower pace in July, according to a preliminary reading
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  “Europe looks like a time bomb now with Spain concerns
persisting and Greece’s default risk rising,” said Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based currency trader for Busan Bank. The won
erased earlier losses as local exporters converted their
earnings, according to Han.  The won closed at 1,146.15 per dollar, compared with
1,146.55 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,151.00 earlier, the weakest since July 13. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 7.86 percent. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  advanced
0.3 percent.  South Korea’s  economy  probably expanded 0.5 percent last
quarter from the previous three months when it grew 0.9 percent,
a Bloomberg survey of economists showed before data due July 26.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit outlooks on Germany,
the Netherlands and  Luxembourg  yesterday to negative, citing
“rising uncertainty” about the region’s debt woes.  Government Bonds  Government bonds were little changed, after erasing earlier
gains. The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2015 was
steady at 2.83 percent, after rising from an earlier low of 2.80
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures slid 0.08 to 106.11 and the one-year interest-rate swap
was little changed at 2.78 percent.  “Bonds weakened in the afternoon as Kospi gained and data
from  China  boosted speculation that the Chinese government’s
policies to boost local consumption are starting to show
effect,” said Moon Hong Cheol, a Seoul-based fixed income
analyst at Dongbu Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  