-- Kosovo Dismisses Serbian Request for UN Role in Dialog
-- B y   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-24T16:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kosovo-dismisses-serbian-request-for-un-role-in-dialog.html
Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci
dismissed Serbian calls for the  United Nations  to play a role in
their bilateral dialog and said talks may continue after both
sides implement measures they’ve agreed to.  “The UN cannot participate in matters related to the
technical dialog with  Serbia  that started about two years ago,”
Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, told reporters today at the airport
in the capital, Pristina, after meeting with UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-Moon.  Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic  told Ban yesterday that
Serbia will request that future talks with “interim authorities
in Pristina” be held in the presence of UN officials, according
to a statement issued by his press office.      Coming to terms
with Kosovo, a breakaway province that unilaterally declared
independence in 2008, is a key condition for Serbia to get a
start date for European Union entry talks after the country was
given the candidate status on March 1.  Serbia and Kosovo have been involved in a so-called status-
neutral technical dialog, sponsored by the EU. In March, they
agreed to iron out issues on power supply and telecommunications
and ensured the functioning of peacekeeping forces in  Kosovo ,
including the Serb-populated north. Serbia also agreed to let
Kosovo government officials take part in international meetings.  Thaci said today that the two sides need to implement what
they’ve agreed to, “and then we will consider the possibility
for the continuation of the technical dialog” between “the
Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia.”  Ban, on a week-long tour of the Western Balkans, said in
Pristina today that he expects Kosovo to make “strong efforts
toward the normalization of relations with Belgrade, including
through the same serious and sincere commitment to dialog which
I have asked from the Serbian leadership.”  About 130,000 Serbs who live among Kosovo’s mostly ethnic
Albanian population of 1.7 million, don’t recognize Pristina
authorities. Most of them live in the north.  Kosovo must resolve “sensitive and complex issues”
related to the north through “peaceful dialog,” Ban said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  