-- KPN Cuts Dividend Forecast After Earnings Trail Estimates
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-24T09:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kpn-lowers-dividend-forecast-after-net-income-misses-estimates.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, cut its
dividend forecast by 61 percent after profit trailed analysts’
estimates as demand in its home market shrank.  Net income dropped 24 percent to 315 million euros ($382
million) from a year earlier, compared with the 328 million-euro
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The 2012 dividend
will be 35 cents a share, down from 90 cents projected in
January, The Hague-based KPN said today in a statement.  The Dutch former monopoly joined  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  in reducing shareholder payouts as the companies seek
to conserve cash while the debt crisis in  Europe  hurts
telecommunications revenue. During the quarter, KPN
unsuccessfully tried to stop Mexico City-based  America Movil 
from increasing its stake in the phone company to 28 percent.  “KPN has moved from being the most generous company only
two years ago to one of the least,” said Javier Borrachero, a
Madrid-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “The
interesting thing is to what extent America Movil is behind the
decision. Were they simply forced to cut the dividend or is
America Movil trying to change the strategy?”  Slim’s Stake  The shares fell as much as 2.8 percent to 7.12 euros and
traded at 7.14 euros as of 11:55 a.m. in Amsterdam. They had
declined 21 percent this year through yesterday. America Movil
pushed through its 8 euro-a-share tender and expanded its
holding in KPN for about 3.07 billion euros last month.  The decision to lower this year’s dividend payment was
taken independently by the board of management and supervisory
board, Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok told reporters on a
conference call today. “America Movil is one of the
shareholders and we communicate with this shareholder in the
same way as we do with the other shareholders,” Blok said.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s second-largest phone
company, said today it plans to buy back 3 percent of shares
after second-quarter profit excluding some items dropped 8.3
percent amid tougher conditions in Denmark and  Bangladesh . The
shares rose as much as 3.5 percent.  As of yesterday, KPN’s dividend yield of 11.45 percent
compared with European telecommunications companies’ average
yield of 8.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dividend Savings  The dividend for 2013 will be at least 35 cents a share,
KPN said today. The company will save about 1.6 billion euros
this year and next, Borrachero said.  KPN will save 780 million euros in cash this year by the
dividend cut, Chief Financial Officer Eric Hageman said.  The Dutch operator this month began a sale of its Belgian
mobile-phone unit Base after ending discussions on a potential
merger involving its E-Plus wireless unit in  Germany . Base may
fetch 1.8 billion euros, people with knowledge of the matter
have said.  If a party is interested in buying E-Plus and the price is
right, the business may still be sold, CEO Blok said today,
adding that the company’s focus in Germany remains on
implementing its strategy and continuing growth. The Base sale
proceeds will be used to increase KPN’s financial flexibility,
Hageman said.  Separately, funds managed by EQT Partners AB, the Swedish
private-equity firm partly owned by the Wallenberg family, and
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are among companies considering bids for E-
Plus’s mobile-phone towers, people familiar with the matter
said. A deal may fetch about 300 million euros, they said. Blok
declined to comment.  Job Cuts  Blok has accelerated job cuts and plans to eliminate as
many as 5,000 positions in the Netherlands by the end of 2013.
Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and excluding restructuring charges fell 9.9
percent to 1.19 billion euros. Revenue and other income dropped
3 percent to 3.19 billion euros. KPN confirmed its full-year
Ebitda forecast.  “The economic prospects in the Netherlands continue to be
difficult and we are outside our financial framework range,”
Blok said in a statement. “Today, it is even more important to
strike the right balance between a prudent financial framework,
continued investments and sustainable shareholder
remuneration.”  Mexican billionaire Slim’s America Movil is establishing
footholds in Europe as the continent’s debt crisis hurts the
value of phone companies in the region. America Movil acquired
21 percent in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  alongside the KPN purchase last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  