-- Kuwaiti Olympic Hopeful Is Nation’s First Woman Swimmer at Games
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-07-24T23:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/kuwaiti-olympic-hopeful-is-nation-s-first-woman-swimmer-at-games.html
Faye Sultan’s gone from the
children’s pool to swimming with Olympians.  The 17-year-old is one of two women  Kuwait  is sending to
the London Games, which officially start in two days. Sultan
will compete in the 50-meter freestyle and joins another nine
Kuwaitis, including female shooter Mariam Razouki, according to
Obaid Al-Enezi, secretary general of the country’s Olympic
committee.  Sultan is the first female swimmer to represent Kuwait in
the Olympics. She said her interest in swimming was driven by
the lack of a female national team and to change the perception
of women in her country. She’s the daughter of Tarek Sultan,
chairman of  Agility (AGLTY) , a Kuwaiti storage and logistics company,
and said she began training with a coach at the age of 9.  “It’s been both difficult and easy,” she said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “There’s a dearth of sporting
opportunities for women, and access to facilities and organized
programs is limited. When I started training I had to swim in a
children’s pool and I couldn’t complete my swim strokes without
touching the bottom. The biggest challenge is not having
sufficient competitive meets and training opportunities.”  Sultan said she was “adopted” by the men’s national swim
team, which helped her train and gave her access to better
facilities.  “I hope that my participation in the Olympics encourages
more women to participate in sports and spurs our society to
provide more opportunities for women to develop in sports and
society as a whole,” Sultan said.  Political Rights  Kuwaiti women were granted full political rights in 2005.
There are four Kuwaiti women in parliament, one of them
appointed as a Cabinet minister. The conservative Gulf state has
sent women to the Olympics twice before, according to Al-Enezi.  Saudi Arabia  is sending female athletes to the  Olympic
Games  for the first time this year. Wodjan Ali Seraj Abdulrahim
Shahrkhani will compete in judo at the London Games and Sarah
Attar will run the 800 meters. Qatar has sent three female
athletes to the games.  “We expect good results from shooters and athletics,” Al-
Enezi said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  