-- Natco to Start Generic Prevacid Sales in Four Months
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-07-24T07:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/natco-to-start-generic-prevacid-sales-in-four-months.html
Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH) , the drugmaker
backed by billionaire Dilip Shanghvi, expects to start supplying
generic Prevacid, its biggest drug to date, in three to four
months, Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Nannapaneni said.  The Indian company is awaiting approval from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration for the heartburn medicine. Natco is
ready to start manufacturing as soon as it gets the approval,
Nannapaneni said.  “This would easily be the single largest launch for the
company,” Nannapaneni said in an interview in Hyderabad, where
the drugmaker is based. It “would keep good earnings for this
year and also going forward to the next year as well.”  Natco, which in March won a so-called compulsory license
from the Indian government to sell copies of Bayer AG’s Nexavar
cancer treatment, may earn about 420 million rupees ($8 million)
in the current fiscal year from selling copies of the  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  acid reflux medicine, Siddhant Khandekar, an
analyst at ICICI Direct, said in an interview. Rival  Dr. Reddy’s (DRRD) 
Laboratories Ltd. received an approval for the medicine in
October 2010, and began selling an over-the-counter version in
May.  Natco’s model has been to rely on partnerships with other
companies to market its generic medicines in the U.S. The
Prevacid copy will be marketed by Actavis Inc. and  Breckenridge
Pharmaceutical Inc ., ICICI Direct said in a June 1 report.
Exports may grow 15 to 20 percent this year, Nannapaneni said.  Shanghvi is chairman of  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,
 India ’s biggest drugmaker by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  