-- New York Life, Macquarie Are Said to Vie for Dexia Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-24T13:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/new-york-life-macquarie-are-said-to-vie-for-dexia-unit.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender being broken up
after a Franco-Belgian bailout, is close to selecting a final
bidder for its asset management unit as  New York  Life Insurance
Co. and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  vie for the business, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  GCS Capital (HK) Co., a private equity fund founded by Huan Guocang, is teaming with Beijing-based Hony Capital Ltd. to
bid for the unit, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified as the process is private. The sale may fetch at
least $500 million, two of the people said. An exclusive bidder
may be selected within the next two weeks, one of them said.  Dexia said on June 27 that three international investors
remain in competition for the unit, which has more than 79
billion euros ($96 billion) of assets under management and
offers services in more than 25 countries, according to its
website.  “There’s a general tendency to move toward lower-capital,
fee-based models so that might explain the appeal for strategic
buyers,” said Matthias de Wit, a Brussels-based analyst at
Petercam SA. “Still, it’s a tricky market to sell any financial
assets.”  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among other European
financial companies selling assets as lenders beset by the
region’s credit crisis and stricter capital rules seek to shed
peripheral businesses. That’s giving North American and Asian
rivals an opportunity to speed up expansion plans.  Huan’s Primus  Huan set up Primus Financial Holdings Ltd. in 2009 together
with  Robert Morse , the former head of Citigroup Inc.’s
investment-banking unit in  Asia . Primus Financial led a $2.2
billion bid for  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Taiwanese
unit that failed in 2010 amid opposition from local regulators.  Macquarie in August 2009 bought Philadelphia-based Delaware
Investments from Lincoln Financial Group for $428 million in
cash to expand its asset management business. New York Life said
in March it plans to eliminate about 200 jobs nationwide.  Hony Capital, sponsored by state-backed Legend Holdings
Ltd., has raised $6.8 billion since it was founded in 2003. A
purchase of Dexia’s asset management unit would be its first in
the financial services industry outside  China , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Robeco Sale  Rabobank Groep, the Dutch lender preparing for tougher
capital demands, said in April that it’s reviewing options for
its asset-management unit, Robeco Groep NV. The Dutch
cooperative bank, which is looking to bolster its  credit rating ,
has sent out information memorandums to potential buyers for the
unit, said two people familiar with the matter.  Non-binding bids were due last week and more than 10
potential buyers, including financial investors and asset
managers, may make informal offers, one of the people said, who
asked not to be identified because talks are private. While
Rabobank would prefer to sell the business as a whole, it may be
broken up because buyers could be interested in separate parts,
the people said.  Robeco, which was founded in 1929 in Rotterdam, the
Netherlands, had about 177 billion euros of assets under
management at the end of last year. It employs more than 1,600
people in 14 countries, according to its  website . The businesses
include Harbor Capital Advisors in Chicago as well as a small
telephone and internet banking unit.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, in June failed
to sell part of its asset management business after talks with
Guggenheim Partners LLC fell through.  Officials at Dexia, New York Life, Macquarie, GCS and
Rabobank declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  