-- New BOJ Board Members Signal Willing to Mull More Easing
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-07-24T10:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/new-boj-board-members-signal-willing-to-mull-more-easing.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s two new board
members signaled their willingness to consider fresh forms of
monetary easing to help end more than a decade of deflation.  The central bank may need to consider “new forms of
monetary easing” as it’s unclear whether the BOJ’s 1 percent
inflation target can be reached, Takahide Kiuchi told reporters
in  Tokyo  today after his appointment. Takehiro Sato, also
starting today, said buying foreign bonds would be one option.  The two former economists are joining the BOJ as it
struggles to generate inflation and deal with a strengthening
yen threatening exporter profits. The central bank, which has
kept  interest rates  near zero since October 2010 and has an
asset-buying program aimed at fueling private demand, has
forecast that consumer-price increases will stay below its 1
percent goal for the next two years.  “I don’t think the two new members will drastically change
monetary policy but when votes are split, they are likely to
support easing,” said Shinichiro Kobayashi, a senior economist
at Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co. “If the yen
appreciates further and stocks continue to decline, the BOJ will
probably have to bolster stimulus.”  The yen traded at 94.62 per euro at 10:52 a.m. in  London 
today, after rising to 94.24 yesterday, the strongest since
November 2000. The Japanese currency traded at 78.19 per dollar,
after yesterday appreciating above 78 for the first time since
June 4. The Topix Index of Japanese shares fell to the lowest
level in more than a month today.  Policy Review  Sato, 50, former chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. and Kiuchi, 48, a former chief economist at
Nomura Securities Co., have signaled the BOJ needs to do more to
end more than a decade of deflation.  After almost two years “of monetary easing centered on
asset purchases, the time is coming to examine the impacts of
the policies,” Kiuchi said today. “If we conclude that the
chance of achieving our target isn’t so high by extending the
current policies, I think we of course need to consider new
forms of monetary easing in a flexible manner.”  Japan ’s central bank refrained from adding monetary
stimulus in the past three meetings as reconstruction demand
from last year’s earthquake and tsunami drives growth.  At a two-day policy meeting from July 11, the BOJ
maintained its price forecast at 0.7 percent for the year
starting April 2013. Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh
food fell 0.1 percent from a year earlier in May, government
data released last month showed.  The first policy meeting including the new members is
scheduled to be held from Aug. 8-9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  