-- New Oriental Sued by U.S. Investors Over Stock Plunge
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-24T19:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/new-oriental-sued-by-u-s-investors-over-stock-plunge.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU) ,  China ’s largest private-education provider, was sued
by investors in its U.S.-registered shares after the Securities
and Exchange Commission began investigating the company.  The  American depositary receipts  fell 57 percent over two
days after New Oriental said July 17 that the SEC was probing
the consolidation of its units’ financial statements. The plunge
capped nine consecutive trading days of declines, the ADRs’
longest losing streak since the Beijing-based company’s initial
public offering in 2006.  Investors in New Oriental ADRs, led by Kin Shing Wong, are
seeking compensatory damages for the stock losses and class
action, or group status for the lawsuit filed yesterday in Los
Angeles federal court. In their complaint, the investors cited a
July 18 research report alleging New Oriental inflated cash
balances to obtain approval from its auditor, using franchises
and other fees.  “As a result, the company’s financial statements and
financial results were materially false and misleading,”
investors claimed in the lawsuit.  Sisi Zhao, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for New Oriental,
didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment made after
regular business hours. The company has said three independent
directors would review the report, by Muddy Waters LLC.
Announcing the SEC probe, the company, known as EDU, said
investigators might be focusing on “whether there is a
sufficient basis for the consolidation.”  Learning Centers  EDU owns about 664 schools and learning centers, not
counting 21 third-party operated “cooperation facilities” and
their students, it has said. The company aims “to provide the
highest level of transparency to its shareholders,” according
to a July 20 statement.  New Oriental, currently trading at around $12.30 a share in
 New York , was as high as $33.70 on Sept. 14 for investors in the
would-be group suit, they said.  The 180 Chinese firms that started trading in New York,
 Hong Kong  and on other global exchanges since the start of 2010
were trading earlier this year at one-fifth below their offer
prices, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese
companies have had disputes with auditors and research firms
scrutinizing their accounting.  The Muddy Waters report cited in the lawsuit against New
Oriental also questioned whether the company could consolidate
its operations, because the Chinese schools conducting lessons
are ultimately state-owned, the research firm said.  Targeted Stock  Toronto-listed Sino-Forest Corp., another stock targeted by
 Muddy Waters , dropped 74 percent before the company filed for
bankruptcy. Shares of Spreadtrum Communications Inc., a
Shanghai-based chipmaker, have risen since Muddy Waters in June
2011 recommended shorting the stock, or selling shares with the
aim of buying them later at a lower price.  In the New Oriental lawsuit, investors alleged some of
EDU’s statements in U.S. filings were false or misleading
because they didn’t disclose that EDU’s network includes
“numerous” franchisees, and that upfront fees inflated the
company’s cash balances.  The complaint cited Muddy Waters’s accusation that EDU
allegedly “tells investors that its entire store network is
company owned, but this is a lie.”  “It is virtually certain that EDU uses the upfront
franchise and other fees to inflate its cash balances in order
to receive unqualified audit opinions from its auditor,” Muddy
Waters claimed in the report, cited in the complaint filed in
federal court.  The case is Wong v. New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc., 12-cv-06316, U.S. District Court, Central District
of  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  