-- New Zealand Annual Trade Deficit Narrows on Milk and Log Exports
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-24T23:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/new-zealand-annual-trade-deficit-narrows-on-milk-and-log-exports.html
New Zealand ’s annual trade deficit
unexpectedly narrowed in the year through June, boosted by
overseas shipments of milk powder and logs.  Imports exceeded exports by NZ$747 million ($585 million),
in the 12 months through June compared with a revised NZ$876
million shortfall in the prior period,  Statistics New Zealand 
said today in Wellington. Exports rose 6.2 percent in June from
the year-earlier month, and the monthly surplus widened to
NZ$331 million from a revised NZ$232 million.  New Zealand has posted three straight months of annual
trade deficits as falling commodity prices and a weaker outlook
for global demand curb shipments abroad, which make up 30
percent of the economy. New Zealand farmers expect declining
profits and plan to spend less over the next 12 months, a survey
showed yesterday.  “We expect the recent falls in the price of New Zealand’s
export commodity basket to begin to have a greater influence on
the trade accounts, and see the annual balance move further into
deficit,”  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs New Zealand
Ltd. in Auckland, said in a July 20 note.  New Zealand’s dollar fell after the report, buying 78.26
U.S. cents at 11:07 a.m. in Wellington compared with 78.30 cents
before the data. The annual deficit was smaller than the NZ$1
billion median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
economists, and the monthly surplus was wider than the NZ$2
million surplus economists expected.  Exports of dairy products were unusually high in June, the
statistics agency said. The volume of milk powder, butter and
cheese shipments surged 27 percent from May, it said.  Rising Imports  Imports rose 5.2 percent to NZ$47.4 billion in the year
ended June 30, led by purchases of fuel, machinery and vehicles,
today’s report showed. Exports gained 1.3 percent to NZ$46.7
billion as meat sales fell. Annual dairy sales, which make up a
quarter of the total, gained 2.6 percent, the report showed.  In June, imports fell to NZ$3.87 billion from a revised
NZ$4.18 billion a month earlier. Fuel purchases declined.  Exports dropped to NZ$4.2 billion in June from a revised
NZ$4.41 billion in May, reflecting the seasonal peak in farm
production, the report showed. Economists predicted NZ$3.83
billion. Dairy sales gained 9.9 percent from the year-earlier
month to NZ$979 million.  Prices for the country’s commodities in world markets
dropped for a fifth month in June, declining 2.4 percent,
according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd. index. After adjusting
for a stronger local currency, prices fell 3.4 percent from May
and 16 percent from June last year.  RBNZ Rates  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard will
probably leave the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5
percent at a policy review tomorrow, according to all 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A net 39.5 percent of the 889 farmers polled in early July
estimated their profits will decline over the next 12 months,
according to a survey conducted by Federated Farmers of New
Zealand. The outlook has deteriorated since a January survey,
when 31.6 percent expected profits would increase, the group
said in a statement yesterday. The net measure subtracts
pessimists from optimists.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said in May it would pay its farmer suppliers about 9
percent less for their output in the new season that began June
1 because of a slump in milk powder prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  