-- Nexen Gives Top Return on Bet Canada Clears Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-07-24T20:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/nexen-given-top-return-on-bet-canada-clears-bid-real-m-a.html
Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the target of the
largest overseas bid from a Chinese company, is offering traders
the chance to make the most money on any North American deal by
betting the $15.1 billion takeover will get Canadian approval.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore oil and gas explorer,
agreed to pay $27.50 a share for Calgary-based Nexen in a deal
that will need to withstand the government’s review under its
foreign-takeover law. The 66 percent premium to its 20-day stock
average is more than double the industry average, and less than
a third of Nexen’s production comes from  Canada , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That signals Nexen won’t be the next
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., one of only two Canadian
deals to be blocked in 27 years, said WallachBeth Capital LLC.  While the $40 billion hostile bid for Potash was rejected
in 2010 for not providing a “net benefit” to the country, Bank
of  Nova Scotia  says Cnooc is likely to win approval because of
its commitment to keep Nexen employees, a Calgary headquarters
and a listing on the Toronto Stock Exchange. With Nexen closing
at $25.90 yesterday, traders can make a 6.2 percent return
wagering the deal will close, the biggest potential gain among
North American takeovers greater than $1 billion, the data show.  “The spread is very attractive,”  Keith Moore , an event-
driven strategist at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “The spread reflects people’s
fears because of the political risk, but I think ultimately they
will get Canadian approvals. Cnooc has done their homework, and
they showed the deal’s benefit to Canada right up front.”  ‘Net Benefit’  Today, Nexen rose 0.4 percent to $26, the highest closing
price since May 2011.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in an e-mailed
statement that the deal is subject to review by the federal
government and that he will need to affirm that it is a “net
benefit” to the country. The Investment Canada Act specifies
that the minister must consider  six factors , including the
effects on employment, competition within an industry, the
degree of participation by Canadians in the business and
Canada’s ability to compete globally.  The nation’s Competition Bureau also said it will study the
transaction, and the largest opposition party, the  New
Democrats , called for a “thorough public review.”  The acquisition will provide “significant long-term
benefits to Canada,” Cnooc said in a statement yesterday,
adding that it will enhance Nexen’s planned capital expenditures
in Canada and elsewhere and build on the company’s existing
charitable programs.  “Put simply, we are in Canada to invest,” Cnooc Chief
Executive Officer Li Fanrong said on a conference call
yesterday.  ‘Negative Noise’  Cnooc said that “initial phone calls” were made to
government officials in Canada.  “They went through a lot of trouble to list these
arrangements and get ahead of the political flak,” Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access Corp., said in a phone
interview. “You can be sure there’s going to be some negative
noise on this one since the Potash deal was blocked.”  Davis Sheremata, a spokesman for Nexen, declined to comment
beyond yesterday’s conference call. Michelle Zhang, Beijing-
based deputy manager of media for Cnooc, declined to comment on
any regulatory issues beyond the conference call. State-
controlled Cnooc said it expects to complete the transaction by
the end of the year.  “This is a very high-profile transaction for Canada,”
Catharine Sterritt, a Toronto-based risk arbitrage strategist at
Bank of Nova Scotia, said in a phone interview. “The government
will do full due diligence.”  Potash Rejection  Still, “we like the deal, we think it will get approved
and it makes sense.”  In November 2010, the Canadian government rejected
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s hostile bid for Potash amid
opposition from Saskatchewan officials and company executives.
Potash and Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s 2008 bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business are the only two
deals to be blocked since the legislation was enacted in 1985.  The Nexen deal is also subject to approval by shareholders
and authorities in the U.S., China and possibly  Europe ,
according to the statement. Cnooc had to drop its $19 billion
hostile bid for El Segundo, California-based Unocal Corp. in
2005 as U.S. lawmakers proposed legislation to block it.  Higher Premium  Cnooc executives have been studying the failed Potash and
Unocal deals, said people with knowledge of the effort. That
encouraged Cnooc to pledge to Nexen executives during
negotiations never to pursue a hostile offer, and prompted the
companies to call Canadian political leaders in a weekend blitz,
one of the people said.  Cnooc is more likely to obtain approval from Canadian
regulators because it’s paying a richer price than BHP’s attempt
to buy Potash, said Yemi Oshodi, New York-based managing
director of M&A and special situations trading at WallachBeth.  The $27.50-a-share cash offer for Nexen is 66 percent
higher than its average stock price in the prior 20 days and
compares with an average premium of 28 percent for takeovers of
Canadian oil explorers and producers greater than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s also the fourth-highest
premium on record for the Canadian industry. Cnooc based the
deal’s valuation on the U.S.-traded shares.  ‘National Treasure’  BHP offered about a 25 percent premium for Potash a month
after the stock had dropped to its lowest level in more than a
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Potash, the world’s
biggest fertilizer producer, was also the fourth-largest
publicly traded company based in Canada at the time of the bid,
and Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall called the fertilizer “a
very strategic resource.”  About 30 percent of Nexen’s production last year came from
its Canadian operations, according to regulatory  filings . The
rest was in the  North Sea , the  Gulf of Mexico , Yemen and
elsewhere. The company already had a joint venture with Cnooc
for crude production in oil-sands reserves at Long Lake in
northern  Alberta .  With a $9 billion market value before the deal, Nexen was
the smallest among its Canadian oil peers, said  Lanny Pendill ,
an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .  “It’s not the same as buying Potash,” MKM’s Moore said.
Canada probably won’t determine that Nexen is “a national
treasure.”  There’s still about a 30 percent probability that Canada
blocks the deal, according to Pendill.  ‘Attractive Spread’  “While it’s not likely, you cannot ignore that there is a
chance the Canadian government doesn’t approve it,” Pendill
said in a phone interview. “There’s significant downside if it
does get vetoed.”  Nexen  shares  ended yesterday at $25.90, 5.8 percent below
Cnooc’s offer for the biggest gap among pending deals in  North
America  valued at more than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That means traders can still make money, said
WallachBeth’s Oshodi.  “This is really an attractive spread,” Oshodi said in a
phone interview. “I’m actually surprised the spread isn’t a
little tighter. Ultimately, I think a deal will get done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 