-- Nigeria Keeps Benchmark Rate at Record to Support Naira
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-07-24T16:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/nigeria-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-record-to-support-naira.html
Nigeria ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record high and raised commercial
banks’ reserve limits to help bolster the naira and control
inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the policy rate at 12
percent, Governor Lamido Sanusi told reporters in the capital,
Abuja today. That was in line with 12 out of 13  economists
surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The amount of cash as a percentage
of deposits that commercial banks must hold with the central
bank was increased to 12 percent from 8 percent while the net
open foreign exchange position was cut to 1 percent from 3
percent, Sanusi said.  The MPC boosted borrowing costs by 5.75 percentage points
last year to bolster the naira and help curb the cost of
imports. Inflation in  Africa ’s top oil producer accelerated to
12.9 percent in June after the government partially removed a
subsidy on gasoline in January, staying above the central bank’s
target of 10 percent.  “This is one of the most difficult MPC meetings in recent
times,” Sanusi said. “You have a slowdown in growth, at the
same time you’ve got very strong inflationary pressures. The
central bank has to continue to focus on  price stability , and
while controlling inflation isn’t everything, certainly if we
lose stability then there will be nothing.”  Naira Weakness  The naira has dropped 1.4 percent against the dollar on the
 interbank market  since the last MPC rate decision on May 22,
reaching its lowest level this year of 163.5 on June 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank sells
foreign currency at twice-weekly auctions to restrict the naira
at about 3 percent above or below 155 per dollar.  The naira was at 160.70 a dollar by 3 p.m. in Lagos,
unchanged from before Sanusi began speaking. Reserves rose 0.9
percent to $37.2 billion on July 19 from the end of May,
according to Sanusi.  “By adjusting the  cash reserve ratio  rather than the
monetary policy rate, the central bank has effected far more
aggressive tightening than would otherwise have been the case,”
 Razia Khan , the head of Africa economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note to clients
after the decision.  Growth Threat  The move will probably strengthen the naira, and “is
expected to drive overnight rates even higher than their recent
peaks, with the impact likely to be felt across the yield
curve,” she said.  The central bank is under pressure to ease borrowing costs
to support the economy as growth is set to slow to 6.4 percent
this year. The economy expanded 6.4 percent in the second
quarter compared with 6.2 percent in the previous three months,
Sanusi said today. Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said on
July 2 commercial bank rates of 20 percent may be restricting
private investment, undermining growth in Africa’s most populous
nation.  A possible decline in  oil prices  because of the global
economic slowdown is a threat to Nigeria’s outlook, Sanusi said.
The country must build reserves to strengthen the naira and
protect the economy from external shocks, which would “feed
into an already existing inflationary spiral,” he said.  Nigeria depends on oil exports for 80 percent of government
revenue and more than 90 percent of foreign-exchange income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  