-- TNK-BP Probes Corruption Claims by Former Logistics Chief
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-24T16:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tnk-bp-probes-corruption-claims-made-by-former-logistics-chief.html
TNK-BP, the Russian oil venture of
 BP Plc (BP/) , told a London judge it was conducting an internal probe
into allegations of corruption against it, and executive
director  German Khan , by a former employee.  The claims “concern the bribery and corruption of senior
public officials, and the improper funneling of hundreds of
millions of dollars,” according to TNK’s documents from a U.K.
court hearing today. TNK said the claims made by Igor Lazurenko,
its former Russian head of logistics, weren’t proven and were an
attempt at “naked blackmail.”  The company, jointly owned by BP and a group of Russian
billionaires, asked the judge to set a timetable for the
exchange of documents, which Lazurenko said are evidence of
corruption. TNK has hired a  law firm , which it didn’t identify,
to investigate the allegations, according to court filings.  BP, based in London, has put its stake in TNK-BP up for
sale and is in talks with  Russia ’s state-owned oil producer OAO
Rosneft on a deal to sell its share of Russia’s third-largest
oil producer.  Dmitry Sergeev, a spokesman for TNK-BP, declined to
immediately comment. Lazurenko’s lawyer Michael Armstrong didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In court filings for today’s hearing, Lazurenko said he
resigned from TNK in April and fled Russia. He said in a
statement provided to the court that he has evidence of payments
to a bank account by a company which won a tender from TNK.  Khan, Slavneft  Lazurenko claims Khan, also chairman of Slavneft Oil & Gas
Co., said the funds were to be used for bribing officials. The
allegations against Khan are “hopelessly vague” and are
denied, TNK said in its own court documents. A phone-call to
Khan’s Moscow office wasn’t answered.  The court should allow disclosure of Lazurenko’s documents
to BP and public authorities such as police or fraud
investigators, the company said.  The company, based in Moscow, disciplined 92 people last
year in an internal corruption probe which led to 37 criminal
cases. BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley decided to look for
a sale of its TNK-BP stake after clashing repeatedly with the
other shareholders, who last year blocked an alliance between
the British company and Rosneft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  