-- NYC to Extend High Line Park After CSX Donates Stretch
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-25T01:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/nyc-to-extend-high-line-park-after-donation-of-rail-yards.html
(Corrects date of second phase in fourth paragraph.)  New York City  said it plans to
extend the High Line, a park built on a disused elevated rail
line, to West 34th Street after  CSX Transportation Inc. (CSX)  donated
a new section to the city.  “The High Line’s first two phases were groundbreaking and
with the development of the rail yards section, the trilogy will
be complete,” Adrian Benepe, the Parks and Recreation
commissioner, said in a statement. Construction on the final
phase is expected to begin this year.  The High Line is a public park built along the elevated
freight line on  Manhattan ’s West Side. The railway was
constructed 30 feet above street level and was built in the
1930s to remove freight-train traffic from the city’s busy
streets. Use of the High Line was suspended in 1980 and it was
targeted for demolition in the late 1990s, before a community-
based group, Friends of the High Line, fought to preserve the
structure. The city now owns it.  The first section opened in 2009, with a second added in
June 2011. With the new section, the park will stretch from
Gansevoort Street to West 34th Street between 10th Avenue and
11th Avenue.  “The High Line has become a treasured neighborhood oasis,
a significant generator of economic activity for the entire
city, and a celebrated icon for planners, designers, and leaders
around the world,” said  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
in the statement.  Vital Area  Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX is the largest rail carrier
in the eastern U.S., with a transportation network that covers
about 21,000 miles.  “We view the donation of the High Line as not simply a
transfer of ownership, but a contribution to the vitality of the
area,” said  Michael Ward , the company’s chief executive
officer, in a statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  