-- Obama Raises Money as Campaign Responds to Romney Attacks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-24T23:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/obama-raises-money-as-campaign-responds-to-romney-attacks.html
President Barack Obama raised money
from supporters in the Pacific Northwest today as he and his
campaign organization fired back at Republican  Mitt Romney ’s
attacks.  Obama, on a three-day swing through five states, plans to
collect at least $6.3 million in  California , Oregon and
 Washington , more than half of it today at four fundraisers in
 Portland , Oregon, and a Seattle, Washington, suburb.  In Portland, Obama criticized Romney and “his allies” in
the Senate for plans tomorrow to block an extension of Bush-era
tax cuts for those with incomes of less than $250,000. Obama
wants those cuts to expire for people with incomes above that
amount after Dec. 31.  “Republicans have decided they’re not going to let this
bill pass,” affecting 98 percent of Americans, Obama said.
“They’ve decided to hold middle-class tax cuts hostage. We
tried this. It didn’t work. It’s not what most Americans,
regardless of party, believe what will grow the economy.”  The Democrat’s campaign also released a television ad in
six swing states aimed at rebutting Romney’s accusation that
Obama is hostile to business.  Out of Context  “We are not going to stand by while Romney slices and
dices, deliberately takes out of context the president remarks
on businesses,”  Jen Psaki , an Obama campaign spokeswoman, told
reporters on Air Force One as the president traveled to Oregon.  With voters focused on the economy, Romney has been
spotlighting a remark Obama made in a July 13 speech that, “If
you’ve got a business, you didn’t build that.” The president
had just referred to what he called “this unbelievable American
system” that, through tax dollars, provides school teachers and
roads and bridges.  Obama responded directly yesterday in Oakland, California.  “ Governor Romney  was at it again -- knowingly twisting my
words around to suggest that I don’t value small businesses,”
Obama said. “The other side knows they can’t sell their ideas
so what they’re going to do is try to distort my vision.”  At his later appearance in Portland, Obama said Romney has
been “splicing and dicing” whole sentences to distort the
president’s meaning.  The latest campaign video, set for broadcast in  Iowa ,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio ,  Florida ,  Nevada  and  Virginia , has Obama looking
directly into the camera and saying that ads “taking my words
about small business out of context, they’re flat out wrong.”  Two Fundraisers  Obama wraps up his trip with two fundraisers tomorrow in
New Orleans and an address to the National Urban League, one of
the nation’s largest civil rights organizations.  The group, preparing for the Nov. 6 elections, said in a
study July 17 that a decline in the African-­American voter
turnout in 2012 could tip the presidential election outcome in
the critical swing states of North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia.  “In 2012, if the African-American voter turnout rate in
every state declines to 60 percent, which was the national voter
turnout rate for African-Americans in 2004, then we estimate:
President  Barack Obama  will not win in North Carolina,” said
the study by Madura Wijewardena and Varlie Wilson of the
National Urban League Policy Institute in Washington.  The study said the turnout rate for black voters in 2008
was 64.7 percent, the highest it has been for any national
election as Obama became the first black elected president.  Justice Agreement  Obama’s address to the Urban League in New Orleans follows
an announcement by Attorney General Eric Holder today of a
consent decree aimed at forcing reforms of the city’s police
department, which has been under scrutiny for corruption and
mismanagement for decades.  The agreement requires the New Orleans department to
develop new policies and procedures, including on the use of
force, interrogations and arrest and overhaul training.  A  Justice Department  review last year, requested by Mayor
Mitch Landrieu, found the New Orleans police engaged in a
pattern of “unconstitutional conduct,” including use of
excessive force by officers and illegal searches and arrests.  New Orleans officers practiced racial and ethnic profiling,
discriminated against gays and lesbians and repeatedly failed to
investigate sexual assault and domestic violence reports,
according to the Justice Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Portland, Oregon, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  