-- Mobistar Declines as Revenue Erosion Worsens: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-07-24T15:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/mobistar-declines-as-revenue-erosion-worsens-brussels-mover.html
Mobistar SA (MOBB) ,  Belgium ’s second-
biggest mobile-phone company, fell the most in almost three
months in Brussels trading after a drop in service revenue
 worsened  as client defections in the fixed-line business added
to declining voice traffic and roaming revenue.  Mobistar sank 2.80 euros, or 11 percent, to 23.56 euros at
the 5:40 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the biggest
decline since April 26. The shares handed investors a loss of 46
percent including reinvested dividends in the past year,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Second-quarter service revenue, which excludes handset
sales, fell 4.5 percent to 363.3 million euros ($440.4 million),
accelerating from a 3.1 percent drop in the preceding three-
month period, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Mobistar lost 4,776 ADSL subscribers, 3,272 TV
customers and 1,425 fixed telephone lines in the quarter.  “The underlying earnings trend is not improving yet and
the convergence strategy is not working at all,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote in an
investor note today. “Fixed service revenues dropped by 8
percent.”  Mobistar said it will restart commercial efforts to add
subscribers for its  unprofitable  TV and broadband offering after
suspending sales initiatives earlier this year to fix delays in
activation. Mobile earnings are under pressure from regulatory
price cuts, subsidized handsets offered by competitors and
decreasing voice and roaming revenue.  Cost-Cutting Plan  The mobile operator, majority owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
also announced a cost-cutting plan that should produce gross
savings of at least 100 million euros in the next three years.  Chief Financial Officer Werner De Laet said on an April 26
conference call that he expected most savings to come from the
IT and network domains.  The current three-year plan, dubbed Odyssey and expiring at
the end of this year, already exceeded its 100 million-euro
target by more than 30 million euros. It has failed to halt a
slide in earnings as Mobistar reduced its  payout  to investors
both in 2011 and 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  