-- Lockheed Profit Rises 4% as Full-Year Forecast Increased
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-24T21:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/lockheed-profit-rises-4-as-full-year-forecast-increased.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company, said second-quarter profit rose 4.4
percent and raised its full-year profit forecast.  Net income from continuing operations rose to $781 million,
or $2.38 a share, from $748 million, or $2.16 a share, a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. The  average
estimate  of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a profit
of $1.91 a share. Sales increased 3.3 percent to $11.9 billion.  Full-year profit will be $7.90 to $8.10 a share compared
with the forecast of $7.70 to $7.90 a share made in January, the
company said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast profit of
$7.89 a share.  Lockheed delivered “a very solid quarter with both
revenues and margins exceeding our expectations,”  Joel Levington , a bond analyst at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in  New York  said in an e-mail.  Lockheed rose 1 percent to $87.79 at the close in New York
trading and has risen 8.5 percent this year.  Robert Stevens, 60, the chairman and chief executive
officer, has spearheaded an industry effort to stave off U.S.
defense budget cuts of $500 billion over a decade under a
process called sequestration that would come on top of $487
billion the Pentagon already plans to cut from its proposed
long-term budgets over that period. Stevens has said his company
may have to fire as many as 10,000 workers if the automatic
budget cuts go into effect in January.  Budget Uncertainty  “While the threat of sequestration has created uncertainty
for our industry,” Lockheed has focused on reducing costs and
program execution, Stevens said today in the statement.  Stevens has said he plans to retire as CEO in January to be
replaced by Chris Kubasik, 51, currently the president and chief
operating officer.  Congress may not pass the 2013 budget before the fiscal
year begins Oct. 1,  Bruce Tanner , Lockheed’s chief financial
officer, said on a conference call with analysts. That would
affect contract awards across the company because the Pentagon
and other agencies would have to operate under a so-called
continuing resolution at 2012 budget levels, Tanner said.  Lockheed’s Information Systems & Global Solutions unit is
likely to be most affected by such a budget delay, Tanner said.  F-35 Pressures  Lockheed continues to face pressures on its F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’s single largest weapons program,
even after the Defense Department lifted a probation on the
short-takeoff-and-landing model in February. The U.K. reversed
its decision against buying that model, the F-35B, and last week
took delivery of its first test aircraft.  General Mark Welsh, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for
the next Air Force chief of staff, has said the F-35 assembly
line and manufacturing are “not up to speed.”  Low-rate production orders of F-35 jets during the quarter
contributed $200 million in additional sales to the Aeronautics
unit, Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed said in the statement
today. The unit’s sales rose $18 million, or less than 1
percent, to $3.41 billion, after a strike by members of the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
slowed work at the company’s  Fort Worth , Texas plant, Lockheed
said. The labor dispute was settled June 28, the company said.  Aeronautics unit profit increased 14 percent to $454
million. Lockheed is making “slow and steady” progress in
negotiations with the Pentagon for the fifth lot of trial F-35
airplanes, and both sides “have a desire to close” the deal
soon, Tanner said.  Electronic Systems  Sales at the Electronic Systems unit, which makes anti-
missile systems and oversees the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship
program, rose 2.3 percent to $3.87 billion because of the ship
and the aerostat sensor program. Profit increased 10 percent to
$526 million, the company said.  Space Systems sales increased 18 percent to $2.38 billion
because of increased commercial satellite deliveries, Lockheed
said. Unit profit rose 7.2 percent to $282 million.  Sales at the Information Systems & Global Solutions unit
fell 4.1 percent to $2.3 billion. Profit at the unit, which
provides information-technology services to U.S. agencies
including the Pentagon, fell 2.3 percent to $208 million.  Lockheed’s discontinued operations included the Pacific
Architects & Engineers unit that was sold in April 2011 and Savi
Technology Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  