-- Modric Apologizes to Spurs for Going on Strike: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-24T07:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/modric-apologizes-to-spurs-for-going-on-strike-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric Apology  Luka Modric apologized to Tottenham Hotspur Chairman  Daniel Levy  for going on strike to try to force through a transfer to
Real Madrid, the  Sun reported .  Modric’s no-show for a flight to the U.S. two days ago
infuriated Levy, who fined the Croatian midfielder 80,000 pounds
($124,000) for refusing to train last week, the newspaper said.
Levy has made it clear that Modric can only leave if a club
meets Spurs’ 40 million-pound valuation, the Sun added.  Bad Advice  Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas described Modric’s conduct
as unprofessional because the club has been open with the player
by saying it would listen to offers, the  Daily Mail reported .  “He’s had a lot of interest in him before but he has
behaved very professionally,” the Mail cited Villas-Boas as
saying. “This is the first time he has acted like this. We
don’t know what sort of advice he is receiving.”  Mancini Mad  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  is angry with club
officials over the Premier League champion’s failure to sign
Arsenal striker  Robin van Persie , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Mancini has urged the club’s hierarchy to back him and not
Football Administration Officer Brian Marwood, who is determined
to offload players including Emmanuel Adebayor,  Carlos Tevez ,
 Roque Santa Cruz  and Edin Dzeko before going for van Persie, the
newspaper added.  Spanish Winger  Arsenal is keen to sign Spain winger Santi Cazorla, who has
told the Gunners he’s prepared to leave Malaga to join them, the
 Guardian reported .  Negotiations between the clubs have taken place and Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  is hopeful that an offer of 20 million
euros ($24.2 million) will clinch the deal, the newspaper added.  United Target  Manchester United  is chasing River Plate midfielder
Ezequiel Cirigliano, whom Manchester City and Paris Saint-
Germain wanted to take on a trial, the  Mirror reported .  Buenos Aires-based River Plate was at least 5 million
pounds for the Argentine under-20 international, the paper said.  Training Stint  Queens Park Rangers midfielder  Joey Barton  will train with
English fourth-tier club Fleetwood Town for a week, the  Mail
reported . Barton was left off QPR’s pre-season tour to Asia
because he’s suspended for the first 12 games of the new Premier
League season, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  