-- OECD’S Gurria Says Full Spanish Bailout Is Totally Unnecessary
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a n u s   C r a n n y
-- 2012-07-24T15:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/oecd-s-gurria-says-full-spanish-bailout-is-totally-unnecessary.html
A full-blown Spanish bailout can be
averted if the  European Central Bank  starts buying the nation’s
bonds in large quantities, according to  Angel Gurria  of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  A Spanish rescue “is totally unnecessary,” Gurria,
secretary general of the OECD, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today in London. He said  Europe  should deploy all of
its instruments “but mostly the ECB. There is the bazooka.”  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era
record today as the nation’s seven-month-old government
struggled to convince investors it won’t need more European
funds after clinching as much as 100 billion euros ($120 billion
in loans for its banks. The ECB hasn’t bought  government bonds 
for 19 weeks after effectively mothballing the purchase program
it unveiled in 2010.  The ECB should reactivate the program “more decisively and
with bigger numbers” as “you have to stabilize the yields,”
Gurria said. “There is no reason why Italy or  Spain  should be
paying 7 1/2 percent.”  So far the ECB has spent 211.5 billion euros buying the
bonds of distressed periphery nations. It ceased purchases in
February amid concerns from some officials that it was a form of
monetary financing, which is prohibited under the institution’s
founding treaty.  “If you can’t do it in the primary market you do it in the
secondary market, do it through a vehicle,” Gurria said. “Just
do it.”  The OECD chief, who earlier delivered a speech at an event
organised by the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions
Forum, also said the debt crisis in Greece has been addressed
“the wrong way” as policy makers “didn’t recognize it needed
a restructuring the day it started.”  He said the country should be ring fenced, without
elaborating, “and then give  Greece  the flexibility if they need
more time” to meet the bailout conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Manus Cranny in London at 
 mcranny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  