-- Oil Advances From One-Week Low on Chinese Manufacturing Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-24T09:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/oil-advances-from-one-week-low-on-chinese-manufacturing-outlook.html
Oil advanced from the lowest close
in a week in  New York  after a Chinese manufacturing index
signaled the world’s second-largest crude user may be pulling
out of an economic slowdown.  Futures increased as much as 0.9 percent after slipping 4
percent yesterday. A preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was at 49.5, signaling that Chinese manufacturing may
contract at a slower pace in July. Oil also rose before a
government report that may show U.S. inventories fell for a
fifth week, the longest stretch in a year.  “ China  seems to be having a soft landing, and the  U.S.
economy  is gradually recovering, so the fall in  oil prices  may
not last,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London .  Oil for September delivery gained as much as 83 cents to
$88.97 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.55 at 10:06 a.m. London time. The
contract dropped $3.69 to $88.14 yesterday, the lowest since
July 13. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement advanced 54 cents to
$103.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract yesterday slipped 3.3 percent to $103.26.
The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was
at $15.31, compared with $15.12 yesterday.  Oil Supplies  Oil in New York has technical support at $86.59 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy orders
tend to be clustered. Last week’s price rise stalled near the
upper boundary, signaling chart resistance.  China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in July
after two interest-rate cuts and a rebound in lending. If
confirmed, the reading of 49.5 in the purchasing managers’ index
would be the highest since February. The final number in June
was 48.2.  “Crude markets are caught between a deteriorating demand
picture and tightening supply fundamentals,” said Guy Wolf, a
strategist at Marex Spectron Group Ltd., a London-based
commodities broker. “The Chinese PMI was a surprise but likely
to prove an aberration. Chinese attempts to stimulate the
economy may be constrained by food price inflation over the next
six months. Hard-landing risks are high.”  China’s state-run  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  yesterday agreed to pay $15.1
billion in cash to acquire Nexen Inc. in the biggest overseas
takeover by a Chinese company. Nexen is the operator and 43
percent owner of the Buzzard field, the biggest contributor to
the Forties blend of North Sea crude. Forties is one of four
grades that make up Dated Brent, the benchmark grade used to
price more than half of the world’s oil.  Inventory Levels  Crude stockpiles probably fell  1.5 million barrels  and
gasoline inventories declined 500,000 barrels, according to the
median estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. U.S. refinery
utilization probably fell 0.5 percentage point last week after
dropping 0.7 percentage point the prior week, the survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  “If the crude-inventory data comes in like the survey
results, that would be supportive,” said  Victor Shum , the
managing director of IHS Consulting in  Singapore . “The primary
factor driving some buying now is the Chinese manufacturing
data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  