-- Oil Trades Below $90 a Barrel a Third Day on Supply Gain
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-25T07:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/oil-falls-from-two-day-high-in-new-york-as-crude-supplies-climb.html
Oil fell for the third time in four
days in  New York  on speculation an increase in U.S. crude
stockpiles signaled slowing demand in the world’s biggest
consumer of the commodity.  Futures slid as much as 0.8 percent after the industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  said inventories rose 1.35
million barrels last week. An Energy Department report today may
show supplies dropped 1 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. The  International Monetary Fund  said
China’s slowing economy faces significant
downside risks and relies too much on investment.  “Given the background of reduced confidence, rising
inventories can be a reflection of sluggish demand,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“What’s happening in China is a key component for people’s
demand outlook for oil.”  Crude for September delivery decreased as much as 69 cents
to $87.85 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $87.83 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract yesterday climbed 0.4 percent to $88.50, the
highest since July 20. Prices are down 11 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as 65 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $102.77 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a $15.03 premium to the New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade, from $14.92 yesterday.  Fuel Stockpiles  Oil in New York has technical support at $86.25 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy orders
tend to be clustered. Last week’s price increase stalled near
the upper boundary, signaling chart resistance.  U.S. gasoline inventories increased 2.35 million barrels
last week, according to the API. The Energy Department report
today may show supplies shrank  1 million barrels , according to
the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the  Department of
Energy  for its weekly survey.  “Yesterday’s API data was bearish,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of The Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a note. “If the DOE publishes a similar report we doubt
the bulls will get another run at $90 this week.”  U.S. fuel consumption last week was 4.4 percent below the
year-earlier level,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said in its SpendingPulse
report yesterday. That’s the 47th straight drop in the measure.
Year-to-date gasoline demand is 4.6 percent below 2011.  Chinese Economy  China sees “obvious” signs of stabilization in its
industrial output growth and the fundamentals are still sound,
Zhu Hongren, a spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology , said at a briefing in Beijing today.  The nation’s economy is bottoming out now and probably to
have a “slight improvement” this quarter, Markus Rodlauer,
head of the IMF’s  China  team, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. In a separate statement, the Washington-based lender
urged China’s leaders to boost consumption and channel citizens’
savings away from housing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its recommendation to
buy September WTI futures, citing a “tightening balance” in
physical oil markets amid sanctions on  Iran . The call, first
made in February, has so far returned a loss of $19.41 a barrel,
the bank said in a report e-mailed today.  Iran Talks  Iranian and European Union officials met yesterday to
prepare for another possible round of talks on the nuclear
program that has prompted the sanctions against the second-
biggest crude producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  The meeting in Istanbul was between Helga Schmid, deputy
head of the EU’s foreign relations arm, and Ali Bagheri, the
Iranian deputy negotiator on the nuclear issue. It will be
followed by contact between EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  and Saeed Jalili, Iran’s chief negotiator, Ashton’s
office said, without giving details of the talks.  The U.S. and its allies have raised concern that Iran is
concealing a nuclear-weapons program, a charge the Persian Gulf
nation rejects. The EU on July 1 imposed an oil embargo against
the country, while the U.S. has implemented financial and trade
sanctions. Iran produced 3.2 million barrels a day of crude in
June, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia 
had output of 9.8 million a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  