-- Oil-Tanker Glut Seen Rising With Returns Near Four-Year Low
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-24T15:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/oil-tanker-glut-seen-rising-with-returns-near-four-year-low-1-.html
A glut of the biggest  oil tankers  in
the  Persian Gulf  expanded, a Bloomberg survey showed, adding to
pressure on owners facing returns near the lowest level in at
least four years.  There are 20  percent more  very large crude carriers
available for hire over the next 30 days than there are likely
cargoes, according to a Bloomberg News survey of six shipbrokers
and owners today. That’s an increase of 1 percentage point from
last week and up 5 points compared with a year earlier, previous
survey data show.  VLCCs on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
route are  losing  $5,284 a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange 
in London. Returns have stayed negative for 14 sessions. Crude
demand and export volumes have slowed as buyers delay purchases,
according to  Samuel Ciszuk , an oil consultant at KBC Energy
Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England .  “Coming into the third quarter, overall crude demand is
still weaker,” Ciszuk said by phone today. “Consumers will
look to maintain crude stocks toward the end of the year.”  2 Million Barrels  Owners must contend with a VLCC fleet poised to expand by
6.8 percent this year, exceeding 4.6 percent demand growth,
according to data from Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit
of the world’s largest shipbroker. The tankers, each able to
hold 2 million barrels of crude, were losing $7,243 a day as of
yesterday, the worst return for exchange data starting in 2008.  The U.S., the European Union and the  United Nations  have
imposed trade and financial sanctions on  Iran  in an effort to
isolate the second-biggest producer in the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries over its nuclear activities.
Stockpiling of crude linked to concern about potential supply
disruption lifted rates in 2012’s first half, according to New
York-based investment-bank advisory firm  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage added 0.7
percent, the most in five weeks, to 33.97 industry-standard
Worldscale points, exchange data showed.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a metric ton, is set once a year.
Today’s level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 33.97
percent of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. Owners
can boost returns by slowing ships on return journeys after
unloading of cargoes. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, slid
1.7 percent to $615.08 a ton, the figures showed.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a gauge of costs to
transport crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, gained
0.5 percent to 630, according to the exchange. That was the
fourth straight increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  