-- Oil Rises for First Time in Three Days on Mideast, China
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-24T20:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/oil-fluctuates-on-european-debt-chinese-manufacturing.html
Oil rose for the first time in three
days as clashes in Syria raised tension in the  Middle East  and a
report indicated China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower
pace in July.  Futures gained 0.4 percent as the unrest in Syria has
forced tens of thousands of people to seek shelter across the
borders in  Turkey ,  Iraq  and Lebanon. The preliminary reading of
a Chinese  purchasing managers’ index  showed it would be at the
highest level since February. Oil slumped 4 percent yesterday on
Europe’s debt crisis.  “Geopolitical risk is outweighing the situation in Europe
and ultimately it’s going to spike the price,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “The Chinese manufacturing headline is pushing oil
to the up side. The market was a little bit oversold
yesterday.”  Crude oil for September delivery rose 36 cents to settle at
$88.50 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 10 percent this year.  Prices pared gains after the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  reported oil inventories gained 1.35 million
barrels last week to 381.3 million. The September contract rose
7 cents to $88.21 at 4:34 p.m. in electronic trading. It was
$88.70 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for September increased 16 cents to $103.42 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Israeli army chief Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz said that
Syria is maintaining control of its chemical weapons stockpile
and has boosted security around it,  Army Radio  reported today,
citing comments the army chief made to a parliamentary panel in
 Jerusalem .  Syrian Unrest  The Syrian Foreign Ministry said the nation’s chemical
weapons are secure and won’t be used against insurgents.  “All the stocks of these weapons that the Syrian Arab
Republic possesses are monitored and guarded by the Syrian
Army,” Jihad Makdissi, a ministry spokesman, said at a Damascus
press conference shown on state-run television. “These weapons
are meant to be used only and strictly in the event of external
aggression” against Syria.  “You have to be bullish in the longer term because the
violence in Syria could easily spread throughout the Middle
East,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.
“Things look as bad as when Iraq was preparing to invade
 Kuwait .”  Oil in New York surged to a then-record $41.15 a barrel in
October 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait, cutting exports from the
two nations. Futures then plunged by a third on Jan. 17, 1991,
after U.S.-led forces began their air attack on Iraq, reducing
Iraq’s threat to neighboring producers.  Chinese Manufacturing  The preliminary reading of the Chinese index, called the
Flash PMI, was 49.5 for July, compared with a final figure of
48.2 for June, figures from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed. The index is based on 85 percent to 90 percent
of responses to a survey of more than 420 companies, according
to HSBC.  “ China ’s manufacturing number is better than a month
ago,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager
at Tyche Capital Advisors. “With the big selloff yesterday, it
wouldn’t surprise me to see higher prices.”  U.S. crude  inventories  probably fell for a fifth week, the
longest stretch in a year, as refineries reduced purchases
before fall maintenance programs, a Bloomberg survey showed.  U.S. Supply  Stockpiles dropped 1 million barrels to 376.4 million in
the seven days ended July 20, according to the median of 11
analyst estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow. A
decrease of that size would leave supplies at the lowest level
since April.  Earlier, oil fell a day after Moody’s Investors Service cut
the outlooks on the Aaa credit ratings of  Germany , the
Netherlands and Luxembourg, citing the “rising uncertainty”
about  Europe .  Moody’s cited the risk that  Greece  will leave the 17-nation
euro currency and the “increasing likelihood” of collective
support for European countries such as Spain and Italy as
reasons for the outlook change, according to a statement.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a third day,
dropping 0.9 percent. The euro declined as much as 0.6 percent
against the dollar. A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “Oil is really driven by equities and the dollar,” Zahir
said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 461,630
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 448,029
contracts yesterday, 19 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.35 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net 
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  