-- London Cocktail Marathon Awaits Olympics Drinkers: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/london-cocktail-marathon-awaits-olympics-drinkers-review.html
Londoners tend to belong to private
clubs or to have favorite bars where they meet friends.  Where should visitors go if they can’t get into the  Groucho 
or the  Arts Club ? How to avoid tourist joints or the tedium of
venues whose business is built on passing trade and whose
service reflects the fact that you probably won’t be back?  Here are 25 establishments, from pubs to hotel bars, with
great drinks, good service, an interesting ambience and the kind
of customers you’d be happy to be seen drinking with.  28-50: This is an exciting, great-value wine bar with a
fine selection of food. It’s the offshoot of Texture restaurant,
whose co-owner Xavier Rousset is a master sommelier, formerly of
Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons. Chef  Paul Walsh  previously worked at
the three-Michelin-star Gordon Ramsay. There’s now a second
outlet in Marylebone as well as the original on Fetter Lane.
Signature drink: Jacques Picard Champagne (7.95 pounds/$12.34).
 http://www.2850.co.uk/   69 Colebrooke Row: This corner bar on a backstreet in
Islington is so low key, you may miss it. It’s home to Tony
Conigliaro, one of the U.K.’s foremost barmen. He creates the
cocktails in a laboratory a few blocks away and you’d have to
scour  London  to find a list to compare. If you want amazing
concoctions served without attitude, this is the place. 69
Colebrooke Row and the Connaught Bar are finalists for World’s
Best Cocktail Bar at  Tales of the Cocktail  awards in  New Orleans 
on July 28. Signature drink: Prairie Oyster (8.50 pounds).
 http://69colebrookerow.com/   Bar Boulud: This casual restaurant of New York chef  Daniel Boulud , at ground level in the  Mandarin Oriental  hotel, is known
for its great burgers. It’s also a convivial venue for a drink.
If you can grab a seat at the bar, you’ll probably end up
chatting with staffers and fellow customers. There’s no pressure
to order food, though I rarely resist. Signature drink: White
Cosmopolitan (13.25 pounds).  http://bit.ly/Nj25gL   Bobby’s Bar : This beautiful venue is in the basement of Bob
Bob Ricard, an extravagantly decorated restaurant. It looks a
million dollars and cost a lot more to create. Bobby’s ramps up
the glamour. Small booths give the impression of a luxury train,
not so much the Orient Express as something suited for a tsar.
Drinks prices are surprisingly modest. Signature drink: Pink
Rhubarb Gin and Tonic (8.50 pounds).
 http://www.bobbobricard.com/bar.html   Boundary: This hotel’s rooftop bar in East London is
popular in the summer. There’s seating around an open fireplace
and there are blankets if it gets chilly. The views are
panoramic and the youngish crowd is friendly. There’s also a 48-
seat grill restaurant. Signature drink: Rooftop Garden (23
pounds for a pitcher).  http://www.theboundary.co.uk/rooftop/   Callooh Callay: This quirky Hoxton cocktail bar has a
secret. Most of the establishment is reached via a wardrobe in
the front room. Nothing dates as quickly as fashion and it’s to
the owners’ credit that Callooh Callay hasn’t lost its cool.
This is one for our younger readers. Callooh Callay is a
finalist in New Orleans for Best Cocktail Menu. Signature drink:
If You Don’t Gnome Me by Now, punch bowl, (55 pounds).
 http://www.calloohcallaybar.com/welcome/   Connaught Bar: The Martini cart carries seven home-made
bitters: cardamom, coriander seeds, ginger, grapefruit,
lavender, licorice and vanilla. The famed barman, Agostino
Perrone from Lake Como, constructs your drink while embracing
you with charm, which is clever as he only has two (white
gloved) hands. This elegant venue, designed by David Collins, is
at the back of the hotel. Signature drink: Martini (16 pounds).
 http://www.the-connaught.co.uk/   The Dispensary: This East London pub and dining room was
built in 1858 to house the Eastern Dispensary, founded by the
Duke of Wellington to provide medical care for the poor. The
current owner, David Cambridge, was once a chef to  Conrad Black 
and the British Royal Family. Cambridge and his wife Annie
bought the place in 2006 and have restored it -- but not much.
It’s pleasingly rough around the edges. Signature drink:
Florence NightingAle (3.30 pounds).
 http://www.thedispensarylondon.co.uk/   Dukes Bar: This hotel bar is the home of the Martini.  Ian Fleming  used to be a regular and Dukes can claim to be the
inspiration for the line, “Shaken not stirred.” The hotel
recently celebrated its centenary and this is a very grown-up
bar: Sneakers are banned and guests who loudly hum the “James
Bond Theme” while waiting for their drink might not feel
welcome. Signature drink: Vespa Martini (16.95 pounds).
 http://www.dukeshotel.com/foodanddrink-dukesbar.php   Experimental Cocktail Club: This upstairs Chinatown bar
opens at 6 p.m. I arrived one minute later to be told, “We’re
full.” If you don’t have the right look -- or, failing that, a
card showing you are a journalist -- you might not get in. It’s
safer to book online. The place was near-empty once I made it
past the door staff, whose efficiency meant the punters were
quite attractive. (There’s a  New York  branch on the Lower East
Side.) Signature drink: Saint Germain des Pres (11.50 pounds.)
 http://experimentalcocktailclublondon.com/   Galvin at Windows : This 28th-floor bar reopened in May
after a 500,000 pound facelift. You may go here for the 360-
degree views across London, including the back garden of
 Buckingham Palace  and as far away as Wembley Stadium and
Hampstead Heath. Or you may go for chef Andre Garrett’s bar
snacks or for the service of restaurant manager Fred Sirieix,
one of the stars of the U.K. hospitality world. Signature drink:
Galvin’s Garden (15 pounds).  http://bit.ly/O9zU4X   Happiness Forgets: This basement cocktail bar opened below
a Thai restaurant in 2010. It’s in Hoxton Square, the artistic
home of East London chic, which can feel cliquey if you are
above a certain age or below a certain threshold of
attractiveness. To its credit, Happiness Forgets has a
reputation for creative cocktails and an ever-changing list. The
door policy? “No wallies.” Signature drink: Mikey Rivers (8
pounds).  http://www.happinessforgets.com/   Hawksmoor Spitalfields Bar: This new bar is in the basement
of Hawksmoor, an establishment whose owners helped raise the
standard of steak in  London restaurants . Huw Gott and Will Beckett are hardworking restaurateurs with an eye for detail and
that’s on show in this venue, which features excellent bar
snacks. Signature drink: Shaky Pete’s Ginger Brew (9 pounds).
 http://thehawksmoor.com/locations/Spitalfields   London Cocktail Club: This basement bar was created by J.J.
Goodman and James Hopkins, winners of “The Restaurant” and
backed by that television show’s star, chef Raymond Blanc and
its judges  David Moore  (of Pied a Terre) and Sarah Willingham.
It’s cool, in a slightly grungy kind of way -- “Victorian
speakeasy” -- and is a club only in the sense that it brings
together people who enjoy experimenting with cocktails. No
membership is required. Signature drink: Flaming Zombie Volcano
(15 pounds).  http://www.londoncocktailclub.co.uk/   Mark’s Bar : This basement bar, below Hix restaurant in
Soho, is a magnet for celebrities and the artistic set of which
Mark Hix is a leading light. While Hix is one of London’s most
influential restaurateurs, he’s also a world-class bon vivant.
His laid-back sociability is reflected in the mix-and-match
furnishings and the exotic cocktails devised by  Nick Strangeway ,
a former world-champion mixologist. Signature drink: Hix Fix
(12.75 pounds).  http://www.marksbar.co.uk/   Nightjar: The entrance to this glamorous bar is behind a
doorway hidden between two cafes on the fringes of Shoreditch,
so you’ll need to do your homework even to find the place. You
are seated at a table and served cocktails that range from pre-
Prohibition to modern. Nightjar is open seven days a week.
There’s vintage jazz from Wednesday through Saturday, when
there’s a cover charge of 5 to 7 pounds and reservations are
recommended. Signature drink: New Orleans Fizz (12 pounds).
 http://www.barnightjar.com/   The Parlour : This tea room and bar occupies the prime
ground-floor space at Sketch, an exotic, beautiful venue in a
Mayfair townhouse. There are two restaurants, yet I always
return to the Parlour, a quirky room that progresses through the
day from breakfast through afternoon tea to cocktails. The decor
changes constantly because co-owner Mourad Mazouz never allows
his creativity to rest. Signature drink: Lovely Bubbly (15
pounds).  http://bit.ly/MXrcae   Polpo: This New York-style Venetian tavern in Soho quickly
became popular when it opened in 2009 and it’s still popular.
Less well known is the small basement Campari Bar, which was
added 18 months ago. It only seats 16 at a zinc-topped bar, with
the stools made from steel tubing and ceiling joists. Signature
drink: Negroni (7 pounds).  http://polpo.co.uk/campari-bar   Pride of Spitalfields: This is an old, unspoiled East End
boozer off Brick Lane. It attracts real-ale lovers and workers
from the City seeking an escape from the wine bars and modern
pubs of the financial district. There has been a pub on the site
since  the 19th century . Signature drink: London Pride (3
pounds). No website.  Shochu Lounge: This basement bar beneath Roka is Japanese
style, with clean lines and dim lighting. The ice is created
using purified and filtered water and is slowly frozen. The
place is stylish and popular with the advertising and media
crowd for which Fitzrovia is known. The area is attracting more
restaurants and is a less-manic alternative to neighboring Soho.
Signature drink: Hazumi Yuki (8.60 pounds).
 http://www.shochulounge.com/   Sushisamba: This venue isn’t scheduled to open before
Friday, so check before going. It’s a bar-and-restaurant complex
on the 38th and 39th floors of the Heron Tower. I’ve already
been up for a look, and the views are unmatched. There are two
outdoor terraces, while the food will incorporate Brazilian,
Peruvian and Japanese cuisines. Signature drink: Shiso Fine
(11.50 pounds).  http://sushisamba.com/   Upstairs at Rules: Rules restaurant was founded in 1798 and
is a favorite with Londoners and tourists alike. The Cocktail
Bar … Upstairs at Rules is less well known, and is a bit of an
insider secret. It’s tricky to find and, when you get there, a
seat at the bar is generally by invitation only. You’ll probably
be settled at one of the tables. There’s no music. Signature
drink: Rules Cocktail (12.95 pounds).
 http://www.rules.co.uk/cocktailbar/225   Viajante: Chef Nuno Mendes is known for the creativity of
the cooking at his restaurant, and it’s a similar story of
experimentation at this bar next door. There’s a seasonal
cocktail tasting menu served from Sundays through Wednesdays
between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. Signature drink: Ron Burgundy (10
pounds).  http://www.viajante.co.uk/   Vinoteca: This cramped wine bar is known for its wide range
of bottles from small producers around the world. The food is
pretty good too. Vinoteca is inexpensive and unpretentious and
there are now branches in Marylebone and Soho, as well as the
original at Farringdon. Signature drink: Prosecco on tap (4
pounds).  http://www.vinoteca.co.uk/Farringdon/   Zetter Townhouse: This quirky lounge was once destined to
be a private club and it has that feel. It’s cluttered with
objets d’art and stuffed animals yet nothing is random. The look
was created by Russell Sage (best known for his work with  Gordon Ramsay ), while the cocktails are by Tony Conigliaro and the food
is by Bruno Loubet. Zetter Townhouse is a finalist this week in
New Orleans for World’s Best Hotel Bar and World’s Best New
Cocktail Bar. Signature drink: Borage French 75 (8.50 pounds).
 http://www.thezettertownhouse.com/   (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on New York restaurants
and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 