-- Monsoon in India Set for Worst in Three Years Hurting Crops
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-07-24T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/monsoon-in-india-set-for-worst-in-three-years-hurting-crops-1-.html
India ’s monsoon, which brings more
than 70 percent of its rain, is set to be less than normal in
the whole season for the first time in three years, hurting
crops and boosting food costs in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Rainfall may be “approximately” 92 percent of the 50-year
average from June to September, D.S. Pai, head of long-range
forecasting division at the  weather bureau , said by phone today.
That’s less than the 96 percent predicted in June. The bureau
defines normal rainfall as 96 percent to 104 percent of the
average received between 1951 and 2000.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is betting on sufficient rain
to harvest record amounts of food grain for a third year to cool
inflation that exceeded 7 percent for a fifth straight month in
June. Less than normal rain may curb exports of rice, wheat,
sugar and cotton and increase imports of cooking oils. The
country is the world’s second-biggest grower of wheat, rice and
sugar, and the largest buyer of  palm oil .  “The risk from the monsoon has clearly risen and if this
pattern continues then both growth and inflation will be
adversely impacted,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , Mumbai-based chief
economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s ,
said by phone. “Oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals, which are
rain dependent, have been the worst impacted.”  Monsoon rain was 22 percent less than average in the June
1-July 23 period, the weather office said yesterday. Rainfall in
July, the wettest month, may miss a June forecast for normal
amounts, said L.S. Rathore, director general of the  India
Meteorological Department , July 16.  Rain Shortage  Rice planting dropped 10 percent to 14.5 million hectares
(35.8 million acres) this year from 16.1 million hectares a year
earlier, the farm ministry said July 20. Cotton sowing declined
to 8.37 million hectares from 9.24 million hectares, and
oilseeds shrank to 10.9 million hectares from 12.1 million
hectares, it said. Corn was planted over 4.78 million hectares,
less than the 5.29 million hectares a year earlier, it said.  “The progress of the monsoon so far has not allayed
earlier concerns,” the prime minister’s office said  yesterday .
“The rainfall deficiency which existed at the end of June has
lessened somewhat, but the intensity and spread of rainfall over
the next week or so needs to be watched carefully, especially in
Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan.”  The weather office will update its forecast by the end of
this month, Pai said.  Stockpile Curbs  Food-grain production reached a record 257.44 million tons
in the year ended June 30 after a second year of normal rains
boosted harvests, the farm ministry said July 17. That prompted
the government to lift curbs on exports of the grains last year.
Non-basmati shipments totaled 5.25 million tons since September,
according to the food ministry.  India will review its farm-goods export rules after 15 days
and consider setting limits on food crops that traders can
stockpile to check a rally in prices of oilseeds and grain, Food
Minister K.V. Thomas said July 18.  “With the monsoon playing hide and seek, it is a challenge
for our farmers and scientists to maintain the food-grain output
achieved in last two years,” Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said
July 16 in  New Delhi . The country won’t ban exports of rice and
wheat as it has ample stockpiles, he said.  More than 235 million farmers depend on the monsoon for
crops such as rice, peanuts, soybean and cotton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  