-- Orban’s Tax Binge Repels Investors
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-07-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/orban-s-tax-binge-repels-investors-as-recession-menaces-hungary.html
Hungarian snack maker Chio
Magyarorszag Kft. was slated to receive funds last year from its
Cologne-based parent, Intersnack Knabbergebaek GmbH, for two
expansion projects. Then came the potato-chip tax.  The special duty imposed by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government meant Gyor, Hungary-based Chio Magyarorszag missed
out on getting the cash as Intersnack diverted the money to
another one of its non-German subsidiaries.  “We’ve been erased from the map,” said Gabor Agyai Szabo,
the head of  Chio Magyarorszag ’s corporate relations and
marketing, in a phone interview. “ Hungary  won’t be considered
as long as regulations don’t change.”  While Orban’s policies are scaring off international
investors, the European Union predicts the country may fall back
into a  recession  in 2012. Orban is trying to shield Hungary from
 Europe ’s worsening debt crisis with an economic program that’s
focused on keeping the budget under control. Hungary had a
capital investment deficit of 118 million euros ($144.8 million)
in 2011, the first drop since at least 1995, according to  data 
compiled by the central bank.  Investments, including those from the government as well as
domestic and foreign companies, fell by about 1.2 trillion
forint ($5.1 billion) from 2008 through the end of 2011 at
constant prices, central bank data show. The drop in investment
volumes equals about 4 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product at the end of last year. The economy may shrink 0.3
percent this year, making Hungary the sole non-euro EU member to
suffer a contraction, according to a European Commission
forecast published in May.  ‘Spectacular Deterioration’  Two-thirds of executives surveyed in April by the German-
Hungarian Chamber of Commerce said they were “very
unsatisfied” with the predictability of the government’s policy
decisions and this has led to a “spectacular deterioration” in
confidence. Investments plunged to 12.6 percent of GDP in the
first three months of 2012, the lowest for that period since at
least 1995, according to the  statistics office  in Budapest  “The implications are rather damaging as a lack of
investments impairs the country’s growth potential,”  William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in
 London , said by phone. “If Hungary misses out on investments,
it risks becoming a regional growth laggard.”  Since taking office in May 2010, Orban’s government has
focused on bringing the  budget deficit  to within the EU limit of
3 percent of GDP for the first time since the country joined the
bloc in 2004. He had campaigned with a promise to end fiscal
austerity that started in 2006, leaving companies as his target
for revenue.  Special Taxes  To help pay for a flat personal income tax, the government
levied special retroactive corporate taxes, nationalized private
pension-fund savings, dismantled the independent Fiscal Council
and stripped the  Constitutional Court  of its right to rule on
economic issues.  The measures have eroded investor confidence and
contributed to a reduction in the country’s credit rating to so-
called junk status, prompting Orban to turn to the  International
Monetary Fund  for about $18 billion of financial aid.  Orban won a two-thirds parliamentary majority in 2010,
making him Hungary’s most powerful premier since communism ended
in 1989. His influence and reputation as a no-nonsense leader
means many executives are wary of speaking publicly about his
policies.  Officials from six foreign-owned companies interviewed by
Bloomberg News about their investment plans declined to comment
on the record, citing concern that criticizing the government
may damage their business interests.  ‘Literally Frightened’  Laszlo Kozma, a managing director who asked that the name
of his factory’s German parent not be mentioned, said he has
discarded three business plans this year because of changing
regulations that prompted cuts in  capital expenditures  and led
to a 10 percent reduction in the workforce.  “Our owners don’t feel the business environment is
conducive to further investments in Hungary,” Kozma said.  Corporate executives “have literally become frightened as
they witness developments here that are difficult for them even
to translate,” Istvan Magas, a professor of economics and a
department head at Corvinus University in Budapest, said in an
interview.  The forint fell 15 percent against the euro, the most in
the world, during the second half of 2011. The currency
rebounded 9.1 percent this year as investors speculated Hungary
will get funds from the IMF. The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  stock index has
gained 0.7 percent since January, after plunging 25 percent in
the second half of 2011.  ‘Dramatic Changes’  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, set
up its clinical research and development center in Warsaw
instead of Budapest, and cut the number of clinical trials
conducted in Hungary to 16 from 24 in 2010 because of “the
unfavorable market environment,” country director Alexandra
Heringh said.  Heringh said the “dramatic changes” in Hungary can be
traced to the government’s decision to slash the state’s drug
fund by more than half, implement “swift and frequent”
regulatory changes, and introduce additional taxes and fees for
the health-care industry.  “The results of the extremely unfavorable environment have
become obvious by now,” Heringh said. “There have been very
significant job cuts in the industry, while major developments
are missing entirely and we see capacities being cut back or
moved to other countries.”  Unprofitable Banks  Orban introduced levies on banks, energy, retail and
telecommunications companies in 2010 without consultation,
pledging to keep them in place through 2013. He then backtracked
by making the bank, energy and telecommunications taxes
permanent beginning in 2013.  Banks were unprofitable in 2011 for the first time in 13
years after the government allowed for the early repayment of
foreign-currency household mortgages at below-market exchange
rates.  About 75 percent of the 196 officials interviewed by the
German-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce said they plan to invest
less in Hungary than they did last year. The nation’s ranking
among 20 central and eastern European countries slipped to 10th
from fourth in 2011.  “Investments have been on the decline for years, net
company setups are in negative territory, and the number of
bankruptcies is outstandingly high,” central bank Deputy
Governor Ferenc Karvalits said in a July 2 interview on
commercial radio station InfoRadio. “We’re not seeing a
temporary economic decline.”  ‘Negative Spiral’  Foreign funding for Hungarian banks dropped by 6 billion
euros since March 2011, according to a report published by  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  in June, squeezing liquidity and restraining
corporate lending.  Hungary risks slipping into a “negative growth spiral,”
said Attila Bartha, an economist and researcher at the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences in Budapest. “What’s at stake here is that
the country’s economic growth potential could decline to near-
stagnation.”  The investment slump has affected all segments of the
economy, according to statistics office data. The automotive
industry fared the best as a result of a 800 million-euro
investment by  Daimler AG (DAI)  in 2008, a 900 million-euro expansion
project by  Audi AG (NSU)  in 2010 and a 500 million-euro factory
enlargement at a local assembly plant of  General Motors Co. (GM)   ‘Turning Point’  Foreign direct investment accounted for as much as 25
percent of GDP in 2009, 39 percent of overall corporate tax
payments and 70 percent of exports, according to a joint  study 
by Budapest-based research institute Nezopont Intezet and the
American Chamber of Commerce.  The government expects a “ turning point ” in investments
in 2013, with volumes increasing 0.3 percent after an expected
2.3 percent decline this year, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said on June 14.  The National Foreign Trade  Office  said in response to
questions that it doesn’t see “any sign indicating that
investors are taking flight or that interest” in Hungary is
waning. “On the contrary, what we experience is a rise in
interest, including from Chinese, Latin American and Arabic
investors,” the trade office said, adding that it signed 24
investment deals in 2011 worth an estimated 924 million euros,
which may create 5,736 jobs.  Winning the trust of companies such as  Unilever Plc (ULVR) , the
maker of Dove soaps, Lipton tea and Hellmann’s mayonnaise,
remains difficult.  Like Chio Magyarorszag, the snack-food levy prompted
Unilever to suspend one project and delay another.  “The chip tax came along, which caused production volumes
to nosedive,” said Andras Gyenes, managing director of the
Hungarian unit of London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever.  Officials at corporate headquarters “decided to suspend
the project even though we already had extensive negotiations
with the government and the local council,” Gyenes said. “It’s
extremely important that local market trends point toward
growth, and not double-digit contraction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  