-- More Billions for Greece Are Still a Bargain for Europe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/more-billions-for-greece-are-still-a-bargain-for-europe.html
The prospect of Greece leaving the
euro is infecting markets again like a recurring case of the
Spanish flu. As Greece’s international creditors begin talks in
Athens, a few deep breaths and some perspective are in order.  Did anyone think Greece wasn’t still at risk of a euro
departure? The election of a pro-euro government on June 17 did
no more than avoid an instant Greek exit. The challenges that
existed before the vote remain, and that was as clear in June as
it is now.  The latest hyperventilation was triggered by an article in
the German magazine  Der Spiegel  and comments from  Germany ’s Vice
Chancellor Philipp Roesler. The Spiegel piece said the
 International Monetary Fund  was ready to cut off Greek aid.
Roesler said the idea of Greece leaving the euro had “long since
lost its horror.”  Note that the comments came from Germany, just before the
so-called troika -- the IMF, officials from the euro area and
the  European Central Bank  -- went to Greece to press the new
coalition government about its loan commitments. Note, too, that
Germany’s ruling  Christian Democratic Union  on Tuesday disowned
the overly sanguine comments by Roesler, the chairman of the
Free Democratic Party, as  Spanish bond yields  soared and Moody’s
Investors Service put German bonds on a negative outlook.  So instead of fixating on pre-negotiation posturing, let’s
look at the  Athens  talks. These will focus on the budget cuts
worth 5.5 percent of gross domestic product that Greece must
come up with for 2013-2014, in order to get the next tranche of
aid. They’ll also try to figure out how to meet existing
targets, given that months of political instability have blown
Greece off course.  Not that there has been no progress. Since labor market
reforms were passed in February, the average wage set by newly
signed contracts has fallen by 22 percent, according to Greece’s
labor inspectorate. This is the kind of internal devaluation the
IMF is trying to enforce to restore Greece to competitiveness.
Greece has also reduced its  deficit  by about 6 percent of GDP
since 2009, a big adjustment by any standards.  The problem is that at 9.1 percent of GDP, the deficit is
still far from meeting the troika’s plan to reduce  Greece ’s
unsustainable debt pile, from a whopping 165 percent of GDP to
120 percent. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and the coalition
have helpfully laid out changes they want made to the troika
agreement. Now, the EU and the IMF need to figure out whether to
ease the requirements and timetable -- or essentially force
Greece out of the euro.  Some of Samaras’s ideas make good sense. The Greeks want
to create installment payments, capped at 25 percent of income,
for people who are hit with back tax claims. This seems logical
-- few people can pay their entire annual salary on demand, even
if they want to.  The government also wants to stir growth in tourism and
agriculture by cutting the value-added tax on food catering
services and farm supplies. And it wants to replace emergency
property taxes collected on electricity bills with a more
progressive regime.  These changes make sense, too, but not until the government
has first pushed through Parliament an overhaul of the tax
system.  Tax evasion  remains Greece’s most pressing debilitation;
it’s politically impossible (and unreasonable) to ask Germans to
fund Greek tax cuts while cheating goes unchecked.  Other requests by Samaras should be rejected, including one
for flexibility to raise the minimum wage and restore collective
bargaining. These changes would unravel essential labor market
reforms adopted this year.  Most controversial is the coalition’s promise of no new
public sector dismissals, despite a signed commitment to the
troika to reduce the public payroll by 150,000 people. Neither
side can afford to concede much on this issue. Yet 150,000 is a
big number, and there should be grounds for compromise.  For the troika, as for the Greeks, there are no good
outcomes here, only less bad ones. Samaras and the coalition are
looking for at least two years of leeway to enact reforms and
impose fiscal retrenchment gradually. According to  analysts  at
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, that extra time would cost the troika
16 billion euros to 20 billion euros ($19 billion to $24
billion).  It’s worth a good faith effort by the troika to pay the
money to create an achievable amended program. Samaras, for his
part, will have to demonstrate with actions that Greece will, at
long last, put in place demanded reforms, including the rapid
privatization of state enterprises and the opening up of closed
professions.  Whatever German Vice Chancellor Roesler may think, the risk
of contagion from a Greek exit remains high, and the damage to
 Europe ’s political project would be lasting. Compared with those
costs, 20 billion euros is a bargain.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  Margaret Carlson  on  mothers in the workplace ;
Clive Crook on central banks’  mission creep ;  Peter Orszag  on why
the  U.S. Postal Service should be privatized ; A. Gary Shilling
on how to  remake university financing ; David Gordon and Sean West
on why the  U.S. emerging-market moment  is over.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 