-- Toronto Condominium Market Not in Bubble, Royal Bank Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/toronto-condominium-market-not-in-bubble-royal-bank-says.html
Toronto isn’t in the middle of a
condominium bubble because record construction of new units is
being matched by the demands of the city’s growth, according to
 Royal Bank of Canada. (RY)   The country’s largest city needs more condos because
legislation aimed at restricting urban sprawl has cut the supply
of new single-family dwellings, according to a report by Royal
Bank Senior Economist Robert Hogue. The record 44,100 condos and
apartments that the government’s housing agency said were under
construction in May compares with the 38,000 new households
being formed in the city each year, Hogue said.  “The historic condominium apartment boom in the Toronto-
area market is not necessarily a sign of excess or of a
bubble,” Hogue wrote in the report. “Unless household
formation dips substantially, we would not expect the emergence
of any oversupply reaching levels that would threaten the
stability of the market.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  last month tightened mortgage
rules and singled out Toronto as a place of “continuous
building, without restriction.” Average  home prices  in the city
have surged by a third from five years ago and it has more
skyscrapers under construction than any city in  North America .  Flaherty reduced the maximum amortization period on
mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years,
which, along with higher  interest rates  and decreased
affordability, may help curb demand for condos, according to the
Royal Bank report. Toronto condo prices may fall by as much as 7
percent on a quarterly basis from their peak, Hogue wrote.  Possible Mismatch  The need for condos is also illustrated by the drop in the
rental vacancy rate last year to 1.1 percent, the report said.  A big risk is a possible “mismatch” between the types of
housing being built and demand for them, fed in part by
investors who are buying units with a plan to resell them, the
report said.  “The strong presence of investors in the condo market
raises the risk of a mismatch among the types of units supplied
and ultimately demanded for occupancy,” Hogue said in the
report. “At this point, we do not equate this risk with a
bubble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  