-- Los Angeles Water Users Escape Swap Thanks to Twist: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/los-angeles-water-users-escape-swap-thanks-to-twist-muni-credit.html
The agency that supplies drinking
water to almost 19 million Los Angeles-area residents paid $47.2
million to unwind interest-rate swaps with banks. Unlike many
municipal issuers, ratepayers didn’t come away with a loss.  Thanks to the  Federal Reserve ’s Operation Twist, the
 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California  got a chance
to borrow last month at lower fixed-interest rates than
variable, after more than four years of waiting. It sold $320
million of bonds to refinance debt, end some swaps, cut annual
payments by $119,000 and generate $1.1 million of present-value
savings.  “It’s giving us an opportunity to unwind the swap and to
maintain the savings of the swap even after paying the
termination fee,” Gary Breaux, the Los Angeles-based
authority’s chief financial officer, said by telephone.
“Usually you wouldn’t find it economical.”  Since the financial crisis reached the municipal market in
2008, falling interest rates have left municipalities trapped by
expensive payments to terminate interest-rate swaps tied to debt
with rates that reset periodically. The derivative deals
prevented cities and towns from refinancing debt at the  lowest 
borrowing costs in a generation.  Issuers including  California ’s water resources department,
 North Carolina  and Reading,  Pennsylvania , have handed more than
$4 billion to Wall Street banks to end the agreements, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Other municipal borrowers remain
stuck with swaps linked to about $50 billion of auction-rate
securities, whose rates can change weekly or monthly. Baltimore
and Denver have balked at the expense of unwinding such swaps.  Savings Possible  For the  Los Angeles  district,  interest rates  had fallen so
much that it became possible to save money by borrowing to pay
the $47.2 million fee to end some swaps. Terminating the deals
reduced the risk of unwinding them later at a higher cost. After
the transaction, the amount the district would have to pay to
end remaining swaps fell to $169.1 million from $225.4 million
in May, according to its  swap reports .  The canceled contracts were with Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG. The agency
still has some swaps with all four. Lauren Onis, a Morgan
Stanley spokeswoman, Deutsche Bank’s  Amanda Williams , JPMorgan’s
Elizabeth Seymour, and Scott Helfman, a Citigroup spokesman, all
declined to comment.  “Once you have a transaction that puts a swap in place,
you have to have another to get out,” said  Robert Brooks , a
professor of finance at the  University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa,
who studies derivatives. “And they will charge you plenty of
money to get out of it.”  Operation Twist  In Operation Twist, the Fed is swapping short-term
Treasuries it holds for securities with longer maturities to
tamp down long-term borrowing  costs .  As 10-year-Treasury yields touched a record below 1.4
percent yesterday, muni interest rates sank as well. Yields on
top-rated munis due in 2022 fell to 1.72 percent, the lowest
since a Bloomberg Valuation  index  began in January 2009. The
falling  yields  on fixed-rate, long-term bonds opened an
economical way for borrowers, including the water agency, an
 Illinois  school district and the city of Los Angeles, to
terminate swap agreements.  “That was unusual because you could take out some portion
of the swaps where you couldn’t before,” said Brian Thomas, a
former chief financial officer for the water district who is now
a managing director in Los Angeles with PFM Group, a municipal
consulting firm. “Because of large termination payments, it
doesn’t always work.”  Payments Exchanged  Interest-rate swaps , typically used to hedge the risk of
rising borrowing costs, are agreements to exchange payments
between two parties, such as a municipality and a bank. The
deals were set up to reduce expenses by swapping a variable rate
for a steady one that was lower than prevailing fixed rates.  For most muni issuers holding such contracts, the
termination fees rose as market interest rates fell because the
lower yields swelled the contracts’ value from the
counterparties’ perspective.  As the Fed’s strategy depressed long-term interest rates,
the cost of fixed-rate munis fell below floating rates, lowering
the district’s cost of unwinding some of its deals. The water
agency’s swaps were tied to some $4.5 billion of bonds sold
since 2001, with different yields for each. The authority has
about $1.06 billion of swaps left, down about $300 million from
before the terminations, according to a July 9 swaps report.  ‘Less Costly’  To determine the feasibility of unwinding the deals, Breaux
and his advisers looked at two curves -- one representing the
cost of borrowing with the swap in place and one for top-grade
muni yields. Since early 2011, the swap curve has sporadically
exceeded the AAA yield, creating opportunities to refinance some
bonds and end some swaps at a lower cost.  “The wider the difference between the two curves, the
better,” Breaux said. “The extremely low-rate environment
makes it less costly to finance the swap-termination payments.”  The $47.2 million cancellation price let the district end
two swaps and parts of five others while maintaining the savings
that the agreements were designed to provide, even after
covering the costs. As of June 30, the agency said it had saved
$85.2 million by using the hedges to lower borrowing costs.  Paying to get out of the swaps also eliminates the risk
that future events may force a termination under circumstances
the district can’t control, such as a credit-rating downgrade of
a bank that provides liquidity to buy back bonds investors no
longer want to hold.  Rate Trimmed  The agency’s average interest cost on the new debt was 1.15
percent. After adding in all the financing costs, including the
termination fee, the district’s effective interest rate was 4.84
percent -- lower than the 4.92 percent with the swaps in place,
which also included remarketing fees and letter-of-credit costs.
The agency’s refinancing cost almost  $2 million in payments  to
banks and others that provided services on the deal.  “The swap-termination fees are effectively being paid with
what could have been higher present-value savings from the
refunding, were it not for the negative mark-to-market value of
the swaps,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a June report.  For some issuers the market has become favorable to
restructure debt maturing in two to eight years, said  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap Financial Group LLC in South
Orange,  New Jersey .  ‘Good Spread’  “There are opportunities to terminate and convert, but it
doesn’t apply across the board,” Shapiro said. “It applies to
issuers that can sell at a good spread to AAA. It all depends on
how someone is positioned relative to AAA in the intermediate
part of the curve.”  The water district’s debt is graded AAA by  Standard &
Poor’s , and one step lower by Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings .  DuPage County Community High School District No. 108 in
Roselle, Illinois, sold $9.1 million in bonds in November and
$27.6 million in March to refinance debt and unwind swaps. The
district told New York-based S&P that the cost of borrowing to
end the hedge “is lower than that of keeping the variable-rate
debt, liquidity facility and the swap in place,” S&P reported.  The district had a loss,  Robert Lewis , a managing director
with PMA Securities Inc. in Naperville, Illinois, and the school
system’s adviser, said by telephone. The loss stemmed from an
interest penalty of at least half a percentage point because the
issuer is based in Illinois, the U.S. state with the least-
funded pension system, the lowest bond rating from Moody’s and
as much as $8 billion in unpaid bills.  “Because we’re an Illinois issuer, we get punitive rates
due to the state’s situation,” Lewis said. “They were able to
get out of it in relatively good shape.”  The deal was worth doing because it took away the risk of
the hedge being terminated unpredictably.  “We wanted to get out of it under our terms,” he said.  Following are pending sales:  NEW ORLEANS plans to sell $160 million of general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. (Added July 24.)  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA plan to sell $900
million of revenue bonds, including $100 million of taxable
debt, as soon as July 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will help finance student housing and
parking and refinance debt, according to bond documents. Moody’s
rates the bonds Aa2, its third-highest grade. (Updated July 24)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  