-- Tourists From Beijing to Buenos Aires Buoy U.S. Exports: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-24T15:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tourists-from-beijing-to-buenos-aires-buoy-u-s-exports-economy.html
For Leon Goldberg, the used clothes
piling up at the lost-and-found at the New York Marriott Marquis
hotel on Times Square are the latest sign tourists are spending.  “People come over with empty suitcases, and we see them
leave with full suitcases,” while abandoning their older
garments, said Goldberg, the director of sales and marketing at
the 1,957-room hotel.  Spending by overseas visitors on everything from airfares
to hotel stays climbed 8.1 percent over the 12 months ended in
May to $13.9 billion, figures from the U.S. Commerce Department
show. The increase was almost double the 4.2 percent gain in
total  exports . Purchases by foreign tourists count as exports,
which have been among the mainstays of the three-year economic
expansion.  More Latin American and Asian visitors are offsetting a
slowdown in trips from Europe, where a weaker euro is making
travel to the U.S. more expensive. The pickup in tourism, which
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called a “bright
spot” in the economy, is benefiting companies such as  Marriott
International Inc. (MAR) , City Pass and San Francisco Shuttle Tours
and bolstering the labor market.  “Tourism has been an over-performer,” said Chris Lafakis,
a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “This is an industry that’s fully recovered from
recession.”  Victoria Varraza, who is visiting  Washington  from Culiacan,
Mexico, said yesterday her family comes to the U.S. to shop. The
22-year-old said her parents book their hotel, airfare and
activities with  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  or Travelocity Holdings Inc.  Easier Shopping  “It is more easy to shop here because you have the malls
with all the things for your family, and in Mexico you don’t
have that kind of stuff,” Varraza said.  Spending by tourists is providing jobs for Americans at a
time when the  unemployment rate  is stuck above 8 percent.  Some  13.59 million  people work for leisure and hospitality
companies such as restaurants, hotels, amusement parks and
museums, the most in records going back to 1939. Employment at
these businesses accounts for about 10.2 percent of all payrolls
in the U.S., compared with 9.8 percent before the last
recession, according to Labor Department data.  “People may not appreciate that when a foreigner comes and
visits  Hawaii  that actually counts as a U.S. export,” Bernanke
said before Congress on July 17 in response to a question from
Senator  Daniel Akaka , Democrat from Hawaii. “Tourism has been
something of a bright spot. Not just in Hawaii, but in a number
of places around the country.”  Tourism Stocks  Shares of some tourism-related companies are outpacing the
broader stock market. Marriott International is up about 23
percent this year, the Walt Disney Co. has advanced 28 percent
and  Gaylord Entertainment Co. (GET) , which operates the  Grand Ole Opry 
in Nashville, Tennessee, has jumped 49 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is up almost 7 percent.  The Fed’s Beige Book survey of regional economies, released
July 18, noted that tourism was “strong” in several districts,
and hotel occupancy rates and revenue per room were “robust”
in New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago and  San Francisco . It
said Hawaii and southern  California , where hotels are relying
less on discounts to attract customers, were seeing more
visitors.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said the city’s economy is “doing quite well” and has
become less dependent on  Wall Street . Tourism to New York has
helped and has been “really quite a success story,” Dudley
said in public remarks on May 30.  Shopping Trip  Among visitors to the city is Giovanna Ruman, a 19-year-old
from Sao Paulo, Brazil, who is on a 10-day trip with her mother
and grandmother.  “It’s much cheaper for us,” Ruman said yesterday as she
walked down Madison Avenue toting shopping bags from  Bergdorf
Goodman  and Stuart Weitzman. “I just bought a Celine purse,
shoes and a Herve Leger dress.”  Growth in tourism is led by visitors from Latin America and
Asia. Pleasure travel from  Argentina , Venezuela, Brazil and
China, increased  20 percent  or more from January through April
compared with the same four months last year, the latest
Commerce Department data show. Those countries sent about 1.3
million tourists to the U.S. in that period. The increases have
outpaced visits from Germany and France.  Varying economic fortunes across the globe help explain the
differences. Gross domestic product in the euro region was
little changed in the first quarter from the same three months
last year. In the same period, growth was 5.2 percent in
Argentina, 4.6 percent in Mexico and 5.6 percent in Venezuela.  Signs of Slump  Adding to signs of a slump in Europe, euro-area services
and manufacturing contracted for a sixth month in July,
according to a survey of purchasing managers by London-based
Markit Economics released today. In China, a purchasing
managers’ index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit indicated the
nation’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in July
after two interest-rate cuts.  Honolulu saw a 22 percent jump in non-U.S. resident
arrivals in the first four months of 2012 from the same
period last year, Commerce Department data show.  Orlando  showed
a 21 percent gain, Miami was up 12 percent and New York posted a
gain of 7 percent.  International attendance at  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Walt Disney
World near Orlando, Florida, typically accounts for 18 percent
to 22 percent of visitors, and “we are at the very high end of
that range,” Chief Financial Officer James A. Rasulo said in a
conference call May 8.  ‘Total Disconnect’  “We’re not seeing any slowdown in the  U.S. economy ,” said
John Bilello, owner of San Francisco Shuttle Tours, which takes
travelers to places like Napa Valley and Yosemite National Park
in California. “There’s a total disconnect for us.”  The tour company’s business picked up in March and has
continued to increase, Bilello said. Many of his customers are
from Asia and Australia, though the number of domestic tourists
is also climbing, he said.  David Nadelman, general manager at  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) ’s
Grand Hyatt San Francisco, said international guests account for
about a third of the total.  “Occupancy is at a near-historic high, and the demand for
San Francisco is very strong,” said Nadelman, who is also
chairman of the San Francisco Travel Association.  In  Los Angeles , foreign arrivals are expected to rise 5
percent to 6.24 million this year, thanks in part to growth from
China and Brazil, said Susan Lomax, a spokeswoman for the Los
Angeles Tourism and Convention Board.  Philadelphia Zoo  Sales at City Pass, which offers a package of prepaid
admission to attractions like Boston’s New England Aquarium, New
York’s Empire State Building and the Philadelphia Zoo, are up 18
percent this year, according to Mike Gallagher, the Victor,
Idaho-based company’s co-chief executive officer and co-founder.  City Pass built a new office and is renting space to
accommodate growth, he said. In the past three years, 15 people
were hired to bring staff to 35.  “From my point of view, leisure is very strong,”
Gallagher said. “With all the bad news over the last few years,
things are now getting better, because if you postponed that
vacation, now you’re going to take it. More and more people are
saying I’ve got to go take my family and do something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  