-- House Backs Safety Exemptions for Minors on Family Farms
-- B y   K a y l a   B r u u n
-- 2012-07-24T20:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/house-backs-safety-exemptions-for-minors-on-family-farms.html
By voice vote, the U.S. House today
passed legislation that would preserve the exemption from most
safety regulations for minors working on farms owned or
partially owned by members of their extended family, such as
grandparents, aunts and uncles.  The bill,  H.R. 4157 , was drafted in response to a rule
proposed by the Labor Department on Sept. 2, 2011 -- and
withdrawn eight months later -- that imposed stricter
regulations for child labor on farms. The measure passed today
would block any future attempt by the department to issue
similar rules, with supporters saying implementation of such
policies would prevent experiential learning opportunities for a
future generation of farmers and restrict their ability to earn
money for college.  “If we want to put America back in business, back to work,
one of the first things we must do is crack down on
overregulation,” said the bill’s sponsor, Republican
Representative Tom Latham of Iowa. “We can’t allow federal
bureaucrats -- many of them have never set foot on a farm -- to
tell  Iowa  farm families how to run their operations.”  The proposed rule was “one of those misguided regulation
attempts” that “went beyond all common sense and would have
destroyed opportunities for youth across the agricultural
economy,” said Latham, whose state leads the nation in corn and
soybean production.  Family Farms  In a July 2010  report , the Agriculture Department noted
that as of 2007, the most recent data available, 98 percent of
U.S. farms were family operations. The bill would prevent
changes to current law, which allows minors working on farms
owned by members of their extended family to be exempt from most
safety regulations. The Labor Department had proposed to tighten
the exemption to include only farms owned by parents or
“persons standing in the place of a parent.”  Minors working on farms are subject to a different set of
rules than those in other industries and currently face fewer
safety restrictions. The proposed rule would have narrowed the
regulatory gap between agriculture and other industries by
prohibiting children from operating certain equipment, such as
hand-held power tools and tractors. Tractor-related deaths are
the most common agricultural fatality, according to the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.  Increased mechanization and the use of chemicals have made
farming a more dangerous occupation in recent years, according
to the Labor Department. The proposed rule was based on
recommendations from NIOSH, which  found  that between 2003 and
2007, persons ages 15 to 24 working on farms had the second-
highest occupational fatality rate, with 21.3 deaths for every
100,000 persons. The highest for that age group was in mining,
with 36.5 deaths per 100,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kayla Bruun in Washington at 
 kbruun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  