-- How Recession Will Change University Financing
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/how-recession-will-change-university-financing.html
The latest  recession  will probably
be seen as a turning point for college and university financing.  Indeed, the initial reaction by many youths to soaring
 unemployment  was to stay in or return to college to wait out the
bad times and get better prepared to face a tough job market.
For-profit and community colleges have been especially
attractive, and in the fall of 2011, there were 22 percent more
students enrolled in the nation’s 1,200 community colleges than
in the fall of 2007. Nevertheless, less than half graduate.  Also, those now leaving college are finding few jobs. Only
54 percent of those age 18 to 24 are employed, the lowest share
since data began to be collected in 1948, and the unemployment-
rate gap between this demographic group and all working-age
adults is the widest on record. Only 49 percent of graduates
from the classes of 2009 to 2011 found jobs within their first
year out of school, compared with 73 percent of those who
graduated three years earlier. About 54 percent of bachelor’s-
degree holders under 25, or about 1.5 million people, were
 jobless  or underemployed last year.  In addition, there is now research challenging the economic
value of a college education. Data comparing the average
 earnings  of college graduates at each age with those of workers
with only a high-school diploma indicate that the first group
has an advantage of $1 million or more for full-time work from
age 25 to 64. But college-bound students usually have better
abilities, better grades, more maturity, better support from
home, higher test scores and better job prospects than those who
enter the workforce out of high school.  Lifetime Income  Furthermore, the raw lifetime-income differences don’t
account for tuition costs, interest on  student loans , lost wages
while in college, and the discounting of future earnings.  Various studies that take these things into account
indicate that each year of college adds 6 percent to 10 percent
to annual incomes, so lifetime earnings increase by a range of
$300,000 to $600,000, not $1 million or more. The  College Board 
calculates that using 2008 data, a student entering college in
2010 at age 18 who borrows his way to a degree earns enough by
age 33 to make up the cost, including wages forgone and loan
interest. That’s a 5 percent to 6 percent return on investment -
-- meaningful but not huge. These results partly reflect the 184
percent increase in real  tuition costs  in the past 20 years,
which has occurred as the real pay of college graduates has
risen only 9 percent.  The  cost of college  certainly makes raising children more
expensive. The Agriculture Department reports that a family with
$59,410 to $102,870 in pretax income will spend almost $300,000
to raise a child for the first 17 years. But that doesn’t take
into account the unpaid time spent on parenting, including
income forgone by parents who stay at home or work less in order
to care for their offspring. It also doesn’t consider the
opportunity costs of not investing the money spent on the child,
or college costs. There are estimates that raising a child to
age 22, including college, would about triple the cost, to about
$900,000.  With few job prospects and high levels of student loans --
55 percent of the  2010 graduates  of four-year public
institutions left school with debt averaging $22,000 -- many
young people are disillusioned. The average real debt for new
graduates rose 24 percent from 2000 through 2010. And about a
third of those who are employed take jobs that don’t require a
four-year degree.  Liberal Arts  Most thought that a  bachelor’s degree  was the ticket to a
well-paid job, and that the heavy student loans were worth it
and manageable. And many thought that majors such as social
science, education, criminal justice or humanities would still
get them jobs. They didn’t realize that the jobs that could be
obtained with such credentials were the nice-to-have but
nonessential positions of the boom years that would disappear
when times got tough and businesses slashed costs.  Some of those recent graduates probably didn’t want to do,
or were intellectually incapable of doing, the hard work
required to major in science and engineering. After all,
afternoon labs cut into athletic pursuits and social time. Yet
that’s where the jobs are now. Many U.S.-based companies are
moving their research-and-development operations offshore
because of the lack of scientists and engineers in this country,
either native or foreign-born.  For 34- to 49-year-olds,  student debt  has leaped 40 percent
in the past three years, more than for any other age group. Many
of those debtors were unemployed and succumbed to for-profit
school ads that promised high-paying jobs for graduates. But
those jobs seldom materialized, while the student debt remained.  Moreover, many college graduates are ill-prepared for
almost any job. A study by the  Pew Charitable Trusts  examined
the abilities of U.S. college graduates in three areas:
analyzing news stories, understanding documents and possessing
the math proficiency to handle tasks such as balancing a
checkbook or tipping in a restaurant.  The results were deplorable. Half the graduates of four-
year colleges and three-quarters of those from two-year
institutions lacked the skills to understand credit-card offers.
They also couldn’t interpret tables relating exercise to  blood
pressure  or understand newspaper-editorial arguments.  And what’s expected of students at all levels has been
dumbed down tremendously in recent decades. Perfect scores on
SATs used to be unheard of. Now they’re routine.  Furthermore, the best graduate students in the top
universities are often foreigners. And they come from countries
that have much cheaper education systems. Yet American 15-year-
olds rank in the middle of the pack in math, reading and science
scores, and their high-school graduation rates are below
international averages.  Education Standards  As higher-education quantity has soared, quality has
dropped. Many institutions are mere diploma mills, graduating
students of limited capability. Wall Street companies and
management consultants fawn over MBAs from Stanford and Harvard,
but won’t even interview the legions of night-school MBAs, who
were taught by poorly paid adjunct professors at lesser
institutions.  The realization that many recent college graduates were
poorly prepared for nonexistent jobs, that they will be burdened
for years with crushing student loans along with the resulting
frustration, may be bringing about a great revelation: Going to
college doesn’t make you smart and ready for a good,  well-paid
job . There’s little causal relationship between going to college
and financial success despite the statistical link. And you
can’t prove causality with statistics.  Indeed, causality probably runs the other way. Today, most
smart people go to college, especially as the top institutions
beat the bushes for able, but disadvantaged, students with
brains who lack legacy or other connections. But bright people
would be successful without college, as was common before the
days when a degree became almost mandatory. This direction of
causality is also suggested by the high dropout rates of low-
income students, who often lack the intellectual preparation for
college. Furthermore, those who demonstrate the brains needed
for college while in high school usually enter four-year
institutions and graduate.  A minimum of a bachelor’s degree is needed to be considered
for a decent job; it’s the initial screen used by most
employers. And, of course, employers generally are assured that
top school graduates have the best prospects for success --
whether it’s because those institutions do a great job at
education or because they attract the cream of the crop. At the
same time, so many people graduate from college that even
bartenders have degrees. Did the chemistry courses teach them
how to mix martinis? The money spent on people who don’t require
more than a high-school diploma for their jobs is wasted, as is
their time in college.  Vocational Training  If it becomes widely apparent that college doesn’t make
people smart, high-school students will probably be much more
efficiently directed to institutions that match their
capabilities. Those with high IQs, grades and test scores will
be encouraged to attend four-year colleges and universities.
Those in the middle will be guided to community colleges with
the option of transferring to four-year institutions if they do
well. And less-able students will be channeled toward vocational
training for occupations that suit them and often pay very well.  Employers could encourage the rationalization of post-
secondary education to match ability with the proper educational
and training institutions by making it clear that a college or
graduate degree by itself doesn’t cut much ice. Those who don’t
come from credible institutions or can’t pass rigorous tests
need not apply. This would discourage many from spending their
time and money on worthless degrees and encourage them to pursue
more fruitful education and training.  Just consider the demand for carpenters, plumbers,
electricians and mechanics, and the high pay they now command,
even in this weak economy. Community colleges with two-year
courses in technical specialties are training people for these
jobs and for  manufacturing positions  such as machinists,
robotics specialists and other highly skilled trades. An
estimated 600,000 skilled middle-class manufacturing jobs remain
unfilled nationwide, even as millions of Americans are still
unemployed. German companies with operations in the U.S. such as
Siemens AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Robert Bosch GmbH 
are transferring their nation’s system here. It involves
apprentice programs in partnerships with technical schools.  The student-loan glut is depressing college financing, but
so too are other woes unleashed by the recession. With high
unemployment,  depressed incomes , still-reduced investment
portfolios and collapsed  house prices , alumni giving is under
pressure. And it is likely to remain so in the slow-economic-
growth atmosphere of deleveraging that will probably take
another five to seven years to complete.  The financial status of students’ parents will remain
troubled for the same reasons. Many, as they approach
retirement, will confront vastly inadequate  savings  and need to
save for their own well-being, as well as to help finance their
kids’ educations.  Home equity  used to be available to fund
children’s college tuition, but no more.  Declining Appeal  In 2010, one-third of parents  surveyed  by the education-
lender  Sallie Mae  strongly agreed that children should attend
college for the experience, regardless of the effect on their
potential earnings. In 2011, that number slipped to 24 percent.  Most college endowments have recovered from the huge losses
of 2008, but remain more cautious, with weaker gains likely in
future years. They are now prepared for  lower returns  as they
emphasize dividends, investment-grade bond interest and other
here-and-now income rather than pie-in-the-sky  capital gains .  According to a new study by student-loan provider  Sallie
Mae (SLM) , grants and scholarships fell 15 percent in the 2011-2012
academic year to $6,077 on average from $7,124 in 2010-2011.
This category includes money from colleges as well as
scholarships from other institutions and federal funding such as
 Pell grants .  State governments, hard-pressed by persistent budget
deficits and vastly underfunded pension plans, are cutting
costs, including aid to state colleges and universities. After
decades of growth, state funding for higher education has fallen
15 percent since 2008, adjusted for inflation. Federal funding
for university research is also declining.  Responses to the crisis in higher-education financing are
developing and varied. Some institutions are raising tuition.
Some are reorienting their programs away from the liberal arts
and toward training for careers.  While some institutions are considering tuition freezes as
a way of containing costs, the  University of the South , known as
Sewanee, has gone even further. Last February, Sewanee cut
tuition and fees for the 2011-2012 academic year by 10 percent.
Last November, the school announced that for current students,
costs for the 2012-2013 year were frozen at $41,518. Then in
January of this year, the university froze the annual costs for
incoming freshmen in 2012 at $44,630 for four years, or through
the spring of 2016.  Sewanee Experiment  Sewanee wants to address the spiraling costs of higher
education, the lingering effects of the recession and the
siphoning-off of prospects by state schools where student costs
are rising in many cases due to cuts in state funding, even
though costs remain lower than at private colleges. The tuition
cut and freezes also reduce the pressure to buy attractive
students with merit scholarships and help Sewanee compete with
other private schools, where tuition and fees continue to rise
much faster than the  consumer price index . Sewanee now plans to
concentrate its  financial aid  on needy students.  The marketplace has responded very positively to these
actions. Applications for this fall have risen 15 percent from
last year, and the quality of applicants has improved. The
entering freshman class in 2011 numbered 433, up from 401 in
2010.  The school has also become more selective, offering
admission to 56 percent, compared with 60 percent earlier. It
will be interesting to see if other colleges follow Sewanee’s
lead.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the  second  in a two-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  panic over Greece ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  mothers in the workplace ; Clive Crook on
central banks’  mission creep ;  Peter Orszag  on why the  U.S.
Postal Service should be privatized ; David Gordon and Sean
West on why the  U.S. emerging-market moment  is over.  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 