-- Pandora Gains as Swatch Spurs Recovery Bets: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-24T11:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/pandora-gains-as-swatch-spurs-recovery-bets-copenhagen-mover.html
Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  gained in Copenhagen
trading as investors bet the Danish jewelry maker may benefit
from a return in demand after Swiss watch maker Swatch Group AG
beat estimates.  Pandora rose as much as 4.1 percent, and was trading 1.6
percent higher at 57.35 kroner as of 1:03 p.m. in Copenhagen.
The move left the stock the third-biggest gainer in the 20-
member index of Denmark’s benchmark stocks  “Swatch has reported some pretty strong numbers this
morning, and you could argue that Swatch to some extent targets
the lower end of the watch market, just as Pandora targets the
lower end of jewelry market,” Niels Granholm-Leth, an analyst
at SEB Enskilda, said by phone. “Pandora is in a special
situation; they’re in the middle of a turn-around.”  Swatch rose the most in more than a month in Zurich trading
after the biggest maker of Swiss watches reported first-half
profit that beat analysts’ estimates, boosted by growth at its
component business. Net income gained 25 percent to 720 million
Swiss francs ($727 million) from 575 million francs a year
earlier, the Biel, Switzerland-based company said today.  Pandora, which lost 84 percent of its market value last
year, has been targeting growth markets in an effort to underpin
a rebound in sales. The company said in May it opened five new
stores in  Russia  in the first quarter, bringing its total there
to 46. It also opened seven stores in  Asia , for a total of 109
for the continent. The company on Aug. 2 last year announced
Chief Executive Officer Mikkel Vendelin Olesen’s resignation as
it abandoned a plan to raise prices.  “Pandora has been very weak recently, trading as low as
50, and in the past three or four sessions, it has come back to
around 60,” Granholm-Leth said. “Traders are moving around
their positions.”  Shares in Pandora have recovered 6.7 percent this year,
lagging behind a 19.4 percent surge in the benchmark OMXC20
Index in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  