-- Patrick Breen, Patricia Wettig, Molly Smith in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-24T16:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/patrick-breen-patricia-wettig-molly-smih-in-d-c-.html
Neon glow sticks, graffiti and
Madonna hits conspired to turn the  Arena Stage ’s Mead Center for
American Theater into a 1980s dance club last night.  The time traveling was in honor of Arena’s current run of
“The Normal Heart,” the Tony Award-winning play by Larry Kramer about the early days of the HIV virus.  The play is set between 1981 and 1984 when the virus was an
unknown killer. Many of the evening’s guests said they knew
exactly what that time was like.  One of them was Arena’s artistic director, Molly Smith, who
said she saw the play during its original off-Broadway run 25
years ago, and then again during its Broadway revival last year.  “It blew the back of my mind off,” Smith said at a
reception in a light-filled library named in her honor, where
swordfish appetizers and Honest Tea vodka cocktails were served.  Proceeds from last night’s show were split evenly between
Arena Stage and the  Washington  AIDS Partnership, a local
organization that awards more than $1 million annually in grants
to fight AIDS through education and prevention.  Smith said she felt compelled to bring the play to
Washington, especially during this week’s 19th International
AIDS Conference, being held in the nation’s capital for the
first time in more than 20 years.  Mats Ahnlund and Anouk Rey, both from the International
AIDS Society, were among the guests. They were looking to get a
break from the conference, which they said has more than 23,000
participants this year.  AIDS Quilt  Guests noticed the pieces of the AIDS Memorial Quilt
hanging in the theater while “The Normal Heart” runs through
July 29. Pieces also are on display on the National Mall and at
more than 50 other locations throughout the city through July
25.  During intermission, Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero
and his wife, Laura, joined other VIPs backstage for a champagne
toast.  Guests Scott Richter and Nabil Mousa said they came from
Atlanta to see the quilt and attend the benefit. Judy Lynn
Prince, a trustee of Arena Stage, and her fiance, Bob Haiman,
said they have seen the play before, but wanted to see it again
during the historic week.  After the play’s conclusion, spirits got a lift from a
gospel quartet on the center’s second level, their voices
echoing off the walls as guests headed upstairs to the dance
party.  ‘Don’t Talk’  Cast members Patrick Breen and Patricia Wettig joined
guests on the dance floor.  “I just don’t talk,” Breen said to explain how he keeps
his voice. His part of a young AIDS activist requires some of
the loudest monologues of the play.  The food was right off a  New York  oceanside boardwalk:
mini-hot dogs, meatball sandwiches, giant pretzels and a large
assortment of brownies.  Guests wore the glow sticks as makeshift necklaces and
headbands.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art  and Mark
Beech on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 