-- Payday Lenders Seek U.S. Oversight to Avoid State Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/payday-lenders-seek-u-s-oversight-to-avoid-state-rules.html
The Internet’s “don’t-call-us-
payday” lenders are making a bid for more respect in  Washington 
and less control from state regulators.  Firms offering short-term online loans, including  Fort
Worth , Texas-based  Cash America International Inc. (CSH) , are ramping
up political contributions, hiring lobbyists and asking Congress
to largely transfer oversight from states to the U.S. Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency. A House committee today will
hold a hearing on the proposal, which the OCC itself opposes.  As the $11 billion online loan industry bulks up in
Washington, it also aims to shed the “payday lenders” label,
according to talking points drafted by Peter Barden, a spokesman
for the  Online Lenders Alliance .  The memo advised lenders making lobbying visits to  Capitol
Hill  this summer to “avoid using the term ’payday.’ Talk about
short-term, small-dollar lending.”  Behind it all is more spending. The political action
committee for Cash America is on pace to double its annual
campaign contributions from the $200,000 it gave in 2007,
according to federal election records, and the lender is
bankrolling a new coalition to push for the legislation.  The core of the bill, sponsored by Representatives Blaine Luetkemeyer, a Missouri Republican, and Joe Baca, a California
Democrat, would give the OCC authority to designate lenders as
National Consumer Credit Corporations and require the regulator
to treat storefront and online lenders equally.  Disclosure Rules  The OCC would be able to preempt state rules based on a
legal standard previously introduced by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul. The lending bill, introduced July 18, also
would loosen the rules for how short-term lenders disclose the
total cost of the loans to consumers.  Lenders are touting the proposal as a way to promote
businesses that serve so-called underbanked Americans, who may
not be able to get small loans from traditional banks. The firms
say the changes would help them compete against Native American
tribes and overseas lenders offering loans online.  “On the Internet you have a tremendous amount of
competition that does not play by the rules that we do,” Mary
Jackson, a senior vice president at Cash America, said in an
interview. State regulations are “a competitive noose,” she
said.  For their part, state regulators see the bill as designed
to dilute oversight of the industry, said John Ryan, head of the
Conference of State Banking Supervisors.  “This is an inherently local business with very local
effects,” Ryan said in an e-mail. “There needs to be local
accountability and oversight.”  Direct Debits  Representatives from Ryan’s group, which includes overseers
of banks as well as non-banks like payday lenders and finance
companies, are set to testify at the House hearing.  Payday lending refers to small short-term loans originally
meant to tide someone over until their next paycheck. At a
brick-and-mortar lender, the loans typically are secured by a
post-dated check. Online borrowers instead furnish a bank
account number for direct debits.  About 35 percent of the $32 billion in small-dollar loans
made in 2010 originated online and that share will grow to 62
percent by 2016, according to a Jan. 9 report by John Hecht,
then an analyst with JMP Securities, a San Francisco-based
investment bank.  Interest rates, measured as an annual percentage rate, can
reach 521 percent, according to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau. Consumer advocates have long argued that the
business can trap poorer borrowers in a cycle of debt as they
take out new loans to cover old ones.  Avoiding ’Payday’  Criticism of payday lending has prompted some firms to
avoid the term. The trade group representing brick-and-mortar
payday lenders calls itself the Community Financial Services
Association, and in one state is organized as the Kentucky
Deferred Deposit Association. Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , which offer similar products, refer to them as
“direct deposit advances” and “checking account advances.”  Under the current regulatory system, states have
jurisdiction over consumer loans made within their borders. The
Dodd-Frank law gives the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau the ability to supervise, regulate and enforce rules on
non-bank financial companies. The bill introduced in Congress
this month would in effect give the OCC some joint authority
with the bureau.  In testimony prepared for today’s hearing by a panel of the
House Financial Services Committee, Grovetta Gardineer, the
deputy comptroller of the currency for compliance policy, said
the bill would “hurt the very population of consumers it seeks
to address.” The small-dollar loans and other products that
would be offered under the new charter are “most prone to
abuse” and often targeted at minority populations, she said in
the statement.  ‘Largely Extinguished’  “These are products and services that the OCC has largely
extinguished from the national banking system, and we would not
support, license, nor charter an institution concentrating in
these services today,” Gardineer said.  The legislation wouldn’t apply to loans with a term of less
than 30 days. Since typical payday loans are for two weeks, the
industry maintains that the legislation isn’t a payday loan
bill.  Cash America’s Jackson said that while the industry opposed
the exemption, Baca wouldn’t otherwise support the bill. Baca
spokesman John Lowery did not respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The bill also would exempt loans with terms under a year
from the Truth in Lending Act, which requires lenders to post
the annualized percentage rate consumers are paying. Instead,
lenders would be able to post the dollar cost of a loan as a
finance charge.  Price Tag  Jean Ann Fox, director of financial services for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said moving away from disclosing
the annual  interest rate  would deprive consumers of a “standard
price tag for credit” that has worked well for over 40 years.
She called the carve-out for loans less than 30 days “a
distinction without a difference.”  “To make extremely expensive small-dollar loans with a
federal charter, all the lender would have to do is set the term
for 31 days,” Fox said in an e-mail. “That is no problem for
the industry.”  Cash America, which reported net income of $135 million on
revenues of $1.54 billion in 2011, has been expanding its online
presence. An initial public offering of its Internet lending
subsidiary, Enova International Inc., is pending.  ‘Bigger Platform’  Jackson said that Cash America wants to “operate on a
bigger platform” by lending nationwide. Right now, it only
operates in states where it is licensed and its products are
legal under state law. She said competitors operating on Native
American reservations aren’t following state laws and that state
regulators have been unsuccessful in lawsuits to gain oversight.  Hecht, now a managing director with Stephens Inc., a  Little
Rock , Arkansas-based investment bank, said Cash America would
benefit from a market expansion because competition is
restraining growth in its online business.  “The slowdown reflects maturation and saturation in the
market for online lending in the  United States ,” Hecht said in
an interview.  Besides increasing its political donations, Cash America
has retained Wright Andrews as a lobbyist, according to official
disclosures.  Andrews, now with the Washington firm Andrews & Andrews
PLLC, previously represented the now-defunct Coalition for Fair
and Affordable Lending, an association of subprime mortgage
lenders that fought against tighter underwriting standards
before the 2008 financial crisis. He did not respond to requests
for comment.  New Coalition  Cash America is also one of two companies behind the
creation of the Financial Services Innovation Coalition, a lobby
group that registered with the Senate on April 1. It was formed
to push for the bill, Barden, the online lenders spokesman who
is a public relations consultant at Mercury/Clark & Weinstock,
said in an e-mail.  The alliance, of which Cash America is a member, has also
stepped up its lobbying, and worked to expand the size of the
association, according to records and interviews.  It has offered cheaper memberships to newer firms as a way
of expanding the group’s size, Jer Ayler, president of Trihouse
Inc., a Las Vegas-based payday lending consultancy, said in an
interview.  The alliance’s founder, Mark Curry, the head of Mission,
Kansas-based Geneva-Roth Ventures Inc., in 2007 bought a red-
brick townhouse near the U.S. Capitol. The alliance and other
groups use it for fundraisers, according to invitations
published by the Washington-based Sunlight Foundation.  “Some of the politicians react to us,” Ayler said. “Some
don’t want much attention over the fact that we’re supporting
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  