-- Peabody Forecast Misses Estimates After Coal Price Drop
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-24T20:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/peabody-forecast-misses-estimates-after-coal-price-drop.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal producer, fell the most in more than three years after
its third-quarter forecast missed analysts’ estimates on falling
coal prices and rising costs in Australia.  Peabody  dropped  11 percent to $20.55 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since April 15, 2009. The shares have
fallen 38 percent this year. The  Stowe Global Coal Index (COAL)  dropped
3.1 percent, led by  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , which tumbled 12 percent to
$5.54, followed by Peabody.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) 
declined 10 percent to $6.22.  Profit excluding one-time items will be 20 cents to 45
cents a share in the third quarter, St. Louis-based Peabody said
today in a statement. The average of 23  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was for 65 cents. Full-year sales will be 230 million
to 250 million tons, compared with a previous forecast of 235
million tons to 255 million tons.  The price of metallurgical coal shipped from  Australia ,
where Peabody added to its mines with its December acquisition
of Macarthur Coal Ltd., averaged $210 a ton in the quarter,
compared with $330 a year earlier, according to data  compiled  by
Bloomberg. That decline amplifies difficulties U.S. miners have
faced as some domestic electricity companies have cut shipments,
substituting cheaper natural gas at their plants.  Peabody got 39 percent of its 2011  revenue  from Australian
mining, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the second
quarter, Peabody received $107.45 in revenue per ton for
Australian coal compared with $23.43 for the fuel mined at U.S.
operations.  Australian Coal  “In the last couple of weeks, the market’s trying to
determine what it really needs out of Australia,” Peabody’s
Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce said today on a
conference call with investors.  Prices tumbled from record highs after Australia’s coal-
producing region recovered from flooding amid uncertainty about
economic growth in  China , the world’s largest steelmaker.  “On the seaborne side, things are still weaker,” Lucas Pipes, a New York-based analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co.,
said today in a telephone interview. “With China hitting the
breaks a little bit, weaker currency out of  India ,  Europe  having
its debt crisis, the macro impacts are reflected in met coal
prices and also in what these companies are willing to spend to
pull the met coal out of the ground.”  Net income dropped 28 percent to $204.7 million, or 75
cents a share, from $284.8 million, or $1.05, a year earlier,
the company said. Earnings excluding a tax benefit and other
one-time items were 51 cents, lagging behind the 53-cent  average 
of 25 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were little changed
at $2 billion.  U.S. Coal  The proportion of electricity generated from gas increased
to 32 percent in April to equal coal’s share, the EIA  said  July
6. Cheaper gas and greater environmental regulation has led U.S.
coal miners to cut millions of tons of output this year.  Domestic coal demand is at a 24-year low as the fuel
accounts for the same share of U.S. electricity generation as
gas for the first time in at least four decades, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Output from Peabody’s mines in the Powder River Basin fell
8 percent to 31.3 million tons in the second quarter from 33.9
million a year earlier, the U.S.  Mine Safety and Health
Administration  reported on July 20. The average price of coal
produced in the region fell 37 percent to $7.87 a ton from
$12.40 a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thermal coal is used in electricity generation while
metallurgical coal is combined with  iron ore  and other materials
to produce steel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  