-- Peregrine Trustee Allowed to Pay for Bond With Firm Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-24T16:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/peregrine-trustee-allowed-to-pay-for-bond-with-firm-funds.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee won the right to spend some of
$24 million of the failed firm’s money to pay for a supplemental
bond insuring its assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carol A. Doyle granted trustee Ira Bodenstein’s request at a hearing today in  Chicago . There were
no objections.  Peregrine, a Cedar Falls, Iowa-based commodities brokerage
with offices in Chicago, filed for liquidation on July 10 after
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued the firm and
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. for allegedly misappropriating
more than $200 million.  Wasendorf, who has been charged with lying to regulators,
is being held in U.S. custody pending a bail hearing in federal
court in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , on July 27.  The firm has more than $500 million in assets and more than
$100 million in liabilities, according to its Chapter 7
petition. It also has more than 10,000 creditors.  Bodenstein, in a July 19 filing, told Doyle the standard $8
million “blanket bond” maintained by him and his peers in the
region covered by the Chicago-based  bankruptcy court  may not be
sufficient to insure Peregrine’s assets.  “The trustee has determined that acquiring an additional
bond is necessary to sufficiently insure the funds and estate
property he is responsible for,” Bodenstein’s lawyers said in
the filing.  The attorneys told the court they have identified about
$24 million in unencumbered “house account” money and asked
for permission to apply it toward the $25,475 annual premium for
a $25 million bond.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the Northern District
of  Illinois  (Chicago). The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf ,
12-mj-00131, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa
(Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  