-- Perella Said to Be Hired in Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Price Rift
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/perella-said-to-be-hired-in-citigroup-morgan-stanley-price-rift.html
Citigroup Inc. (COF)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
hired Perella Weinberg Partners LP to settle a dispute over how
much their Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture is worth,
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The two New York-based banks are asking Perella Weinberg to
value a 14 percent stake that  Citigroup (C)  plans to sell to Morgan
Stanley, said two people, who asked for anonymity because the
process is confidential. Morgan Stanley already controls 51
percent of the unit, with Citigroup holding the rest.  The banks turned to the New York-based advisory firm, whose
founders include Joseph Perella and  Peter Weinberg , after Morgan
Stanley pegged the brokerage’s fair-market value at about 40
percent of what Citigroup said the venture is worth, triggering
the need for an outside appraiser. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
has more than 17,000 advisers and $1.74 trillion in client
assets, according to a regulatory filing.  “We’re both mature, grown-up institutions,” Morgan
Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, said in
January. “We’ll quickly figure out fair-market value, and if we
can’t, then we’ll obviously go to a third party.”  Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, Morgan Stanley’s
 Sandra Hernandez  and Kara Findlay at Perella Weinberg wouldn’t
comment on the assignment, which the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets, said
this month it may incur a “significant” third-quarter charge
after Morgan Stanley submitted the lower valuation. Citigroup
estimated its 49 stake was worth $11 billion in a regulatory
filing. That means the two banks’ estimates of the total
venture’s value are about $13 billion apart.  Perella Weinberg will come up with a fair value for the
brokerage by the end of August, according to the filing. The gap
between the banks’ estimates will be split into thirds. If
Perella’s estimate falls in the middle, the transaction price
will be set at that level. If it’s in the upper or lower third,
the final price will be the average of Perella’s estimate and
the closest bank estimate, according to a procedure Morgan
Stanley outlined in a May filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 