-- Peruvian Sol Bonds Fall as European Woes Hurt Risk Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-24T20:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/peruvian-sol-bonds-fall-as-european-woes-hurt-risk-demand.html
Peruvian bonds fell, pushing yields
on benchmark securities higher for a third day, as concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening hurt demand for higher-
yielding, emerging-market assets.  The yield on the nation’s 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due in August 2020 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 4.7 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 0.33 centimo to 120.70 centimos per
sol.  “There is fear in the market today amid the continuing
developments in Europe,” said Diego Llona, a fixed-income
trader at  Banco Santander  in  Lima . “While in the last few weeks
we saw appetite for Peruvian bonds, the recent developments in
Europe are hurting the long end” of Peru’s local bond curve, he
said.  Global stocks fell amid speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis is threatening to engulf Spain and Italy and on a report
that Greece may miss debt-reduction targets and require more
restructuring. Moody’s Investors Service cut its ratings outlook
for Germany and the Netherlands yesterday saying the increasing
likelihood of collective support for European countries
including Spain and Italy is “adversely” affecting the Aaa
credit ratings of the two nations.  New Ministers  Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala  swore in six new
ministers yesterday led by his former justice minister as he
seeks to jump start talks with protesters who have blocked the
country’s biggest investment project. Juan Jimenez, Humala’s
third Cabinet chief in less than a year, replaces Oscar Valdes.
Humala, who also named his fourth interior minister, retained
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla, Energy & Mines Minister Jorge
Merino and Foreign Trade Minister Jose Silva.  Given there was no change in the Finance and Mining
ministers, the reshuffle is having little impact in the local
market, Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.,
said in a phone interview from  Stamford , Connecticut.  The sol closed little changed at 2.6365 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.6375 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  The central bank said on its website that it didn’t buy
dollars in the  spot market  today. So far this month, it has
purchased $745 million to slow the sol’s advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  