-- TPG Returns With Reduced $714 Million Bid for Billabong
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-24T06:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tpg-returns-with-reduced-714-million-bid-for-billabong.html
TPG Capital, the buyout firm run by
 David Bonderman , returned with a reduced A$695 million ($714
million) offer for  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , five months
after the Australian surf-wear maker rejected its bid.  TPG’s conditional cash proposal of A$1.45 a share may be
amended if it gains access to the company’s financial data,  Gold
Coast , Australia-based Billabong said today in a statement. The
company’s stock  surged  20 percent to A$1.32 in Sydney, the
biggest daily gain since Feb. 17.  Billabong has cut its earnings target, sold new shares at a
discount and hired a new chief executive officer since rejecting
an approach from TPG in February that valued the company at
A$851 million. The earlier bid failed after founder and biggest
shareholder Gordon Merchant said he wouldn’t consider an offer
below A$4 a share.  “Merchant will obviously be the big sticking point,” said
Nick Berry, a consumer analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Sydney.  While the latest TPG bid is less than half the A$3.30 a
share offered in February, Billabong has since increased its
issued capital by 86 percent after it raised A$225 million
selling new stock at a discount to repay debt.  Today’s offer is based on 479 million shares on issue and a
net debt position as at June 21 of A$100 million, Billabong said
in a regulatory filing. Colonial First State Investment Ltd. and
Perennial Value Management Ltd. agreed to sell about 12.5
percent of Billabong’s issued capital to TPG, it said.  TPG could lift its bid to about A$1.60 a share, Nomura’s
Berry wrote today in a report.  “Operational performance is
likely to get worse for Billabong before it gets better.”  Share Slump  TPG’s proposal allows Merchant and fellow director Colette Paull to roll all or part of their stakes into the private
company, according to the statement.  Owen Blicksilver , an external spokesman for TPG, declined
to comment.  Billabong  shares , which closed yesterday at A$1.10, had
lost 77 percent of their value in the past 12 months amid weak
retail spending in the company’s home Australian market and
currency moves that have decreased the value of overseas
earnings from its operations in the U.S.,  Latin America  and
 Europe .  “Billabong is a high risk investment and probably not
suitable for mainstream investors,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst Grant Saligari wrote in a note to clients June 22.  Billabong said Feb. 17 it received a A$3 per share cash bid
from TPG and ended talks with the private equity firm 11 days
later after the A$3.30 offer was rejected.  TPG’s A$3.30 a share offer valued Billabong at A$851
million, based on the 258 million shares the company said was
outstanding at the time.  Billabong is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 law firm  Allens. TPG is being counseled by Macquarie Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  