-- Philips Gets Antitrust Immunity as EU Probes CD, DVD Drives
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-24T14:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/philips-claims-antitrust-immunity-as-eu-targets-cd-dvd-drives.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  said it
was granted immunity from fines after the European Union sent
makers of CD and DVD drives formal antitrust complaints claiming
they colluded globally to fix prices.  Philips won’t be punished by the European Commission on the
condition it continues to cooperate with the investigation,
according to an e-mailed statement from Joost Akkermans, a
spokesman for the Amsterdam-based company.  Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. and Philips said they were
among 13 companies sent statements of objections by the European
Commission today. The EU’s Brussels-based antitrust authority,
said it charged the companies with colluding to rig bids for at
least five years on optical disk drives sold to manufacturers of
personal computers and servers. The EU didn’t identify the
suppliers or the customers.  “The commission has concerns that those suppliers may have
coordinated their behavior in bidding events organized by two
major” manufacturers, the EU said in a statement. “This
behavior, if established, may have ultimately affected customers
that bought optical disk drives manufactured by the companies
concerned.”  Hitachi-LG, a joint venture of Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and
Seoul-based  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , received an EU complaint,
according to an e-mailed statement from Hitachi. The company
didn’t elaborate.  U.S. Investigation  Hitachi-LG agreed last year to plead guilty and pay a $21.1
million fine after a U.S. antitrust investigation over collusion
and price-fixing for optical drives to be sold to  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  In addition,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and Toshiba Corp. have said the U.S. Justice Department sought
information from them over the drives.  Optical disk drives include CD-ROM, CD-RW, DVD-ROM and DVD-
RW. They use laser light or electromagnetic waves to read data.  Sony, Hitachi,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , LG and Toshiba are
being sued for compensation by purchasers in a U.S. lawsuit. A
judge ruled in 2010 that the case could proceed while the U.S.
government pursues its criminal probe. Toshiba Samsung Storage
Technology Corp. and Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc., both joint
ventures, and Philips Lite-On Digital Solutions Corp. were also
named in the court filings.  Beth Robins, a spokeswoman in LG’s U.K. press office and
Sylvia Shin, a spokeswoman for Sony  Europe , declined to
immediately comment. Toshiba and Samsung didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The EU can fine companies as much as 10 percent of yearly
sales for operating a cartel to fix prices. Companies can defend
themselves in writing or seek an oral hearing before the
commission makes any decision on fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 