-- Philippine Peso Halts 3-Day Loss After Aquino Speech; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-24T08:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/philippine-peso-halts-3-day-loss-after-aquino-speech-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso halted three
days of losses on speculation investors may increase holdings of
the nation’s assets after President  Benigno Aquino  urged
Congress to pass revenue-boosting measures. Bonds declined.  Aquino in his state-of-the-nation address in  Manila 
yesterday also touted Morgan Stanley’s $1 billion investment in
local financial markets among the successes during his first two
years in office. Gains in the peso were limited after Moody’s
Investors Service cut credit-rating outlooks for  Germany , the
Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative.  “There could be some spillover effects from the state-of-
the-nation” address, said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “But the risk lies for
the peso to weaken. Asian currencies are going to slide due to
the overall risk sentiment.”  The peso closed at 42.045 per dollar in Manila, compared
with 42.058 yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, rose 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, to 6 percent. The peso has risen 4.2 percent this year,
the best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-active currencies.  Foreign funds bought $530 million more local stocks than
they sold so far this month, bringing net purchases this year to
$2.2 billion, according to exchange data.  Aquino urged lawmakers in his address to help bolster the
government’s share of resource contracts and raise excise taxes
on tobacco and alcohol, while pledging to improve infrastructure
to attract investment and create jobs.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 climbed four basis points to 5.64 percent, according to
prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  