-- Poll Shows Some Voters Want More on Romney Taxes, Bain Tenure
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-24T18:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/poll-shows-some-voters-want-more-on-romney-taxes-bain-tenure.html
More than a third of U.S. voters
want to know more about  Mitt Romney ’s tenure at the private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC and how much he paid in taxes,
according to a poll released today.  The  survey  by the Pew Research Center also found that 41
percent of registered voters would like additional information
about Romney’s one term as governor of  Massachusetts , where he
signed health-care legislation that helped serve as the
prototype for the federal plan upheld last month by the U.S.
Supreme Court.  Fewer than one in five voters -- 16 percent -- said they
wanted to know more about Romney’s religion. The presumed
Republican presidential nominee is seeking to become the first
Mormon to win the White House.  “There’s a big gap there in terms of what people want to
hear about Romney’s background, with many more wanting to hear
about his experience as governor and experience in the private
sector,” said Carroll Doherty, associate director of the Pew
Research Center.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign has been attacking
Romney’s decision to limit his tax disclosure to just two years
-- the 2010 filing he released earlier this year and 2011
returns he says will be forthcoming when they are ready.
Romney’s father, George, released 12 years of returns while
running for president in 1968. Some Republicans have echoed the
Democratic calls for Mitt Romney to release more of his returns.  In the Pew poll, 36 percent of voters said they wanted more
information about Romney’s tax returns. This included 35 percent
of independents surveyed, along with 56 percent of Democrats and
18 percent of Republicans.  Bain Issue  Obama and his campaign also have criticized Romney over
Boston-based Bain, which he cofounded and led. The Democrats
have spotlighted job layoffs and outsourcing by companies that
dealt with Bain.  Romney, who cites his business background as the
qualification that shows he can improve the economy as
president, faced attacks on Bain during the race for the
Republican presidential nomination.  During the primaries, a super-political action committee
backing Republican rival  Newt Gingrich  released a 28-minute film
that called Romney a “corporate raider” motivated by greed.  The Pew survey shows that 35 percent of voters wanted to
know more about Romney’s record at Bain, including 37 percent of
independents. Among Democrats, 42 percent wanted more
information on this subject, while among Republicans the figure
was 27 percent.  Governor’s Term  There was no partisan divide concerning Romney’s 2003-2007
gubernatorial term. The poll found 44 percent of Republicans, 41
percent of Democrats and 42 percent of independents wanting more
information.  Romney’s health-care law required Massachusetts residents
to buy health insurance or pay a penalty, the same individual
mandate at the center of the measure Obama championed. Romney
has pledged to repeal the national law.  “When you ask voters about what they’re most interested
in, it’s policy proposals and legislative background,” Doherty
said. “This poll is consistent with that; Democrats,
Republicans, independents all say they’d like to hear more about
Romney’s record as governor.”  Overall, 69 percent of voters said they had enough
information about Romney while 28 percent wanted more. For
Obama, 90 percent said they knew enough about him while 8
percent said they wanted to learn more.  “Most voters at this stage have made up their minds and
most voters think that they’ve learned about everything they
need to know about the candidates,” Doherty said.  The survey of 798 registered voters taken July 19-22 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points for its
entire sample. For subsets of Democratic, Republican and
independent voters, the margins of error ranged from 6.7
percentage points to 7.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 