-- Posco Profit Drops 44% as Demand Wanes From Shipbuilders
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-07-24T09:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/posco-profit-drops-as-demand-wanes-from-carmakers-shipbuilders.html
Posco (005490) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, said second-quarter profit declined 44
percent as demand waned from carmakers and shipbuilders.  Net income  was 704 billion won ($614 million) in the three
months ended June 30 on a parent basis, compared with 1.25
trillion won a year earlier, the Pohang, South Korea-based
company said today in a regulatory filing. That missed the 723
billion won average of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 8.1 percent to 9.22 trillion won.  Posco today cut its 2012 sales targets for the second time
this year amid falling demand, saying the business environment
looks “volatile.” Sales are forecast to reach 37.5 trillion
won on a parent basis, compared with the 37.7 trillion won
target released in April, the company said in the statement.  “The demand outlook is still dim amid global economic
headwinds, while oversupply issues in key Asian markets are yet
to be resolved,” Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which overseas about
$28 billion, said today by phone. “Earnings may improve a bit
on lower raw materials costs.”  Posco shares rose 0.8 percent to close at 362,500 won in
Seoul trading today. The announcement came after the stock
market closed. The stock has fallen 4.6 percent this year,
compared with a 1.7 percent drop in the benchmark  Kospi index .  Steelmaking Profits  Operating profit at Posco fell 29 percent to 1.06 trillion
won, beating the 961 billion won average of 22  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit margin was 11.5 percent
in the second quarter, compared with 14.9 percent a year
earlier, and 4.5 percent in the first quarter of this year, the
company said.  “Business environments in second half will be worse than
expected early this year because of weak demand from
construction and shipbuilders,” Chief Financial Officer Park Ki
Hong told investors today in Seoul. “Still, our profitability
in the second half will be better than the first half, driven by
falling raw material prices.”  Third-quarter profit may be 808.6 billion won according to
the average of 13 analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg
before today’s results. That compares with last year’s 248.5
billion won.  Steelmaking profits are under pressure as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and  China ’s economic slowdown curb demand and reduce
prices. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest listed
steelmaker, had a bigger-than-expected 60 percent drop in first-
quarter profit on slowing demand, while  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ’s
profit fell 37 percent to 58.5 billion yen in the 12 months
ended March 31 from a year earlier.  Shipyard Orders  South Korean shipyards won orders for $11.7 billion of
vessels in the first five months of this year, 50 percent less
than a year earlier, according to data from Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the biggest global shipbroker. Demand
from carmakers may weaken in the second half due to falling
domestic auto sales, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. said
in a July 6 report.  Crude steel output rose 1.3 percent to 9.41 million metric
tons in the second quarter and sales increased 0.1 percent to
8.67 million tons,  South Korea ’s biggest producer said today.  Domestic steel demand is expected to rise in the third-
quarter from a year ago and China’s steel market may rebound
“slightly” after bottoming in the third-quarter, Posco said.
Annual steel demand is seen expanding 3 percent driven by
 emerging markets  and the U.S., the company said in a
presentation.  The average price of  China’s hot-rolled coils , a regional
benchmark product, tumbled to 3,720  yuan  a ton today, the lowest
level since December 2009, according to researcher Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co.  Stake Sales  The steelmaker will sell its stakes in more than 10
companies this year that were bought for investments, Executive
Vice President Lee Young Hoon and CFO Park told investors today.
The funds raised will be used to increase the company’s presence
in steel material and energy developments, Park said.  Posco is the world’s fourth-biggest steel producer by 2011
output according to  rankings  on the website of the World Steel
Association. It is Asia’s third-largest producer after Hebei
Iron & Steel Group and Baosteel Group Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  