-- PPR Finds Bolt No Match for Champagne in Race with LVMH
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-24T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ppr-finds-bolt-no-match-for-champagne-in-race-with-lvmh.html
When Usain Bolt steps into the
starting blocks at the  London  Olympics, Francois-Henri Pinault
will likely be watching with greater interest than most fans of
the Jamaican sprinter called the fastest man on earth. As chief
executive officer of PPR SA -- the French company that owns
shoemaker  Puma SE (PUM)  -- Pinault has a lot riding on Bolt, one of
the few star athletes to wear the footwear brand.  If Bolt fails to retain his 100-meter title in London, “it
would be a real blow for Puma,” said Thomas Mesmin, an analyst
with brokerage CA Cheuvreux in Paris.  Even if Bolt prevails, trouble at Puma could scuttle
Pinault’s two-year-old plan to unload retail assets and develop
a sporting-goods division, a shift aimed at helping PPR double
 revenue  to 24 billion euros ($29 billion) from 2011 to 2020.  Puma, whose endorsement of Bolt is worth at least 2.5
million euros a year, according to researcher Sport + Markt AG,
cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts last week, citing
wilting demand in  Europe . If the situation worsens,  PPR (PP)  may
reconsider the sporting-goods strategy, Mesmin predicts.  On a conference call in April, PPR deputy CEO Jean-Francois Palus branded as “ludicrous” the notion that the company would
give up on Puma or sporting goods.  When Pinault outlined his strategy in 2010, he argued that
brands like Puma are more profitable and have better potential
for expansion than online retailer Redcats and the Fnac media
and electronics chain that he is seeking to sell.  Little Relief  As growth slows in Europe, the U.S. and  China , Puma hasn’t
provided much relief for PPR because it relies on roughly the
same cohort of middle-class consumers that the company’s
retailers do. Competitor  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, (MC)  by
contrast, has focused on businesses that cater to far wealthier
customers -- a group that fares better in tough times.  LVMH, the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , gets more
than half its  revenue  from alcohol, perfume, cosmetics and duty-
free retailing. Sales of each of those business units outpaced
Puma’s growth in the first quarter, with revenue at the Sephora
beauty chain and DFS duty-free stores rising three times as fast
as the sporting-goods maker in the period.  Sales of sporting goods are unlikely to grow faster than
luxury goods any time soon as the latter have more room to
expand in  emerging markets , according to Michael Neft, an
analyst at ING Investment Management, which holds shares of PPR
and LVMH.  Sporting Lifestyle  “In luxury, there’s a lot less competition between the
brands,” Neft said. “The sportswear side is much more of a
market share-competition game.”  Challenging market leaders  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Adidas AG (ADS)  while
remaining competitive on price is difficult given their scale
and spending power, Neft said. Puma has sought to carve out a
niche with apparel that evokes a sporting lifestyle rather than
athletic gear targeted at serious sports enthusiasts -- the
domain of Adidas and Nike.  And the advertising firepower of the two leading sportswear
brands is immense: Nike reports it spent $2.7 billion on
marketing last year and Adidas says it laid out $1.7 billion,
both roughly 10 percent of sales. Even though Puma devoted 18
percent of revenue to what it calls “marketing/retail
expenses,” that added up to just $666 million.  PPR  shares  have fallen 19 percent since it diversified into
sporting goods in 2007, when it bought its first stake in Puma.
LVMH has advanced 40 percent. PPR will tomorrow report that
second-quarter revenue from continuing operations rose 15
percent to 3.05 billion euros, according to the median of three
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. LVMH sales rose 24
percent in the period to 6.27 billion euros, estimates show.  Creating Problems  While PPR blamed a slowdown in  France ,  Italy  and the U.K.
for Puma’s revised forecast of mid-single digit revenue growth
and a “significant” drop in profit, some of the sporting-goods
producer’s problems are of its own making. The purveyor of $45
polo shirts and $185 soccer cleats has trailed Nike and Adidas
in revenue growth and its strategy of mixing fashion and
performance remains unproven, said Credit Suisse analyst  Rogerio Fujimori .  “We see lower barriers to entry for sports and lifestyle
relative to European luxury goods,” Fujimori wrote in a July 6
note. Competitive pressure “on Puma has intensified.”  The difficulties at Puma stand in even sharper relief in
light of the trouble PPR has had in finding a buyer for  Redcats 
since putting the e-tailer up for sale a year ago. Now PPR is
trying sell the company, which owns more than a dozen apparel
and home furnishing websites, in pieces. That process will
likely slide into next year and yield a lower price than the
company had anticipated, according to people familiar with the
situation.  2020 Target  Puma’s troubles and the delayed asset sales will make it
harder for PPR to reach its 24 billion-euro  sales target , even
if Gucci,  Bottega Veneta ,  Yves Saint Laurent  and its other
luxury brands continue to grow as predicted. Pinault has said 40
percent of 2020 revenue will come from the sports and lifestyle
division, which includes surf- and skate-wear brand Volcom,
shoemaker Tretorn and Cobra Golf, up from 26 percent last year.  To achieve the 2020 goal, Puma’s revenue -- 3 billion euros
last year -- would need to grow 8 percent annually over the next
nine years, CA Cheuvreux’s Mesmin estimates. Since PPR bought
Puma, they’ve expanded by about 6 percent a year on average.  “We’ve always been very cautious” about PPR’s sporting
goods strategy, Mesmin said. “They need a very significant
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  