-- Predators Match Flyers’ $110 Million NHL Offer to Shea Weber
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-24T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/predators-match-flyers-110-million-nhl-offer-to-shea-weber.html
The  Nashville Predators  retained
Shea Weber by matching the Philadelphia Flyers’ 14-year, $110
million contract offer to the All-Star defenseman.  Weber, 26, has spent his first seven National Hockey League
seasons in Nashville, where he is a team captain and was a
finalist as the league’s top defenseman last season. The Flyers
signed Weber, a restricted free agent, to an offer sheet on July
19 and the Predators had seven days to match.  The Predators said that Weber’s contract is the “most
important hockey transaction in franchise history” and had
spent the week analyzing all aspects of the offer, from the
economic implications on the team to the impact on the players
who are put on the ice.  “Most importantly was the reaction to whatever decision
the organization reached and the impact it would have on our
fans, sponsors and marketing partners,” the Predators said in a
 statement . “It was absolutely essential that they understand
and believe that we are doing everything possible to ice a
 Stanley Cup  competing team each and every season.”  Nashville, which has made the playoffs in seven of the past
eight seasons, this month lost defenseman Ryan Suter to the
 Minnesota Wild  as a free agent.  Predators Chairman Tom Cigarran, General Manager David Poile and Chief Executive Jeff Cogen said in a statement that
they concluded that Weber was the player they wanted to lead the
team for the next 14 years and that matching the offer sheet was
in the best interest of the organization.  Negative Message  They also said that failing to match the Flyers’ $110
million offer for Weber would have sent a negative message to
players and other NHL teams that the Predators “would only go
so far to protect its best players and be pushed around by teams
with ‘deep pockets.”’  Weber had 19 goals and 30 assists last season as Nashville
went 48-26-8 before losing to the  Phoenix Coyotes  in the Western
Conference semifinals.  Weber was awarded a one-year, $7.5 million contract through
arbitration prior to last season and had become a restricted
free agent after failing to reach a long-term deal with
Nashville. He has 99 goals and 164 assists in his career.  “We were trying to add a top defenseman entering the prime
of his career,” Flyers General Manager Paul Holmgren said in a
 statement . “With Nashville matching our offer, we wish Shea and
the Predators all the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  