-- Trading Surges Boosted Whale Positions Before Audits
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/trading-surges-boosted-whale-positions-before-audits.html
Trading surges that temporarily
boosted the value of credit derivatives held by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  may provide clues about whether traders at the bank masked
losses that have spiraled to $5.8 billion.  Spikes in late January and again at the end of February,
which more than doubled the volume of trades in an index tied to
the creditworthiness of companies, lowered the cost of the
index, raising the value of the bank’s holdings. The surges came
just before end-of-the-month bank audits to verify prices.  The trading patterns offer a road map for investigators
after the biggest U.S. bank by assets restated first-quarter
earnings to account for a larger loss on the derivatives than
previously disclosed. JPMorgan, which shut the London-based
group responsible for the trades in its chief investment office,
said an internal probe found evidence, without providing
specifics, that employees may have tried to hide losses.  “That’s a huge red flag,” Craig Pirrong, a finance
professor at the  University of Houston  in  Texas  whose research
focuses on derivatives markets, said in a phone interview about
the bank’s comments on the integrity of how the holdings were
valued. “It could open a Pandora’s box.”  Investigators will want to look into whether traders tried
to manipulate the price of an index to boost the value of
holdings, said  John Coffee , a securities-law professor at
Columbia University Law School. Such actions resemble what’s
called “painting the tape,” in which a trader engages in
“purchases that are motivated only by a desire to influence a
price in a thin market,” he said. Prosecutors and plaintiffs’
lawyers would need to prove intent, Coffee said.  IG9 Position  Because JPMorgan had amassed such large positions in the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series 9, known
as IG9, even a small change in prices could generate a big
difference in the value of the trades.  JPMorgan said July 13 that the internal review raised
questions about the integrity of prices the chief investment
office used to value its positions in  credit derivatives ,
insurance-like instruments in which sellers agree to cover
losses if the debt they’re linked to defaults. The bank said it
adjusted prices used at the end of March, leading the New York-
based bank to reduce first-quarter net income by $459 million.  “E-mails, voice tapes and other documents, supplemented by
interviews” were “suggestive of trader intent not to mark
positions where they believed they could execute,” the bank
said in a  presentation  July 13 as it reported second-quarter  net
income  that fell 9 percent to $4.96 billion. “Traders may have
been seeking to avoid showing full amount of losses.”  Double Volume  The U.S.  Justice Department  and  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation in  New York  started a probe of the trading losses
in May, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.
Regulators from the Securities and Exchange Commission also are
reviewing trades that led to the losses.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment on the trading pattern or strategy.  Volumes in the IG9 index, which tracks credit swaps tied to
121 companies, all of which were investment grade more than four
years ago, surged in the three days ended Jan. 27 to twice the
average, Markit Group Ltd. data show. More than $19 billion of
the index changed hands in 184 trades from Jan. 25 through Jan.
27. The average daily volume of $6.4 billion in that period is
double the $3.3 billion during the first quarter, the data show.  The cost of protecting against default on the index dropped
6.7 basis points in the period, raising the value for those like
JPMorgan that had sold insurance, even as a more recent and
widely used version of the index fell by just 3.6 basis points.
A basis point, or 0.01 percent, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt. The data don’t identify
which firms are making the trades.  February Surge  In the last two days of February, trading volumes again
ballooned to twice the quarterly average, fueling a 5-basis-
point drop in the index even as the more active benchmark fell
1.4, Markit data show.  As the cost of default insurance on the IG9 index fell,
JPMorgan’s position benefited. Similar to how the price of a
bond rises when yields on the debt falls, the value of a credit
swap rises for traders who sell protection when the premium on
that contract declines.  An internal control group at JPMorgan verifies all prices
across the bank’s trading businesses at the end of each month
and quarter, according to three former chief investment office
executives and a senior executive in market risk. Bloomberg
News, citing people familiar with the matter, reported May 30
that the office was valuing some of its trades at prices that
differed from those of its investment bank, the biggest swaps
dealer in the U.S., potentially obscuring by hundreds of
millions of dollars the magnitude of the loss.  London Whale  At the center of the trading was Bruno Iksil, a French-born
trader in  London  who ran the credit-derivatives book that
generated the losses. He came to be known as the London Whale
because the size of his bets grew so large. When market-makers
asked Iksil how much he wanted to trade, he implied he was able
to handle as much as they liked, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the trading who asked not to be identified
because the interactions are private.  “This guy definitely had a substantial influence on the
market,”  David Kelly , director of financial engineering at New
York-based Calypso Technology Inc. and a former manager of
counterparty risk at JPMorgan, said in a phone interview.
“Window dressing your book at the end of the month or year is
certainly nothing new.”  ‘Nothing Wrong’  No regulators or prosecutors have accused Iksil or other
traders in the group of wrongdoing.  Iksil, who no longer works at JPMorgan, hasn’t commented
publicly on the trading loss and didn’t return phone calls. His
lawyer, Raymond Silverstein, said in an e-mail that Iksil
“considers he did nothing wrong and will cooperate fully with
the authorities.”  While trading data don’t show how much of the surge was
caused by JPMorgan, the bank had amassed a position in the IG9
index that may have been as much as $100 billion, Bloomberg News
reported April 5, citing traders outside the firm who said they
based their estimates on trades and price movements they
witnessed as well as their understanding of the size and
structure of the markets.  Credit Swaps  In the 14 weeks ended April 6, outstanding bets on the
index using credit swaps rose an unprecedented 65 percent to
$148.2 billion, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp., which runs a central registry for the market.  Dealer positions in IG9, or the amount of protection they
sold less what they bought, jumped 28 percent in the week ended
Jan. 27 to $28.5 billion, according to the DTCC. JPMorgan is the
only one of the six biggest U.S. banks to have sold more
protection on investment-grade companies than it bought, data
compiled by the  Federal Reserve  through the end of March show.  JPMorgan said July 13 that it ousted managers responsible
for the transactions and would claw back their pay. The company
didn’t name the managers.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said last month that
the group’s credit-derivatives bets initially were intended as a
hedge for the bank against a financial crisis or economic slump.
Executives ordered the chief investment office to pare those
positions at the end of 2011, before tougher capital rules were
set to kick in. Instead, the team started executing trades
intended to offset the hedges, including selling protection on
IG9 largely using contracts set to expire in December 2017,
market participants have said.  Bigger Exposure  The net amount of credit-derivatives protection JPMorgan
sold on investment-grade companies using contracts expiring in
more than five years doubled to $101.3 billion in the three
months ended March 31, according to Fed data.  After the bank’s initial bets, the largest trades typically
came at month-end, Markit data show.  The trades starting in January left the bank with even
bigger and harder-to-manage exposures, Dimon, 56, told the
Senate Banking Committee last month. The group “embarked on a
complex strategy that entailed adding positions that it believed
would offset the existing ones,” Dimon said in June 13
testimony.  JPMorgan cut its positions in IG9 by 70 percent through
July 13, and the bank transferred about $30 billion of risk-
weighted assets to the investment bank from the chief investment
office, an amount that is “down substantially” from the peak
and back to levels at the end of 2011, Dimon said.  Losses on the botched trades in the first two quarters grew
to $5.8 billion, and the bank could lose an additional $1.7
billion, he said.  JPMorgan “would love to say that this was all done by a
rogue employee” and that the bank was the victim, said Coffee,
the Columbia securities-law professor. At the same time, “if he
was manipulating the price, he was an authorized person of
JPMorgan, and they could be held vicariously liable for what
he’s doing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  