-- Transneft Shares Buoyed as Cash Rises as Spending Slows: Freight
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-07-24T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/transneft-shares-buoyed-as-cash-rises-as-spending-slows-freight.html
OAO Transneft probably will produce
what investor  Ivan Mazalov  calls “massive” cash this year as
the pipeline operator delivers Kremlin-backed projects supplying
oil to  Asia  and the  Baltic Sea . That may return investors to one
of  Russia ’s cheapest energy stocks.  Transneft says  investment  spending will decline 29 percent
this year to 107.6 billion rubles ($3.4 billion) as it completes
a pipe shipping oil to the Pacific port of Kozmino. The first
leg opened last year with deliveries of crude to  China . The
state-controlled company is over the hump on at least 502
billion rubles in planned investments, including a pipeline and
port on the Baltic that opened this March.  “Completion of these pipeline projects is important
because the company will start to have massive free  cash flow ”
as capital spending falls, said Mazalov, who helps manage about
$4 billion at Prosperity Capital Management in Moscow and holds
Transneft’s preferred shares. The Russian state owns 100 percent
of the company’s common stock.  Transneft has served as President  Vladimir Putin ’s main
instrument in implementing the Kremlin’s energy strategy of
reaching new markets and diversifying export routes. The
pipeline operator has linked Russian output to growing Asian
demand previously dependent on the  Middle East  for supply.  It hasn’t been cheap. Transneft took out $10 billion in
loans from China as part of a 20-year, 300,000 barrel-a-day
supply deal with Asia’s largest economy. China also lent OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, $15 billion to help
produce the crude. November’s second leg of the East Siberian
Pacific Ocean pipeline adds another $10 billion to the bill,
though much of it has already been invested, Transneft says.  Cheap Stock  The shares have fallen 1.9 percent to 48,654 rubles this
year, less than the 2.4 percent decline in Moscow’s Micex Index.
At the same time, investors have reacted to spending and low
dividend yields by making the Moscow-based company’s preferred
shares the cheapest in Russian energy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares trade at 1.7 times earnings,
followed by 2.7 times for  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)   “Transneft has gone over its spending peak,” said Olga Danilenko, an oil and gas analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow.
“Even if major outflows remain, it will become free cash flow
positive this year or next. It is imminent.”  Dividend growth will be the catalyst for Transneft shares,
Danilenko said. She has a buy recommendation on the stock.  More Dividends?  Putin asked Russian companies to examine increasing
dividend payouts to boost market value at a meeting with
executives including Transneft Chief Executive Officer Nikolay Tokarev in Moscow. The July 10 request followed a June decision
by state-run OAO Rosneft to boost payouts to 25 percent of
income. Rosneft shares, which trade at 5.2 times earnings, have
fallen 7.7 percent this year.  Transneft management has resisted any change to its policy
of paying out no more than about 10 percent of net income by
Russian Accounting Standards to preferred shareholders.  Minority shareholders  Prosperity Capital , East Capital and
Vostok Nafta sent a letter to then-Prime Minister Putin in 2010
asking him to privatize 25 percent of the company’s common
stock, saying a change in dividend policy was a way to improve
valuation. Transneft said in a March 16, 2011, document that
paying more dividends would curtail aid to orphans and other
charity work.  Adding Debt  Transneft’s dividend policy is set by its main shareholder,
the Russian state, said company spokesman Igor Dyomin. It may
not be expedient to increase dividends while the company has
such a high level of investment commitments and debt payments,
Dyomin said, citing management. These conditions will last until
2015 at the earliest,  Renaissance Capital  said on May 18, citing
Transneft First Vice President Maxim Grishanin.  The company’s investment case may end up mirroring that of
Rosneft, which focused on reducing debt rather than raising
dividends, Oleg Maximov and other analysts at Troika Dialog
wrote in a May 18 note.  Rosneft ran net debt up to $26.3 billion in 2007 as it
bought assets from bankrupt Yukos Oil Company. By the end of
2010 it had cut that figure to $13.7 billion, according to
documents on the company website. The stock’s dividend yield
failed to rise above 1.5 percent during that same period,
according to Bloomberg data.  Transneft revenue rose 49.8 percent to 670.3 billion rubles
last year, according to a company presentation. Net income
jumped 58.6 percent to 188.1 billion rubles and Transneft had
605.3 billion rubles of current and non-current borrowings.  Dividends Down  The company’s  leverage  has risen to the level where net
debt in 2011 equaled 0.9 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, as opposed to 0.1 times the
indicator in 2001. Danilenko said. Dividends, by contrast, are
down, to $24.40 per preferred share in 2011. That’s lower than
in each of 2001, 2002 and 2003, she added.  The company ships about 93 percent of the oil produced in
Russia, the world’s second-largest producer behind  Saudi Arabia .  The main risk with Transneft is that the state may propose
another large-scale project that would again stretch Transneft’s
resources, Danilenko said.  Any Transneft involvement in Rosneft’s projects to explore
the arctic Kara Sea with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , for instance, would
certainly be expensive, she said. Thus far, Exxon and Rosneft
haven’t involved Transneft, planning to load crude to tankers
from floating storage and off-loading facilities, she said.  “Nobody doubts Transneft’s capability and the value of the
assets,” she said. The preferred shares are cheap because
“minorities are not sure if they are treated as shareholders or
if they will ever get returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  