-- Treasury Yield Is Three Basis Points From Low on Europe
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-24T04:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/treasury-yield-is-two-basis-points-from-low-on-europe.html
Treasury yields were three basis
points from the record low set yesterday after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the rating outlook for  Germany , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, driving demand for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Investors are willing to give up 62 basis points of yield
to buy Treasuries instead of government securities in other
nations, based Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master index and Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus index. The
difference is the most in almost four weeks. The U.S. plans to
sell $99 billion of notes over three days starting with a two-
year auction today.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  were little changed at
1.43 percent as of 1:30 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in
May 2022 was 102 29/32. The record low rate set yesterday was
1.3960 percent.  “I don’t expect Treasury yields to go up unless we see
some positive news from  Europe ,” said Hajime Nagata, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $124 billion as an investor in Tokyo
at Diam Co. Nagata said he added to his holdings about a month
ago when yields were 1.65 percent and plans to keep his bet on
U.S. debt.  Japan ’s 10-year rate rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.73 percent.  Australia ’s 15-year yield was
as low as 3.025 percent, the least ever.  Support Likely  Moody’s cited risks that  Greece  may leave the 17-nation
euro bloc and the “increasing likelihood” of collective
support for European countries such as  Spain  and  Italy  for
yesterday’s changes to the ratings outlook for Germany, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg.  Spain’s  bonds  tumbled yesterday on speculation other
regions will follow Valencia in asking for financial aid,
increasing the odds the country will need a sovereign bailout.
Ten-year yields rose as high as 7.565 percent, the most since
November 1996.  Demand for Treasuries pushed yields on U.S. five-, 10- and
30-year debt to record lows yesterday. Five-year notes yielded
as little as 54 basis points, or 0.54 percent.  U.S.  government securities  returned 2.8 percent in the
three months ended yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, as Europe’s debt crisis drove investors
to the safest securities. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks fell 3.9 percent in the period, including reinvested
dividends.  Higher Yields?  The 14-day  relative strength index  for two-year U.S.
government bonds was 30.9, near the 30 level that some traders
see as an indication that an asset may reverse direction. The
figure dropped to as low as 26.4 last week. The two-year yield
declined to 0.19 percent yesterday, the least since September
2011.  The Federal Reserve plans to  buy  as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 today as part of a
program known as Operation Twist. The central bank is swapping
short-term Treasuries in its holdings for longer maturities to
support the economy by putting downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs.  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said yesterday U.S. policy
makers will debate at a meeting next week whether to start
another program to spur growth through large-scale Fed purchases
of bonds.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing, seeking to cap borrowing costs and
stimulate the economy.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.5 percent by Dec. 31, said
Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., a unit of Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank by
assets.  “Treasury yields are so much lower than what the U.S.
economic situation suggests,” he said. “The housing market
recovery is much stronger than expected.”  Sales of new homes may have risen to a 371,000 annual pace
in June, the most since April 2010, according to economist
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey before figures from the
Commerce Department tomorrow.  While U.S. economic growth is limited, it would be an
“overreaction” to suggest it is headed for a recession,
according to  Bob Doll , who serves as an adviser to  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager which oversees about
$3.6 trillion. Doll, who was the company’s former chief equity
strategist for fundamental equities,  commented  yesterday on
BlackRock’s website.  $99 Billion  The Treasury Department is selling $35 billion of two-year
notes today, the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow and $29
billion of seven-year bonds on July 26.  Two-year notes yielded 0.215 percent in pre-auction
trading, versus 0.313 percent the last time the notes were sold
on June 26. Investors submitted orders for 3.62 times the amount
of available debt last month. The  average  over for the past 10
sales is 3.72.  Direct bidders , non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 7.9 percent of the securities. Indirect
bidders, which include foreign central banks,  bought  31.7
percent of the debt, the least since December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 