-- Record Soybean-Meal Price Seen Cutting EU Livestock-Feed Demand
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-24T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/record-soybean-meal-price-seen-cutting-eu-livestock-feed-demand.html
Soybean-meal consumption in the
European Union, the world’s biggest importer, may be set to fall
after drought in the U.S. sent prices to a record high, Oil
World said.  European livestock producers, especially pig farmers, are
already cutting their herds because rising feed prices have
eroded profits, the Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-
mailed report. A weaker euro also has made feed imports more
expensive for farmers in the 27-country bloc, according to the
report. Soybean meal reached a record $509.80 per 2,000 pounds
on July 23 on the Chicago Board of Trade.  “Consumption of soya meal in the EU-27 will probably be
more affected than in other countries by the supply shortage and
the steep price increase,” Oil World said. “The feed sector
must be prepared for soya meal prices staying at unusually high
levels in the next five to six months.”  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has said the country’s
soybean crop, the world’s biggest, is in the worst condition
since 1988 and declared almost a third of U.S. counties as
natural- disaster areas  because of drought. Soybean futures have
surged more than 25 percent since mid-June. Without improved
weather in the U.S., “there are only few factors left that can
break the current  bull market ,” Oil World said.  The EU’s usage of soybean meal may be 1.4 million metric
tons less than the previous season’s consumption of 32.6 million
tons, Oil World said.  Less Demand  “The recent explosion of feed costs will inevitably lead
to demand destruction in the feed use of corn and soya meal in
the coming six months,” Oil World said. “Once livestock herds,
in particular pigs, are reduced, there will be a significantly
smaller demand base for some time.”  The price of soybean meal shipped from  Argentina  to
Rotterdam jumped 71 percent in the past year when calculated in
euros, while prices have appreciated 46 percent in dollar terms,
the researcher said. Argentine export registrations for soybean
meal shipped to the EU total 550,000 tons so far this month,
compared with an average 1.1 million in July during the past
four years, the report showed.  Livestock producers in  Europe  may substitute soybean meal
with feed wheat after rainy conditions in some areas increased
supplies of the grain, Oil World said. Feed manufacturers in
Europe have also stepped up imports of products including
sunflower meal and palm-kernel meal to replace soy, it said.  “Elevated grain and oilmeal prices will continue to
undermine the profitability of the European compound feed
industry in 2012,” Oil World said. “On top of that, the
prospective sluggish economic growth worldwide and in the EU-27
will prevent a recovery of European consumers’ buying and is
likely to facilitate a shift from red meat to more affordable
poultry meat in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  