-- Regions Shares Rise as Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-24T20:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/regions-profit-increases-as-loan-loss-provisions-decrease.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-
largest  U.S. bank  by deposits, gained in  New York  trading after
reporting second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
provisions for loan losses declined.  Regions climbed 4.1 percent to $6.65 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York. Earnings available to common shareholders increased to
$284 million, or 20 cents a share, from $55 million, or 4 cents,
a year earlier, the Birmingham, Alabama-based bank said today in
a statement. Adjusted per-share earnings were 20 cents, compared
with the  average estimate  of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
for per-share profit of 14 cents.  Regions posted its sixth profit in the past seven quarters
as provisions for loan losses tumbled to $26 million from $398
million a year earlier. Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall,
55, has said his goal is to return the bank to what he calls
sustainable profitability. The company repaid the Treasury
Department’s $3.5 billion in bailout funds earlier this year.  “We continued to make incremental progress on many key
fronts and are pleased with the improvement of our financial
performance despite considerable economic and political
uncertainty and an uneven economic recovery,” Hall said in the
statement.  The bank’s shares gained 49 percent this year through
yesterday, the best performer in the  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   The loan-loss provision in the second quarter is not at a
“normalized” level because of non-performing loans that were
paid off in the period, Chief Credit Officer Barb Godin said on
a conference call following the results. The provision will
probably be higher in the future, she said.  Service Charges  Non-interest income declined 6.6 percent to $507 million
from a year earlier as service charges on deposit accounts fell
24 percent to $233 million. Net interest income fell 2.1 percent
to $838 million from a year earlier. Non-interest expense
dropped 12 percent to $842 million.  Total loans decreased 6.1 percent to $76.2 billion from the
year-earlier period as residential first mortgage, consumer
credit-card and investor real estate portfolios posted declines.  Regions’s net interest margin, the difference between what
a bank pays to borrow money and what it gets for loans, widened
to 3.16 percent from 3.07 percent a year earlier.  Regions has “room for improvement” on deposit costs,
which will help keep the net interest margin stable amid record-
low  interest rates , Hall said on the call.  Non-performing loans were $1.92 billion, the first time
that figure fell below $2 billion in three years, according to
the statement. Net charge-offs fell 52 percent to $265 million.  Net income more than tripled to $355 million from $109
million in the second quarter last year. Regions reported $4
million of net income from the sale of its Morgan Keegan & Co.
brokerage unit in April. The figure was reduced by $71 million,
or 5 cents a share, due to the repayment of Troubled Asset
Relief Program funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 