-- Nuclear Dump Dominates NRC Chief’s First Trip to Congress
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-24T18:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/republicans-urge-nrc-not-to-overwhelm-industry-with-rules.html
The new chairman of the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  told Congress the U.S. needs a permanent
site to store radioactive waste and declined to back Republican
lawmakers who sought to restart the Yucca Mountain project.  While  Allison Macfarlane  reiterated that picking a site
wasn’t an NRC task, she said cash remains available to evaluate
Yucca. She estimated the U.S. has spent $8 billion on the
project.  House Republicans , who were asking about the slow pace
of work, put the cost at $15 billion.  “No matter whether you go direct disposal of spent fuel or
you recycle,” Macfarlane, in office for two weeks, said today
at a hearing of two panels of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee in Washington, “you will need a final repository.”  Macfarlane’s predecessor,  Gregory Jaczko , selectively
provided colleagues with information to keep the Yucca project
from advancing, the agency’s inspector general said in June
2011. The accusations, along with complaints from colleagues
about Jaczko’s bullying and intimidation of staff, led to his
resignation in May, a year before his term was to end.  U.S. plans for the waste site at Yucca, about 100 miles
(161 kilometers) northwest of  Las Vegas , are opposed by
lawmakers led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat. Jaczko had worked for Reid as a science adviser.  Yucca Debate  The Obama administration in 2010 sought to withdraw Yucca’s
license application, which an NRC panel turned down. The agency
hasn’t issued a final decision. Republicans have said Obama’s
plan to scrap Yucca lacked a “scientific or technical
evaluation.”  Macfarlane, who holds a doctorate degree in geology from
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , has said Yucca
violated a criteria to put a dump in a geologically stable
location. “Yucca Mountain is neither seismically nor
volcanically stable,” she told the Senate Environment and
Public Works Committee on March 2006.  Today, Macfarlane said that she did most of her research on
Yucca during the 2000s, when an analysis of the region was
limited. Asked by reporters whether her views might change based
on new information, she replied, “always a possibility.”  “Right now there is no Yucca Mountain issue before us,”
she also told reporters.  Representative Lois Capps, a California Democrat,
questioned Macfarlane about cooling pools crowded with spent
fuel. The chairman agreed such storage is “an issue” and said
dry casks, an opton to store used fuel, perform very well.  Georgia, California  Macfarlane often deferred to colleagues today on questions
about construction at  Southern Co. (SO) ’s nuclear-power plant in
Georgia, the performance of  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Palisades facility
in Michigan and deficiencies with steam generator tubes at
 Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear plant in California.  In her prepared testimony, she emphasized her collegial and
collaborative management style, drawing a contrast with her
predecessor.  “I make this commitment to you today: I will devote all my
energies to serving on the NRC with the attributes that I
consider important to good governance -- openness, efficiency
and transparency,” she said in her prepared remarks. “I will
make a strong commitment to collegiality at all levels. An
agency endowed with the public trust such as the NRC requires a
respectful working environment to assure its integrity.”  ‘Fantastic Job’  Her statement was welcomed by House Republicans including
 Fred Upton  of Michigan and NRC employees. Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, who joined the NRC during the  Bush administration ,
said the tone Macfarlane has set in two weeks is constructive
and “most welcome.”  “She’s done a fanstastic job so far,” Commissioner
William Magwood said after the hearing. “We’re very optimistic
about the future.”  Republicans told Macfarlane to avoid distracting the power
industry with too much regulation.  “The NRC and the industry had a full workload of safety
improvements under development before the Fukushima accident
occurred,” Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican,
said. “The commission must be diligent about ensuring its
licensees can focus on completing changes with greatest safety
significance rather than being diverted onto other, less
important changes simply to meet artificial timelines.”  Macfarlane told reporters that her main job is to ensure
public health and safety and that she will issue as many
regulations as it takes to achieve that target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  