-- Tribune Creditors Appeal, Seek to Halt Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-24T18:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tribune-creditors-appeal-seek-to-halt-bankruptcy-plan.html
Tribune Co. creditors appealed the
newspaper chain’s reorganization plan and asked a judge to
temporarily halt the company’s effort to exit bankruptcy.  Aurelius Capital Management LP and other holders of
Tribune’s oldest debts asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey
to suspend his order approving the plan and a related legal
settlement until a higher court reviews the case. Aurelius
claims Carey erred when he approved a settlement that ended some
lawsuits against lenders that financed the more than
$8 billion leveraged buyout of Tribune in 2007.  The creditors hold debt that preceded the buyout loans and
claim that the settlement robbed them of the ability to collect
by leaving Tribune insolvent. They want the settlement set aside
so they can sue.  The “settlement fell far below the lowest rung in the
range of reasonableness,” Aurelius said in court papers filed
yesterday. Under the reorganization plan, the lenders who funded
the 2007 buyout will own Tribune after it exits bankruptcy.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , owes creditors about
$13 billion. The company is valued at more than $7 billion,
Tribune said in court papers. Tribune owns the Los Angeles
Times, the  Chicago Tribune  and television and radio stations
around the country.  Tribune Chief Executive Officer Eddy Hartenstein told
employees in an e-mail that he expects the appeals to fail.  “We also do not expect that these appeals will interfere
with our efforts to emerge from bankruptcy as soon as
possible,” he said in the message.  Faster Appeal  One of the pre-buyout creditors, Law Debenture Trust Co. of
 New York , is seeking to speed up the normal bankruptcy appeal
process by asking the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia to
hear the case, instead of sending it first to a federal district
court in Wilmington.  Should Carey reject the request to halt the case, Tribune
would be free to move on to the next phase in the bankruptcy --
winning approval from federal regulators to transfer its radio
and television licenses to the proposed new owners.  Tribune officials have said the company will be able to
exit bankruptcy this year should federal regulators approve the
reorganization plan and the license transfers.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  