-- Roche’s Lucentis Works to Treat Vision Loss from Diabetes
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-24T12:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/roche-s-lucentis-works-to-treat-vision-loss-from-diabetes.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis works to
treat a leading cause of blindness associated with diabetes,
U.S. regulators said.  The injection improved vision in people with diabetic
macular edema, Food and Drug Administration staff said in a
report today ahead of a July 26 meeting of agency advisers on
expanding approval of Lucentis. The drug is already used to
treat wet age-related macular degeneration. Both diseases
involve swelling of the macula, in the center of the retina.  Lucentis, if approved, would be the first drug cleared for
diabetic macular edema. More than 500,000 people in the U.S.
have the disease, Anthony Adamis, vice president and global head
of ophthalmology at Roche’s Genentech unit said in a telephone
interview. Patients now receive laser therapy.  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , based in Tarrytown,  New York , is studying
its Eylea to treat the condition.  “I think this is going to be transformative for those
people,” Adamis said. “Laser essentially slows the rate of
vision loss but very few people gain vision. But what we saw in
our trial is people gained vision and significant vision.”  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , studied Lucentis as a
monthly injection in a study of 700 patients, about two-thirds
who used the medication while the rest received fake injections,
Adamis said. All were eligible for laser treatment. Almost 45
percent and 34 percent of patients who took a 0.3 milligram dose
of Lucentis were able to read three additional lines of letters
on an eye chart after two years of injections during two
clinical trials, according to  Genentech .  Lucentis patients also were significantly more likely to
achieve 20/40 vision, enough eyesight to drive.  Advisers will compare 0.3 and 0.5 milligram doses of the
drug.  Lucentis Sales  Lucentis brought in  $1.7 billion  for Roche last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lucentis and Eylea are drugs known as anti-vascular
endothelial growth factors. Roche’s cancer drug Avastin also is
an anti-VEGF treatment doctors commonly use to treat wet age-
related macular degeneration even though it doesn’t have FDA
approval for the disease. While drugmakers can’t promote
medicines for uses they aren’t approved for, physicians can
prescribe them for indications not on the label.  Lucentis costs 40 times as much as Avastin. Sixty percent
of Medicare beneficiaries with macular degeneration received
Avastin in 2008, Philip Rosenfeld, an ophthalmology professor at
the University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine, told a
Senate committee a year ago. The repackaging of Avastin for the
eye disease was linked in September 2011 to eye infections, some
of which resulted in blindness.  Medicare payment advisers determined in March that anti-
VEGF treatments improve health outcomes and said they didn’t
have enough evidence to judge between the drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  