-- Romania’s Basescu Says Leu Probably Won’t Rebound After Vote
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-24T13:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/romania-s-basescu-says-leu-probably-won-t-rebound-after-vote.html
Romania ’s suspended President Traian Basescu said the leu probably won’t rebound to levels seen
before recent political turmoil after a July 29 referendum
because of a lack of investor confidence in the country’s
stability.  Basescu told The Money Channel TV today that he wants to
help stop a decline of the leu, which was trading close to a
record low, should he win reinstatement after the referendum.
Prime Minister Victor Ponta told state television TVR late
yesterday that the leu will probably strengthen after the vote
as political turmoil eases.  “Even the National Bank of Romania doesn’t have the huge
resources needed to intervene in the market and keep the leu at
an acceptable level, because they’re drawing close to a floor
below which the bank’s reserves can’t drop,” Basescu said in an
interview. “The central bank has to wait for a moment of calm
to efficiently conduct its interventions.”  The leu is the world’s second-worst performer after the
Sudanese pound this month, losing 3.9 percent because of a
political struggle between Basescu and Ponta’s ruling coalition.
It traded at 4.6308 per euro at 4:26 p.m. in Bucharest.  Overstepped Duties  The governing Social Liberal Union wants to impeach Basescu
in the nationwide vote after it suspended him for one month from
office because he allegedly overstepped his duties when
announcing austerity measures in 2010.  Basescu said the  Finance Ministry  no longer meets some
terms of an agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union because it spent about half of its 5 billion-
euro ($6 billion) “buffer” it was required to maintain as a
shield, to cover various budget expenses. The eastern European
country counts on a 5 billion-euro precautionary loan agreement
as a backstop against the sovereign-debt crisis.  The Finance Ministry has cut its monthly debt issuances and
raised about 1.57 billion lei ($409 million) in July, less than
the 2.25 billion lei planned at Treasury auctions as local banks
pushed up borrowing costs amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
country’s rising political tensions.  Deputy Finance Minister Cristian Sporis reiterated in an
interview to Ziarul Financiar on July 10 that the administration
frontloaded its borrowing program in the first half of the year,
when it benefited from record-low yields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  