-- Rosneft Starts Talk BP to Buy Stake in Russian Venture
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-24T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/rosneft-informs-bp-of-interest-in-buying-stake-in-tnk-bp-1-.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s state-owned
oil producer, began talks to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s stake in TNK-BP as the
U.K. oil company seeks to exit the venture jointly owned with a
group of billionaires.  Rosneft and BP have agreed to start discussions, the
Moscow-based company said in a statement today. The billionaire
partners are also in negotiations to buy some or all of BP’s
stake in Russia’s third-largest oil producer, which UBS AG
estimates has a fair value of $23 billion.  BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley decided to look for a
sale after clashing repeatedly with the other shareholders, who
last year blocked an alliance between the British company and
Rosneft. The sale of the TNK-BP stake to Rosneft may open other
opportunities for BP in Russia, according to  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow.  “It would be the best-case outcome for BP,” Weafer said
in an e-mail today. “Having agreed to a deal with the state, it
would then get access to other major projects in Russia.”  Rosneft shares dropped 0.4 percent to 197.49 by the close
on Moscow’s Micex exchange.  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  slipped 0.7 percent
to 77.99 rubles. BP declined 0.6 percent in  London .  AAR, the group representing the billionaires, said it is
willing to buy half of BP’s 50 percent holding in TNK-BP. That
would take AAR’s holdings to 75 percent of the venture.  TNK-BP Dividends  TNK-BP produced 2.04 million barrels of oil and gas a day
in the first quarter, and output at Rosneft, Russia’s largest
producer, was about 2.63 million barrels a day. TNK-BP has paid
BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003 and accounts for a
quarter of the company’s global output.  Rosneft “considers the potential acquisition of BP’s
participation in TNK-BP to be an attractive commercial
proposition,”  Igor Sechin , Rosneft’s CEO and a former deputy
prime minister, said in a statement. “There are considerable
synergies to be gained in eastern Siberian upstream, gas
development, crude and product logistics optimization.”  Mikhail Fridman , one of the billionaire partners, quit as
TNK-BP CEO earlier this year and said the venture no longer
serves the shareholders’ interests. BP and AAR have failed to
agree on board appointments at TNK-BP that would give it a
quorum to vote on investment decisions and dividends.  TNK-BP said today that the board, which met last week,
rejected a management proposal for the first stage of its Rospan
gas and condensate field because of a lack of support from the
British company’s representatives, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Arctic Deal  The board was given the option to support the entire
project as it was presented or reject it,  Vladimir Buyanov , a
Moscow-based BP spokesman, said by phone. Because BP’s directors
had concerns about parts of the proposal, they voted it down, he
said. The first phase of the project calls for the production of
8.6 billion cubic meters of natural gas a year.  AAR last year blocked a $7.8 billion share swap between
Rosneft and BP and a deal to explore in Russia’s Arctic, saying
it violated the TNK-BP shareholder agreement. The billionaires
then rejected an offer from Rosneft and BP to buy their half of
TNK-BP for $32 billion.  “Rosneft is the most likely purchaser,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “I’m
assuming they’ll pay a decent price of about $25 billion, though
the value’s probably higher so Rosneft will still be getting a
good deal.”  The Russian state, which wants to raise funds by selling
state assets including Rosneft shares, may support an
acquisition, Kremlin spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said.  No Guarantee  “The company’s plans for expansion and development are a
corporate question,” Peskov said. “If the corporate interests
of Rosneft and those of its main shareholder, the government,
align then these plans will be supported and welcomed.”  The Kremlin spokesman said that he hadn’t heard of any
requests from Rosneft to secure financing from the state.  Rosneft said today there can be no guarantee a deal will
take place. BP informed AAR, the group representing TNK-BP’s
billionaire investors, on June 1 it has received expressions of
interests for its shares in TNK-BP and that it would pursue the
opportunity without naming the potential buyer.  BP welcomed Rosneft’s announcement in a statement and said
it will continue to negotiate in good faith with AAR while also
talking to any other potential buyers. AAR declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  