-- Rottapharm Deal to Sell 50% Stake Said to Be Put on Hold
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/rottapharm-deal-to-sell-50-stake-said-to-be-put-on-hold.html
Rottapharm Madaus’s sale of 50
percent of the family-owned Italian drugmaker to private-equity
firms  Clessidra Capital Partners  and Avista Capital Partners has
stalled, according to three people with knowledge of the
process.  Rottapharm entered discussions this year to sell a 50
percent stake to Clessidra and Avista in a transaction valuing
the company at about 1.7 billion euros ($2.05 billion), people
with knowledge of the plan said on May 15. The talks faltered
over disagreement on issues such as shared governance, said one
person, who asked not to be identified as the process was
private. Difficulties raising financing were also an issue, said
another person.  The structure of the agreement was complicated and the
deadline to conclude the transaction has passed, one of the
people said. Negotiations between Rottapharm and the two
private-equity firms may resume as soon as September, two of the
people said. Reuters  reported  this month that the sale was close
to completion, with an announcement expected by the end of July.  The Rovati family searched for months for an outside
investor before reaching an agreement with Clessidra and Avista
in May. The family didn’t want to lose ownership of the company,
which made the negotiations complicated, people familiar with
the process said earlier this year.  Rottapharm, which was founded in 1961, had sales of about
600 million euros in 2010, according to its  website . The company
expanded abroad through deals including the purchase of
 Germany ’s Madaus Pharma in 2007 and now operates in more than 85
countries.  Officials at Rottapharm, Avista and Clessidra, based in
 Italy , declined to comment on the process.  Rottapharm sells Dona, a glucosamine product used to
promote healthy joints, nitroglycerine for heart patients and a
respiratory treatment, Mucoflux.  Debtwire reported earlier that the deal had stalled because
of financing. Debt financing for deals has grown complicated,
and Italian bonds have declined recently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  