-- RRB Energy Targets African Market With Smaller Wind Turbines
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-24T06:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/rrb-energy-targets-african-market-with-smaller-wind-turbines.html
RRB Energy Ltd.,  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS) ’s former joint-venture partner in  India , expects as much as
25 percent of sales next year to come from exports of smaller
turbines to  emerging markets  led by  Africa .  The New Delhi-registered manufacturer, one of the earliest
to enter India’s wind power market in 1987, says it’s bucking an
industry trend toward larger turbines and has restarted
production of a 225-kilowatt machine discontinued in 2005.  “There’s a lot of potential in emerging markets where so
far there’s been no development of wind power like Africa,”
Deputy Managing Director Sarvesh Kumar said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They can’t simply start with megawatt-class
machines.”  Wind-turbine makers are seeking to diversify as they
struggle with  overcapacity  and declining demand in traditional
markets. Growth is set to slow in  China , the world’s biggest
wind market, for the first time this year, while governments in
the U.S. and  Europe  are rolling back clean-energy subsidies.  Closely-held RRB, which sells more than 95 percent of its
turbines in India and has annual sales of about $200 million,
plans to approach power utilities in Ghana and Nigeria. It has
also already exported two 225-kilowatt turbines to farmers in
the U.K. and expects to sell nine more.  “I don’t face much competition because the 225-kilowatt
has a proven track record of 20 years,” which makes it easier
for wind-farm developers to get bank financing and insurance,
said Kumar. “No other supplier of small turbines has that.”  The machine was originally designed by Vestas, the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker. The Aarhus, Denmark-based company
and RRB ended their joint venture in 2008, Kumar said.  RRB also plans to introduce a 3-megawatt turbine in the
next 24 months aimed primarily for exports, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 