-- Safest Bank Rises in Qatar Spreading Wealth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-24T21:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/safest-bank-rises-in-qatar-spreading-wealth-riskless-return.html
As politicians around the world take
steps to curb profits at the biggest lenders,  Qatar National
Bank SAQ (QNBK)  is producing the best risk-adjusted returns by
increasing ties with the government, its largest customer.  Shares of the Doha-based lender returned 4.3 percent in the
past five years after adjusting for price swings, the top gain
among the 50 biggest banks by market capitalization, according
to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Qatar National Bank,
valued at $25 billion, had the highest total return and the
third-lowest volatility.  The lender, whose chairman is also the country’s finance
minister, has become 50 percent more  profitable  than global
peers by luring deposits from government-backed savers and
lending to government-backed borrowers as Qatar spends about
$130 billion to prepare for the 2022 soccer  World Cup . Political
ties are fueling Qatar National Bank’s growth while  China  and
Brazil cut loan margins,  U.S. (S5FINL)  lawmakers curb trading and
 European (SX7P)  leaders call for a financial-transaction tax.  “It’s probably one of the safest banks,” said  Oliver Bell , whose $143 million  T. Rowe Price Africa & Middle East Fund (TRAMX) 
beat 74 percent of peers this year and had its third-biggest
holding in Qatar National Bank as of June. “The government
effectively gives deposits to this bank and then borrows at the
other end and gives the bank a margin.”  ‘National Champion’  Qatar National Bank’s loans to the government and
government agencies increased to 65 percent of the total
outstanding as of June, from 52 percent in 2010, according to
the bank’s  website . At the same time, government and agency
deposits rose to 56 percent of the total from 41 percent.  The government finances spending and investment through
Qatar National Bank, providing the lender with profits, in part
because it’s a way to redistribute wealth to local investors who
own the shares, said Emad Mostaque, a strategist at Religare
Noah in London. Qatari investors, including the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, own about 96 percent of the bank’s stock
and foreign ownership is capped at about 12 percent, according
to the Qatar Exchange.  Leaders in Qatar, the world’s top exporter of liquefied
natural gas, also view the bank as a “national champion” that
will help boost the nation’s influence as it expands abroad,
Mostaque said in a phone interview.  Global Declines  Qatar National Bank declined to comment, while the Qatar
Investment Authority, the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Qatar National Bank’s shares have returned 130 percent
during the past five years, including dividends, for the top
gain among the 50 biggest banks. On a risk-adjusted basis, the
advance was more than twice as big as second-ranked Commonwealth
Bank of  Australia . Qatar National Bank, with total assets of $91
billion, also topped the rankings over three and two years.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The  MSCI All-Country World Financials Index (MXWD0FN)  has lost 47
percent in the past five years, including dividends, as the
2007-2009 financial crisis fueled record bank losses and
prompted tighter regulation of the industry.  Allied Irish Banks
Plc (ALBK) , which had $177 billion of assets at the end of last year,
plunged more than 99 percent in Dublin trading to lead declines
among the biggest lenders, and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
with $1.9 trillion of assets, lost 94 percent.  State Bank of
India  returned 52 percent for the second-biggest total return
after Qatar National Bank.  Brazil, China  U.S. government agencies are writing rules to restrict how
banks use their own money to make trades, while the German
government said last month that it will ask the European
Commission to introduce a financial transaction tax that’s
backed by countries including Italy and France.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  has criticized high
lending rates, spurring some of the nation’s biggest banks to
cut them this year. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in April the
country needs to end the “monopoly” of a few big lenders.
Interest rate reductions by the People’s Bank of China this year
have prompted analysts to cut industry profit forecasts.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s third-
largest government-controlled lender by market value, retreated
9 percent in Shanghai trading during the past five years even as
its shares had the lowest volatility among the biggest banks.
State-owned  Banco do Brasil SA  sank 7.1 percent in Sao Paulo.  Loan Growth  Qatar National Bank has produced a  return on equity  of at
least 19 percent during the past five years. Earnings increased
as gross domestic product expanded at an average annual rate of
17 percent, the fastest pace among the world’s 70 largest
economies, data compiled by Bloomberg and the International
Monetary Fund show.  A surge in gas production has propelled economic growth,
lifting per-capita GDP in the nation of 1.7 million people to
$104,300, the second-highest worldwide behind Liechtenstein,
according to the CIA World Factbook.  The government is set to build a $35 billion rail and metro
line, a $7.4 billion port, new roads and stadiums to improve the
country’s infrastructure and prepare to host the World Cup, the
world’s most-watched sporting event.  Slower Expansion  Increased  government spending  has fueled demand for
financing. Qatar National Bank’s loans climbed 56 percent in the
year through June while earnings advanced 17 percent. The
lender’s ROE was 20 percent, compared with a 13 percent average
for the 50 biggest lenders, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Qatar National Bank’s tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
its ability to weather loan  losses , is 20 percent, the highest
level among global peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
bank has an Aa3 long-term credit  rating  at Moody’s Investors
Service, the fourth-highest investment grade. That’s eight
levels above Allied Irish Banks and one higher than  Agricultural
Bank of China .  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  is rated one level
above Qatar National Bank at Aa2.  The Qatar Investment Authority, which has assets of more
than $100 billion, owns a 50 percent  stake  in the lender, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Qatar National Bank Chairman Yousef Hussain Kamal has been the nation’s finance minister for more
than a decade, according to the ministry’s website.  International Plans  “Both sides of Qatar National Bank’s balance sheet have
benefited from the surge in the state of Qatar’s wealth,” said
Akber Khan, an asset-management director at Al Rayan Investment
in Doha.  The shares may advance 31 percent during the next 12
months, according to the average of five analysts’ share-price
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing economic growth is a “downside risk” for Qatar
National Bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a July 5
research note. The nation’s GDP growth will probably drop to 6
percent this year from almost 19 percent in 2011 as energy
industry’s expansion cools, according to April forecasts by the
IMF. That’s still faster than the Washington-based fund’s 3.5
percent growth estimate for the global economy.  The expansion in Qatar is vulnerable to falling prices for
its liquefied natural gas exports. Prices for the fuel in
northeast  Asia  declined this month to the lowest level in a
year, according to World Gas Intelligence.  Qatar Influence  Qatar National Bank shares are  valued  at 11 times reported
earnings, compared with an average of 8.6 times for the biggest
lenders worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Any higher premium will need more momentum in terms of
growth,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-based senior investment
manager at ING Investment Management.  The lender plans to boost earnings by expanding its
international business, which accounts for about 10 percent of
all loans.  Qatar National Bank said in an investor presentation this
month that pursuing “sizeable acquisitions” and building its
business across the  Middle East  and Africa is a priority. It
considered an acquisition of Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in April,
according to three people familiar with the situation, before
that bank was bought by Moscow-based OAO Sberbank.  “The government wants it to become one of the biggest
banks in the world,” said Religare Noah’s Mostaque, who
estimates Qatar National Bank may boost earnings at a 20 percent
pace during the next decade and advised investors to increase
holdings on July 7. “It’s part of the international strategy to
increase Qatar’s influence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  