-- Sallie Mae, CFPB Back Student-Loan Changes at Senate Hearing
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-07-24T21:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sallie-mae-cfpb-to-back-student-loan-changes-at-senate-hearing.html
Borrowers struggling with private
 student loans  would benefit from more refinancing options, a
U.S. consumer protection official told a Senate panel today.  Congress should focus more attention on expanding
modification and refinancing options in the private market,
Rohit Chopra, student loan ombudsman for the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, told a Senate Banking subcommittee  hearing .
The country’s mounting student loan debt threatens to “act as a
drag on economic recovery,” he said.  “Policy makers have paid significant attention to the
conditions in the mortgage market, but given the potential
impact of student debt on the broader economy, the situation
demonstrates the need for attention,” Chopra said.  The panel, headed by Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, held its hearing less than a week after publication of
a government report that said students were victims of a
“subprime-style” private loan market that contracted after the
2008 credit crisis.  The report, written by the consumer bureau and Education
Department, recommends that Congress clarify the definition of
private loans and require schools to certify the products.  Congress should also consider changing a bankruptcy
procedure law enacted in 2005 that prevents private student
loans from being discharged, the report said.  Asset-Backed Securities  U.S. agencies have intervened in the private student loan
market in recent years, according to a footnote in Chopra’s
written testimony. Citing “unusual and exigent circumstances,”
the Federal Reserve Board of Governors exercised its authority
to establish the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility,
which facilitated the issuance of a wide range of such
securities, including those backed by private student loans.  Jack Remondi, president and chief operating officer of
 Newark , Delaware-based  SLM Corp. (SLM) , the education lender known as
 Sallie Mae , said the company will conditionally support some of
the government’s recommendations.  “Sallie Mae supports bankruptcy reform that would require
a period of good-faith payments, that is prospective so as not
to rewrite existing contracts, and that applies to federal and
non-federal education loans alike,” Remondi said.  Congress should consider allowing lenders to rehabilitate
defaulted private loans and by removing defaults from the
records of customers who have resumed making timely repayments,
a practice required by law for federal borrowers but not allowed
for private loan recipients, Remondi said.  Senate Bills  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, has
introduced two bills on private student loans, one reversing the
bankruptcy discharge law and another with Senator  Tom Harkin , an
Iowa Democrat, that would require colleges to counsel students
to take out the maximum in federal loans before venturing into
the private market.  The bills are “going nowhere,” Durbin said in a interview
yesterday at a meeting of the  National Association of Student
Financial Aid Administrators  in  Chicago .  Outstanding educational debt taken out by students and
their parents is about $1 trillion, according to the consumer
agency. About 15 percent of the loans are privately originated,
and don’t have federal loan protections such as fixed rates,
deferment and income based repayment.  Consumer-advocacy groups support the consumer bureau and
Education Department recommendations, according to witnesses
Deanne Loonin, an attorney for the National Consumer Law Center
who directs its  Student Loan Borrower Assistance Project , and
Jennifer Mishory, deputy director of  Young Invincibles , a
Washington-based group that describes itself as “a national
organization committed to mobilizing and expanding opportunities
for young Americans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  