-- Sanofi Looks Like Genzyme as CEO Embraces Biotech: Health
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sanofi-looks-like-genzyme-as-ceo-embraces-biotech-health.html
Workers at  Sanofi (SAN)  had a message for
politicians at protests in Paris this month: Job cuts by the
nation’s biggest drugmaker are crushing morale among researchers
and hurting the company’s ability to develop new products.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  is unswayed by
those arguments. Buying Genzyme Corp. for $20.1 billion last
year inspired him to refashion Sanofi in the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company’s image, a project he is pursuing at
full bore. He has organized scientists into “hubs” to open up
research among teams and academia and sprinkled the company’s
new Paris headquarters with coffee bars where workers can
mingle, ideas both influenced by Genzyme. He chose Genzyme
executives to run the Boston R&D hub and Sanofi’s U.S. business
development. His daughter is even interning at Genzyme.  “Genzyme has changed everything for Sanofi’s research,”
said Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.
“It meant a complete restart at Sanofi, a new foundation in the
U.S. Cambridge is now the center of the world for them in terms
of R&D.”  Viehbacher is so high on Genzyme because he has seen it
succeed in an area where Sanofi has failed: developing new
patented drugs to replace sales that are lost to competition
from generics. Included in his remake of the company is reducing
spending by 2 billion euros ($2.4 billion), part of an
industrywide trend to lower expenses after repeated failures to
bring new products to market.  No Silos  Sanofi hasn’t spared its U.S. operations from the pain. The
company is eliminating about 1,000 jobs as it closes its
Bridgewater,  New Jersey , site, which had been operated by Sanofi
and its predecessors for 43 years. The company, which reports
second-quarter earnings tomorrow, also is cutting research
positions in  Italy ,  Hungary  and  Germany .  Still, Viehbacher, 52, has made clear where he sees the
company’s future. It’s Genzyme’s culture and dynamism,
exemplified by the idea of research hubs, that must change
Sanofi, instead of Sanofi swallowing up Genzyme.  “What was amazing at Genzyme is that there weren’t silos,
there was fluidity,” Viehbacher told reporters visiting
Genzyme’s headquarters in March. “I wanted to recreate this
notion of fluidity between the teams, and this is why we created
the hubs, to try and have someone who knows what’s taking place
in each team and make sure there are exchanges” between
researchers and with outside institutions, he said.  Hostile Takeover  Since becoming CEO in 2008, Viehbacher has ended
unpromising projects, axed jobs, shut plants and stepped up
acquisitions and partnerships, including a hostile takeover
offer for Genzyme. The overhaul sped up after the deal closed in
2011.  “It’s a U-turn in terms of strategy,” says Jean-Francois
Chavance, a representative of the CFDT labor union. “Until now,
about 50 percent of Sanofi’s R&D employees were in  France . We
don’t know how this will evolve. The idea now is to scout for
molecules outside the company, in small innovative groups,
either in academia or in biotechs.”  The takeover gives Sanofi a bigger platform in the Boston
area, home to research institutions such as the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and  Harvard University  and more than  240
biotech companies . Even before Genzyme, Viehbacher had started
grouping some businesses in the region, such as a large part of
Sanofi’s oncology research.  Some Genzyme executives also won top positions in the U.S.
Viehbacher picked Jim Burns, formerly the chief of Genzyme’s
bio-surgery business, as head of the Boston hub. Sanofi’s U.S.
business development chief, Constantine Chinoporos, also comes
from Genzyme.  French Jobs  Sanofi held off on giving details of planned cutbacks in
France during the presidential campaign that ended in May,
during which the candidates sparred over preserving employment.  Executives met with unions on July 5 to discuss areas in
which the company wants to reduce expenses, with the goal of
coming up with a plan in September.  Sanofi intends to end research in the southwestern city of
Toulouse, where the blockbuster Plavix blood thinner was
developed, and Montpellier, union officials said after the
meeting. The overhaul may cost as many as 2,500 jobs in France,
said Chavance, of the CFDT union. That would be on top of about
4,000 positions eliminated in the country over the past three
years, according to the unions.  The layoffs,  applauded by investors , have sapped morale
among Sanofi’s researchers and provoked the fury of French
politicians. The decision to shut Toulouse in particular shocked
local officials because in March the company signed a
partnership with the Toulouse-based  Claudius Regaud Institute 
and other government agencies as part of a plan to build a hub
for  cancer research  in the city.  ’Abusive’ Cuts  “You cannot sign a partnership on March 29 and announce an
opposite strategy on July 5,” said  Jean-Louis Chauzy , a former
union official who serves as president of the regional council
on the economy, social affairs and the environment of the Midi-
Pyrenees region, where Toulouse lies. “Sanofi is turning its
back on its home country. We cannot accept this pillage. France
and Europe cannot allow this to happen.”  Arnaud Montebourg , the government minister mandated to work
on job-creation policies, decried the cuts as “abusive”
because the company had billions of euros in profit last year.  Viehbacher has been vocal about the need to look outside
his company’s walls for the best science. “The reality is, the
best people who have great ideas in science don’t want to work
for a big company,” he said at a February conference in
Raleigh,  North Carolina , according to  MedCity News . “They want
to create their own company. If you want to work with the best
people, you’re going to have to go outside your own company.”  ’Sapping Morale’  Labor unions wrote a letter to Sanofi Chairman Serge
Weinberg and to the company’s board to protest the comments,
said Thierry Bodin, a representative of the CGT union.  “Management is doing everything to break up Sanofi’s
internal research, to sap the morale of researchers,” Bodin
said. “It’s this and the successive job-cut plans that are
making our research unproductive, not anything else.”  The Genzyme purchase isn’t the first time a takeover target
in the  drug industry  has helped to reshape the acquirer. After
Roche Holding AG’s $46.8 billion purchase of  Genentech , the
producer of some of the world’s top cancer drugs, scientists
from the acquired company took key jobs, Roche’s existing U.S.
operations bore the brunt of job cuts and the parent adopted
Genentech’s research structure.  Viehbacher, who personally oversaw Genzyme’s integration
last year, remains involved in Cambridge, giving speeches to
business groups, and is occasionally in touch with former
Genzyme executives. In January he was invited to the Genzyme
alumni evening while in  San Francisco  for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
health-care conference.  Turning Sanofi into a company more similar to Genzyme is
still a work in progress, Viehbacher said in March.  “The irony of it is that I attacked Genzyme for months,
and the minute the deal was done, I became its staunchest
defender,” the CEO said with a smile while sipping a glass of
Macallan 18-year-old scotch one evening in March at the bar of a
Boston hotel where he stays on trips to Cambridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  