-- Sanusi Says Nigeria Won't Drain Reserves to Shield Naira
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-07-24T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sanusi-says-nigeria-won-t-drain-reserves-to-shield-naira.html
Nigerian Central Bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi made the following comments after a meeting of the
bank’s monetary policy committee in Abuja today.  On increasing the Cash Requirement Ratio:  “On the CRR, the reason for increasing it was not
primarily about redirecting lending. It is primarily about
contribution to stability.  “At the moment, if you look back what happened a few weeks
ago we had a lot of pressure on the  exchange rate  and the only
reason we were able to keep the naira stable was because we
tightened money and also increased the amount of supply from the
reserves of dollars.  “We cannot continue to run down reserves in order to have
a stable exchange rate. And in the event of the slowdown in
 Europe  becoming very serious and hitting  oil prices , what will
happen is that we’re going to have so much pressure on reserves,
we may have to rapidly depreciate the local currency and that
will feed into an existing inflationary loop.  “So the primary concern is our price stability concern,
which is the primary mandate of the central bank and if we have
very high inflationary expectations, we should take measures to
address structural excess liquidity in the banking system and
that is what the CRR increase is supposed to achieve.”  On rising inflationary pressure:  “You have a slowdown in growth, at the same time you’ve
got very strong inflationary pressure. The central bank has to
continue to focus on price stability and while controlling
inflation is not everything, certainly if we lose stability then
there will be nothing.  “We already are dealing with structural problems; we’re
already dealing with issues on the fiscal side.  “We do not want to compound this matter by having a high
rate of inflation.  “Now one of the major concerns we have is that if you look
at what is happening in Europe, in the  United States , in  China ,
in India and  Brazil , you cannot rule out the possibility of a
decline in the price of oil.  “And if you have an external shock to reserves and a major
depreciation of the currency, that is going to feed into an
already existing inflationary pile-up and that will be
unacceptable.  “So it is actually better at this moment to tighten  money
supply , tighten liquidity in the banking system, try to build up
those buffers and to prepare ourselves for the fall that will
definitely come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  