-- SAP Overtakes Siemens as Germany’s Most Valuable Company
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-24T15:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sap-overtakes-siemens-as-germany-s-most-valuable-company.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, toppled  Siemens AG (SIE)  to become the
most valuable publicly traded German company, overtaking the
164-year-old engineering giant for the first time.  SAP’s valuation reached 62.4 billion euros ($75.3 billion)
at the close of trading in  Frankfurt  today, compared with
Siemens’s 61.3 billion euros and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s 59.9 billion
euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show. SAP  rose  as much as 4.2
percent in Frankfurt trading after saying it’s taking market
share amid a slowing industry.  Founded 40 years ago, SAP has added 25 percent this year,
making the Walldorf-based company the second-best performer on
Germany’s  benchmark DAX Index . Siemens, founded in 1847 and
Europe’s largest industrial company, has lost about 9 percent,
while carmaker Volkswagen has added 14 percent.  “SAP has been really fast in occupying the most exciting
fields in its industry,” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany, who has a
hold rating on the shares. “Software is becoming ever more
important when compared to hardware.”  SAP has added applications for mobile devices, the Hana
database software and programs delivered via the Web to its
arsenal to help edge out archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Co-Chief
Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott  have
also stepped up the pace of acquisitions to fuel growth,
agreeing to acquire  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  in May for $4.3 billion.  Market Share  “We are now taking very strong market share” with second-
quarter sales growth exceeding 10 percent in “flat markets,”
Snabe said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “While the
worries are there about the euro, companies are still investing,
and software is one of the areas they invest in to manage this
new area of uncertainty.”  Siemens cut its full-year forecast in April after its
transmission unit booked charges for delays in hooking up marine
wind farms to the electricity grid. Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said last month that there will be a “rocky road” to
meeting the new targets.  Still, Siemens’s revenue dwarfs SAP’s. The Munich-based
engineering company had sales of 73.5 billion euros in its
latest fiscal year, compared with SAP’s 14.2 billion euros. SAP
shares  trade at  16.5 times estimated earnings, while for Siemens
that ratio is 10.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SAP added 1.72 euros, or 3.5 percent, to close at 50.77
euros in Frankfurt. Siemens slid 26 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 67
euros. Preferred shares of Wolfsburg-based Volkswagen fell 1.40
euros, or 1.4 percent, to 132 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  