-- SAP Took ’Strong Market Share’ as Industry Growth Slows
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   L i n z i e   J a n i s
-- 2012-07-24T07:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sap-second-quarter-profit-gains-13-on-software-demand.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, is beating rivals to software
contracts as companies limit their spending amid slowing
economies, its co-chief executive officer said.  “We are now taking very strong market share” with second-
quarter sales growth exceeding 10 percent in “flat markets,”
Jim Hagemann Snabe said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “While the worries are there about the euro,
companies are still investing, and software is one the areas
they invest in to manage this new area of uncertainty.”  Growth in information-technology spending in  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa  was “minimal” because of the debt
crisis, with governments also canceling or renegotiating
contracts, SAP said in its second-quarter report today. By
contrast, the Walldorf, Germany-based company’s revenue from new
software licenses in the region grew 20 percent excluding
currency swings in the three months ended June 30, boosted by
programs for mobile devices, the Hana analytics software and
applications delivered via the Web.  Growth was “solid” in markets including France, Spain and
 Germany , Snabe said. SAP will rely on increasing revenue rather
than on cost cuts to lift profitability after its operating
margin declined in the second quarter, he said, adding that SAP
had “front-loaded” investments into the first part of 2012.  SAP  rose  0.5 percent to 49.29 euros at 9:52 a.m. Frankfurt
time. It had advanced 20 percent this year through yesterday.  Acquisition Strategy  The company confirmed its full-year forecast. SAP predicts
operating profit, excluding some items, of 5.05 billion euros
($6.12 billion) to 5.25 billion euros and adjusted software and
related service revenue growth of 10 percent to 12 percent. Both
forecasts assume constant currencies and include the acquisition
of SuccessFactors Inc., completed this year.  Snabe and co-CEO  Bill McDermott  further stepped up SAP’s
rivalry with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  by agreeing to buy  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  in May
for $4.3 billion. SAP plans to generate two thirds of its growth
from software that the company develops by itself, with the rest
coming from acquisitions, Snabe said. The company pursues a
target of exceeding 20 billion euros of revenue by 2015, up from
14.2 billion euros last year.  SAP on July 12 reported software-license revenue that
exceeded analysts’ estimates. The operating margin, based on
non-IFRS standards the company uses for internal forecasts,
declined 0.8 percentage points to 30 percent, partly as a
consequence of the acquisition of cloud-software operations,
which tend to have lower margins.  Hana Software  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, last month
reported software-license growth of 6.7 percent in the quarter
ending in May.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , a San Francisco-based
provider of online customer-management software, on May 17
raised its revenue forecast for its fiscal year 2013 after
signing more large deals with corporate clients.  SAP said today its Hana software, which lets clients
process large amounts of data quickly in a computer’s memory by
bypassing slower hard drives, is on track to reach its 2012
revenue target after second-quarter sales were 85 million euros.
Mobile revenue was 54 million euros, and cloud products
generated 69 million euros, SAP said.  Net income advanced to 661 million euros, or 55 cents a
share, from 587 million euros, or 49 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts  predicted  643.7 million euros. Net income, adjusted for
some items, increased to 831 million euros from 703 million
euros. Revenue rose 18 percent to 3.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Linzie Janis in London at 
 ljanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  