-- Senators Seek Facebook, Google Support on Cybersecurity
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-07-24T19:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/senators-cite-threat-seeking-votes-for-cybersecurity-bill.html
U.S. senators asked  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to back a proposed compromise
cybersecurity bill as they urged colleagues to pass legislation
to strengthen defenses against crippling computer assaults.  Democrats  Jay Rockefeller , of West Virginia, and  Dianne Feinstein , of  California , wrote chief executive officers of more
than 20 technology companies last week seeking their support,
according to a list released by the Senate Commerce Committee.  Rockefeller, the Commerce panel chairman, and Feinstein are
among a group of senators who last week offered a revamped
version of a stalled cybersecurity measure in a bid to pick up
Republican votes.  “The danger of cyber attacks against the United States is
clear, present and growing, with enemies ranging from rival
nations to cyber terrorists to organized criminal organizations
to rogue hackers,” Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent who leads the Homeland Security Committee, said at a
news conference today. Lieberman and Maine Republican Susan Collins have been leading the push to pass a bill this year.  The new bill relies on voluntary, rather than mandatory,
security standards for operators of critical infrastructure such
as power grids and chemical plants. Republicans had criticized
an earlier version that called for mandatory government
standards, saying that would add bureaucracy and fail to keep
pace with evolving cyber threats.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business
lobby, expressed concerns with the revised Lieberman bill last
week, saying the voluntary program for critical infrastructure
could in practice become too much like a set of requirements.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, and  Samantha Smith ,
a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment. Kristin Huguet,
an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  ‘Clear’ Danger  Lieberman said he’s disappointed the changes to his bill
haven’t garnered more Republican support, while saying the
measure will come before the Senate by the end of this week. He
and Collins said they think there are enough votes to bring the
bill up for consideration. The Senate’s summer recess starts
Aug. 6.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he would be “dumbfounded” if Republicans block Senate debate
on the measure. “Unless we do something, it’s not a question if
there’s going to be an attack that will be successful,” Reid
said. “The only question is when it will be, so that’s why we
have to do this.’  Senator John McCain yesterday criticized Reid’s decision to
move forward with the cybersecurity measure ahead of a defense
authorization bill, which he said is a higher priority. McCain,
an  Arizona  Republican, called the cybersecurity bill
‘‘controversial and flawed.”  ‘Zero Chance’  “Without significant amendment, the current bill the
majority leader intends to push through the Senate has zero
chance of passing in the House or ever being signed into law,”
McCain said on the Senate floor.  The Republican-controlled House passed a bill in April that
would encourage voluntary sharing of cyber threat information
between businesses and government without setting standards for
critical infrastructure. McCain and seven other Senate
Republicans have offered a similar measure.  President  Barack Obama  last week  urged  the Senate to pass
the Lieberman bill, citing hacker threats to infrastructure such
as nuclear-power and water-treatment plants. Obama said
information-sharing alone isn’t enough, and threatened to veto
any cybersecurity bill that lacks strong privacy protections for
consumer data that might be shared.  Protecting Nation  Neither the revised Lieberman bill nor the House bill will
do anything to protect the nation from cyber threats,  James Lewis , technology program director at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Cyber threat information-sharing has been tried since
President  Bill Clinton ’s administration in the 1990s and failed
to improve security, and there are no incentives sufficient to
motivate a company to take voluntary action on cybersecurity,
Lewis said.  “Congress does not want to be in the position, after the
inevitable cyber disruption, of having to say they did
nothing,” Lewis said. “The political solution in this case is
to pass inadequate legislation and pretend it will work.”  The Lieberman bill is S. 3414. The House bill is H.R. 3523.
The McCain bill is S. 3342.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  