-- Severe Storms Moving Toward Washington Delay Flights
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-24T18:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/severe-storms-moving-toward-washington-delay-flights.html
A severe thunderstorm watch was
issued from  Kentucky  to the Atlantic, including Washington and
Baltimore, as weather-related delays held up air traffic along
the East Coast.  High winds halted planes for more than 90 minutes in
Newark,  New Jersey , and for about a half an hour at LaGuardia
Airport in New York, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s website. Delays were also reported in
Baltimore, Washington and Boston.  Thunderstorm-driven winds as strong as 80 miles (129
kilometers) per hour have knocked down trees and power lines and
damaged buildings from Illinois to Pennsylvania as a cold front
moved east, said the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
Oklahoma. At least 140,000 Commonwealth Edison customers in the
Chicago area lost electricity early today, according to the
 Chicago Tribune .  Severe storms between the large airline hub cities of
Chicago, New York and Atlanta often disrupt  air travel 
throughout the U.S. Such fast-moving storms, which may include
tornadoes, accounted for about $8.8 billion in insured losses in
the U.S. in the first six months of 2012, according to the
 Insurance Information Institute  in New York.  In addition to Washington and the mid-Atlantic, severe
thunderstorm watches and warnings were issued for eastern
Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Massachusetts,
including Boston. Some of the systems were accompanied by large
hail, according to the  National Weather Service .  Any cool air the storms bring with them will be short-lived
along the mid-Atlantic, as temperatures in Washington are
expected to reach 97 the day after tomorrow, the Weather Service
said.  Eastern Cooling  By next week, the East Coast from the Canadian Maritimes to
North Carolina may experience more seasonal temperatures, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The East Coast sees some occasional heat bursts,
especially in the short term, but mainly average seasonal to
slightly above normal for the 6- to 15-day period,” Rogers
said.  The East Coast may remain seasonal through most of the rest
of August, while the heat and drought in the Midwest will
probably continue, according to the latest long-range forecast
from Weather Services International in Andover, Massachusetts.  “With cooler-than-normal temperatures expected along the
East Coast in August, natural gas prices could see some late-
summer price weakness, as gas inventories begin to approach last
year’s record level by the end of the month,” said  Chris
Kostas , a senior power and gas analyst at  Energy Security
Analysis Inc . in Wakefield, Massachusetts, who contributed to
the WSI forecast.  Midwest Drought  For the next two weeks, passing thunderstorms may bring
some relief to the drought-parched Midwest. The region will
probably lag behind the normal amount of rainfall, said Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity Weather.  Temperatures are expected to remain 5 to 8 degrees above
normal throughout the region during the period, he said in a
note to clients today.  The normal average temperature in New York for Aug. 1 is
78, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 74 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 85 in Houston; 76 in
Chicago; 80 in Atlanta; 67 in Seattle and 76 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  