-- Sharp Drops to Lowest Since 1975 on Report of Loss: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-24T08:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sharp-drops-to-lowest-since-1975-on-report-of-loss-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, fell to its lowest since 1975 after
the Nikkei newspaper reported the company will probably post a
quarterly loss and plans to cut jobs.  The  consumer electronics  maker dropped 1.7 percent to 278
yen as of the close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
lowest since December 1975. The stock fell as much as 5.4
percent intraday, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
was declined 0.2 percent.  Sharp will probably post a net loss of 100 billion yen
($1.3 billion) for the three months ended June 30, Nikkei
reported without saying where it got the information. The
consumer electronics and appliances maker is considering cutting
a few thousand jobs in its first workforce reductions, according
to the report. Possible job cut measures include offering an
early  retirement plan , the Nikkei said.  “Sharp is considering various measures to improve earnings
and will disclose a plan as soon as it’s completed,”  Miyuki Nakayama , a company spokeswoman, said by phone today. “Sharp is
not the source of the Nikkei report,” she said.  The company is projected to report a net loss of 76 billion
yen for the first quarter ended June 30, according to the
 average  of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sharp
is scheduled to report earnings on Aug. 2.  “The early retirement drive represents an advance for
Sharp in that it has the company willing to tread on what has
been sacred ground,”  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based  analyst  at
Barclays Plc, said in a memo for investors today. “But it also
involves cash outlays and might therefore not be received as a
clear positive.”  Foxconn Funding  The maker of Aquos televisions in March turned to  Taiwan ’s
Foxconn Technology Group and its founder Terry Gou for 133
billion yen in funding after forecasting a back-to-back annual
loss. Sharp is among the Japanese electronics makers including
Sony Corp. that are reeling from record losses after competition
with South Korean panel and TV makers intensified and global
demand slumped.  In April, Sharp promoted Takashi Okuda, 58, to  president ,
replacing  Mikio Katayama , after predicting the worst loss in its
100-year history amid slumping demand. Katayama became chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  