-- Short-Selling, U.K. Insider Trading, Libor: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-24T11:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/short-selling-uk-insider-trading-libor-compliance.html
Spain and Italy reinstated a short-
sale ban on stocks as bank shares plunged to record lows, bond
yields rose and the euro traded below its lifetime average
against the dollar on concern the debt crisis is growing.  Spain’s CNMV market regulator banned the creation of
negative bets on equities through shares, derivatives and over-
the-counter instruments for three months. Italy’s Consob
prohibited the practice on 29 banking and insurance stocks for
one week, citing “grave tensions” in financial markets.  Yesterday’s move echoes decisions in August last year by
the two nations plus France and Belgium after  European banks  hit
their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008 and 2009.
Most bank stocks extended their decline once the bans were
lifted.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice some politicians and
investors blame for roiling markets.  The European Securities and Markets Authority “is aware”
of the bans, David Cliffe, an ESMA spokesman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. ESMA was set up last year to
harmonize the implementation of market rules across the European
Union.  France’s markets regulator, the AMF, said in an e-mail
yesterday it has no plans at this stage to introduce a ban
because of the current market situation “does not seem to
justify such a decision.” Veerle De Schryver, a spokeswoman at
Belgium’s markets regulator in Brussels, also said the agency
has no plans to introduce new limitations on short-selling.  For more, click here.  Six Guilty in U.K. Insider-Trading Ring at Banks’ Printers  Six men were found guilty by a U.K. jury of making 732,044
pounds ($1.13 million) from trading on inside information taken
from the print rooms for  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The case is the largest insider-trading ring prosecuted by
the U.K. Financial Services Authority. The London jury reached a
partial verdict on July 20 and continued deliberating yesterday
on counts against two of the defendants before reaching a final
decision in the 18-week trial.  “This sort of behavior poses a significant risk to the
integrity of markets and cheats honest investors,” Tracey
McDermott, FSA acting director of enforcement, said in a
statement yesterday. “We will continue to use all of the tools
at our disposal to ensure those who seek to abuse the system
have nowhere to hide.”  The FSA filed charges in the case, known as Saturn, in 2010
after a 21-month investigation, which used around 25 lawyers and
investigators probing 130 trading accounts. The defendants were
either family members or friends, and were able to coordinate
their actions, according to the FSA.  The six men convicted were granted bail yesterday until
their sentencing on July 27.  Two of the defense lawyers, Giles Bark-Jones of Bark & Co.
Solicitors and  John Williams  at Bankside Law, declined to
comment on the verdicts. Lawyers for the other men weren’t
immediately available for comment.  For more, click here.  CFTC’s Chilton Sees Silver Investigation Concluding This Year  A four-year probe of potential price manipulation in the
silver market may be completed as early as September, according
to Bart Chilton, a member of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  “I am hopeful and expect the silver investigation to
conclude in the not-too-distant future, hopefully in September
or October,” Chilton, a 52-year-old Democrat, said in an e-
mail. “It has already taken way too long.”  The enforcement division of the Washington-based agency,
the main U.S. overseer of derivatives markets, began pursuing
allegations of manipulation in the silver market in September
2008. Investigators have analyzed more than 100,000 documents
and interviewed dozens of witnesses, the CFTC said in a November
2011  statement .  Chilton, who didn’t say whether the probe has uncovered
evidence of manipulation, said previously that there had been
“repeated attempts” to influence prices.  “There have been fraudulent efforts to persuade and
deviously control that price,” he said at an October 2010
hearing in  Washington . “Any such violation of the law in this
regard should be prosecuted.”  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the status of the investigation
sent outside of regular business hours.  The agency concluded in a May 2008  report , before starting
the investigation, that there was no evidence of manipulation in
the market between 2005 and 2007. The CFTC, in the preceding two
decades, had received “numerous letters, e-mails and phone
calls from silver investors” alleging that silver futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  had been manipulated downward,
according to the report.  Santander Joins Six Others in Interest-Rate Swap Sales Probe  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. arm and six other lenders will
review potential rule violations in sales of  interest rate 
hedging products to small businesses as part of the  Financial
Services Authority ’s plan to compensate customers.  Allied Irish Banks Plc, Bank of Ireland Plc, and units of
the  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  joined Co-Operative Bank Plc
and Northern Bank Ltd. in the review, which could lead to
compensation to buyers of improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives. The banks make up around 10 percent of the U.K.
market for the products, the FSA said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Britain’s two other biggest banks said last month they would
compensate small and medium-size d businesses for sales of swaps
that lost money as interest rates plunged. While the FSA found
“serious failings” by the banks dating back to 2001, it
stopped short of fining the firms.  “It is appropriate and fair that any business which
purchased these products is offered the opportunity to discuss
them with us,” Steve Pateman, head of U.K. banking at
Santander, said in an e-mailed statement.  Santander said it would review sales of interest-rate
products to around 200 customers who bought them from December
2001 onwards.  Banks offered derivatives to small businesses and
individual customers on concern that they might not be able to
service loans if floating rates rose.  “This is a major exercise but one that we hope will ensure
even more businesses benefit from having their individual
situation reviewed,” Clive Adamson, director of supervision at
the U.K. financial watchdog’s market conduct unit, said in the
statement.  Neugebauer Seeks More Documents From Fed on Libor Manipulation  Representative  Randy Neugebauer  is seeking more information
from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  on its communications
with banks that are involved in setting the London interbank
offered rate.  Neugebauer in a letter released yesterday asked for all
communications from August 2007 until July of this year between
employees of the  New York  Fed and staff at the 16 banks
pertaining to Libor rate submissions. Neugebauer is a Republican
from  Texas .  “There are still many outstanding questions that merit
further investigation,” Neugebauer, who serves on the House
Financial Services Committee, said in the letter addressed to
William C. Dudley, president of the regional Fed bank.  The Fed has come under increased scrutiny from lawmakers
critical of its record as a bank supervisor after the New York
Fed released documents on July 13 showing it was aware that
Barclays Plc underreported Libor rates in 2008. Barclays was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
rigging interest rates and the scandal cost Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. At least a dozen banks are being
investigated.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the Fed’s response to
Congress last week, saying the U.S. central bank cooperated with
other regulators and suggested a fix. The documents released by
the New York Fed showed that  Timothy F. Geithner , then the
president of the regional Fed bank, sent a memo in June 2008 to
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  recommending changes to how
Libor was calculated.  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Two U.S. Senators Propose Letting SEC Impose Bigger Penalties  U.S. senators  Jack Reed  and  Charles Grassley  introduced a
bill to authorize the Securities and Exchange Commission to
impose bigger sanctions after the agency said it didn’t have
adequate tools to deter financial fraud.  Under the proposed legislation, fines against individuals
would be capped at $1 million per violation instead of $150,000
and penalties for firms would be limited to $10 million from
$725,000 for each misdeed, according to a joint statement
yesterday by Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat who leads a
subcommittee that oversees the SEC, and Grassley, the Iowa
Republican.  The proposals reflect a November request by SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  that Congress authorize the agency to seek
penalties based on the scope of investor losses.  CME Group Plan Would House Customer Money Away From Brokerages  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures market, said
it’s considering a plan to house all customer funds at
clearinghouses or other depositories after futures investors
have lost money held at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and Peregrine
Financial Group Inc.  The exchange operator said any interest earned by the
customer money would be returned to the futures brokerages to
maintain a key feature of how the firms earn revenue, according
to a letter to customers sent yesterday by Executive Chairman
 Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill.  “While these firms may have been at fault, it’s
nevertheless our problem as an industry, and this problem needs
a solution,” they wrote in the letter. Customers at MF Global
are still missing $1.6 billion in segregated funds after the
firm filed for bankruptcy in October.  About $220 million in segregated client money is
unaccounted for at Peregrine after its founder and Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. was arrested July 13
after a suicide attempt and a signed confession that he had
defrauded customers for 20 years.  In both cases, the excess customer money held at the
brokerages is what disappeared. The customer funds held by CME
Group in the MF Global case and at Jefferies Group Inc. in the
Peregrine situation were protected.  In the Courts  Devon Energy, Texas Sue EPA Over Ozone Limits Set by Bush  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and the state of Texas sued the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to challenge the way ozone
emission limits set by President  George W. Bush ’s administration
are being implemented.  The lawsuits, brought in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington, are among more than 10 filed since July 19 opposing
the agency’s designation of 46 areas across the country as
failing to meet the 2008 federal maximum standard of 75 parts
per billion. Devon Energy objects that Wise County, Texas, where
it has natural gas operations, is on the list.  “The science behind the designation is lackluster, and
relies on methods rejected by other EPA regions,” Joe Leonard,
an environmental, health and safety engineer at Devon Energy,
said in testimony before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform on July 13.  A state or locality must develop a plan to cut its ozone
pollution if it’s tagged with the designation of “non-
attainment” for exceeding the 75 parts-per-billion standard.  EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  proposed lowering the
standard to 70 parts per billion, which President  Barack Obama 
turned down in September after a lobbying campaign by industry
groups.  Other challengers include Targa Resources Corp., the state
of  Tennessee  and the Gas Processors Association.  Chip Minty , a spokesman for Oklahoma City-based Devon
Energy, and David Bloomgren, an EPA spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone messages seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The Devon Energy case is Devon Energy Corp. v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-01322; the Texas case is
Texas v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 12-01316, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Walnut Place Withdraws From BofA Mortgage-Bond Case  Walnut Place, which was challenging  Bank of America Corp. ’s
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with investors,
withdrew from litigation over the deal.  Walnut Place entities that intervened in the case sought
court permission to withdraw, according to a filing yesterday in
New York State Supreme Court that didn’t give a reason. Justice
Barbara Kapnick approved an order permitting the withdrawal.  The move bolsters  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, which reached the settlement last year to resolve
claims over Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds. The accord is
before a New York state judge for approval.  Walnut Place is among a group of investors that intervened
in the case seeking more information about the agreement. Walnut
Place has said in court papers that it has “serious concerns”
about the adequacy of the settlement and that Bank of America
was paying $8.5 billion to resolve claims “worth many times
that amount.”  Walnut Place is a pseudonym used by hedge fund Baupost
Group LLC, Theodore Mirvis, a Bank of America attorney, said at
a court hearing, according to a transcript.  Owen Cyrulnik, an attorney for Walnut Place, declined to
comment on the withdrawal. Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for
Boston-based Baupost, who said in March that the firm doesn’t
comment on specific investments, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment yesterday.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Sealy Directors Mismanaged Firm, Investor Says in Suit  Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , the world’s largest bedding maker, and its
directors were sued by a shareholder who contends they
mismanaged the company by allowing 44 percent-stakeholder
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR)  undue influence.  The lawsuit also questions the propriety of more than $20
million in payments to KKR since 2006 and continuing consulting
fees in addition to “false and misleading statements” about
payments, amid millions of dollars in losses and allegedly
adverse publicity.  “Board members have failed to disclose information about
the nature of KKR’s relationship with the company and the
provision of large payments to KKR,” shareholder Jay M. Plourde
said in a complaint filed July 19 in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  The lawsuit asks a judge to award damages to the Trinity,
North Carolina-based company from officials for their alleged
wrongdoing, as well as legal fees and costs of litigation,
according to court papers.  Michael Murray , a spokesman for Sealy, and  Kristi Huller,
a spokeswoman for KKR, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Plourde v. Rogers and Sealy, CA7709, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Goldman Sachs, Bain Ask for Bid-Rigging Lawsuit to Be Thrown Out  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bain Capital Partners LLC and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  urged a federal judge to dismiss an investor
lawsuit accusing the largest investment banks and private-equity
firms of conspiring to rig bids on leveraged buyouts.  The financial companies were among the defendants seeking
summary judgment from U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington in
the five-year-old class-action, or group lawsuit, according to
court filings yesterday in Boston.  Goldman Sachs, in its filing, said the plaintiffs haven’t
proved that the banks and private-equity firms “participated in
any conspiracy in violation of the antitrust laws.” Most
documents supporting the motions are under seal. The plaintiffs
are expected to file their motions for summary judgment next
month.  Individuals and a pension fund that held shares in
companies including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , Neiman Marcus
Group and Aramark Holdings Corp. sued the firms in 2007 and
2008.  The defendants also include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Apollo Global
Management LLC, (APO)  Providence Equity Partners Inc., Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, Silver Lake Technology Management LLC and TPG
Capital.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Masco Price-Fixing Trial Canceled Amid ‘Serious’ Talks  Masco Corp. (MAS) ’s trial on claims by independent contractors
that it colluded with insulation makers to fix prices was
canceled by a federal judge after a lawyer said the parties were
in talks with a mediator.  U.S. District Judge Julie Carnes in Atlanta yesterday
called off the trial, according to a docket entry. Opening
arguments were set to begin this week in the case, which was
brought in 2004 by independent contractors who accused Masco and
four insulation makers of conspiring to force them to pay more
than Masco, one of the largest U.S. installers of home
insulation.  In a trial that was expected to last six weeks, 369
independent contractors were seeking $150 million in damages
against Masco, the sole remaining defendant after the insulation
makers settled for undisclosed terms.  “We have been through the mediator since Wednesday in
continued discussions, and I think it’s fair to say it’s serious
discussions,” William R. Sherman, the Masco attorney, told the
judge, according to a transcript.  Sherman didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the cancellation or the talks. Steven Rosenwasser, an attorney
for the contractors, declined to comment. Maria C. Duey, a Masco
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  Details of the settlements with the manufacturers,
including CertainTeed Corp. and Johns Manville Inc., have been
sealed by the court.  Masco, based in Taylor, Michigan, has previously called the
contractors’ allegations baseless. Its motion to dismiss the
lawsuit remains sealed by the court.  In a 2009 ruling allowing the case to go to trial, Carnes
said there was evidence the insulation makers established a
price “spread” that gave Masco a 10 percent to 12 percent
discount over independent contractors.  The case is Columbus Drywall & Insulation Inc. v. Masco
Corp., 04-cv-03066, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  