-- China Makers Prep Response to Solarworld’s Dumping Claim
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T06:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/solarworld-prepping-anti-dumping-complaint-hasn-t-filed.html
China ’s solar companies are
preparing a response to an anti-dumping complaint from
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  as the German company moves closer to filing its
case against their trade practices with the European Commission.  Representatives from about 40 domestic companies will
outline their stance tomorrow, according to a statement on the
website of China’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . Solarworld,
 Germany ’s biggest maker of solar panels, yesterday said it’s
preparing the complaint, with a group of European solar
companies readying an announcement for the end of the week.  “Together with several European solar companies,
SolarWorld is working on a complaint against dumping prices of
Chinese manufacturers,” Milan Nitzschke, a spokesman for Bonn-
based Solarworld, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The complaint highlights growing tensions with China over
its aid for renewable-energy companies. A similar filing in the
U.S., led by Solarworld’s U.S. unit, resulted in preliminary
anti-dumping duties on Chinese solar manufacturers after the
U.S. Commerce Department in May ruled they sold products below
cost. The U.S. duties range from 31 percent to 250 percent.  China will probably take countermeasures should the
European Commission begin an investigation of Chinese solar
manufacturers, the China Daily newspaper said.  The Commerce Ministry has yet to receive notice of an
investigation, an unidentified ministerial official told the
newspaper. A fax to the ministry’s news office requesting more
information went unanswered.  Show of Support  Germany’s environment minister,  Peter Altmaier , said July
19 that the country would support the Commission if it were to
start an anti-dumping procedure.  “An action of the EU on behalf of fair competition and the
rules of the EU is urgently necessary,” Nitzschke said.  Solarworld will want to show an overwhelming majority of
producers support the measure so that the European Commission
finds reasons to hear the case, a team of Jefferies Group Inc.
analysts said in a note to investors on June 28. The case may
start 45 days after a complaint is filed, they said.  “Although the duties might be smaller and the likelihood
of anti-dumping duties is somewhat lower than in the U.S., the
size of the European PV market would make it hard for Chinese
cell suppliers to circumvent any duties,” Jefferies said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  