-- Sony Is Possible Partner for Olympus Amid Terumo Talks
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-07-24T03:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/sony-terumo-remain-possible-partners-for-olympus-chairman-says.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  is continuing
discussions with  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Terumo Corp. (4543)  and  Fujifilm Holdings
Corp. (4901)  about possible tie-ups as the Japanese camera maker seeks
to increase its capital in the aftermath of an accounting fraud.  There’s a “50-50” chance Olympus will choose Sony as a
partner, and odds are similar companies including Terumo may
invest in Olympus, Chairman Yasuyuki Kimoto, 63, said in an
interview yesterday. Forming an alliance with  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  is
“less likely,” while the door is “still left open” for
Fujifilm, he said.  Olympus’s  new management team , led by the former  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  banker, is considering alliance
offers from the four companies after revelation of the fraud
wiped about $4 billion off its market value. The stock, which
 plunged 59 percent  in 2011, has recovered by more than 10
percent since Kimoto’s team won shareholder approval April 20.  “We need some sort of capital increase rather quickly,”
Kimoto said at the company’s headquarters in  Tokyo . The
discussions probably will continue for at least two months, and
the company plans to make a decision by year’s end, he said.
Olympus needs to find “a partner or some partners,” he said.  Olympus restated earnings last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees on
takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to conceal
past investment losses. Net assets fell to 46 billion yen ($587
million) as of Sept. 30, from 151 billion yen reported in the
previous quarter, according to company filings.  50 Billion Yen  Sony spokesman  George Boyd  declined to comment. Fujifilm is
“still waiting for a reply from Olympus” on its offer, Takao Aoki, a spokesman said.  Olympus also is considering funding through a public share
sale, President Hiroyuki Sasa said in an interview last month.
Foregoing an alliance would allow Olympus to pursue a business
strategy independently, while a tie-up may help accelerate
growth in its camera and medical businesses, Sasa said. He said
50 billion yen is a “rough guideline” for how much the company
may raise.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus is the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes. It controls
about 75 percent of the global market for the instruments, which
let doctors look inside the body to help detect diseases such as
colorectal cancer.  Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and its first
“gastrocamera,” a predecessor to the modern-day endoscope, in
1950, according to the company’s website.  Job Cuts  The medical unit is Olympus’s  biggest  profit generator,
accounting for 113 billion yen of operating income in the year
ended March 31. The company’s imaging systems unit, which makes
Olympus PEN cameras, lost 18 billion yen during the year.  The company is cutting 2,700 jobs, about 7 percent of its
workforce, by March 2014, it said in June. Most of the jobs
being eliminated are in overseas manufacturing, Sasa said last
month. The company will close a plant in the  Philippines  this
year and reorganize others, it said June 8.  Olympus is  projecting  net income of 7 billion yen for the
year started April 1, compared with a 49 billion-yen loss a year
earlier. Operating profit may be 50 billion yen, up from 35.5
billion yen a year earlier, the company said June 8.  The company’s stock plunged as low as 460 yen last year
after former President  Michael Woodford  was dismissed Oct. 14
and publicly questioned fees paid by Olympus for takeovers. The
stock closed down 2.8 percent at 1,347 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday.  Woodford settled a London lawsuit against his former
employer under whistleblowing rules on May 29. Olympus settled
for 10 million pounds ($15.5 million), the company said June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  