-- South Dakota Abortion-Suicide Advisory Lawful, Court Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-24T22:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/south-dakota-abortion-suicide-advisory-lawful-court-says.html
A  South Dakota  law requiring doctors
to advise prospective abortion patients that they will face an
increased risk of suicide and suicidal thoughts as a result of
the procedure is lawful and can be enforced, a U.S. appeals
court ruled.  The St. Louis-based court, which hears legal challenges
from seven Midwest U.S. states, today reversed a 2-1 panel
decision from last year. Planned Parenthood of  Minnesota ,  North
Dakota , South Dakota argued that the law burdens both abortion
rights and physicians’ free-speech rights.  The organization failed to persuade seven of the 11 judges
on the full-court panel that the South Dakota requirement was
untruthful, misleading or irrelevant.  “We hold that the disclosure facially mandated by the
suicide advisory is truthful,” U.S. Circuit Judge Raymond W. Gruender wrote for the majority, citing “extensive evidence in
the record” of increased risk.  The imparting of that information was part of a 2005
legislative act amending the state’s informed-consent
requirements for abortions. Planned Parenthood’s St. Paul,
Minnesota-based chapter sued that year.  A three-judge panel last year affirmed the decision by a
federal judge in  Sioux Falls , South Dakota, upholding a mandated
advisory that an abortion terminates a human life. That panel
also reversed part of U.S. District Judge Karen E. Schreier’s
ruling that struck language describing the constitutionally-
protected relationship between the patient and the fetus.  Minority Opinion  Circuit Court judges Diana E. Murphy and Michael J. Melloy
last year voted to uphold Schreier’s decision to block the
suicide advisory. Gruender dissented.  Murphy and Melloy adhered to their prior position on the
suicide issue in today’s ruling. Two other circuit court judges
joined their dissent.  “The record clearly demonstrates, however, that suicide is
not a known medical risk of abortion,” Murphy wrote for the
minority. “Suicide is caused instead by factors preexisting an
abortion such as a history of mental illness, domestic violence,
and young age at the time of pregnancy.”  Sarah Stoesz, president and chief executive officer of the
suing  Planned Parenthood  chapter, said in an e-mailed statement
that the group is “extremely disappointed” by the court’s
decision.  ‘Scientific Evidence’  “Every reputable researcher and medical organization has
determined that there is no sound scientific evidence that shows
a cause and effect relationship between abortion and suicide”
Stoesz said.  She called the measure “just one of many reprehensible
barriers that South Dakota politicians are determined to impose
on women seeking safe and legal health care.”  State Attorney General Marty Jackley said the ruling
preserves state legislators’ objectives.  “This is the fourth time that we have successfully
defended the desire of the Legislature” before the appeals
court, he said in a telephone interview.  Those legislators sought to ensure women are “informed as
to the medical and health risks of an abortion procedure,”
Jackley said.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Minnesota, North Dakota,
South Dakota v. Rounds, 09-3231, 3233, 3362,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  