-- South Korean President Apologizes Amid Family Corruption Claims
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-24T07:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/south-korean-president-apologizes-amid-family-corruption-claims.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
apologized today for “unfortunate incidents” surrounding his
family, as prosecutors prepare to indict his brother on
corruption charges.  “I caused the public much concern in recent days with
unfortunate incidents happening around me and in my family,”
Lee said in a four-minute televised speech, without elaborating.
“I apologize deeply and will take full responsibility.”  Lee, whose single five-year term ends in February, is
seeking to help his ruling New Frontier Party hold onto the
presidency in December elections. Prosecutors are pursuing
corruption cases against former presidential aides, ministers
and other senior members of the party.  Lee’s brother, former lawmaker Lee Sang Deuk, will be
indicted this week for his alleged involvement in a savings bank
bribery scandal, Choi Woon Sik, head of the team in the Supreme
Prosecutors’ Office investigating wrongdoing at the banks, said
in a phone interview after the speech today. Lee Sang Deuk was
arrested July 11 for allegedly receiving illegal political
donations.  The NFP narrowly won elections for parliament in April
after enacting reforms to restore its image, which was tainted
by National Assembly speaker Park Hee Tae’s resignation in
February over alleged vote-buying.  Prosecutors have indicted almost 200 people and ordered at
least two jail sentences after uncovering illegal lending and
lax oversight among bankers, regulators, politicians and
lobbyists. The Financial Services Commission has closed 20
savings banks since January 2011 and depositors and bond holders
have lost more than 1 trillion won ($872 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  