-- South Korea Says Global Economy Deteriorating on Europe Crisis
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-07-24T02:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/south-korea-says-global-economy-deteriorating-on-europe-crisis.html
South Korea ’s Finance Ministry said
economic growth momentum is weak and the global outlook is
worsening, highlighting concern that a deepening crisis in
Europe may further curb demand for exports.  “Conditions are deteriorating in the global economy with
the European fiscal crisis resurfacing,” the Finance Ministry
said today in a report to parliament. “There is a concern that
financial market unrest in the Euro zone may lead to fallout in
the real economy in Europe.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut credit outlooks for  Germany ,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg yesterday and Spain’s 10-year
bonds slumped, fueling concern Europe’s debt crisis is
spreading. South Korea’s  economy  probably expanded 0.5 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months when it
grew 0.9 percent, according to 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg news before data due July 26.  South  Korea  has a contingency plan should the situation in
Europe decline further, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in
parliament today. Bahk ruled out additional fiscal stimulus for
now in a July 16 interview, saying it could do more harm than
good because the global economy is too weak.  South Korea’s won fell for a third day today, down 0.2
percent to 1,149.10 per dollar as of 11:12 a.m. in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,151.00
earlier, the weakest since July 13. The Kospi Index slid 0.2
percent.  The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate on
July 12 and a day later pared its 2012 growth forecast to 3
percent from 3.5 percent, the second cut this year. The  Finance
Ministry  announced economic support measures on June 28,
including assistance for small businesses and low-income
earners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  