-- Korea’s Consumer Confidence Falls to 5-Month Low on Europe
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-25T02:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/south-korea-s-consumer-confidence-falls-to-5-month-low-on-europe.html
South Korean consumer confidence
dropped to the lowest level in five months as officials
cautioned that a protracted  European debt crisis  is hurting the
growth outlook for Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  The  sentiment index  was at 100 in July, down from 101 in
June, the  Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. A
reading of 100 indicates there are an equal number of optimists
and pessimists.  Growth momentum is weak and the global outlook is
worsening, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report to parliament
yesterday. South Korea’s economy probably expanded 0.5 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, when it
grew 0.9 percent, according to 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before data due tomorrow.  “We wake up every morning with more bad news about the
economy,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “It’s hard to consume or invest when
the future looks gloomy.”  South Korea’s won weakened 0.4 percent to 1,150.65 per
dollar at 11:02 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Kospi Index fell 0.9 percent.  The Bank of Korea said in a separate report to parliament
today that the momentum of the country’s economic recovery is
weakening as export growth slows and consumers and businesses
lose confidence. A protracted fiscal crisis in  Europe  and a
possible slowdown in emerging countries are the main risks to
economic growth, the BOK said.  The expected inflation rate over the next year was 3.6
percent in July, down from 3.7 percent last month, according to
today’s e-mailed BOK statement. Consumer prices increased 2.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 32
months.  The  consumer confidence  index is based on survey responses
from 2,050 households in 56 cities. It was conducted by mail and
telephone between July 11 and July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  