-- Spain Debt Costs Seen Unjustified in Berlin Crisis Talks
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-25T07:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/spain-debt-costs-seen-unfounded-after-berlin-crisis-talks.html
Spanish borrowing costs surged after
crisis talks in Berlin late yesterday produced a statement
saying bond yields don’t reflect the strength of  Spain ’s
economy.  “The current levels of  interest rates  on sovereign debt
markets don’t correspond to the fundamentals of the Spanish
economy,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said after their
meeting in a joint decalaration that also praised Spain’s
deficit-cutting efforts.  Their words failed to provide market support as the plunge
in Spanish securities extended into a 10th day. Spain’s two-year
note yield climbed 20 basis points to 7.09 percent at 7:43 a.m.
 London  time, breaching the 7 percent level for the first time.
The five-year yield rose 14 basis points to 7.74 percent while
the rate on 10-year bonds added 9 basis points to 7.71 percent.  The Spanish government today denied an El Economista report
that  Germany  is urging Spain to request a 300 billion-euro ($363
billion) bailout package that would erase the need to sell debt
to investors for as many as two years.  Spain’s bank bailout and agreements made among European
leaders at the end of June to build a so-called banking union
should be implemented “quickly,” they said. Schaeuble starts
his three-week vacation today, while de Guindos visits Paris for
talks with his French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici .  Bailout Denials  Policy makers denied yesterday that an international
bailout was being prepared for the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy after Spanish 10-year bond yields surged to a euro-era
record. After taking on as much as 100 billion euros of bailout
loans to aid banks, Spain’s government is struggling to maintain
access to markets.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said no work is
being done for a rescue of the Spanish government, though
officials in the 17-nation euro area must be prepared to move
quickly.  “In such difficult times as we are in, one has to follow
the situation on a permanent, daily basis and be ready to act at
any moment,” Frieden said in a telephone interview yesterday in
Luxembourg. “The political decisions in the case of Spain and
also of  Greece  have been taken to be able to act fast. That’s
what is important especially now in the summer months.”  ECB Bazooka  A full-blown Spanish bailout can be averted if the  European
Central Bank  starts buying the nation’s bonds in large
quantities, the head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  Europe  should deploy all of
its instruments “but mostly the ECB,” OECD Secretary General
Angel Gurria said in a Bloomberg Television interview in London
yesterday. “There is the bazooka.”  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview
poublished today there are arguments in favor of giving Europe’s
rescue fund a banking license, reopening the debate on
bolstering its firepower as leaders face the prospect of a full-
scale Spanish bailout.  Spain didn’t have enough funds to bail out its banks and
the central government is now at risk of being overburdened by
the borrowing needs of cash-strapped regional governments that
are locked out of markets. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
administration created an 18 billion-euro facility on July 13 to
help states meet their debt redemptions and plug shortfalls.  Catalonia, the biggest regional economy and the most
indebted, said yesterday it is considering tapping the fund, and
Valencia, the second-most burdened, has said it will do so.  Concerns the Spanish government itself will need some kind
of international assistance helped push down the euro. Yesterday
the European currency fell below $1.21 for a second day, also
pressured by Moody’s Investors Service’s decision to cut its
outlook for the Aaa credit ratings of Germany, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg. As Spanish bonds slumped, the main Ibex 35 share
index fell 3.6 percent in  Madrid .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  