-- Spain’s Tax Hike Set to Accelerate Telefonica Sales Fall
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-25T07:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/spain-s-tax-hike-set-to-accelerate-telefonica-sales-fall.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , already hampered by
shrinking demand and higher borrowing costs in Spain, faces
another hit to earnings from a tax increase that threatens to
drive crisis-stricken consumers to discounters.  Spain’s biggest phone carrier will be hurt by the boost in
the value-added tax in September, part of the government’s
austerity efforts, because it will prompt consumers to seek
savings and curb spending, said Alexandra Delgado, an analyst at
BCP Investimento in Lisbon. Telefonica gets a quarter of its
revenue from its home market, where the Madrid-based operator
competes against  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo and the local units of
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   “More taxes are just the last straw for Telefonica in
 Spain ,” Delgado said. “The increase in VAT will affect
consumption in Spain, thus having an indirect negative impact on
Telefonica’s top line down the road.”  Further customer losses in Telefonica’s home market would
add to pressure on Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, who is
seeking to revive a stock weighed down by rising debt and
falling profit. Alierta is reversing his decade-long expansion
strategy and trying to sell assets including shares in German
and Latin American units to cut 57 billion euros ($69 billion)
of net borrowings.  Telefonica may say second-quarter earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization fell 6 percent to 5.29
billion euros, according to the average of analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is scheduled to report
earnings tomorrow before the market opens in Madrid.  Austerity Measures  Shares of Telefonica have lost 36 percent this year through
yesterday, the worst performance among the 23 companies in the
 Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index (BETELES) , which fell
7.3 percent. They rose 1.7 percent to 8.78 euros at 9:24 a.m.
Madrid time.  As Spain struggles to narrow its  budget deficit  and cut the
highest  unemployment rate  in the European Union, the government
is undertaking the deepest austerity measures in three decades.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will increase the most common rate
of  sales tax  to 21 percent from 18 percent on Sept. 1.  Sofia Gonzalez, a designer in Madrid, said she plans to
switch to a cheaper carrier such as Yoigo when her contract with
Telefonica expires in October. Her family now spends about 130
euros a month for three mobile phones and a package of fixed-
line, broadband and pay-TV services.  High Prices  “I’m tired of Telefonica’s high prices and poor customer-
service,” said Gonzalez, 22. “Even as my dad pays for my phone
bill and still wants to keep Telefonica because he thinks the
others aren’t good enough, I will switch without thinking
twice.”  Potential benefactors from Spain’s economic malaise include
Telefonica’s rivals such as  Jazztel Plc (JAZ)  and other so-called
mobile virtual-network operators, which are grabbing market
share from the Spanish former monopoly, said Javier Mielgo, an
analyst at Mirabaud Finanzas in Madrid.  “The crisis has forced Spanish consumers to try new things
and that has dismantled the old myth of Telefonica being
untouchable,” Mielgo said by phone.  A Telefonica official declined to comment.  Spanish Revenue  The company’s mounting challenges mirror those faced by
Europe’s other major phone carriers.  Yesterday,  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company partly
owned by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, cut its
dividend forecast by 61 percent after profit trailed analysts’
estimates as demand in its home market shrank. Last week,
Vodafone reported first-quarter service revenue that missed
estimates as customers in Spain and Italy cut spending and
growth in  India  slowed.  Telefonica may be forced to reduce prices because the
economic crisis and tax increase make customers more sensitive
to new offers by rivals, BCP’s Delgado said. That will
contribute to hurdles weighing on Telefonica’s revenue growth.  “All issues affecting Spanish consumption, along with
higher competition, mean Telefonica loses several hundreds of
millions euros a year in revenues,” Delgado said.  Telefonica’s revenue decline in Spain may accelerate to 9
percent this year from a drop of 7.6 percent in 2011, according
to an estimate by Alexander Wisch, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ
Equity Research in  London .  The carrier’s second-quarter domestic revenue may have slid
12 percent from a year earlier, said Andres Bolumburu, an
analyst at Banco de Sabadell in  Madrid . Full-year sales at home
will fall 9.8 percent, he estimates.  Preserving Margins  In May, Telefonica lost more than 204,000 mobile-phone
lines in Spain, bringing its market share down to 38.04 percent
from 38.24 percent in April, data from the CMT  regulator  showed.  After coming back from a three-week trip to London, Ane
Escribano, a mechanical-engineering student in the northern
Spanish city of Bilbao, found herself with a 170-euro mobile-
phone bill from Telefonica. That triggered her to switch to
Vodafone at the end of last year and get a cheaper offer and a
smartphone.  Telefonica continued to charge her 7 euros for two more
months, the 22-year-old said. “It was a very disappointing
experience,” she said.  Even with the competitive threats, Telefonica has chosen to
preserve its  profit margins  by, for example, cutting handset
subsidies, said S&P’s Wisch. That has resulted in the market-
share losses, making the strategy unsustainable in the long
term, he said.  “Telefonica’s Spanish revenues are under significant
pressure so what can it do?” Wisch said. “We could see the
company fighting back later in the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  