-- Spirit Airlines Loses Challenge to All-In Fare Ad Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-24T17:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/spirit-airlines-loses-challenge-to-all-in-fare-ad-rule.html
Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  and Southwest
Airlines Co. lost a challenge to federal rules that require
carriers to prominently display the total cost of a ticket,
including taxes, when advertising airfares.  In a 2-1 decision today, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  rejected the airlines’ contention that the rules
violate their rights to engage in commercial and political
speech and are an effort by the government to hide taxes in
airfares. Las Vegas-based  Allegiant Travel Co. (ALGT)  also filed a
lawsuit that was consolidated with Spirit’s.  “Contrary to the airlines’ repeated suggestions, nothing
in the Airfare Advertising Rule requires airlines to hide taxes
-- or, as Spirit’s website puts it, the ‘Government’s Cut,’”
U.S. Circuit Judge David Tatel wrote in the opinion, which was
joined by U.S. Circuit Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson.  The U.S. Transportation Department had been considering the
policy change on fare advertising since at least 2006, and said
in the final rule issued in April 2011 that the change was to
address a “bait and switch tactic by travel sellers.”  Since January, airlines and travel agencies have been
required to show an all-in number that combines the base fare
with all mandatory taxes and fees. The total, tax-included price
must be the most prominent figure displayed in print or online
advertisements. Charges for optional services such as checked
bags or in-flight Wi-Fi aren’t covered by the rule.  Reservation Rule  The judges also rejected Spirit’s challenge to rules
allowing customers to cancel their reservations within 24 hours
after purchasing a ticket and prohibiting airlines from changing
the price of a ticket after purchase by increasing fees for
passenger baggage or fuel surcharges.  Southwest Airlines (LUV) , based in  Dallas , intervened in the case
challenging only the advertising rule.  In a dissent, U.S. Circuit Judge A. Raymond Randolph said
the rule violates the First Amendment because it dictates how
airlines “may convey information criticizing the taxes and
fees” paid by customers.  “The government is thus attempting to restrict speech
critical of the government,” Randolph wrote.  Misty Pinson, a spokeswoman for Miramar, Florida-based
Spirit, said the airline disagrees with the decision.  ‘Pay More’  “American consumers are going to pay more for  air travel ,
and have less choice, as the USDOT continues to pile costly new
rules onto an already over-regulated and over-taxed industry,”
she said in an e-mail. “That said, we have been and will
continue to comply with the new rules.”  Chris Mainz , a spokesman for Southwest, said the airline
has already revised its fare advertisements to comply with the
rule.  “While we’re disappointed in the court’s decision, it
really has no impact on us,” Mainz said in a telephone
interview. He didn’t know whether Southwest would seek
additional court review of the rule.  The case is Spirit Airlines Inc. v. U.S. Department of
Transportation, 11-01219, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  