-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Sudan (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-24T18:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-sudan-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Sudan :  Statement at the Conclusion of an IMF Mission to Sudan  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission, led by Mr. Edward Gemayel,
visited Sudan during July 15−23, 2012, to continue discussions for the 2012
Article IV Consultation that were started in May. The mission met with
Minister of Finance Ali Mahmood Abdulrasool, Governor of the Central
Bank Mohamed Khair Ahmed Al-Zubair, State Minister of Finance Megdi Yasin,
Deputy Governor of the Central Bank Badreddin Mahmood Abbas, Under
Secretary of Ministry of Finance Yousif AlHussein, and representatives
of the private sector, civil society, diplomatic community, and
development partners.  The discussions focused on recent policy measures taken by the Sudanese
authorities in response to the economic challenges faced by the country
as a result of  South Sudan ’s secession. At the end of the mission,
Mr. Gemayel issued the following statement:  “The mission welcomes the difficult but important efforts made by the
Sudanese authorities in recent weeks to address the domestic and external
economic impact of South Sudan’s secession. The fiscal measures taken in
the context of the revised 2012 Budget, which derives from the government’s
Three-Year Emergency Program adopted in 2011, include important steps to
raise non-oil revenue and consolidate expenditure while strengthening
social safety nets. The implementation of these measures will contribute
to restore fiscal sustainability over time. Equally important is the
central bank’s reform of the exchange rate regime, which will gradually
help restore external stability.  “Looking ahead, the mission underscores the need for continued policy
reforms to ensure medium-term macroeconomic stability that would enable
more inclusive economic growth, boost job creation and contribute to
poverty reduction. Measures to protect the most vulnerable segment of
the society amid the current difficult economic context warrant
particular attention.  “The IMF’s Executive Board is expected to consider the report on the 2012
Article IV Consultation with Sudan in September 2012. The mission would
like to thank the authorities for their cooperation and constructive
dialogue.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  