-- State Farm Drops Sponsorship of Penn State Football Post-Scandal
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-24T17:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/state-farm-drops-sponsorship-of-penn-state-football-post-scandal.html
State Farm Insurance  is dropping its
sponsorship of  Pennsylvania State University ’s football program,
including its stadium and radio advertisements.  Arlene Lester, a spokeswoman for the U.S.’s largest
automobile insurer, said the decision was made following the
child sex scandal and ensuing coverup involving former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky and school officials.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  punished the
school yesterday by levying a $60 million fine, banning it from
postseason play for four years and reducing the number of
scholarships it offers football recruits by 20 a year. A school-
commissioned investigation led by former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  found that former coach  Joe Paterno  and other school officials tried to cover up the abuse.  “We think this is the best thing to do right now to show
our support for the victims,” Lester said. “We’ve been having
this conversation for quite some time. It was not tied to the
Freeh report or the NCAA sanctions.”  Lester said State Farm is only canceling its football
sponsorships. It will continue its other ads with  Penn State ,
including the men’s basketball team, and will continue to
sponsor college football nationally.  Lester said she didn’t know how much the company spent on
the football sponsorship.  $55.2 Million  Penn State’s athletic department earned $55.2 million from
royalties, licensing, advertisements and sponsorships for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, according to  school documents .  An e-mail and phone message left for sports information
director  Jeff Nelson  about other companies that have dropped
sponsorships wasn’t immediately returned.  The Big Ten conference said yesterday that the school won’t
be eligible to receive its share of the Big Ten’s bowl revenue,
about $13 million annually, during its four-year postseason ban.  According to the school’s  financial records , Penn State
received $23.7 million from NCAA and conference distributions in
fiscal 2011.  The 68-year-old Sandusky, a football assistant coach for 31
years, was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to
the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  In fiscal 2011, Penn State’s athletic department generated
$116.1 million in operating revenue and posted a $14.8 million
operating profit, according to records for the  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based school. The football team, which was 9-4 last
season, had an operating profit of $43.8 million on $58.9
million in revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  