-- RBA’s Stevens Seeks to Ease Concerns on China, Housing Risks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-24T05:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/stevens-seeks-to-ease-concerns-on-china-housing-bubble-risks.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  sought to ease concern his nation is vulnerable to
shocks from a slower Chinese economy, a domestic housing slump
and global financial stress, saying it remains a “lucky
country” with a favorable outlook.  “Even if the pessimists turn out to be right on one or
more counts, it doesn’t follow that we would be unable to
cope,” Stevens said in the text of a  speech  today in Sydney
that didn’t directly address monetary policy. “Acting sensibly,
with a long-term focus, has as good a chance as ever of seeing
us through whatever comes our way.”  Responding to questions after his prepared remarks, Stevens
said monetary policy is “about right,” with inflation near the
lower end of the RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range. A
government report on consumer prices in the April-June period is
scheduled to be released tomorrow.  The Australian economy is under scrutiny because of its
dependence on iron-ore and coal sales to  China  as well as
concern about a property bubble with housing prices that are
among the most expensive in the developed world.  Australia dodged the 2009 global contraction after the
government boosted spending and the central bank lowered
 interest rates . The economy is in its third decade without a
recession.  Policy Scope  “In the final analysis, a serious deterioration in
international economic conditions would still see Australia with
scope to use macroeconomic policy, if needed, as long as
inflation did not become a concern, which would be unlikely in
the scenario in question,” Stevens said in the speech titled
“The Lucky Country.”  The Australian currency has risen 46 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  since the end of 2008 amid the biggest resources
boom in more than a century, hurting industries such as tourism
and manufacturing. The RBA has lowered  borrowing costs  by 125
basis points since November to 3.5 percent, still the highest
among major developed nations, to help maintain the expansion.  “From where I’m sitting, we’ve got an  unemployment rate  in
the low 5s, let’s call it that, an inflation rate, we’ll see
what happens tomorrow, but it’ll be probably near 2 percent,
banks are strong, government finances are in reasonable shape,
currency is sound -- not too shabby,” Stevens said in response
to a question from the audience.  CPI Tomorrow  Consumer-price growth in Australia has eased recently and a
government report tomorrow may show a measure of  core inflation 
was 1.9 percent in the 12 months to June 30, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That
would be the slowest pace since 1999.  Asked whether Australia’s low inflation and low long-term
yields indicate monetary policy is too tight, Stevens said: “I
think things are about right. Our recent communication is that
we think the setting’s about right for the circumstances we
face.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s slowest growth since 2009
prompted  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
to reduce planned spending on new projects. Gross domestic
product growth in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner,
slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest pace since the global
financial crisis, a report this month showed.  ‘Cyclical Slowing’  Recent data in China suggests “that so far, this is a
normal cyclical slowing, not a sudden slump of the kind that
occurred in late 2008,” Stevens said, adding that Australia
will feel the effects of the Chinese business cycle more than it
has in the past. “But even so, it may be better to be exposed
to a Chinese economy with a high average, even if variable,
growth rate, than, say, to a Europe with a very low average
growth rate that is apparently also still rather variable.”  Stevens addressed the notion that  Australia ’s property
market faces a slump similar to that seen in the U.S. and other
developed nations. Australian  house prices  declined in the three
months through March in the longest stretch of declines in at
least a decade, and are down 6.1 percent from their mid-2010
peak.  “Historical or international comparisons, to the extent
they can be made, do not constitute definitive evidence of an
imminent slump,” Stevens said. “The repayment on a new loan on
a median-priced house as a share of average income is now at its
lowest for a decade.”  Housing Market  Stevens acknowledged that Australia’s low unemployment
rate, which has hovered near 5 percent for the past two years,
has helped support the housing market, while noting that a high
proportion of households are ahead on their mortgage repayments,
providing them with some buffer.  “It has to be said that the housing market bubble, if
that’s what it is, seems to be taking quite a long time to pop -
- if that’s what it is going to do,” he said. “The ingredients
we would look for as signaling an imminent crash seem, if
anything, less in evidence now than five years ago.”  Stevens also said Australian banks have become less reliant
on overseas funding as they increase the amount they get from
deposits.  “A reasonable conclusion is that the degree of
vulnerability to a global panic of any given magnitude appears
to have diminished, rather than grown, over the past few
years,” he said. “It hasn’t completely disappeared, and it
would not be sensible to expect it would, unless we were
pursuing a policy of financial autarky. But there is little
reason to assume that Australian institutions are somehow
unusually exposed to these risks compared with most of their
counterparts overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  