-- Student Loan Debt Tied to U.S. Home Sales Lag, Soss Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-24T16:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/student-loan-debt-tied-to-u-s-home-sales-lag-soss-says.html
U.S. student loan debt totaling more
than $900 billion may be hurting  home sales , said Neal Soss,
chief economist at Credit Suisse in New York.  Soss, in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene , said higher requirements for down payments and
rising debt of college graduates are preventing younger
potential buyers from entering the housing market.  “We are trying to migrate towards a much safer
underwriting standard, with let’s say 20 percent down payments
required,” Soss said today. “It takes a certain amount of time
for people to save that up, and the more they’re burdened with
student loans the less possible it is for them to accumulate
that chunk of liquid capital that allows them to make that.”  Sales of  previously owned  U.S. homes unexpectedly declined
in June to an eight-month low, showing the recovery in
residential real estate will take time to develop. In 2011,
first-time home buyers, with a median age of 31, fell to the
smallest percentage of total home purchasers since 2006,
according to data from the  National Association of Realtors .
Their median income climbed 6.5 percent from 2006 to 2010,
compared with a 13 percent gain for repeat buyers, the figures
show.  “There is a link,” Soss said when asked about the impact
of student debt on home sales. He said it was “a little too
strong” to see a straight-line connection between the two.  Student Loans  Total student loan debt rose to $904 billion in the first
quarter, from $874 billion three months earlier, according to
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York. College undergraduates
from the class of 2010 on average left school with $25,250 in
student loan debt, according to The Institute for College Access
& Success in Oakland,  California .  Commerce Department figures due tomorrow may show new-home
purchases climbed in June to a 371,000 annual rate, little
changed from the prior month’s 369,000 pace, according to the
median in a Bloomberg survey.  Soss also said that there is “plenty of time” before the
November elections for the Federal Reserve to take additional
action to stimulate the economy. The Credit Suisse chief
economist defended the non-partisan character of the Fed and
said it may not act immediately before the election, but during
the August or September meeting.  “They’ll do what they think is right for the country --
independent,” Soss said.  The Fed is buying Treasuries as part of its program to
replace $267 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  Bernanke, Congress  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified to Congress last
week that the central bank is evaluating additional steps to
create jobs and reverse an economic slowdown, including buying
mortgage bonds or changing language for its policy outlook.  Unemployment hasn’t dropped below 8 percent even though the
central bank has held its main interest rate near zero since
December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds. Policy
makers plan to meet July 31-Aug. 1.  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  has
called on the Fed to commit to low  interest rates  until the
 unemployment rate  falls below 7 percent or inflation rises above
3 percent.  “Frankly in my view, setting a target that you can’t
achieve is not the kind of thing that builds confidence,” Soss
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  