-- Subprime Rally Building as Dealers Sop Up Supply: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-24T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/subprime-rally-building-as-dealers-sop-up-supply-credit-markets.html
The rally in U.S. home-loan
securities without government backing is accelerating as
investors wager the housing bust is over and supply is sopped up
by bond dealers emboldened by new capital rules.  Gains on  subprime-mortgage  bonds from 2005 through 2007,
the years that produced the most defaults leading to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, have soared to 5.4
percent in July, bringing returns for the year through last week
to 21.6 percent, according to Barclays Plc data. Securities
backed by option adjustable-rate mortgages jumped over the past
month by 7 percent to the highest level since May 2011.  Investors faced with benchmark  interest rates  at record
lows are seeking mortgage securities after a 35 percent decline
in  home prices  from the peak in 2006. Wall Street banks are also
adding to inventories after regulatory changes in June. As
Citigroup Inc. warns prices may drop if dealers can’t place the
holdings, daily trading volumes surged almost 40 percent last
week, reaching the highest this year by one measure.  “There’s been a lot of investors waiting on the sidelines
until home prices stabilize and now that they have, they’re
moving in,” said Adam Yarnold, managing director of securitized
products trading in  New York  at Barclays’s investment-banking
arm. In addition, “the absolute low level of rates out there is
driving institutional investors like pension funds to put money
into anything with” returns that can top 7.5 percent and so-
called non-agency securities offer that potential, he said.  Less Capital  The  Federal Reserve  and other regulators last month ended
the use of credit ratings in calculations of how much capital
Wall Street traders must hold against securitized debt. That’s
allowing them to hold less for speculative-grade debt, helping
the $1 trillion market manage greater sales.  Dealers added $3.5 billion of non-agency securities to
their inventories last week, based on  regulatory data . That
compares with $4.5 billion for the rest of 2012 and sales of
$18.1 billion in the final seven months of last year.  “While the market has shown resilience in the face of
large supply, we would be cautious,” Citigroup analysts
including Tanuj Garg wrote in a July 20 report. “Yields are at
the tightest levels in the past two years, and the prices could
pull back if dealers are unable to place their increased
inventory.”  FedEx Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  plans to raise $1
billion in a two-part offering, including its first 30-year bond
in more than two decades. The world’s largest cargo airline will
sell 10-year notes and obligations due in 2042 to fund working
capital and general corporate purposes, the  Memphis , Tennessee-
based company said today in a regulatory filing. FedEx last sold
30-year bonds in 1989, issuing $100 million of 9.625 percent
debt that was called in 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds in the U.S. from
default rose for a third day, with the Markit CDX North America
Investment-Grade index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increasing 1.9 basis
points to a mid-price of 115.3 basis points as of 11:08 a.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index, trading at the highest on an intra-day basis
since June 29, typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  General Electric  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
61 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:09 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Investors in mortgage bonds are gaining confidence the
housing market has reached a bottom, in part because of a surge
in money devoted to buying and renting out foreclosed homes,
Barclays’s Yarnold said.  While U.S. property values have gained before for short
periods during their six-year slump, prices in 20 large U.S.
metropolitan areas  rose  1.3 percent in April from the previous
month, after a 35 percent plunge from July 2006, according to
the most recent S&P/Case-Shiller index data.  Option ARMs  Values nationwide rose 1.8 percent in May, the third
straight monthly gain,  according  to real-estate data firm
CoreLogic Inc. in  Santa Ana ,  California . Still, sales of
previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in June to an
eight-month low, slumping 5.4 percent to a 4.37 million annual
rate, the National Association of Realtors said July 19.  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
ARMs rose to 60 cents on the dollar, gaining 2 cents from the
previous week and 4 cents from a month earlier, Barclays data
show. Option ARMs can allow borrowers to pay less than the
interest they owed by increasing their balances.  Prices have been volatile. After reaching a record low 33
cents in 2009, the bonds soared to 65 cents in February 2011
before slumping to 49 cents last October, roiled by a sovereign-
debt crisis in  Europe , prior Fed sales and dealer retreats.  Subprime-mortgage securities lost an average 5.5 percent
last year, Barclays index data show. Some of the debt fell as
much as 30 percent from early 2011 peaks. Record defaults on
subprime loans, which went to borrowers with poor credit or high
levels of debt, sent bond prices tumbling and helped spark the
financial crisis that led to $1.6 trillion in writedowns and
losses at the world’s biggest banks.  ‘Top End’  Asset managers including D.E. Shaw & Co., Cerberus Capital
Management LP, Canyon Partners LLC and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
started funds during the past year targeting non-agency debt,
spurred by its 2011 collapse, bullishness on housing or
predictions of forced selling by European banks.  Sellers of the debt have less optimistic views on housing
or have “held these securities for a while and think they’re at
the top end of their range,” Yarnold said.  Daily  trading  of non-agency mortgage bonds of $3.4 billion
last week compares with an average of $2.5 billion for 2012,
according to data reported to the Trace system and compiled by
Empirasign Strategies LLC. The debt lacks guarantees from
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned
Ginnie Mae.  Trading volumes were bolstered in January and February as
the Fed sold $19.2 billion of securities assumed in its 2008
rescue of American International Group Inc. Subsequent auctions
of debt once held by the New York-based insurer have focused on
so-called collateralized debt obligations that repackaged
mortgage bonds.  ‘Strong’ Recovery  Dealers circulated 278 lists of non-agency securities last
week in auctions for investors known as “bids wanted in
competition,” totaling $21.3 billion in face value, the largest
amount of debt and fourth-most lists this year, according to New
York-based Empirasign, a provider of trading information.  Non-agency bonds’ recent performance “has been strong, but
we think there are solid fundamental and technical trends
underlying the market so we don’t see it weakening substantially
in the near term,” said Jim Shallcross, a  money manager  at
Metacapital Management LLC. The New York-based firm returned
19.3 percent in its main, mortgage-focused hedge fund in the
first half, newsletter Asset-Backed Alert reported.  U.S. homebuilders are an attractive investment as housing
starts a “strong” recovery that may drive a surge in new-home
sales, Goldman Sachs said yesterday in a report.  Subprime bonds with projected average lives of seven years
or more are yielding 7.5 percent including anticipated losses,
according to JPMorgan data. That compares with 7.1 percent for
high-yield company bonds before accounting for defaults, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  ‘Little Frothy’  The share of securitized non-agency loans defaulting for
the first time fell to a 7.7 percent annual pace in June, from
9.8 percent a year earlier and a record of more than 25 percent
in 2009, according to Amherst Securities Group data.  The size of the recent bond gains “makes little sense”
because “a bottoming in housing this year has already been
baked in,”  John Sim , an analyst at JPMorgan, said in a July 20
report. Based on current assumptions, much of the non-agency
market is offering loss-adjusted yields of about 5 percent.  “Valuations are looking a little frothy,” Sim wrote.
Still, “with continued talk of entering into a negative rate
environment and the scarcity of anything with yield and current
income,” the rally may continue, he added.  Wall Street dealers increased bets on the securities after
changes by regulators including the Fed and Treasury Department
to capital rules for debt in  trading accounts  that Amherst,
Barclays and JPMorgan analysts say make holding certain bonds in
inventory less onerous.  ’Ongoing Doubts’  Instead of relying on credit grades and requiring a dollar
of capital for every dollar of junk-rated debt, the calculations
now involve formulas utilizing defaults rates on the underlying
loans and an individual bond’s protection against losses,
usually producing a smaller number.  The threat of sales by U.S. banks of debt owned in their
long-term portfolios also “have abated” after the regulators
last month  proposed  creating similar rules for those holdings,
Barclays analysts including Sandeep Bordia andJasraj Vaidya
wrote in a July 20 report.  While the analysts are “constructive” on non-agency
securities, the probability of markets in general being roiled
“remains high due to issues in Europe and ongoing doubts over
the U.S. economic recovery,” they wrote, suggesting investors
should favor more “stable” types of the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  