-- Swatch Gains as Watch Components Drive Profit Growth
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-07-24T08:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/swatch-first-half-profit-rises-on-watch-sales-to-asian-consumers.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR)  rose the most in
more than a month in Zurich trading after the biggest maker of
Swiss watches reported first-half profit that beat analysts’
estimates, boosted by growth at its component business.  The stock gained as much as 4 percent to 376.3 Swiss
francs, the  steepest intraday advance  since June 7.  Net income increased 25 percent to 720 million Swiss francs
($727 million) from 575 million francs a year earlier, the Biel,
Switzerland-based company  said today . Operating profit rose 19
percent to 903 million francs, beating the 862 million-franc
average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Earnings at the company’s production business, which sells
parts to other watchmakers, rose 49 percent. Swatch last year
won provisional backing from the country’s competition authority
to cut deliveries to competitors. It has been required to supply
movements to third parties because of its dominant position. The
regulator in May extended the provisional measures through 2013.  “This is just the start of things to come there, given the
liberalization of parts and movements going on in  Switzerland ,”
said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. Swatch “is
a class act and clearly undervalued” as a company.  The stock was up 2 percent at 368.80 francs at 10:20 a.m.
in Zurich, the biggest gain in the 20-member  Swiss Market Index. (SMI)   Components Profitability  The production unit’s operating margin widened to 19.2
percent of sales from 16.3 percent as it ran factories at higher
capacity rates, boosting efficiency, the company said. Sales to
third parties rose 13 percent to 300 million francs.  Swatch is also getting more revenue from China, where
rising wealth is fueling demand for Swiss-made timepieces.
Exports to  Hong Kong  and China for the industry rose 23 percent
to 3 billion francs in the first half, according to the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  The company said it sees “more opportunities than risks
for the future, despite some negative trends such as the
exchange rate and euro situation, and a certain weakening in the
high-end segment in parts of greater  China .”  Gross revenue in the first half increased to 3.85 billion
francs from 3.36 billion francs a year earlier. Swatch repeated
its target for 8 billion francs in revenue this year.  The company’s Omega brand is the official timekeeper for
the London Olympics and will feature in a new James Bond movie
this year, Swatch said. Upcoming new products include a new
chronometer by Breguet and a Blancpain watch with a Chinese
calendar, the company also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  