-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed; Swatch Rises, Banks Decline
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-24T15:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/swiss-stocks-little-changed-swatch-rises-banks-decline.html
Swiss stocks  closed little changed
as  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG’s results beat estimates, offsetting a
bigger-than-expected contraction in German output and Moody’s
Investors Service’s cut to the credit outlook of Europe’s
largest economy.  Swatch rallied 2.3 percent as first-half profit surged 25
percent, helped by sales of Omega and Longines timepieces to
Chinese consumers and by revenue at its component division. Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre watches,
gained 1.2 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s
second-largest lender, dropped 1.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.1 percent to 6,174.89 at the
close of trading in Zurich. Ten of the gauge’s 20 members
advanced, while ten declined. The benchmark measure has  slipped
2.6 percent from its 2012 high  on March 16 amid concern the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis has hurt the economy. The SMI
slumped the most since April 23 yesterday as concern mounted
that  Greece  won’t fulfill its bailout commitments and Spanish
borrowing costs rose to a euro-era high. The broader Swiss
Performance Index was little changed today.  “It’s fair to say that the musings of credit agencies have
lost some of their impact throughout the European crisis, as
some believe them to be behind the curve,” said  David Jones ,
chief market strategist at IG Index in  London . “Markets have
bigger things to worry about at the moment, with the prospect of
further bailouts for  Spain  and the ever-present Greek problem.
After yesterday’s volatility it may end up being a day of
watching and waiting at these levels to see if any further
proposed solutions are forthcoming -- or if indeed there are
more shocks from the troubled European countries.”  Germany Outlook  Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had the outlooks
for their Aaa credit ratings lowered to negative by Moody’s,
which cited “rising uncertainty” about Europe’s debt crisis.  Risks that Greece may leave the 17-nation euro currency and
the “increasing likelihood” of collective support for European
countries such as Spain and  Italy  were among reasons for the
change, Moody’s also said yesterday in a statement.  Spain beat its maximum target at an auction even as its
borrowing costs rose amid concern the nation may require a
second bailout. The Treasury in  Madrid  today sold 3.05 billion
euros ($3.69 billion) of bills, more than a target of 3 billion
euros.  Spain’s benchmark  10-year note yield  jumped to 7.565
percent yesterday, the highest since November 1996. The
comparable rate in Italy climbed to 6.426 percent, a level
unseen since Jan. 19.  Troika Meets  Officials from Greece’s troika of international creditors -
- the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  -- arrive in  Athens  today amid
doubts that the nation will meet commitments attached to bailout
funding.  China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in July
after two interest-rate  cuts  and a rebound in lending spurred
demand in the world’s second-largest economy, a private survey
indicated.  The preliminary reading was 49.5 for a  purchasing managers’
index  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
If confirmed, that would be the highest since February. In June,
the final number was 48.2.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, jumped 2.3 percent
to 369.90 Swiss francs. Net income rose to 720 million francs
($727 million) from 575 million francs a year earlier, the
company said today. Operating profit rose to 903 million francs
from 756 million francs, beating the 862 million-franc average
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, gained 1.2
percent to 53 francs.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse dropped 1.3 percent to 16.20 francs, while
Zurich Insurance Group AG slumped 1.6 percent to 209.70 francs.
Banks and insurers were among the worst performing groups in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH)  declined 3.6 percent to 136 francs, its
lowest price since January 2004, after saying that
Hidroelectrica SA canceled long-term delivery contracts with a
book value of about 80 million francs, which will have a
negative impact on the energy company’s 2012 results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  