-- Swiss Seek Extradition of Ex-HSBC Employee Who Stole Client Data
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-24T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/swiss-seek-extradition-of-ex-hsbc-employee-who-stole-client-data.html
Switzerland asked  Spain  to extradite
a former software technician at HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss
private bank who stole client data that has been used to
prosecute tax evaders.  Switzerland submitted an extradition request to the Spanish
authorities on July 5 after Herve Falciani was arrested four
days earlier in Barcelona, the Bern-based Federal Department of
Justice and Police said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The  Office of the Attorney General  opened a criminal
probe into the former information technology worker of HSBC’s
private bank regarding the theft of HSBC bank details,”
according to the statement. “The inquiry began after Herve
Falciani went abroad.”  Falciani stole details on at least 24,000 accounts from the
bank in Geneva and gave them to a French prosecutor. HSBC became
aware of the theft in the middle of 2008. The French government
used the data to search for tax dodgers and shared the
information with countries, including the U.K.,  Italy  and Spain.  In May, a Spanish court ended a tax-fraud investigation
into undeclared Swiss funds belonging to members of the Botin
family, who helped run Banco Santander SA for a century, after
they paid the money they owed. The National Court said 13 months
ago it would investigate the Botins after details of hidden
funds at HSBC’s Swiss private bank were passed to Spanish tax
authorities by  France .  The U.K. tax authority, known as HMRC, said in October it
was acting on information on about 6,000 individuals, companies,
trusts and other bodies with accounts at HSBC’s private bank in
Geneva after the French government passed on the information.  HSBC has said it had no more than 1,500 clients in any one
country at the time of the theft.  Article 47 of  Switzerland ’s  Law on Banks and Savings Banks 
prohibits employees from distributing confidential client
account information, with a maximum penalty of three years in
prison and a 250,000 Swiss franc ($252,000) fine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  