-- Syria Revolt Takes Toll on Teacher Who Says World Fails
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/syria-revolt-takes-toll-on-teacher-who-says-world-fails.html
Syria ’s secret police raided Medea
Daghestaney’s house twice, hunting for the activist from Homs.
They missed her both times.  Now the former kindergarten teacher is hunting them,
knowing in graphic detail what might have happened if they’d
found her. The 29-year-old belongs to a network of Syrian
activists who are using whatever international support they can
muster to protest President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and report
its brutality to the world.  Daghestaney catalogs the rape of women and boys and the
cases of men whose penises have been cut, mangled and wired to
electrodes. Working in exile from  Turkey , she’s documented
massacres that haven’t made news in the West. She organizes
social-media workshops for Syrian activists, coordinates medical
aid inside the country, and helps plan protests. The London
group she works for, which she asked not be identified because
its mission is sensitive, aims one day to hold Assad accountable
in international court.  “Don’t tell me we’re in the 21st Century and nobody can
stop killing in any one country,” she said in an interview in
Istanbul, her voice cracking. She dismissed claims that  Russia ’s
defense of Syria at the  United Nations  makes it hard to punish
Assad.  “The world just uses Russia as an excuse,” Daghestaney
said. “For them, Syrian blood is cheap. They watch us die and
do nothing.”  Her faith that the world will help Syrians -- something she
asked of U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in a personal
meeting in April -- has corroded into acid cynicism.  Meeting Clinton  Daghestaney met Clinton in Istanbul at an April conference
of the “Friends of Syria,” a coalition of countries calling
for Assad’s ouster.  “I asked her, ‘Is election politics more important than
this blood in Syria?’ and she told me, ‘No,’” Daghestaney said.  She began to cry.  “She was lying to me,” she said.  After meeting with Daghestaney and members of the
opposition, Clinton said the U.S. would provide extra assistance
to Syrian rebels. That aid included “communications equipment
that will help activists organize, evade attacks by the regime,
and connect to the outside world,” Clinton said April 1 in
Istanbul.  Daghestaney’s work has come at a cost. Listening to
accounts of torture has left her angry all the time. Friend
after friend has been killed or maimed in the conflict’s 18
months.  Joining Resistance  After she joined the resistance in Syria in March 2011, she
started to receive reports of young girls being kidnapped,
repeatedly raped by soldiers, and then returned to their
families.  “Taking these people to the international court would be
better for Syria, but for me, hearing these things, I began to
wish someone would kill them,” she said.  In September, the military came to the kindergarten where
she worked and told her boss to fire her.  “Of course he did,” she said. “He was scared.”  The secret police began raiding her house in Homs. To lie
low, she left for Damascus and took part in protests there.  She was in Istanbul in November, learning to document  war
crimes  more professionally, when the Syrian military arrested
one of her friends. After the woman was released, she contacted
Daghestaney’s family.  ‘Had My Photo’  “All their questions were about me,” Daghestaney
recalled. “They had my photo. They had recordings of my mobile
phone calls. They had my phone number,” she said. “My dad was
so scared. He called and he said, ‘You will not come back:
That’s an order.’”  As Daghestaney documents war crimes from Istanbul, she
keeps a tally of the dozens of her friends who’ve been wounded,
arrested, or killed.  Mazhar and Sem died on Feb. 6, blown apart by a mortar
round that fell on a crowd trying to help people in a building
that had been hit by the first shell.  Nais and Samer were tortured in jail.  Simon was hit by a mortar round and burned from head to
toe.  She remembers the dates when all these things happened.  Noura -- “she is like my sister” -- and Ali were arrested
on March 6. Daghestaney hasn’t seen Noura since.  “Ali, I see him now, on the official Syrian TV, talking
about all the ways the opposition lies,” she said. “I know
Ali. I can’t imagine what horrible torture that he faced to go
on official TV to say what they want.”  She paused.  “Actually, I can,” Daghestaney said.  Short Dress  Like the majority of Syrians, the former kindergarten aide
is a  Sunni Muslim , the group most deeply embroiled in the
conflict against Assad, who’s a member of the minority Alawite
sect of Shiite Islam that controls the country’s military,
intelligence services, and internal security apparatus.  She has almond-shaped hazel eyes and light brown curls that
spill over her shoulder. In a form-fitting dress that stops
above the knee, she turns heads in a hotel lobby. She’s
divorced, the single mother of a 5-year-old girl. As she puts
it, waving her hands to the left like a hula dancer, she is
“very liberal.”  Her boyfriend’s beard reaches his chest. “If you see him
you think, ‘Oh, he is jihadi,’” -- a Muslim who believes in
holy war -- “but he is not; he just doesn’t have time to shave
because of all the stress in Homs,” she said, laughing.  Their relationship reflects Syria’s history of religious
tolerance, a quality she said is under attack by a regime trying
to sow sectarian discord.  Liberal, Muslim  “We are like Syria,” she said. “I am so liberal, he is
so Muslim, but we love each other.”  The chatter of analysts who warn of the influence of
Islamists in a post-Assad Syria infuriates her.  “You don’t want to get involved because you say there are
Islamists in Syria?” she said, her voice rising in disbelief.  In refusing to step in, Daghestaney said, the West is
creating a foothold for Islamists to gain influence.  Syrians are desperate for help, she said. “We would take
help from anyone right now,” she said. “I swear by God, if
 Osama bin Laden  came now and said, ’Do you want my help?’ I
would say, ’Yes, I want your help.’ ”  She stopped, and then added, “Please, I just want one out
of all my friends to survive by the end of the revolution.”  Daghestaney came by her role in the opposition naturally,
and she learned to lie about it early in life. Her father spent
eight years in jail for his opposition to Assad’s father, the
late President Hafez al-Assad.  “In the house, I learned that we hate Hafez Assad,” she
said. “In school, I learned I have to say that I love Hafez
Assad.”  Preschool Chant  When the protests began in Syria last year, Daghestaney’s
daughter got in trouble at preschool for echoing a chant she’d
heard on TV about the current President Assad’s downfall. “I
thought, ‘Oh my God, I don’t want my daughter to have to lie
like me,’” Medea said.  She wants her daughter and other children “to be able to
say what they want, when they want, where they want. We want
them to be able to say what they believe.”  “That’s why I started organizing demonstrations,” she
said.  She’s been thinking of returning to Homs. She feels torn
between her duty to her daughter and her duty to her country and
people.  “I feel so cold when I hear about all the shelling,” she
said. “My friends get hurt, put in jail, killed, and I am here
safe. I can’t stand that.”  After 18 months, she still struggles to understand what’s
happening.  “I just sit and ask myself why,” she said. “Just because
we’re ask for freedom, dignity, democracy? These things, these
principles, are normal, right? You’re not supposed to die for
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  