-- Syrian Opposition May Reach Out to Some Assad Officials
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-24T15:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/syria-opposition-group-says-may-reach-out-to-regime-figures.html
Members of the opposition Syrian
National Council have agreed that figures from President Bashar al-Assad’s government whose hands have not been “smeared with
blood” may be invited to take part in a transitional
administration.  Motee al-Bateen, a member of the group’s executive
committee, said there hasn’t been agreement yet over whether
such figures could be part of a future government’s leadership.
The SNC is meeting in Istanbul today to discuss the issue, al-
Bateen said in a telephone interview from the Turkish city.  “Those who have not been complicit in spilling Syrian
blood and are not part of Assad’s gang, will be considered as
ordinary citizens and have the right to be part of such a
government,” al-Bateen said. “At such a time, concessions
should be made so that the goals of the revolution can be met.”  While the SNC has the highest profile, it isn’t clear how
much consensus there is for such a move among the rest of the
anti-Assad groups. International and regional efforts have
failed to end the violence in Syria, which began in March 2011
and has left at least 19,000 dead, including about 5,000
government troops, according to the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights .  Rising Death Toll  At least 80 people were killed across the country today
including 20 in Aleppo, 13 of them during a prison revolt, the
Local Coordination Committees, another opposition group, said in
an e-mail. The group, as well as the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights, said the government is using helicopters to strike
the suburbs of Aleppo. Fighter jets bombed eastern parts of the
city, the  BBC  reported, citing its reporter in the area.  Arab League foreign ministers who met in Doha, Qatar on
July 22 urged Assad in a statement to step down in exchange for
a safe way out. Syria’s Foreign Ministry yesterday dismissed the
league’s call as “blatant” interference.  In an interview published in Al-Hayat newspaper today, Arab
League chief Nabil el-Arabi urged  Syria ’s opposition groups to
unite and form a transitional government.  “There’s no talk now about political reform but about a
transfer of power,” el-Arabi told the paper. “The regime
cannot continue for a long time.”  Opposition groups today reported clashes across the
country, including in the suburbs of the capital Damascus and in
Aleppo, Syria’s largest city. Russia, a staunch Assad ally,
“strongly” advised its citizens against travel to Syria
because of the continuing violence, the Russian news service
Interfax reported today.  Syrian Refugees  The unrest has forced tens of thousands of Syrians to seek
shelter across the borders in  Turkey , Iraq and Lebanon. Iraq’s
Cabinet has decided to build camps to receive Syrian refugees at
the Al-Rabiaa and Al-Qaim border crossings and allocate 50
billion dinars ($43 million) for relief and assistance for
Syrian refugees and Iraqis returning from Syria, State Minister
Ali Al-Dabbagh, the official government spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Saudi citizens donated more than 121 million riyals ($32
million) in addition to clothes, food, medical, supplies and
jewelry on the first day of the Saudi National Campaign to
Support the Brothers in Syria, state-run Saudi Press Agency said
today. The five-day campaign, which began yesterday, was ordered
by  King Abdullah .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  