-- U.K. Change to Offshore Wind Plan Threatens Projects, Eneco Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-24T16:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-k-change-to-offshore-wind-plan-threatens-projects-eneco-says.html
U.K. plans to change how it supports
the development of offshore wind farms risk curbing investments
and reducing the country’s ability to meet clean energy targets,
according to a unit of Dutch utility Eneco Holding NV.  “The government is saying it will only provide contracts
for a certain amount of offshore wind,” Eneco Wind U.K. Ltd.
Managing Director Guy Madgwick said. “No one has clarity as to
how much, or when they are going to bring the guillotine down.”  Madgwick’s comments come a day after lawmakers found plans
to overhaul the power market were “unworkable.” The proposals
include offering long-term contracts guaranteeing prices to low-
carbon generators, without saying how many will be allocated.  “You can get a fully consented project but you still don’t
know if you’ve got a contract,” he said. “Suppliers of cables,
turbines and vessels are going to turn around and say you
haven’t got a contract, how do we know this is a firm order?”  The contract volumes and guaranteed, or strike, prices for
power will be published in a 2013 “delivery plan” for the 2014
to 2018 period, state  documents  shows. Plans to use the so-
called contracts for difference would also guarantee prices for
nuclear power and carbon capture and storage.  “The purpose of the CFD and strike price is to try to give
predictability so that the cost of capital is lower,” luring
investors, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said July 11 in  London .  ‘Unacceptable Risk’  Scottish Power Ltd. Chief Corporate Officer  Keith Anderson 
said in the Energy and Climate Change Committee report the risk
of investing as much as 150 million pounds ($233 million) in
offshore wind without a confirmed contract is “unacceptable.”  The government, in  documents  accompanying its plans, said
it recognized they may lead to delays in spending decisions,
adding it would work with developers to enable investment.  Eneco and EDF Energy Plc are developing the U.K.’s Navitus
Bay project with as much as 1.2 gigawatts of capacity. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government plans to build 18 gigawatts
of wind power at sea, compared with about 2 gigawatts now, after
pledging to be “the greenest government ever.”  Electricity market changes that would shift liability for
contracts to suppliers may undermine that goal, Madgwick said.  “We need a government counterparty which really does
achieve a lower cost of capital,” he said. “Projects will
struggle to achieve bankable terms in the debt markets.”  Multiparty Model  Davey said July 11 the “multiparty model” had caused
consternation among industry, and the government was looking at
a single-party model. The Energy and Climate Change Committee
said yesterday the government was in “danger of botching” its
clean energy plans unless the Treasury backed contracts.  Under multiparty plans, suppliers would collectively make
good any payments to generators if one of the group failed to.  The U.K. is nearing a deal on cuts for renewable energy
subsidies and may announce a decision as early as this week.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is sympathetic
to the Energy Department’s suggestion subsidies for onshore wind
farms should be cut 10 percent and is preparing for an
announcement this week, said an official at the Treasury,
following government policy in declining to be named.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  