-- U.K.’s Bigger-Than-Forecast Slump Pressures Cameron
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-25T11:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-k-economy-seen-shrinking-in-second-quarter-as-slump-deepened.html
The U.K. economy shrank the most
since 2009 in the second quarter and more than economists
forecast, increasing pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to
abandon Britain’s biggest budget squeeze since World War II.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.7 percent from the first
quarter, when it dropped 0.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London  today. Economists  forecast  a 0.2
percent decline, according to the median of 36 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Second-quarter data were hurt by record
rainfall and an extra public holiday which may have masked an
underlying better performance, the ONS said.  Signs of a deepening recession may add to calls for the
government to do more to boost growth even after the  Bank of
England  started a credit-easing program and increased  emergency
bond purchases . The  International Monetary Fund  said last week
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne might have to ease
his fiscal squeeze and the central bank should expand stimulus
further if efforts to kick-start the economy fail to deliver.  “It is looking very unlikely that growth on average for
this year can get on the right side of zero -- more likely a
small contraction,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
Scotiabank in London. “Can the coalition government or the BOE
do anything about the rain or lost working days? No, but that
won’t stop claims that austerity is to blame and the BOE should
do more.”  Pound Falls  The pound weakened versus 13 of its 16 major peers and
erased its gain against the dollar after the data were
published. It was little changed percent at $1.5497 as of 12:01
p.m. in London, having earlier risen as much as 0.3 percent.  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London, said in an interview that without effects from
the queen’s Diamond Jubilee holiday last month and the wettest
second quarter on record, “the economy is broadly flat.”
Barclays Plc estimated one-off factors cut April-June growth by
0.5 percentage point, “setting the scene for a strong
rebound.”  The statistics office said the GDP report includes
estimates for June that are based on the impact of previous
jubilee holidays in 1977 and 1992.  The ONS won’t be able to quantify the impact of the public
holiday and weather until statisticians have “further
experience against which to judge,” said  Joe Grice , the
statistics office’s chief economist. There is greater-than-usual
scope for revisions of the number released today, he said at a
press conference.  Performance Assessment  “The underlying performance of the economy was probably
somewhat better than the headline figure of minus 0.7 percent
would suggest,” Grice said.  Today’s report also showed that manufacturing fell 1.4
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months.
Within services, transport, storage and communication dropped
1.4 percent. The biggest drag on the economy was from
construction.  Separate data from the Confederation of British Industry
today showed manufacturing confidence weakened in July as export
prospects worsened. The quarterly gauge of factory optimism fell
to minus 6 from 22 in April and the measure of confidence in
exports fell to minus 3 from 29, the London-based employers’
group said in an e-mailed report.  The U.K. is the first of the Group of Seven nations to
report GDP data for the second quarter. U.S. growth probably
cooled to a 1.4 percent annual rate in the period from 1.9
percent in the prior quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The Commerce Department will publish the data July 27.  IMF’s View  The IMF said this month that “further monetary stimulus is
required” in Britain and the government should consider
“scaling back” its fiscal tightening if growth doesn’t build
momentum by early 2013.  Concerns are also growing about global growth. The IMF said
in a report today that  China ’s slowing economy faces significant
downside risks and relies too much on investment. While the
economy “seems to be undergoing a soft landing,” achieving it
is a key challenge, the IMF said.  Germany ’s Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 103.3
from 105.2 in June. That’s the third straight drop and the
lowest reading since March 2010. Economists predicted a decline
to 104.5, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The latest slump in U.K. GDP leaves output 4.5 percent
below its peak in the first quarter of 2008. It has fallen 0.9
percent since the third quarter of 2010, just after Cameron’s
coalition government came to power. Cameron and Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  have been criticized by the
opposition  Labour Party  for compounding Britain’s economic
troubles with the fiscal squeeze.  Osborne’s View  “We all know the country has deep-rooted economic problems
and these disappointing figures confirm that,” Osborne said.
“We’re dealing with our debts at home and the debt crisis
abroad.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee expanded
its  bond-purchase program  of so-called quantitative easing by 50
billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds on July 5.
Officials said they may review the merits of cutting the
 benchmark interest rate , currently at a record-low 0.5 percent,
once they assess the impact of their new Funding for Lending
program.  Today’s GDP report “shows the U.K. economy is still very
fragile and proactive policy measures will continue to be needed
to put in place,”  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London, said in a telephone interview. “So we’re still
looking for 50 billion pounds of QE in November, supplemented
with a 25 basis point rate cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  