-- U.K. Adds 1,200 Olympic Troops to ‘Leave Nothing to Chance’
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-24T14:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-k-to-deploy-additional-1-200-troops-to-olympics-hunt-says.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered
the deployment of a further 1,200 British troops to provide
security for the London  Olympic Games  to “leave nothing to
chance” with the opening ceremony just three days away  The military will now have 18,200 personnel at Olympic
sites after  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s biggest security company,
failed to supply adequate staff for the games. Today’s decision
does not reflect on G4S’s performance in recent days, which has
improved, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said.  “G4S numbers continue to rise significantly and we have
every expectation that will continue to be the case,” Hunt said
in an e-mailed statement after a meeting of the Cabinet
Committee for the Olympics in London today. “However, ministers
decided that we should deploy the additional 1,200 troops that
were put on standby last week.”  The announcement two weeks ago by G4S that it wouldn’t be
able to deliver all the 10,000 security guards it had pledged
for the games has cast the biggest shadow over the preparations
for the Olympics, the world’s biggest sporting event. Almost
twice as many British soldiers are involved in games security as
are deployed in  Afghanistan .  “On the eve of the largest peacetime event ever staged in
this country, ministers are clear that we should leave nothing
to chance,” Hunt said after the meeting, which was held under
Cameron’s chairmanship. “The government continues to have every
confidence that we will deliver a safe and secure games.”  ‘Good Progress’  “We have made very good progress in the last few days,”
G4S, based in Crawley, south of London, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company currently has “around 5,800
security personnel deployed at Olympic venues.”  Amid continuing concerns about congestion on London’s
transportation system during the games, the Greater Anglia rail
franchise said today it would  scrap some trains  to the Olympic
district of Stratford after Network Rail Ltd. imposed speed
restrictions as temperatures as high as 30 degrees Celsius (86
degrees Fahrenheit) caused rails to expand.  “A small number of trains won’t stop at Stratford out of
about 600 scheduled to do so,” spokesman Peter Meades said.
Greater Anglia trains run to Stratford from London’s Liverpool
Street station.  The Javelin trains serving Stratford from  St. Pancras 
during the games use the High Speed 1 Channel Tunnel line and
aren’t so far affected, SouthEastern Trains spokeswoman Sarah
Boundy said by telephone.  Olympic Lanes  Further disruption to road journeys is likely tomorrow,
when the  Olympic Route Network , featuring lanes reserved for
traffic linked to the games, comes into full operation.  London cab drivers plan to stage more protests tomorrow
around the capital, disrupting traffic, after being banned from
using the lanes, which will generally be closed to ordinary
vehicles from 6 a.m. until midnight.  “Disruptions will continue during the games unless the
government intervenes and taxis are allowed in the lanes,” Dave
Davies, a spokesman for the cabbies, said by telephone. “We’ll
take action around the city without informing when or where.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  