-- U.K. Stocks Fall for Third Day as German Debt Outlook Cut
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-24T15:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-man-rallies-elan-slides.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day as
Moody’s Investors Service cut Germany’s credit outlook and a
U.S. manufacturing gauge compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond dropped more than forecast.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  dropped 1 percent after Dutch peer Royal
KPN NV cut its dividend forecast. Elan Corp. plunged the most in
two years in Dublin after its experimental Alzheimer’s drug
failed a trial.  Man Group (EMG)  Plc rallied 4.1 percent as the biggest
publicly traded hedge fund manager said it will double cost cuts
and reduce reliance on products with steeper commissions.  The FTSE 100 Index retreated 34.64 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 5,499.23 at the close in  London , extending the three-day drop
to 3.8 percent. The gauge has still climbed 4.5 percent from its
2012 low on June 1 as central banks announced measures to
support the economy. The broader FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.6
percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index sank 1.7 percent.  “Growth in the euro zone is very hard to come by nowadays
and this is affecting  Germany ’s activity too,” said Simon Denham, managing director of Capital Spreads in London. “With
question marks over the prized triple-A credit rating of
Europe’s largest economy, the markets are likely to remain on
the back foot.”  Moody’s lowered the outlooks for the Aaa credit ratings of
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative. The risk
that  Greece  will leave the euro area and “increasing
likelihood” of collective support for countries in debt such as
Spain and Italy were among reasons for the change, Moody’s said
late yesterday in a statement.  German Economy  In Germany, an index based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  in the manufacturing industry declined to 43.3 this
month from 45 in June, while a services gauge fell to 49.7 from
49.9, London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. A
reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  A U.S. report showed manufacturing in the region covered by
the Fed Bank of Richmond  contracted  more than economists had
forecast for the month of July. The central bank’s fifth
district factory index, which covers North and South Carolina,
the  District of Columbia ,  Maryland ,  Virginia  and most of  West
Virginia , fell to minus 17, the lowest level since 2009, from
minus 3 in June. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected the index would rise to minus 1. Reading
less than zero signal contraction.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in July
as the government’s stimulus starts to reverse the economy’s
slowdown, a private survey indicated. The 49.5 preliminary
reading for a purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compared with a final
48.2 for June. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  Vodafone declined 1 percent to 177.45 pence after KPN cut
its dividend forecast by 61 percent. The Dutch phone company
reported second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates
as service demand in its home market contracted.  Elan tumbled 11 percent to 9.85 euros in Dublin, the most
since June 2010. Bapineuzumab, an experimental Alzheimer’s drug
the company was developing along with Pfizer Inc. and Johnson &
Johnson, failed to improve signs of dementia in the first of
four studies testing the drug.  Elan shares make up 10 percent of Ireland’s  ISEQ Index (ISEQ)  by
weighting, according to Bloomberg data.  Banks Drop  A  gauge of banking shares  declined 1.1 percent as the
European Commission said it will propose tomorrow that
manipulation of interbank lending rates should be subject to
criminal sanctions.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  fell 2 percent to 1,429 pence and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  declined 1.8 percent to 28.76 pence.  Man Group jumped 4.1 percent to 72 pence. The company said
it will reduce expenses by $100 million over the next 18 months,
adding to $95 million of cost cuts announced in March. It also
plans to sell fewer so-called guaranteed products, which
generate high commissions for employees and have drawn subdued
demand from customers.  Provident Financial Plc (PFG)  surged 11 percent to 1,297 pence.
The U.K.’s biggest subprime lender said first-half net income
rose 20 percent after the number of customers taking out high-
interest credit cards increased.  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  added 6.1 percent to 2,364 pence
after the world’s second-largest maker of cosmetic ingredients
reported a 6.3 percent gain in first-half pretax profit on
higher demand in  North America . Croda’s “strong” results may
provide reassurance to investors, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  