-- U.S. Stocks Fall Third Day Amid Europe Concern; UPS Slips
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-24T20:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-texas-declines.html
U.S. stocks slumped, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a third straight day, amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and after United
Parcel Service Inc. lowered its earnings forecast.  Equities pared losses amid speculation the Federal Reserve
may act to boost growth. UPS, the largest package-delivery
company and considered an economic bellwether, tumbled 4.6
percent.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S. phone company, lost 2.1
percent amid sluggish sales after signing up fewer wireless
customers.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the most valuable company, sank 5 percent
at 4:51 p.m. New York time on disappointing results.  More than three stocks  fell  for each rising on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. New York time. The S&P 500 slipped 0.9
percent to 1,338.31, paring a loss of 1.6 percent. The benchmark
measure decreased 2.8 percent in three days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 104.14 points, or 0.8 percent, to
12,617.32. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.8
billion shares, or about in line with the three-month average.  “It’s far from over,” said Paul Zemsky, the New York-
based head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management.
His firm oversees $160 billion. “There’s renewed euro crisis
concern. As for earnings, it’s not much what the numbers are
printing. There’s fear of what to expect going forward.”  Equities slumped as Moody’s Investors Service cut the
outlooks of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. A Reuters
report citing European Union officials said Greece was seen
missing targets for reducing debt. German Vice Chancellor
Philipp Roesler said over the weekend that Greece was unlikely
to be able to meet its obligations under a bailout program.  Federal Reserve  Stocks pared losses after the Wall Street Journal reported
that the Fed is moving closer to taking new steps to spur
economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said
policy makers are studying options for further easing that could
be deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to
produce a lasting decline in unemployment.  “You’re at that point where the economy looks weak enough
to make QE3 a real possibility,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3.5 billion. He referred to a third round of asset
purchases to stimulate the economy. “The downside to this
market is more limited than what many people think it is.”  Investors also monitored second-quarter earnings. Data
compiled by Bloomberg show better-than-estimated  sales  at only
39 percent of the 147 companies which have reported results so
far. About 73 percent have beaten on profit, the data shows.  Most-Tied  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 retreated. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to the economy lost 1.7
percent. The Dow Jones Transportation Average retreated 1.2
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
rose 9.9 percent to 20.47, the highest level since June 15. It
surged 32 percent in three days.  UPS (UPS)  slumped 4.6 percent, the most since August, to $74.34.
The company predicted the U.S. economy will grow 1 percent in
the rest of 2012 as slowing volume growth prompted it to
conclude average forecasts are too high. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg project a 2.2 percent growth rate. Rival  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
lost 1.8 percent to $87.67.  Telephone shares in the S&P 500 fell 1.8 percent, the most
among 10 groups. AT&T dropped 2.1 percent to $34.63. It added
320,000 monthly contract customers, a smaller number than a year
earlier. While the decline hurt sales growth, it meant the
company doled out fewer dollars in subsidies.  Apple lost 5 percent to $570.67 after the close of regular
trading. Profit and sales  missed  projections for only the second
time since 2003 as customers held off on iPhone purchases while
waiting for a new model to be introduced later in the year.  Net Income  Net income  climbed 21 percent to $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a
share, in the period that ended June 30, Cupertino, California-
based Apple said today in a statement. Sales rose 23 percent to
$35 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $10.37 a share on
revenue of $37.2 billion, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Every quarter that Apple isn’t launching a new iPhone
it’s a transition quarter,” said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
ISI Group. “That’s the key product that matters.”  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  retreated 7.5 percent to $62.25. The
world’s largest appliance maker reported second-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  slumped 13 percent to $16.77.
The maker of laser and inkjet printers  forecast  third-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimate as the economic weakness
in Europe erodes sales.  Peabody Energy  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  dropped 11 percent to $20.55. The
largest U.S. coal producer forecast third-quarter earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates after metallurgical-coal prices fell
and Australia introduced a carbon tax.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  slid 0.9 percent to $26.57. The
largest maker of analog chips  forecast  third-quarter sales and
profit that may miss some analysts’ estimates as an economic
slowdown in Europe crimps demand for electronics.  DuPont Co. decreased 2 percent to $47.74. The chemical
maker said 2012  profit  will be at the lower end of a previously
forecast range because of uncertainties created by weaker global
economies and foreign currencies.  The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13 shares
sank 7.8 percent.  DeVry Inc. (DV)  plunged 25 percent to $20.80. The
for-profit education company said it plans to cut 570 jobs, or
5.5 percent of its total headcount, amid declining enrollment.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  sank 5.9 percent, the most in the Dow,
to $15.12.  VMware Inc. (VMW)  is buying Nicira Inc. for $1.26 billion
and the products could help VMware lessen the need for types of
networking equipment sold by Cisco, said ISI Group.  Below $1  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  lost 9.8 percent to 92 cents. The
unprofitable company attempting to build a wireless network
across the U.S. fell  below $1  amid concern that it’s running out
of money. Analysts are projecting a loss of more than $200
million when it releases its second-quarter results on July 26.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  fell 1 percent to $23.38. The company, Johnson
& Johnson and Elan Corp.’s experimental Alzheimer’s treatment
failed to improve symptoms of dementia in the first of four
pivotal studies testing the drug.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  dropped 3.1 percent.
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  slumped 5.4 percent to $20.38
after a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst reduced his second-quarter
profit forecast based on an accounting adjustment at the world’s
largest airline.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  gained 4.1 percent to $6.65. The
10th-largest U.S. bank by deposits reported second-quarter
profit that rose more than analysts  estimated  as provisions for
loan-loss reserves declined.  Ryder System  Ryder System Inc. (R)  added 5.9 percent to $36.72 as the
largest publicly traded truck lessor  boosted  its full-year and
third-quarter profit forecasts.  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  surged 9.1 percent to $52.79. The maker
of athletic apparel and shoes raised its annual sales and profit
forecasts amid increased demand.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  jumped 3 percent to $32.96 after
second-quarter earnings topped analysts’ estimates on increasing
international sales.  The two-day  selloff  in equities through yesterday pushed
bets that the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
will keep rising to the most in a year.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy the  VIX (VIX)  jumped to 2-
to-1 on July 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauge climbed 21 percent from July 20 to 18.62 yesterday, the
biggest two-day increase since April, as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index slipped 1.9 percent.  Buying Protection  Investors are buying protection against losses after
concern increased that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and a
Chinese central-bank adviser said economic growth may slow
further. The VIX, trading 9.3 percent below its two-decade
average, is bound to gain,  Randy Frederick  of Charles Schwab
Corp. and Prudential Financial Inc.’s Quincy Krosby said.  “For the VIX to be below its long-term mean, to me it just
seems it’s under-valuing the overall level of risk,” Frederick,
managing director for active trading and derivatives at Charles
Schwab, which has $1.83 trillion in client assets, said in a
phone interview from Austin, Texas. “We got lots of things out
there that could potentially cause major havoc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  