-- U.S. Creates 17 Zones for ‘Faster’ Solar-Farm Development
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-24T20:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-s-creates-17-zones-for-faster-solar-farm-development.html
The U.S. Interior Department
identified 17 zones of public lands in six western states as
“priority areas” for solar development, where proposed
projects will be rapidly approved.  The zones, in California,  Colorado ,  New Mexico , Nevada,
Arizona and  Utah , total about 285,000 acres (115,000 hectares)
of public land, and the agency estimated they may eventually be
used for about 23.7 gigawatts of power-generating capacity,
according to a statement today. More than half of the area,
about 154,000 acres, is in California.  By completing environmental  impact statements  in advance,
the Interior Department is encouraging developers to plan solar
farms in the zones. The agency is also offering faster and
easier permitting, better mitigation strategies and economic
incentives, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said on a conference
call today.  The plan will lead to “faster, smarter and better”
permitting procedures and is a “significant milestone” for
President  Barack Obama ’sadministration, Salazar said.  “When we came on board, no attention had been paid by the
prior administration to capture the power of the sun,” he said.
“If we continue in this direction we are in, I have no doubt
the U.S. will lead the world.”  National Goals  “Renewable energy development on federal lands is
essential to reaching our national clean energy goals,” Arthur Haubenstock, vice president of regulatory affairs at the
Oakland, California-based solar-thermal project developer
 BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , said in a separate statement released
by the  Natural Resources Defense Council , BrightSource and
several other developers and environmental groups.  Since 2009, the agency has approved 17 solar farms on
public lands that will eventually total 5.9 gigawatts of
capacity once built, including BrightSource’s 392 megawatt
Ivanpah project in California’s Mojave desert that will be
completed in 2013.  In addition to the zones, the agency established a process
for proposing renewable-energy projects on about 19 million
acres of public lands outside the zones. It also identified 78
million acres of land that can’t be used for power projects.  This is the first time the government has created a plan
for developing solar resources on public lands, Helen O’Shea, of
the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in an interview.
“There hasn’t been a big picture or strategy on where to put
those projects.” O’Shea is the director of the San Francisco-
based environmental group’s Western Renewable Energy Project.  The solar zones will prioritize lower-conflict proposals.
“It’s an idea we think is really smart,” O’Shea said. “It’s
our expectation and hope that it provides more certainty for
solar developers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  