-- U.S. Should Stop Pretending It’s an Emerging Market
-- B y   D a v i d   G o r d o n   a n d   S e a n   W e s t
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-s-should-stop-pretending-it-s-an-emerging-market.html
One of the biggest shocks of the
financial crisis was that stable wealthy countries could come to
resemble unstable  emerging markets  in both behavior and market
perception.  When the U.S. asserted control over its financial and auto
companies, the very distinction between developed and emerging
nations disappeared.  Europe continues to be a source of sovereign risk
comparable to less-developed countries. The same couldn’t be
said, however, about the U.S.: Its emerging-market moment is
over. Yet, this reality seems lost on the commentariat, many of
whom fixate on every potential risk around every possible
corner.  The emerging-market moment in the U.S. was real. A newly
elected President  Barack Obama  vowed to block bonuses at
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ; Congress overhauled major
pillars of the economy in swift succession in 2009 and 2010; and
then legislators danced close to default on  U.S. debt  in 2011.
Nothing says emerging market like breaking contracts, reshaping
multiple sectors at once and threatening to stiff lenders.  By mid-summer 2011, bond investors reminded everyone that
the U.S. is again exceptional. Despite the games the U.S. played
with its debt limit, its failure to do anything serious on
deficit reduction and the subsequent downgrading of its  credit
rating , investors spooked by greater risks in Europe and
elsewhere fled to U.S. Treasuries and the dollar. As a result,
U.S. borrowing costs remain near historic lows. Nothing says
haven status like a legislature barely agreeing to pay its debts
and being rewarded with lower borrowing costs.  Red Herring  So why do pundits and politicians continue to act as if the
U.S. is a risky sovereign like  Greece , in desperate need of a
fiscal plan and in constant search of pliant lenders lest it
face a crisis?  Such dire prognostications are way off base -- and the so-
called fiscal cliff is perhaps the biggest red herring. Right
after the election, in an atmosphere of high distrust, officials
in  Washington  must resolve a fiscal drag equal to 5 percent of
gross domestic product. In an emerging market -- or  Europe , for
that matter -- this would be a recipe for disaster: a sharply
divided legislature would need to choose between reneging on
fiscal promises designed to placate lenders or brokering a
politically treacherous substitute deal in a condensed time
frame. But policy makers have an easy way out because the U.S.
will not be subject to such financial pressures.  U.S. haven status all but guarantees that the lame-duck
Congress and Obama will agree to forgo the austerity that makes
up the fiscal cliff, and they won’t suffer for doing so. By
contrast, failure to agree on that course would trigger huge
economic carnage that citizens would blame on the political
class. Thus, the fiscal cliff comes down to a choice between
kicking the can into 2013 at no political cost or not doing so
at high cost. Don’t be surprised when the president and Congress
choose the former.  Failing to recognize that the U.S. has this luxury and will
use it leads to faulty forecasts about the future. No crisis
looms. And no deficit-reduction grand bargain is in the making
because the U.S. no longer needs one to forestall crisis.  Just because the U.S. is no longer acting like an emerging
market doesn’t mean it faces no risks. Because Congress has no
need to act, it won’t -- and the costs of acting later will be
more expensive. This is the essence of the haven curse that the
U.S. suffers.  Moreover, congressional gridlock amid economic weakness can
force the  Federal Reserve  to respond, and the executive branch
to exercise its prerogatives -- and both of those actions are
less transparent than the traditional political process. But
none of this approaches the level of risk and instability that
characterizes Europe or more politically risky  developing
countries .  Congress and the president will make a deficit deal on a
scale and in a time that are politically viable. They won’t
force the U.S. into a huge economic contraction just to prove a
point.  (David Gordon is head of research at political-risk
consulting firm Eurasia Group and is a former director of policy
planning at the State Department. Sean West is head of Eurasia
Group’s U.S. practice. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  panic over Greece ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  mothers in the workplace ; Clive Crook on
central banks’  mission creep ;  Peter Orszag  on why the  U.S.
Postal Service should be privatized ; A. Gary Shilling on how to
 remake university financing .  To contact the writers of this article:
David Gordon and Sean West at  media@eurasiagroup.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 