-- U.S. Says New York State Can’t Sue Over Fracking Regulations
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-24T19:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-s-says-new-york-state-can-t-sue-over-fracking-regulations-1-.html
The U.S. said a  New York  State
lawsuit seeking fuller review of the effects of hydraulic
fracturing on the state’s water supply should be dismissed
because the multistate commission responsible for the watershed
isn’t a U.S. agency.  The  Delaware River Basin Commission , created in 1961 by New
York and three other states and the federal government, is
responsible for rules governing the natural gas-extraction
process known as fracking. New York sued federal agencies in May
2011 to force a fuller assessment of the environmental impact
that gas development could have its water supply.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Sandra Levy argued today in
federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, that the Environmental
Protection Agency and other federal parties sued by the state
don’t have control over how the commission regulates fracking.  “The federal defendants didn’t cause the rules to be
proposed and can’t stop them from being issued,” Levy said. She
also told U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis that the DRBC
doesn’t have to comply with U.S. laws that require a fuller
environmental review because it isn’t a federal agency.  Federal Agency  New York, arguing that the DRBC is a federal agency,
maintains that it does have a right to sue. The state seeks a
ruling in its favor without a full trial.  Garaufis said he would rule on the motions after today’s
hearing.  The commission says it lacks funds for a full environmental
review even if it was obliged to conduct one. The DRBC is a
compact formed between  Delaware ,  New Jersey , New York and
Pennsylvania and tasked with protecting the water quality in the
Delaware Basin.  “So we have an unfunded mandate -- you have responsibility
but not the capability to protect the water quality of four
states and 15 million people?” Garaufis asked a lawyer for the
DRBC.  Kenneth Warren, the lawyer, said the DRBC can’t afford to
make a full environmental impact statement, partly because New
York hasn’t paid its fair share. Still, the commission has done
its own “robust” analysis and will issue regulations that will
provide an extra layer of protection over what the states in its
compact do on their own to regulate.  Stringent Regulations  If New York issues more stringent regulations on fracking,
they will be required on top of what the commission proposes.  Assistant Attorney General Andrew Frank said the state,
while can’t regulate fracking in other states, may still be
exposed to air and water pollution.  The federal agencies named as defendants also argued today
that the state can’t prove injury from fracking, and that the
case isn’t “ripe” because the commission hasn’t issued any
regulations yet. The state said it can’t determine how
protective the rules are without a full environmental impact
statement.  The lawsuit, brought by New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman, also pits arguments for environmental conservation
against those for a domestic energy source and new jobs. New
York City Council and environmental groups have sided with the
state, warning of breathing problems for city residents and
risks to fish in the Chesapeake Bay. Trade groups that represent
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have sided with the
federal government, and say the lawsuit is based on
“speculative fears.”  Scientific Experts  Both sides have filed declarations from scientific experts,
creating hundreds of pages of court documents. The expert
testimony covers issues including due process to accidents, and
how toxins are handled.  Garaufis said today he will also rule on whether the trade
groups have formal standing to intervene in the case.  Schneiderman claimed in his suit the DRBC and federal
agencies had proposed regulations that will allow fracking at
15,000 to 18,000 gas wells without a full environmental review.  If the regulations are issued, a moratorium on drilling in
New York, already in effect for 18 months, will be lifted.  New York says it has shown that fracking generates millions
of gallons of wastewater contaminated with toxic metals and
radioactive substances, and that companies drilling in
 Pennsylvania  have violated the law 1,600 times in recent years,
harming the state’s water.  Expert Conclusions  “The data and methodologies of New York’s experts are
unreliable and are inadequate to support their conclusions,”
lawyers for the federal agencies wrote.  The lawsuit might shut down gas development in the Delaware
River Basin “for many years to come,” according to trade
groups representing oil and gas companies that hold natural gas
leases in New York State. The Marcellus Shale, which lies
beneath parts of New York, Pennsylvania,  Ohio ,  Maryland , West
 Virginia  and Virginia, has an estimated 400 trillion cubic feet
of natural gas, one of the largest such formations in the world,
the trade associations said.  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of  New York City ’s watershed west of the  Hudson River .  The  American Petroleum Institute , the  Independent Petroleum
Association of America  and the US Oil & Gas Association have
filed briefs in the case while they seek more formal status to
intervene. They say their members -- pipeline operators, natural
gas producers and other businesses -- should be allowed to
develop natural gas in the basin while paying heed to
environmental rules set by the DRBC.  Drinking Water  New York City has spent almost $1.5 billion to protect the
drinking water that flows from the watershed west of the Hudson
River, Schneiderman said in his complaint. The money has gone to
buying land to serve as a buffer for pollutants, upgrading
sewage plants and regulating human activity.  In Pennsylvania, natural gas and related industries have
created 72,000 jobs, 3,143 well permits and more than $1 billion
in  tax revenue  since 2009, the trade associations said.  The case is New York v. U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 