-- U.S. Corn Crop Forecast 13% Below USDA Estimate by Cekander
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-24T10:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/u-s-corn-crop-forecast-13-below-usda-estimate-by-cekander-2-.html
Newedge USA LLC, the third-largest
U.S. futures brokerage, cut its estimate for the nation’s corn
production after conditions deteriorated for a seventh straight
week in the world’s largest grower. Futures pared losses.  The  harvest  will probably drop to 11.327 billion bushels
(287.7 million metric tons) in the year beginning Sept. 1,
smaller than an 11.8 billion bushel estimate last week and the
lowest in six years, said director of grain research  Dan Cekander , who correctly predicted in March that soybeans will
trade at the most expensive level relative to corn since 2010.
Without increased rainfall, output may be smaller, he said.  Newedge’s estimate is 13 percent below the 12.97 billion
bushels predicted by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on July
11 and 23 percent below the government’s earlier forecast for a
a record 14.79 billion bushels from the most acres since 1937.  Cekander joins Damien Courvalin from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in cutting his estimate. The drought that prompted the
government to declare almost 1,300 counties in 29 states as
natural-disaster areas, may cause an 8 million ton global
shortage, according to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Corn surged to a record $8 a bushel yesterday as Goldman
raised its three-month forecast to $9. Futures fell 1.3 percent
to $7.75 at 6:01 p.m. Singapore time today after a 57 percent
surge from mid-June through July 20 prompted investors to sell
on concern about the  European debt crisis  and amid a forecast
for some rain in growing areas.  “This is nearing disaster,”  Wayne Gordon , a strategist at
UBS AG in  New York , said in a report today. “Corn conditions
seem past the point of return.”  Ratings Drop  Only 26 percent of the crop was in good-to-excellent
 condition  as of July 22, compared with 77 percent two months
earlier, according to the USDA. That was the worst rating for
this time of the year since 1988 when output plunged 31 percent.  Cekander bases his prediction on yields averaging 129.8
bushels an acre, compared with the USDA estimate of 146 bushels
and Goldman’s forecast of 126 bushels.  “I still fear that yields could decline to 125 bushels per
acre if increased precipitation is not received,” Cekander said
in an e-mail today in response to Bloomberg questions. “I want
to see this week’s rain event before I change prices,” he said.
He predicted last week that futures may climb to $8.50.  While scattered rainshowers were forecast within the next
two weeks in the Midwest, “nothing major or sustained to
alleviate the stress and continued high temperatures” are
expected,  Jim Dale , a senior risk meteorologist at British
Weather Services, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Smaller Yields  The El Nino weather pattern, which can bring higher
rainfall to North and South America, and drought to parts of
Asia and  Australia , is “still on track, but this is a long
piece of string and uncertain in terms of strength,” said Dale
in response to Bloomberg questions. He correctly predicted last
year that drought would hurt wheat from the U.S. to  Europe .  Corn yields measured yesterday from  St. Louis  to Rock
Falls, Illinois were 27 percent smaller than a year ago and 21
percent below the final 2011 USDA forecast in the three crop
districts, based on field inspections during the first day of
the crop tour of Doane Advisory Services Co.  Illinois  is the
second-largest producer and home to a farm where Cekander, a
fourth-generation farmer, grows corn and soybeans.  Newedge is the third-largest brokerage by customer
accounts, behind Goldman and JPMorgan Securities LLC, according
to Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  as of May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  