-- Huawei Profit Declines 22% as Competition Intensifies
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-24T19:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/huawei-profit-declines-22-as-competition-intensifies.html
Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
biggest maker of phone-equipment, posted a 22 percent drop in
first-half operating profit as competition intensified in the
telecommunications industry.  Operating profit in the first six months was 8.79 billion
 yuan  ($1.4 billion), Huawei said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday, without providing a year earlier figure. Revenue
gained 5.1 percent to 102.7 billion yuan, the Shenzhen-based
company said.  Huawei joins smaller cross-town rival  ZTE Corp. (763)  in
reporting a decline in profit as the Chinese companies compete
with firms including Ericsson AB,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  to sell mobile-phone networks, office communication systems
and handsets in China and overseas. The slowing global economy
hampers industry growth, Huawei spokesman Scott Sykes said.  “Competition in this industry remains fierce,” Sykes said
by telephone yesterday. Some Huawei customers are reducing their
spending, he said.  ZTE said this month its first-half profit may have declined
as much as 80 percent because of reduced investment income,
foreign-exchange losses and delayed network contracts.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of mobile-phone
networks, last week posted second-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as carriers curbed spending to cope with a
slowing economy.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , France’s largest phone-gear
supplier, has predicted it will miss a 2012 profit target.  Huawei expects to meet its full-year business goals, Sykes
said. In April, the Chinese company said its target was to
increase revenue in 2012 by between 15 percent and 20 percent.
Huawei is closely held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  