-- Thunderstorms, High Winds May Strike Massachusetts Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-24T12:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/thunderstorms-high-winds-may-strike-massachusetts-coast.html
Thunderstorms that delayed some air
traffic in Chicago early today may move east, taking high winds,
hail and heavy rain to Washington and the mid-Atlantic,
according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center .  The East Coast from Delaware to South Carolina has a 30
percent chance of experiencing damaging winds as the front moves
from the Midwest to the Atlantic later today, according to the
center in Norman, Oklahoma.  The coastline from Massachusetts to South Carolina,
including New York and  Boston , has a 15 percent chance, the
center’s forecast said.  Severe thunderstorms between the large airline hub cities
of Chicago, New York and Atlanta often disrupt  air travel 
throughout the U.S. Such fast-moving storms, which may include
tornadoes, accounted for about $8.8 billion in insured losses in
the U.S. in the first six months of 2012, according to the
 Insurance Information Institute  in New York.  Some flights to Chicago’s airports were delayed early today
because of passing thunderstorms, according to the  Federal
Aviation Administration  website.  Any cool air the storms bring with them will be short-lived
along the mid-Atlantic, as temperatures in Washington are
expected to reach 99 the day after tomorrow, according to the
 National Weather Service .  Eastern Cooling  By next week, the East Coast from the Canadian Maritimes to
 North Carolina  may be experiencing more seasonal temperatures,
according to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The East Coast sees some occasional heat bursts,
especially in the short term, but mainly average seasonal to
slightly above normal for the 6- to 15-day period,” Rogers
said.  The East Coast may remain seasonal through most of the rest
of August, while the heat and drought in the Midwest will
probably continue, according to the latest long-range forecast
from Weather Services International in Andover, Massachusetts.  “With cooler-than-normal temperatures expected along the
East Coast in August, natural gas prices could see some late-
summer price weakness, as gas inventories begin to approach last
year’s record level by the end of the month,” said  Chris
Kostas , a senior power and gas analyst at  Energy Security
Analysis Inc . in Wakefield, Massachusetts, who contributed to
the WSI forecast.  Midwest Rainfall  For the next two weeks, passing thunderstorms may bring
some relief to the drought-parched Midwest. The region will
probably lag behind the normal amount of rainfall, said Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity Weather.  Temperatures are expected to remain 5 to 8 degrees above
normal throughout the region during the period, he said in a
note to clients today.  The normal average temperature in New York for Aug. 1 is
78, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 74 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 85 in Houston; 76 in
 Chicago ; 80 in Atlanta; 67 in Seattle and 76 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  