-- Hungarian Bond Yields Cap Biggest Three-Day Rise in Seven Weeks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-07-24T14:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/hungarian-bond-yields-cap-biggest-three-day-rise-in-seven-weeks.html
Hungary ’s government bonds extended
the biggest three-day slump in seven weeks after Hungary’s
central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 7 percent, the
highest in the European Union.  The yield on benchmark five-year bonds rose 12 basis points
to 7.45 percent, compared with a 10-month low of 7.146 percent
on July 19. The bond slumped 1.3 percent in the past three days.
The forint depreciated 0.3 percent to 289.03 per euro by 4:47
p.m. in Budapest after the  European Central Bank  said Hungary’s
financial transaction tax infringes its central bank’s
independence.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank kept the two-week deposit rate at 7
percent today for a seventh month, matching the forecast of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. One expected a cut to 6.75
percent. The monetary council is divided on whether Hungary’s
start of talks on an International Monetary Fund bailout last
week has boosted investor confidence in the country enough to
allow easing.  “The timing of the inevitable decision to cut rates in the
coming months will depend on the development of Hungary’s
negotiations on the IMF/EU bailout,” Aurelija Augulyte, a
Copenhagen-based analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , wrote in an e-mail
after the central bank decision.  The start of aid talks creates room to cut the main rate as
early as this month to help growth as the economy sinks into its
second recession in four years, central bankers Ferenc Gerhardt
and Gyorgy Kocziszky said on July 11. Vice President Julia
Kiraly warned the next day that lowering the rate
“prematurely” may erode the bank’s credibility.  ‘Cautious’  The council backed unchanged rates with a “substantial
majority,” central bank President Andras Simor told reporters
today, adding that Hungary needs a “cautious” rate policy
because of the volatile risk environment.  “Comments after today’s decision to keep the 7 percent
policy rate unchanged are slightly more hawkish than what could
have been anticipated prior to the release,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a
research report.  Hungary’s financial transaction tax, which the government
extended to the central bank, “impairs” the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank’s independence, the ECB said in a legal opinion published
on its website today.  The government raised a planned 45 billion forint ($188
million) at an auction of three-month Treasury bills today
before the central bank decision. The average yield was 6.86
percent, the lowest since Nov. 28, according to results from the
Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg. Investors bid for 80
billion forint, compared with 177 billion forint a week ago.  Emerging-market stocks dropped for a third day on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening, overshadowing an improving
outlook for  China ’s manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  