-- Unilever’s Tate Sponsorship Expires; Hall Shuts in 2013
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/unilever-s-tate-sponsorship-expires-hall-shuts-in-2013.html
Unilever (UNA)  said its sponsorship of
 Tate Modern ’s annual art installation in the Turbine Hall has
run out, and the decision to extend is on hold as the hall
closes for construction next year.  “We sponsored the series, and we then renewed that
twice,” said Sue Garrard, Unilever Plc’s senior vice president
for global communications, in an interview at Tate Modern after
the 2012 artist Tino Sehgal’s presentation. “We were coming up
to the point where we had to decide whether to renew.”  “Next year, everything’s on pause,” she said, pointing
out that the hall will shut in 2013 as Tate Modern builds a new
extension. Tate’s press office confirmed that the Turbine Hall
will close for building work next year.  Every year since 2000, Tate Modern, the power-station-
turned-museum on  London ’s South Bank, has invited an artist to
create a work for its vast lobby, the Turbine Hall. Unilever has
sponsored the series from the start and lent its name to it.  Participants in the Unilever Series have included Chinese
dissident artist Ai Weiwei, who paved the hall with 100 million
porcelain sunflower seeds; Doris Salcedo, whose “Shibboleth”
was a 167-meter-long crack in the lobby’s concrete floor;
 Carsten Hoeller , whose tall slides turned Tate into an amusement
park; and  Olafur Eliasson , whose “Weather Project” featured a
sun-like installation shining on visitors.  Series Cost  The series was last renewed in 2008 for a five-year period
at a cost of 2.16 million pounds ($2.77 million).  Almost 30 million people have seen the series so far, 
Garrard said on July 23.  Sehgal, whose installation in the hall opened yesterday,
presents the series’ first piece of performance art, “These
Associations.” Trained participants move around the Turbine
Hall individually or in clusters, speeding up, slowing down,
sitting down and chanting. Individual members occasionally stop
to strike up conversations with visitors.  The work, timed to coincide with the London 2012 Olympic
Games, runs through Oct. 28.  Tate Modern is constructing a 215 million pound new wing
designed by architects Herzog & De Meuron that will open in 2016
at the latest.  For more information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on London food,  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  food and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 