-- UPS Sees Cooling Demand Showing Lower U.S. Economic Gains
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-24T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ups-sees-cooling-demand-showing-lower-u-s-economic-gains.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  predicted
the  U.S. economy  will grow 1 percent in the rest of 2012 as
slowing volume growth prompted the world’s largest package-
delivery company to conclude average forecasts are too high.  The projection by UPS, an economic bellwether because it
moves goods from financial documents to pharmaceuticals,
contrasts with a 2.2 percent growth rate predicted by economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “Right now, the estimates are a little too optimistic,”
Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said in a telephone
interview. “We’re not trying to ring the alarm bell, but we do
think that there’s probably a little more likelihood that the
numbers will turn lower than estimates.”  UPS is bracing for the slower growth, reducing its full-
year  profit outlook  today to $4.50 to $4.70 a share from $4.75
to $5 after  second-quarter earnings  trailed analysts’ estimates.
Revenue in the International Package  business , the company’s
second-largest, dropped 4 percent to $3.01 billion as exports
from Asia to the U.S. and  Europe  decreased.  “International volume is particularly weak,”  Kevin Sterling , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
 Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “They are not immune
from China softening and everything happening in Europe.”  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the operator of the biggest cargo airline, has
encountered similar pressures internationally. Last month, the
Memphis, Tennessee-based company cited Europe’s debt crisis and
a slowdown in Asia when it gave a smaller profit forecast than
analysts estimated for the fiscal year ending in May.  Asia Exports  UPS is reducing its Asian air network by 10 percent, to the
size it was in 2009, mostly by decreasing the frequencies of
flights, Kuehn said.  “The Asia export story has been a really significant
shift,” he said. “We are seeing shipments within  Asia  continue
to grow and we think that’s a trend that’s going to become
increasingly important.”  The company is predicting an uptick in Asian exports in the
fourth quarter driven by product introductions from large
manufacturers.  A declining euro exacerbated currency fluctuations that
pulled International Package yields down about 4.5 percent, UPS
said.  Second-quarter  net income  climbed 2.2 percent to $1.12
billion, or $1.15 a share, from $1.09 billion, or $1.09 a share,
a year earlier, as U.S. domestic package revenue increased.
Volume gains there were driven by lightweight shipments from
online retailers to their customers, UPS said.  Companywide revenue climbed 1.2 percent to $13.3 billion,
UPS said. Growth was slower than last quarter’s 4.4 percent
expansion partly because of customers opting for cheaper
shipment options.  Cheaper Options  “The deferred products are still leading the pack,” Logan Purk, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a
telephone interview. “Clients are still choosing the slower
methods of delivery and that is impacting results in terms of
yield.”  Kuehn said softening in the U.S. economy has come with a
“gradual deceleration” in business-to-business shipments,
which make up more than 60 percent of the UPS network. The
business-to-consumer component continues to show “fairly solid
growth,” he said.  UPS dropped 5.5 percent to $73.70 at 12:24 p.m. in New
York, following a 5.6 percent decrease that was the largest
intraday since August. The shares  previously gained  6.5 percent
this year.  UPS, which is seeking to expand in Europe with the $6.5
billion acquisition of  TNT Express NV (TNTE) , said it expects to
complete the purchase in the fourth quarter. The deal is the
biggest in the company’s 105-year history.  “Europe continues to be a good story for us,” Chief
Executive Officer Scott Davis said on an earnings call. “Intra-
regional shipments are continuing to show growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  