-- UPS Cuts 2012 Forecast as Slowing Economy Press Profit
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-24T15:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ups-cuts-full-year-forecast-as-slowing-economy-presses-earnings.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, cut its full-year
forecast after a drop in international package sales dragged
quarterly profit below analysts’ estimates.  Earnings for 2012 may be $4.50 to $4.70 a share, down from
a previous projection of $4.75 to $5, the Atlanta-based company
said. Second-quarter profit of $1.15 a share trailed the $1.17
 average estimate  from analysts as sales in the International
Package and Supply Chain & Freight businesses fell.  UPS, an economic bellwether because it moves goods ranging
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals, projects the  U.S.
economy  will expand 1 percent in the rest of the year. Premium-
product growth will slow as customers choose cheaper shipping
options, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said on a call with
analysts and investors.  “International volume is particularly weak,”  Kevin Sterling , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
Virginia, said in a telephone interview. “They are not immune
from China softening and everything happening in  Europe .”  International Package sales dropped 4 percent to $3.01
billion as average daily volume was little changed and currency
fluctuations damped revenue, the company said. Supply Chain &
Freight sales fell 1.6 percent as excess capacity for Asian
exports pressured pricing.  FedEx Pressures  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the operator of the biggest cargo airline, has
encountered similar pressures. Last month, the Memphis,
Tennessee-based company cited Europe’s debt crisis and a
slowdown in  Asia  when it gave a smaller profit forecast than
analysts estimated for the fiscal year ending in May.  UPS dropped 3.9 percent to $74.91 at 10:59 a.m. in  New
York , following a 4.5 percent decrease that was the largest
intraday since September. The shares  previously gained  6.5
percent this year.  Net income  climbed 2.2 percent to $1.12 billion, from $1.09
billion, or $1.09 a share, a year earlier, as U.S. domestic
package revenue increased. Volume gains there were driven by
lightweight shipments from online retailers to their customers,
UPS said.  Companywide revenue climbed 1.2 percent to $13.3 billion,
UPS said. Growth was slower than last quarter’s 4.4 percent
expansion partly because of customers opting for cheaper
shipment options.  “The deferred products are still leading the pack,” Logan Purk, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a
telephone interview. “Clients are still choosing the slower
methods of delivery and that is impacting results in terms of
yield.”  UPS, which is seeking to expand in Europe with the $6.5
billion acquisition of  TNT Express NV (TNTE) , said it expects to
complete the purchase in the fourth quarter. The deal is the
biggest in the company’s 105-year history.  “Europe continues to be a good story for us,” Chief
Executive Officer Scott Davis said on the call. “Intra-regional
shipments are continuing to show growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  