-- Murdoch’s $2 Billion TV Deal Threatened in Battle of Moguls
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-25T07:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/murdoch-s-2-billion-pay-tv-deal-threatened-in-battle-of-moguls.html
Rupert Murdoch,  Kerry Stokes  and
James Packer have veered from allies to bitter enemies over the
years as each jockeyed to expand their Australian media empires.
The three billionaires are at it again.  Murdoch’s News Corp. and Stokes’s  Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW) 
are jostling for greater control of Foxtel,  Australia ’s largest
pay-TV company with about $3 billion in annual revenue. A
prolonged battle between the two could frustrate an effort by
Packer, the 44-year-old scion to the family media dynasty, to
raise about A$1 billion ($1 billion) to help finance a fight for
Sydney’s only casino operator.  “It’s not just business,” said Justin Diddams, an analyst
at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “Both Packer and Murdoch will have
long memories if Stokes foils or stalls this transaction for
them.”  Foxtel would be a crucial asset for either Stokes, who’s 71
and worth about $1.5 billion, or Murdoch, who’s 81, worth about
$9.2 billion and seeking to split his company into entertainment
and publishing units. The country’s competition regulator
considers Foxtel a “ near monopoly ,” accounting for almost all
the revenue in Australia’s subscription-TV market. That market
will grow three times as fast as free-to-air TV in the country
through 2015, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Murdoch started the action on June 20 when  News Corp. (NWSA)  bid
A$2 billion for  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  Its 25 percent
stake in Foxtel would effectively give News Corp. control of the
pay-TV company when combined with Murdoch’s existing 25 percent
holding.  ‘Immense Trouble’  Stokes, who runs a $2.2 billion media and construction
equipment empire, countered two days later, seeking regulatory
permission to buy the 76 percent of Consolidated Media that his
Seven Group doesn’t already own. He has yet to announce a formal
offer. Stokes’s 67 percent stake in Seven Group is valued at
A$1.41 billion, based on today’s closing price.  Australia’s competition watchdog said today it asked for
more information from Seven Group before ruling on whether it
would be allowed to buy Consolidated Media. The regulator is
scheduled to rule on Murdoch’s bid by Aug. 2.  Stokes won’t easily sell his stake, said Harold Mitchell,
executive chairman of strategy firm Aegis Media Australia and a
friend of both Stokes and Packer. “Stokes has gone to immense
trouble building his position in the media,” said Mitchell.
“Our pay-TV system is still underdeveloped and Stokes has
children to think about.”  Simon Francis, a Sydney-based spokesman for Seven Group,
declined to comment on the transactions, as did News Corp.
spokesman Stephen Browning. Packer’s Sydney office did not reply
to two emails and two telephone calls seeking comment.  Humble Beginnings  Stokes has built a reputation as a shrewd and unpredictable
corporate player, using acquisitions and boardroom coups to
parlay a property business in  Western Australia ’s capital Perth
into Seven Group. The company owns a third of Australia’s
biggest free-to-air TV station, Seven Network Ltd., as well as
magazines, newspapers,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  dealerships stretching
from Sydney to Beijing, and a stake in  China ’s third-largest
lender.  Born in 1940 to an unmarried barmaid in wartime  Melbourne ,
Stokes said in a 2010  interview  with the Sydney Morning Herald
that he was adopted and left school at 14 -- at a time when
 Rupert Murdoch  was already running his father’s newspaper
business and Packer’s father Kerry was the second-in-line to one
of Australia’s largest media empires.  In 1995, he took control of Seven Network by assembling a
20 percent stake and pushing to fire two successive chairmen and
install himself instead.  Breakaway League  Showing little reluctance to confront the country’s
existing media empires, Stokes’s Seven Network in 2002 sued 22
separate companies including divisions of News Corp. and the
Packer family’s Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd., accusing them of
conspiring to block him from Australia’s pay-TV market.  Federal Court Judge Ronald Sackville estimated that the
damages claimed were worth barely more than the A$200 million of
legal costs Seven incurred over the unsuccessful five-year
litigation. In dismissing the suit in 2007, Sackville said
Stokes is “extremely resolute and persistent in pursuit of his
and Seven’s business objectives, sometimes to the point of
obstinacy.”  The Packer and Murdoch dynasties have squabbled too. When
Murdoch started Foxtel in the 1990s, he found himself locked out
of sporting content due to Kerry Packer’s hold on the rights for
the Australian Rugby League, the most popular winter football
game in Sydney. Murdoch responded by helping form a breakaway
league in 1997.  ‘Truce’ Declared  At other times, the three men have been cozy. Murdoch and
Kerry Packer reached a truce after just one season of the rival
rugby leagues, uniting the contests and giving Murdoch pay-TV
access to games. Packer was allowed to buy the 25 percent stake
in Foxtel that is the center of the current tussle.  A loan from News Corp. also allowed Stokes to buy his first
major media asset, the Canberra Times newspaper, from Kerry
Packer, according to a 1996 government  report . Murdoch’s nominee
to Seven’s board also backed Stokes’s 1995 bid to remove the
then-chairman, the report said.  More recently,  James Packer  allowed Stokes to invest
alongside him in Consolidated Media in a series of acquisitions
in 2008 and 2009, and Stokes’s son Ryan now sits with Packer on
the company’s board. The pair have declared a “truce” after
their courtroom pay-TV battles, said  Mark McDonnell , an analyst
at BBY Ltd. in Sydney.  Echo Battle  That truce isn’t helping Packer for now. Worth about $4.1
billion, Packer has agreed to sell his 50 percent of
Consolidated Media to News Corp., bringing an end to the media
empire his family built over four generations. A Stokes bid
could delay any sale of Consolidated Media, while Packer is in
the midst of a battle with Lim Kok Thay, chairman of  Genting
Bhd. (GENT) , a Malaysian leisure and gaming company, for greater
control over casino operator  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)   “If he wants to fund an Echo transaction, he’s going to
have a problem if he can’t get the funds in time,” McDonnell
said of Packer.  Stokes’s finances would be tested in a duel for
Consolidated Media. His company’s net debt has more than doubled
to A$1.9 billion in the 12 months through June 30, according to
the consensus of three analyst estimates collected by Bloomberg,
as it spends on equipment to meet a mining boom. Meanwhile,
sluggish advertising revenue helped slice 31 percent off the
combined market value of his stakes in  Seven West Media (SWM)  Ltd. and
Consolidated in the year through June.  Sports Content  Those troubles suggest Stokes’s bid for Consolidated could
be a “green-mailing exercise” to get a higher offer from
Murdoch, said BBY’s McDonnell.  Murdoch’s A$3.50-a-share bid is below Consolidated Media’s
value of A$3.80 to A$4, estimated Peter Stamoulis, an analyst at
Evans & Partners Pty. in Melbourne. Consolidated Media closed at
A$3.36 today in Sydney.  Another option for Stokes would be to negotiate sweeter
sports content deals from Murdoch to benefit Seven Network, said
Jeremy Hook, investment director of TMS Capital Ltd. in Sydney.
A successful bid for Consolidated would give News Corp. full
ownership of the Fox Sports network in Australia, with broadcast
rights to the most popular games of the Australian Football
League and National Rugby League.  “This is a strategic asset for Stokes now,” Hook said.
“I just don’t know that money alone will be enough for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Reibstein at 
 lreibstein@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  