-- Turkey Bond Yields Advance to Highest in 11 Days on Funding Cost
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-24T14:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/turkey-yields-rise-for-third-day-lira-declines-against-dollar.html
Turkey ’s  bond yields  rose to the
highest in more than a week after the banks’ average funding
cost increased and as investors sold riskier assets amid concern
the  European debt crisis  is worsening.  Yields on two-year debt advanced for a third day, climbing
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.95 percent by
the close in Istanbul, the strongest level since July 13.  Turkey’s central bank tightened liquidity by providing 1.5
billion liras ($820.8 million) in today’s one-week repurchase
agreements auction at its lowest funding rate, compared with 2.5
billion liras a week earlier. The  average cost of borrowing  for
lenders advanced to 7.9 percent yesterday from 7.7 percent on
July 20. Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook to negative
for the Aaa credit rating of  Germany , citing “rising
uncertainty” about the fiscal crisis.  “A part of the rise in yields stems from the central
bank’s repo move and a larger part is caused by the turnaround
in global markets,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is
Investment Securities, said in e-mailed comments.  The lira depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8248 per dollar,
retreating for the fourth straight day. A close at this level
would be the weakest since June 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci introduced an interest-
rate corridor in October to execute the bank’s unorthodox
monetary policy, switching between rates of 5.75 percent and
11.5 percent on a daily basis to tame inflation and rein in the
 current-account deficit  by curbing credit growth.  Greece ’s international creditors return to  Athens  to assess
how far from bailout terms the country has strayed as Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras pieces together additional budget cuts
that may determine the country’s membership in the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  