-- Turner Makes Claim for BOE Job as Bank Culture Reform Sought
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-25T08:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/turner-stakes-claim-for-boe-helm-as-bank-culture-reform-sought.html
Financial Services Authority
Chairman  Adair Turner  gave his first indication that he is
interested in succeeding  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  as
he laid out proposals to reshape London’s finance industry.  “I would obviously not rule myself out” of consideration
for the BOE post, Turner, 56, said in an interview in London
yesterday. “It is something I’ll have to think about when the
time comes.” Turner, who has been chairman of the FSA since
2008, also laid out ideas to reform banking culture and rebuild
trust in financial services following the Libor scandal which
led to the resignation of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond .  Bank executives face “the challenge of setting clearly
from the top a culture which tells people that there are things
they shouldn’t do, even if they are legal, even if they are
profitable and even if it is highly likely that the supervisor
will never spot them,” Turner said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Diamond stepped down as chief executive officer of Barclays
on July 3 following the bank’s admission that it submitted false
Libor information to benefit derivatives trades and bolster its
own positions. Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by
assets, was fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) in
U.K. and U.S. probes last month.  Libor, PPI  The recent scandals involving the  London  interbank offered
rate and improperly sold insurance products has ruined the
public’s trust in the industry, Turner said. He said reforming
the banking culture has to start with the most senior levels of
management questioning excessively profitable products.  Rather than “congratulate the sales teams and increase the
targets,” if they make unexpectedly large profits, executives
should “ask searching questions about whether the product is
truly in consumers’ interest,” Turner said in a separate speech
yesterday.  Turner’s term as head of the FSA will end next year when
the regulator is split into two agencies. A prudential regulator
will become part of the BOE, while an independent Financial
Conduct Authority will oversee consumer issues.  Bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc  has improved Turner’s odds to
replace King from 9/2 to 7/2 since last month.  Other candidates for the Bank of England post include  Paul
Tucker , currently deputy governor, former Cabinet Secretary  Gus
O’Donnell  and  Mark Carney , governor of the  Bank of Canada ,
according to Paddy Power.  Increased Powers  The next governor of the Bank of England will have
increased powers, including supervision of U.K. banks, while
confronting some of the toughest economic conditions since the
World War II, a crisis of confidence in the sovereign debt of
peripheral euro zone states and the task of implementing
stricter financial rules for banks and  hedge funds .  “The challenges of the moment are sufficient to keep me
very busy and they continue to mount with the challenges of the
euro zone, the challenges of the FSA transition, the challenges
of Libor,” Turner, who was a vice chairman of Merrill Lynch
 Europe  from 2000 to 2006, said in the interview. “The most
intelligent thing to do is focus on the immediate challenges and
make decisions on the future when and if they have to be made.”  Spain ’s bailout of its regions’ risks pushing the nation
closer to needing a full international rescue as it struggles to
maintain  market access  with 10-year bond yields hovering at 7.5
percent.  Spanish Meetings  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos visited Berlin
yesterday for crisis talks with German counterpart Wolfgang Schaeuble. After taking on as much as 100 billion euros ($121
billion) of bailout loans to aid banks, the risk for Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government is that the additional
burden of helping regions pushes bond yields to unaffordable
levels.  European lawmakers should speed efforts to create a banking
union for euro region banks, giving them direct access to state
funds, Turner said.  “The euro zone will not be a stable system without rapid
progress towards a banking union,” Turner said, adding that
policy makers must “cut the fatal loop” between banks and
sovereigns by allowing lenders direct access to the European
Union’s public bailout funds.  Turner said he is “very concerned” about the euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis, and that the link between banks and state
funding problems would have to be cut for the currency bloc to
survive.  Turner joined the FSA a week after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Before joining the
regulator he had set up McKinsey & Co.’s Russia and Eastern
European practice from 1992 to 1994 and served a stint as
director general of the Confederation of British Industry from
1995 to 1999.  As long as his career “continues to be challenging,
challenging in lots of different ways, I’m basically a happy
person,” Turner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  