-- Turner Says BOE Governor Doesn’t Have to Be ‘God-Like’ Figure
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   G u y   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-07-24T11:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/turner-says-boe-governor-doesn-t-have-to-be-god-like-figure.html
Financial Services Authority
Chairman  Adair Turner , a potential candidate to run the  Bank of
England , said the institution doesn’t need a “God-like”
governor as long as its policy committees function properly.  “I think we ought to see a lot of the decisions that will
need to be made as coming out of those committees, and subject
to the process of challenging within them, rather than depending
on some sort of God-like, wise leader, whoever you might think
that leader might be,” Turner said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television in London today.  Turner, who is one of the favorites to succeed  Mervyn King 
as governor of the central bank, declined to say who would be
the right person for the role. He said that keeping a check on
the bank’s chief will be necessary given the expanded powers
over financial regulation that King’s successor will wield.  “Checks and balances are very important,” Turner said.
“Checks and balances have worked very well in relation to the
Monetary Policy Committee and I think they are increasingly
working well in relation to the Financial Policy Committee.”  Turner said he is “focused” for the moment on his current
role dealing with the “challenges for U.K. banking.”  “That’s quite enough to get on with for now,” he said.
“As well as the very major problems in the macro economy,”
there is “the need to get right the balance between bank
prudential rules that make banks more resilient and the need to
expand lending to the real economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Guy Johnson in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  