-- TV Market Broken as Viewers Pay More, U.S. Senator Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-07-24T19:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/tv-market-broken-as-viewers-pay-more-u-s-senator-says.html
Consumers’ television bills keep
climbing and blackouts of popular programs have become common,
showing that marketplace rules set in the 1990s may need to be
changed, a U.S. senator said.  “Consumers are still forced to purchase larger and larger
packages of channels,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West
Virginia Democrat who heads the Commerce Committee, said at a
hearing on cable regulation. “The market isn’t working. Real
competition should be bringing rates down.”  The session was part of a series of hearings in both houses
of Congress to consider updating laws that govern the broadcast,
cable and satellite industries. No change will pass this year
because the topic is complex, Rockefeller told reporters April
25.  Regulation hasn’t kept pace with the rise of satellite
broadcasters  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , or the spread of
high-speed Internet links used by services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and  Barry Diller ’s online Aereo Inc. that provides broadcast
signals without a cable subscription, lawmakers and industry
officials have said.  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said
Congress should repeal the 1992 law that lets TV stations charge
cable providers for broadcast signals.  “It was a right created out of whole cloth to combat a
cable monopoly,” DeMint said. That monopoly no longer exists
after inroads from competitors, including satellite providers,
he said.  Negotiating Power  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, said he
wouldn’t support “radical proposals” to repeal the 1992 law.  “It would result in, probably, very few broadcasters being
around,” Kerry said. “I want to preserve local broadcasting.”  “There’s a real divide here, and it’s going to be
interesting to see how we manage it,” Kerry said.  Service disruptions caused by disputes over how much cable
providers should pay broadcasters for their signals are a source
of concern and Americans “deserve answers as to why their
screens have gone dark,” Rockefeller said. Consumers should get
refunds when they lose channels, he said.  The incidence of blackouts has spiked as broadcasters have
become increasingly willing to withhold programming during fee
disputes, Melinda Witmer, executive vice president at New York-
based Time Warner, the second-largest U.S. cable company by
revenue, said in testimony submitted to the panel. So far this
year there have been 69 instances with programming being
withheld in fee disputes, Witmer said.  World Series  Cable and satellite providers are seeking federal help as
broadcasters seek more fees for program carriage. Pay-TV
companies paid $1 billion in retransmission fees to local
affiliate broadcast channels in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  New York-area consumers in 2010 missed games in Major
League Baseball’s World Series and the opening minutes of the
Academy Awards in disputes between  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  and
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of the MTV and Nickelodeon networks, on
July 20 announced a new programming fee agreement with DirecTV,
ending a 10-day blackout for the satellite-TV service’s 20
million U.S. viewers.  Other program outages affected Time Warner, Dish Network
Corp. and DirecTV,  the FCC said  last year as it began examining
rules for retransmission negotiations. The FCC doesn’t have
power to demand binding arbitration or to order TV stations’
signals restored during disagreements, officials said.  Market Power  Increased competition lets broadcasters play the cable
companies and other pay-TV providers against each other, Time
Warner’s Witmer said. Laws don’t let cable companies buy a
broadcast signal from alternative sources, leaving them to deal
exclusively with local stations, Witmer said.  Stations should be able to negotiate for compensation
because they provide most of the top-rated shows,  Gordon Smith ,
president of the National Association of Broadcasters, said in
testimony submitted to the committee.  “When some suggest that these laws are ripe for a rewrite,
they misstate history and facts,” Smith said. Members of his
Washington-based trade group include ABC, Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Broadcast stations account for 35 percent of TV viewership
and receive less than 7 percent of program carriage fees, Smith
said.  Rewriting Laws  TV executives are watching for signs lawmakers may rewrite
the carriage laws,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with
Guggenheim Securities, said in an interview before the hearing.  “Broadcasters have a fair amount of leverage to raise
fees,” Gallant said. “Their concern is Congress could undercut
that leverage.”  A June 27 hearing before a House panel showed that “a good
number of members” want to consider rewriting the rules
surrounding blackouts, Gallant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  