-- Vale Shares Tumble After CFO Martins Replaced: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-24T21:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/vale-names-siani-as-cfo-in-5th-executive-change-since-november.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s second-biggest
mining company, declined the most since October after naming
Luciano Siani as chief financial officer in the fifth
replacement of a top executive in eight months.  Vale  dropped  4.7 percent to close at 35.15 reais in Sao
Paulo, the most since Oct. 17. The Bovespa  index  slipped 0.8
percent. The stock has fallen 24 percent in the past year,
compared with a 12 percent drop in the benchmark Bovespa index.  Siani, formerly global director for strategic planning,
replaces Tito Martins, who is leaving the company, Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale said in a  statement  late yesterday. Grupo
Votorantim, a Brazilian producer of raw materials from pulp to
cement, said today it hired Martins as the new head for its
metals unit.  Martins’ departure “comes as a surprise to us, but we
expect no shift in direction of Vale,” Barclays Plc analysts
led by Leonardo Correa in  Sao Paulo  said in a note to clients
today. “We see no shift in strategic focus, and expect
investors to take the transition in a neutral manner.”  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira reshuffled
management in November, substituting three executive directors.
Martins, who was executive director of base metals, replaced
Guilherme Cavalcanti as CFO. In May, Vale named Roger Downey
head of its fertilizers and coal business, replacing Eduardo
Bartolomeo.  Siani, who joined Vale in 2008, is a former consultant for
McKinsey & Co. and was an executive for 12 years at  Brazil ’s
state-controlled development bank, known as BNDES, the company
said in yesterday’s statement. He studied mechanical engineering
at Rio’s PUC University and business at  New York  University’s
Stern School of Business, Vale said.  Quarterly Earnings  Vale will post second-quarter per-share profit of 74.4
cents excluding some items, according to the  average  of 11
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
scheduled to release the report tomorrow after markets close.
Profit is projected to fall from $1.22 per share a year earlier.  Martins will replace Joao Bosco as CEO of Votorantim Metais
starting in October, the company said today. Votorantim said it
hired Matins to speed up growth in its aluminum, nickel and zinc
projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  