-- Venezuela’s Chavez Threatens Repsol Over YPF Arbitration
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-07-24T16:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/venezuela-s-chavez-threatens-repsol-over-ypf-arbitration-case.html
Venezuela  President  Hugo Chavez 
warned  Repsol SA (REP)  to “think carefully” about taking action
against  Argentina  after it nationalized its  YPF SA (YPFD)  unit,
indicating the Spanish company may face ramifications in the
South American country.  “They have a lot of investment here in Venezuela,” Chavez
said yesterday on state television after meeting with Argentine
Planning Minister Julio De Vido in Caracas. “What happens there
in Argentina affects what happens here.”  Repsol should try to reach a “friendly” agreement with
Argentina for compensation, Chavez said, adding that YPF,
Argentina’s largest oil producer, may be given mature oil blocks
to explore in Venezuela’s Orinoco oil belt. Venezuela wants to
export more oil to Argentina, which spent $11 billion on fuel
imports last year, and help the country develop its offshore
natural-gas industry, said Chavez.  Kristian Rix, a Madrid-based spokesman for Repsol, said
today in a telephone interview that the company wasn’t able to
comment on what Chavez said.  Repsol has a stake in the Carabobo 1 oil field in
Venezuela’s Orinoco belt and operates with Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  the
Perla field, estimated to hold 17 trillion cubic feet of gas.  International Arbitration  After the April expropriation of a 51 percent stake of its
YPF unit in Argentina, Repsol said it’s seeking $10.5 billion in
compensation. The company filed an arbitration request at the
World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes over the seizure of its YPF unit, De Vido said the
seizure of its YPF unit in Argentina in April, De Vido said in
an interview with Venezuelan state television in May.  Argentina faces more cases at the ICSID, as the Washington-
based arbitration court is known, than any other country.  Argentine authorities haven’t responded to a letter sent
from Repsol seeking formal negotiations, Chairman  Antonio Brufau 
said in May.  “I’d love to believe that there was a willingness to talk
and negotiate, but I’ve not seen that up to now,” Brufau said
in a May 29 conference call.  Repsol fell 7.2 percent today to 10.96 euros in Madrid, the
lowest price since Oct. 30, 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  