-- Volvo Second-Quarter Truck Orders Fall on North America
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-07-24T10:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/volvo-second-quarter-earnings-beat-estimates-on-vehicle-pricing.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-largest
truckmaker, said second-quarter vehicle orders dropped 19
percent because of a weakening economic outlook in North America
and southern Europe.  Sales contracts fell to 52,946 trucks from 65,006 vehicles
a year earlier, Gothenburg, Sweden-based Volvo said today in a
statement. Drops of 47 percent in North America and 13 percent
in Europe led the decline, which accelerated groupwide from a 1
percent slide in the  first quarter .  Volvo, which makes Mack-brand trucks in the U.S., may cut
production in response to falling demand, Chief Executive
Officer Olof Persson said today. Confidence among U.S. small
companies dropped in June to the lowest since October, while
manufacturing output in the 17 countries that share the euro
shrank at the fastest pace in three years as governments worked
to stem the sovereign-debt crisis.  “It’s a significant miss on the order side,” said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  in Aabenraa,  Denmark , with an
overweight recommendation on Volvo stock. “Truck-fleet
operators in  North America  have grown more cautious after a
healthy start to the year. They’re stepping back and looking
where the economy is going before deciding to invest in renewing
fleets.” Imsgard had estimated orders at about 57,000 trucks.  Drop Reversed  Volvo  rose  1 percent to 79.6 kronor at 12:28 p.m. in
Stockholm, reversing a decline earlier in the day of as much as
2.9 percent. The shares have gained 5.6 percent this year,
valuing the manufacturer at 169 billion kronor ($24.3 billion).  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 4.1
percent from a year earlier to 7.34 billion kronor, beating the
6.73 billion-krona average of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 6.3 percent to 83.9 billion kronor.  Volvo reiterated forecasts from April that European
industrywide sales in 2012 will fall to 230,000 trucks, while
North America’s market will increase to 250,000 vehicles. That
would amount to a 5.1 percent drop in  Europe  and 16 percent
growth in North America, based on Volvo’s industry estimates for
2011. The company scaled back its forecast for  Brazil ’s market
to 90,000 trucks from an earlier prediction of 105,000 vehicles.  Deliveries Fall  The Swedish  company ’s second-quarter truck deliveries fell
2 percent to 58,769 vehicles, Volvo said. South American sales
dropped 27 percent, hurt by a slowing economy and a shift in
emissions regulations in Brazil, and European deliveries
declined 14 percent in Europe. North American truck sales jumped
34 percent, helped by vehicle replacements.  A Mack Trucks factory in Macungie, Pennsylvania, and a
Volvo-brand plant in Dublin,  Virginia , will suspend production
for a much as three weeks this autumn in response to declining
U.S. demand, Persson said today in an interview in  Stockholm .  “The big macro uncertainty creates a big wait-and-see
attitude in North America” among customers, the CEO said at a
press conference.  The only other production cutbacks planned globally are a
previously announced reduction in Brazil, Persson said.
Truckmaking will be increased later this year in Russia and
 Sweden , he said. Volvo’s construction-equipment unit in Sweden
will let contracts expire for about 200 temporary workers as
sales at that business are slowing, Persson said.  Lead times from order to delivery remain unchanged at two
to three months across Volvo’s businesses, Persson said.  “That’s an indication we have balance in our system,” the
CEO said. “That’s where we should be.”  Swedish competitor  Scania AB (SCVB) , which reported a 40 percent
drop in second-quarter net income to 1.46 billion kronor, said
July 20 that orders rose from the previous three months because
of Russian demand. It also predicted a growing need in Europe to
replace vehicles. Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
world’s largest truckmaker, plans to publish figures tomorrow.
Munich-based  MAN SE (MAN)  is scheduled to report results on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  