-- Wal-Mart de Mexico Profit Increases as Retailer Reduces Costs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2012-07-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/wal-mart-de-mexico-profit-increases-as-retailer-reduces-costs.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB ,  Latin
America ’s largest retailer, said second-quarter earnings
increased 9 percent from a year earlier as the company reduced
operating costs.  Net income rose to 4.94 billion pesos ($363 million) on
sales of 97.4 billion pesos, up 12 percent, according to a
company filing yesterday with the Mexican stock exchange.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a cash flow measure known as Ebitda, rose 15 percent to 9.06
billion pesos.  Ebitda margin increased to 9.2 percent from 9 percent a
year earlier. The rise in profitability was because of
“discipline in control of costs in both  Mexico  and Central
America,” the company said.  “I didn’t expect an improvement in Ebitda margin,” David Foulkes, an analyst with Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City, said
in a phone interview after the report. “It came out better than
I expected.”  Foulkes said he’s reviewing his hold rating for Walmex, as
the Mexico City-based company is known, after the report. Gaspar Quijano, an analyst with Vector Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said in an e-mailed research note that he’s keeping his buy
recommendation after “these very favorable results.”  The results improve the outlook for the company in the
second half and may boost the shares today, Quijano wrote.  Slowing Expansion  Walmex’s positive performance in Mexico outweighed
difficulties in integrating operations in Central America that
it acquired in 2010 from parent  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said Luis Willard, an analyst with Grupo Bursatil Mexicano in Mexico City.  “The positive part is definitely seeing that the Mexican
business is growing again and expanding margins,” he said in a
phone interview.  The retailer slowed its expansion after the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission announced
investigations into bribes that Walmex officials allegedly paid
to speed up the opening of new stores. The retailer reduced the
number of stores it plans to open this year by 23 percent,
according to a June 20 statement.  “Although Walmex does not presently believe, based on the
information currently available and the advice of its external
Mexican counsel, that these matters will have a material adverse
effect on its business, given the inherent uncertainties in such
situations, Walmex can provide no assurance that these matters
will not be material to its business in the future,” the
company said yesterday.  Behind Schedule  The retailer said June 20 that it will open between 325 and
335 locations in Mexico and Central America this year. It added
extra steps to the real-estate development process required to
open stores and said the 2012 growth plan is 60 days to 90 days
behind schedule.  Walmex opened 111 stores in the first half, less than half
of the lowered June 20 forecast, according to the earnings
report.  Chief Executive Officer Scot Rank said in a conference call
yesterday that the company named Javier Soni Ocampo, formerly a
senior partner at Pricewaterhouse Coopers Mexico, as chief
compliance officer. Adriana Velazquez Villasenor, formerly chief
compliance officer at GE Latin America, was named anti-
corruption director, Rank said.  Walmex started an internal investigation following a  New
York  Times story on the alleged bribes published April 22. The
company’s  shares  have fallen 14 percent since then. They rose
less than 1 percent to 36.95 pesos yesterday in Mexico City
trading before the earnings report.  It’s not yet clear whether Walmex’s compliance measures
will translate into higher costs, Willard said.  “If you’re looking just at this quarter, the answer is
no,” Willard said. “However, you’ll have to keep looking, you
can’t take your eye off the ball there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  