-- Wells Fargo Ranks No. 1 in Hard-to-Value Assets, S&P Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/wells-fargo-ranks-no-1-in-hard-to-value-assets-s-p-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, ranked first among the six biggest U.S. commercial
banks with the highest percentage of hard-to-value  assets  in its
securities portfolio,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  So-called Level 3 assets comprised 14.5 percent of holdings
the San Francisco-based firm had tagged for sale as of March 31,
S&P said yesterday in a report.  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC)  ranked second, with 13.6 percent, followed by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s 6.8 percent, the ratings company said.  “Level 3 asset values use inputs that are unobservable and
are often based on internal modeling,” S&P analysts including
Stuart Plesser wrote. “Because they are the most subjective,
and least liquid, of the three types of assets, we believe they
carry the most risk relative to others in the portfolio.”  Securities portfolios of the largest lenders drew scrutiny
after New York-based JPMorgan reported losses of at least $5.8
billion from trades in credit derivatives at the firm’s chief
investment office. The portfolios have helped the biggest U.S.
banks reap profits amid weak economic growth and new regulations
that encourage the buildup of assets that can be sold easily,
the ratings firm said.  “Investment portfolios now account for a larger proportion
of large, complex banks’ revenues and earnings relative to pre-
crisis levels, which ultimately could lead to increasing revenue
and earnings concentration,” the S&P analysts wrote in the
report. The portfolios have “grown significantly” since 2007,
they said.  The portfolios may result in future  ratings  downgrades, the
analysts wrote.  Mary Eshet , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  ‘Disciplined Process’  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  told analysts on May
31, three weeks after JPMorgan initially disclosed trading
losses, that Wells Fargo has a “disciplined process” for
evaluating potential dangers.  “We tend to run our company with a lot less risk vis-a-vis
our large bank competitors,” said Stumpf, 58.  Wells Fargo considers certain residential and commercial
mortgage bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit-default
swaps and other derivatives among its Level 3 assets, according
to its quarterly filing.  The bank held $230.3 billion in debt and equity securities
in its available-for-sale book at the end of March, of which 47
percent were Treasury and agency securities, S&P said in the
report. PNC, based in Pittsburgh, held $53.4 billion and
JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, had $378.7 billion,
according to S&P.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the lenders that
each took and repaid $45 billion government bailouts, held the
lowest concentrations of Level 3 assets among the six banks at
2.1 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, followed by
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp’s 3.4 percent, according to S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 