-- When Governments Won’t Govern, Central Banks Must
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/when-governments-won-t-govern-central-banks-must.html
The global economic crisis that
started in 2008 is far from over, and we might not have seen the
worst. Still, it’s not too early to think about how our response
to the crisis might put the economy on course for the next one.  The defining feature of policy since the Great Recession
began has been a fundamental shift in what we ask of elected
governments on one side and unelected central banks on the
other. Governments have failed, and are still failing, to get
fiscal policy right. So, with varying degrees of reluctance,
central banks have had to step in with quasi-fiscal measures,
such as buying long-term government debt or absorbing risks
previously borne by the private sector.  This reassignment of duties is no mere technicality. It’s a
momentous and troubling development.  To be clear, central banks have good reason to engage in
fiscal policy in today’s extraordinary circumstances. Without
the radical moves by the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of
England , the recessions in the U.S. and the U.K. would have been
much worse. As I’ve argued  before , avoiding a second and even
deeper recession in Europe will probably require the  European
Central Bank  to act with similar force. Central banks are
shouldering new responsibilities largely because elected
governments abdicated theirs.  Political Legitimacy  The longer-term implications of this reversal, though,
aren’t good.  First, an important point of principle. When the Fed and
its counterparts do fiscal policy, they undermine the political
legitimacy of independent central banking. I’m guessing this is
one main reason the Fed has been slow to start a third round of
quantitative easing. People are accustomed to thinking of
 monetary policy  as a relatively technical matter, whereas fiscal
policy (who gets what, and who pays) is as political as it gets.
No central banker wants to cross that boundary, for fear of
attracting new scrutiny that would complicate ordinary monetary
policy and make it harder to act promptly in the next crisis.  Unorthodox monetary policy has many practical drawbacks,
too. In its  recent annual report , the  Bank for International
Settlements , the Basel-based agency that acts as a bank for
central banks, notes several. For one, there’s the crucial issue
of the exit strategy -- that is, how central banks will
eventually unload all the bonds they have purchased in their
efforts to stimulate demand. With  interest rates  already at or
close to zero, and with consumers still burdened by heavy debt
loads, central banks have to embark on ever-larger rounds of
quantitative easing or other unconventional measures to make a
difference. That takes them deeper into uncharted territory.
Nobody knows how hard it will be to unwind these interventions.  Meanwhile, says the Bank for International Settlements,
this huge monetary accommodation might be partly self-defeating.
By encouraging people to borrow, it may delay the debt-paring
ultimately needed to bring the economy back to health. Easy
money masks underlying problems, and lessens the incentive to
confront them. Low interest rates, for example, make it cheaper
for banks to carry nonperforming loans. Also, when returns on
safe investments are low, they encourage investors to take on
more risk in their search for better yields. To some extent,
that’s exactly what central banks are aiming to achieve. But if
it works too well, the pattern of the last decade could repeat
itself.  Monetary policy is simply too blunt a tool for many of the
jobs for which it’s being used. Debt loads could be reduced much
faster if lenders promptly recognized their losses and
restructured their bad loans. The U.S. government, by spending
some taxpayer money to encourage debt relief, could have done a
lot more to break the logjam of foreclosed or about-to-be-
foreclosed properties than the Fed’s unorthodox measures have,
without putting the Fed’s future operations at risk.  Worst Mistakes  Today’s debate over short-term fiscal stimulus -- and over
the merits of austerity -- obscures a larger point. The worst
mistakes in fiscal policy were made before the current recession
ever began. Too many of the world’s governments acted
irresponsibly before their economies slumped. As their economies
slowed, automatic and discretionary fiscal stimulus forced debt
ratios so high that many countries’ sovereign debt lost its “no-
risk” status. In  Europe , that made things immeasurably worse.
The banks, which held that debt, found themselves in a deeper
hole, and many countries had to tighten budgets under duress as
their economies shrank.  Here’s the main lesson for the future. Debt ratios need to
be brought down to a level that will allow aggressive fiscal
easing during the next crisis. To save activist fiscal policy,
we need austerity. But with debt ratios as high as they are now,
it’s not a question of austerity or stimulus. To cushion
economies today, the austerity must be intelligently phased.  The past few years suggest the political systems in the
U.S. and Europe aren’t up to such a nuanced task. If that’s
true, central banks must fill the void as best as they can.
Don’t blame them if the results aren’t thrilling. The
alternative is worse.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  panic over Greece ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  mothers in the workplace ;  Peter Orszag  on
why the  U.S. Postal Service should be privatized ; A. Gary
Shilling on how to  remake university financing ; David Gordon
and Sean West on why the  U.S. emerging-market moment  is over.  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 