-- Why Yahoo’s New CEO Still Can’t Have It All
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-07-24T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/why-yahoo-s-new-ceo-still-can-t-have-it-all.html
(Corrects third paragraph to include the chief executive
officer of IBM and ninth paragraph to reflect decline of Yahoo!
share price.)  Last month it was the  cover story  in
the Atlantic: an explanation of “Why Women Still Can’t Have It
All.” Last week came a response from the business pages: “Oh,
But You Can.”  Anne-Marie Slaughter, who quit her high-ranking job at the
State Department to return to teaching at  Princeton University 
and spend more time with her family, is the author of the
magazine cover story. Then Marissa Mayer rocked the male-
dominated world of technology when she was named chief executive
officer of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  -- and  announced  she was pregnant.  The headlines about Mayer are deserved. No one can remember
another woman about to deliver a child getting the top job
anywhere. Only 4 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs  are female , and
most of those became so after their child-bearing years were
over. The only other tech CEOs,  Meg Whitman  of Hewlett-Packard
Co. and Virginia Rometty of International Business Machines
Corp., are 55 and 54, respectively.  In government, too, top jobs -- look at the  Supreme Court ,
for example -- typically go to women whose children are grown
(Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ) or who don’t have any (Justices
Elena Kagan and  Sonia Sotomayor ). Back in the Dark Ages, when I
was a government lawyer and pregnant, I waited as long as
possible to divulge my pregnancy. I preferred to be thought of
as fat rather than irrelevant. Who was going to give work to
someone who at best would shortly be disappearing for three
months and at worst would be distracted for the next 18 years?  Nursery Ceiling  So yes, it is good news that Mayer broke the nursery
ceiling,  especially if  it trickles down. Now that we’re done
cheering, let’s have a quiet moment to think about who’s more
right about the state of women in the workplace: the professor
or the CEO?  Slaughter congratulated Mayer on her triumph with the
cautionary note that not everyone should try this at home.
Mayer,  she said , proves her point: The only woman who can have
it all is “superhuman, rich, and in charge.”  Look at Mayer’s statement about coming back to work. “My
maternity leave will be a few weeks long and I’ll work through
it,” she  told Fortune . Thanks a lot for that.  True, Mayer actually doesn’t need time off in the sense the
rest of us do. As the boss, she’s the queen of flextime. Worried
about making it to the office for a meeting, or a conference
call, or a PowerPoint presentation? Not Mayer. The meeting
starts when she says it starts -- and will as long as she’s
there.  And would Yahoo be giving the job to a pregnant woman if it
weren’t already in a what-the-heck state of mind? After all,
this is a company whose stock has lost about half its value in
the past four-and-a-half years and has scrolled through CEOs
like so many instant messages. Mayer’s selection doesn’t mean
Exxon Mobil Corp. or International Business Machines Corp. will
be picking a pregnant CEO anytime soon.  There’s also a sense that this choice is proof of the
 “glass cliff” theory , which says a woman only gets a job when
the odds are stacked against her success. And when it’s not
worth as much anymore. Doors to the medical profession swung
open wider for women once it stopped paying so well.  Then there’s money, which is one thing that separates the
happy working mothers from the harried working mothers. Mayer,
wealthy from her time at Google Inc. and  destined to be  well-
paid at Yahoo, may well change a diaper. But I bet she will
never have to run out at midnight to Wal-Mart to buy a box of
Pampers. Peek inside the household of a woman at the top, and
you will find out that she doesn’t just have a great nanny, she
has several. It’s a family version of outsourcing. This doesn’t
make Mayer a bad mother -- just a more efficient one.  Divided Energies  We don’t know, and neither does Mayer, whether her energies
and emotions will be divided in ways she isn’t anticipating. The
crushing desire to be in two places at once doesn’t end with
breastfeeding and frequent visits to the pediatrician.  Slaughter writes about how, once upon a time, she smiled a
“faintly superior smile” when another woman told her she would
be taking some time off. Slaughter had been part of the chorus
“making millions of women feel that they are to blame if they
cannot manage to rise up the ladder as fast as men and also have
a family and an active home life.” Then she got a job outside
academia, working long hours on someone else’s schedule. She
quit.  The howls were as loud at this admission as the cheers were
long for Mayer. But Slaughter is the one who has the workplace
right. It’s a difficult place for working parents of both sexes,
although we wouldn’t be having this debate if Yahoo’s new CEO
were an expectant father.  This difficulty is not due to a failure of ambition, brains
or effort, or of legislation (that said, better maternity leave,
flextime and child care would help). There’s no legislation that
will put more than 24 hours in a day or get you home for dinner
and bedtime. If you have a child with problems -- and who
doesn’t at some point? -- it’s even harder.  Marissa Mayer , meet Anne-Marie Slaughter. You have a lot to
talk about.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  panic over Greece ; Clive
Crook on central banks’  mission creep ;  Peter Orszag  on why the
 U.S. Postal Service should be privatized ; A. Gary Shilling on
how to  remake university financing ; David Gordon and Sean West
on why the  U.S. emerging-market moment  is over.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 