-- Williams College Women Grow Into $160,000 Arts Center
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/williams-college-women-grow-into-160-000-arts-center.html
Maxon Mills, a 1950s feed-processing
plant in Wassaic,  New York , was saved from demolition when
developers Tony Zunino and Richard Berry bought it in 2006.  “They thought it would make an amazing restaurant, brewery
or distillery,” said Zunino’s daughter, Bowie, 30.  She had other ideas for the distinctive seven-story wooden
building: a free arts festival.  In the summer of 2008, Bowie Zunino, her Williams College
friend Eve Biddle and New York artist Elan Bogarin spent $5,000
setting up Maxon Mills and nearby Luther Barn. They enlisted 40
artists and 15 musicians and called it  Wassaic Project .  “We basically threw a big party,” said Zunino, who lives
in Wassaic, a hamlet about 85 miles north of  Manhattan . “It was
an art-project experiment and it grew into the commitment to the
artists and the community.”  The three have turned their initial “party” into a
thriving arts center and summer festival with an annual
operating budget of $160,000. They had a little experience
working for nonprofits and they tapped some of the many
prominent artists and collectors in the area; Agnes Gund,
president emerita of the Museum of  Modern Art , served on their
benefit committee.  “In five years we have just exploded in terms of growth,”
said Biddle, 30.  De la Rentas  Alanna Heiss, the founder of P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center
(now MoMA PS1) in  Long Island City , was a guest speaker at
Wassaic Project’s annual benefit party last month. Anne Bass,
ex-wife of Sid Bass, lives in the area, as do collectors Raymond
Learsy and Melva Bucksbaum and Oscar and Annette de la Renta.
Nearby artists include  Jasper Johns , Carroll Dunham and Laurie
Simmons.  Annual events showcase art, music and dance; the grounds
have expanded to a third outside stage. Art exhibitions began in
2008 and artist residencies were added in 2009.  Festival attendance reached 3,000 last year. Biddle expects
as many as 4,000 at the Aug. 3-5 event, which includes 25 bands,
seven dance companies, 120 artists and 10 filmmakers.  Wassaic Project hosts about 10 artist residents each month.
They pay on a sliding scale, based on need, to as much as $900
for accommodations and studios; financial aid is available. The
emphasis is on emerging artists, many of whom don’t have gallery
representation and haven’t been exhibited before.  Train to Work  “It’s an incredibly important, interesting new model for
young artists in particular,” said Carl D’Alvia, a local artist
and a member of Wassaic Project’s board. “They can stay in the
country and experience a community in a different way. They are
fixing up a town and working with local people. They don’t need
cars. They can take a train and walk down to their studios and
do some work.”  Brooklyn-based artist Louie Hinnen built a life-size
replica of his flooded bathroom during his residency in June.
The installation stars a toilet overflowing with dirty water and
a complicated water circulation system.  The piece is now part of Wassaic Project’s summer show
“Return to Rattlesnake Mountain,” featuring painting, video,
photography and sculpture by 100 emerging artists.  Since the show’s opening on June 17, more than $20,000 of
art has been sold, with prices ranging from $60 to $10,000.
Pieces went to, among others, Learsy and Bucksbaum, who have a
private museum in the area, and local residents who had never
bought art before.  “We’ve sold more art from this exhibition than during the
entire last year,” Biddle said.  The next step is to increase the budget. While Wassaic
Project has 12 full-time staffers, its three directors, who now
include Jeff Barnett-Winsby, work free.  “Our dream budget is $500,000,” said Zunino. “We are
dreaming big.”  Muse highlights include  Mike Di Paola  on the environment
and Mark Beech on  books   To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 