-- Wipro Shares Decline as Profit Misses Analyst Estimates
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2012-07-24T04:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/wipro-first-quarter-net-income-increases-as-orders-lift-sales.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s third-largest
software exporter, fell to its lowest level in nine months in
Mumbai trading after posting first-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates.  The shares declined 3.5 percent to 343.90 rupees, the
lowest intraday price since October, as of 10:22 a.m., while the
benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.2 percent.  Net income  rose 19
percent to 15.8 billion rupees in the quarter ended June 30,
Bangalore-based Wipro said today. The median of 42 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was a 16 billion-rupee profit.  Wipro joined larger  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  in reporting earnings that
trailed analyst estimates amid slower spending on information
technology by large corporations. Global IT spending may
increase less this year than in 2011 because of the euro-zone
crisis, a slowdown in  China  and a weaker recovery by the  U.S.
economy ,  Stamford , Connecticut-based researcher Gartner Inc.
said this month.  “The results are below my expectations,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an analyst at Elara Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai,
who rates the stock reduce, the equivalent of sell. “The
guidance for next quarter is weak considering it’s seasonally
the strongest quarter, and pricing has gone down.”  Slow Spending  Infosys, India’s second-biggest software exporter, cut its
fiscal-year sales growth forecast on July 12, warning of
“challenges” in the global economic situation that are eroding
spending by large corporations. Infosys reported first-quarter
net income that lagged behind estimates for the first time in
four quarters.  By contrast,  Tata Consultancy  Services Ltd., the nation’s
largest software exporter, said it would grow at a faster rate
than the industry, pointing to a “pretty healthy” pipeline of
outsourcing deals.  Global spending on information technology may expand 3
percent this year to $3.6 trillion, compared with a 7.9 percent
pace last year, Gartner said in a July 9 report.  First-quarter net sales rose 24 percent to 106.2 billion
rupees, Wipro said today. That compared with the 105.9 billion-
rupee median of 50 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wipro has declined 14 percent in Mumbai trading this year,
compared with a 9.4 percent gain in the Sensex and a 4.7 percent
gain by Tata Consultancy.  Revenue at the company’s  information-technology  services
business may range from $1.52 billion to $1.55 billion in the
current quarter, Wipro said in a statement today. Sales at the
unit in the three months ended June were $1.54 billion, it said.  Wipro, which provides services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to companies including  BP Plc (BP/) , William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc. and  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI) , added 37 new clients to
end the quarter with a total of 919 customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  