-- YPF Said to Plan Takeover of Bankrupt Metrogas From BG Group
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-07-24T20:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-24/ypf-said-to-plan-bailout-of-bankrupt-gas-venture-with-bg-group.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , the nationalized Argentine
oil producer, is replacing two board members at its  Metrogas SA (METR) 
joint venture with  BG Group Plc (BG/)  as it prepares to take over the
bankrupt natural-gas distributor, an executive with knowledge of
the plan said.  The replacement of the board members was approved in a
shareholders meeting today, the person said, declining to be
named because the plan isn’t public. The new board members will
help prepare the company for a takeover as early as mid-August,
the person said. Anses, the state-owned pension system, is
replacing one board member, he said.  Argentina President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is
tightening control over the South American country’s energy
industry after price caps discouraged investments and squeezed
profit margins in past years. In April, the government seized a
51 percent stake in YPF from Spain’s  Repsol SA. (REP)   BG, of the U.K., has sought damage payments from the
Argentine government since 2007 because of losses caused by the
price caps. On Jan. 21, a federal judge in Washington upheld
damage claims of $185 million. BG shut its Buenos Aires office
in 2009.  BG controls Metrogas through a 55 percent stake in parent
holding company GASA, which defaulted on $70 million of debt in
2002. YPF owns 45 percent of GASA. Metrogas, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2010, has total outstanding debt of
1.13 billion pesos ($250 million), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Debt Restructuring  Neil Burrows , a London-based spokesman for BG, and
Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman in Buenos Aires, declined
to comment on the takeover plans. Di Lazzaro confirmed the
replacement of the board members.  Investors holding about 90 percent of Metrogas’s debt
unanimously approved the terms of a restructuring plan last
month. The accord includes swapping bonds for  new debt  maturing
in 2018.  Metrogas posted a loss of 18 million pesos in the first
quarter.  State-owned Banco de la Nacion Argentina will lend Metrogas
30 million pesos as part of the takeover plan, the executive
said.  The new board directors replaced three lawyers who were
representing YPF and Anses, a sign that Metrogas no longer is a
legal concern for YPF, the executive said.  Cristian Girard, who had been mentored by Economy Minister
and YPF board member Axel Kicillof, will represent Anses, the
executive said. Gustavo Di Lucio, a YPF long-time executive, and
Pablo Vera Pinto, a former McKinsey associate who recently
joined YPF, will represent YPF on the board, spokesman Di
Lazzaro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  