-- 
Abhisit Takes Aim at Thaksin’s Turf as Thai Election Nears

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-09T10:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/abhisit-takes-aim-at-thaksin-s-turf-as-brutal-thai-vote-nears.html
Khayan Vipromchai weathered a barrage
of eggs, bottles and pig’s blood from backers of former Thai
leader Thaksin Shinawatra in 2009 to win for the Democrat party
in northern Lamphun province for the first time in eight years.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  will seek to extend those
gains in Thaksin’s northern stronghold when Thais head to the
polls on July 3 as he pushes for the Democrat party’s first
nationwide victory in two decades. For Khayan, it won’t be easy
to repeat his by-election success.  “This election will be a brutal fight,” he said on May 7
while campaigning at a funeral in Lamphun, which neighbors
Thaksin’s home province of Chiang Mai. “I’m afraid I’ll be
targeted again.”  Violence involving Thaksin supporters and opponents in a
country known for its beaches and Buddhist temples reflect
divisions rooted in class and ethnicity, and the role rural
voters play in determining the outcome of elections. Thaksin and
his allies have won the past four elections on strong support in
northern areas, only to see legal challenges and a military coup
overturn the last three results.  Northerners “see the Democrats as a middle-class based
party that’s really representing the interests of Bangkok,”
said Charles Keyes, a professor at the  University of Washington 
who has researched rural Thailand since the 1960s. The 2006 coup
against Thaksin brought about a “real anger” in the
hinterlands, he said.  Stocks, Foreign Investment  Further upheaval amid rising prices risks undermining
economic growth that reached a 15-year high of 7.8 percent in
2010 and stocks that are among  Asia ’s best performers in the
past 12 months. The benchmark SET Index, which has gained 38
percent in the past year, rose 2.1 percent today, the biggest
increase in 11 months.  Even after the stock surge, the SET Index’s average price-
to-earnings ratio remains the third lowest in Asia after
 Pakistan  and  South Korea , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, one sign that  Thailand ’s political-instability risks
may already be weighing on investor sentiment.  The country saw foreign direct investment in 2010 fall 29
percent to $3.5 billion, compared with a 28 percent gain to $6.2
billion in  Indonesia . Auto manufacturers such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Nissan Motor Co. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. continued to invest
in industrial parks located far from protests in Bangkok to take
advantage of tax incentives.  ‘Return to Uncertainty’  A victory by pro-Thaksin forces “would be a return to
uncertainty we have been experiencing over the past five
years,” said Alan Richardson, a Singapore-based  fund manager 
from Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29
billion. “The institutions right now are trying to undo the
influence of Thaksin. To have him return is something that would
not be tolerated.”  Media companies and consumer-related stocks not dependent
on the election outcome may do well, Richardson said. Content
provider RS Plc and  BEC World Pcl (BEC) , the biggest publicly traded
television network operator, are among media stocks that have
led gains on the SET over the past month.  About 52 percent of Thailand’s 67 million people live in
the north and northeast, which means these regions will
determine who holds more than half of the 500 parliamentary
seats in the coming election. The areas are the poorest in
Thailand, with an average income about a third of that in
Bangkok, according to  data  from the National Statistical Office.  Populist Policies  Abhisit’s Democrat party has mimicked Thaksin’s populism in
offering free electricity and crop price guarantees to improve
its standing in the north and northeast, where it won 20 of 208
constituency seats in the 2007 election. Abhisit became prime
minister in a parliament vote a year later after a court
disbanded the ruling pro-Thaksin party for election fraud.  The move came amid demonstrations by yellow-shirted
protesters who blockaded parliament and shut down Bangkok’s
airports demanding the pro-Thaksin government step down. That
spawned a group of red-shirted Thaksin supporters who cordoned
off streets in Bangkok to push for an election. Thailand has
been relatively peaceful since the army broke up those protests
a year ago following violence that killed about 90 people.  Formerly known as Siam, Thailand in the 1800s annexed the
Lanna kingdom in the north and took control of the northeast.
The regions were home to a Communist insurgency that faded in
the 1980s after peace talks and an amnesty.  In 2008, ex-Premier Somchai Wongsawat, Thaksin’s brother-
in-law, based himself in  Chiang Mai  during the airport protests
for fear of a coup in Bangkok. Since taking power, Abhisit has
used helicopters to avoid protesters during a handful of short
trips to the north.  King Bhumibol  The government has accused Thaksin and the Red Shirts of
trying to undermine  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83, who took the
throne as an 18-year-old in 1946 and has his picture hung in the
majority of Thai homes out of reverence. During his reign,
Thailand has seen nine coups and more than 20 prime ministers.  King Bhumibol, the head of state, endorsed a royal decree
to dissolve Parliament and hold an election on July 3,
government spokesman  Panitan Wattanayagorn  said today.  In 2009, 164 cases of insulting the royal family went
before the lower courts, up from 33 in 2005, according to
statistics compiled by David Streckfuss, an academic at Khon
Kaen University in northeast Thailand.  The law, which carries a 15-year jail sentence, “appears
more and more to be merely a repressive tool that’s trying to
block fundamental changes that should’ve happened in Thailand a
long time ago,” he said by phone.  Constitutional Changes  Only two of 17 constitutions since absolute monarchy ended
in 1932 have mandated parliaments that are entirely elected.
Abhisit’s government changed the constitution earlier this year
to boost the number of party-list lawmakers to 125 and reduce
the number of constituency MPs to 375. That includes the removal
of 12 seats in northern provinces where the Democrats failed to
win in 2007.  One of those is Lamphun, where the number of seats has been
reduced from three to two. Khayan is facing fellow lawmaker Sa-
nguan Pongmanee, Puea Thai’s candidate who has been elected four
times.  Sa-nguan said the Red Shirts have no plans to harass the
Democrats during this campaign, and fears for his safety because
his opponents follow him to speeches to see if they can charge
him with insulting the royal family.  “The main problem in Thailand is that the majority have
had their political rights abused by the elite,” the former
Communist commander said on May 7. “Now the military is afraid
of scenes like those in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya .”  Inflation Focus  Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile-
phone company, lives abroad since fleeing a 2008 jail sentence
for abuse of power. He has addressed his supporters via video
link-up.  His party’s billboards, which blame Abhisit for rising
consumer prices that climbed the most in 15 months in April,
reflect his centrality in the campaign: “Thaksin thinks, Puea
Thai does,” reads one.  Abhisit has pledged to increase the minimum wage by 25
percent and boost civil service pay further if elected. His
government has paid monthly cash stipends to the elderly and
given free education to woo poorer voters Thaksin won over a
decade ago with affordable health care and cheap loans.  “Northern people will always vote for our own people,”
said Somchai Thiwanna, 56, a teacher in Lamphun, as he bought
eggs in a local market. “If the elite stages another coup,
there will be an uprising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  