-- 
U.S. Seeks Access to Osama Bin Laden’s Wives, Questions Pakistani Role

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/lack-of-access-to-bin-laden-s-widows-is-raising-more-questions-u-s-says.html
Pakistan  hasn’t given the U.S. access
to three of Osama bin Laden’s widows or other information
collected following last week’s operation in Pakistan, creating
more questions about the country’s role in hiding the late al-
Qaeda leader.  National Security Adviser Tom Donilon said the U.S. has
requested -- and not yet received -- access to three of bin
Laden’s wives and additional materials recovered by the
Pakistanis after the raid in which bin Laden was killed in a
compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The role, if any, of Pakistani
government officials harboring bin Laden also remains a
question, President  Barack Obama  said.  “We think that there had to be some sort of support
network for bin Laden inside of Pakistan,” Obama said in an
interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes” program. “But we don’t know
who or what that support network was. We don’t know whether
there might have been some people inside of government, people
outside of government, and that’s something that we have to
investigate and, more importantly, the Pakistani government has
to investigate.”  The U.S. “would expect to have access to the things we
need,” and “we’ll certainly press on this very hard,” Donilon
said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Pakistan’s Role  The lack of access to the wives and information seized by
Pakistani officials adds fuel to questions from U.S. officials
and lawmakers over Pakistan’s role in the sheltering of bin
Laden. In the wake of bin Laden’s killing in a town 35 miles (56
kilometers) from Pakistan’s capital, U.S. lawmakers have urged
the Obama administration to evaluate the nation’s relationship
with the country.  Senator  John Kerry , the chairman of the  Senate Foreign
Relations Committee , echoed concern voiced by lawmakers both
political parties last week that Pakistan had knowingly harbored
bin Laden. Democrat Kerry, on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program,
said it was “very, very hard to believe that at some level
there wasn’t somebody or some group in Pakistan who wasn’t aware
of this.”  Pakistani Ambassador  Husain Haqqani  said his country is
investigating how bin Laden was hidden.  “Heads will roll” after the country finishes its
investigation, Haqqani said on ABC’s “This Week.” The envoy to
the U.S. said his nation intends to “put to rest any
misgivings” about its role in harboring the al-Qaeda leader.  Needs Investigation  Donilon said he had “not seen any evidence to date” that
the country’s military, intelligence or political leadership had
knowledge of where bin Laden was hiding. Still, he said, the
extent of the knowledge in the country’s ranks “needs to be
investigated.”  The stakes are high for both countries. The U.S. relies on
Pakistan as an ally in its fight against terrorist
organizations, as well as the war in  Afghanistan . Nuclear-armed
Pakistan relies on U.S. financial and military support.  “Pakistan is a critical factor in the war against
terror,” Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican
on the Foreign Relations Committee, said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” program. “We are critical to them likewise.”  Praise for the Obama administration’s decision to send U.S.
commandos into Pakistan to hunt down bin Laden has been
bipartisan.  Cheney’s Praise  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney , a Republican critic of
Obama’s foreign policy, said he gives the president “high
marks” for ordering the operation that killed bin Laden.  “There’s no question that was his responsibility and I
think he handled it well,” Cheney said in an interview on the
“Fox News Sunday” program. “I give him high marks for making
that decision.”  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld , also a
Republican, told CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that Obama’s
approval of the raid was “the right decision.” He said the
coordination between intelligence officials and the special
operations forces was “absolutely perfection.”  When U.S. Navy SEALs raided the compound and killed bin
Laden, they capped a decade-long pursuit of the al-Qaeda leader.
Obama in a May 6 speech called the raid “one of the greatest
intelligence and military operations in our nation’s history.”  The U.S. lost track of bin Laden during an offensive in
neighboring Afghanistan, where the militant Islamic Taliban
harbored bin Laden at the time of the terror attacks on  New York 
and the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.  Strategic Defeat  “Our efforts to pursue strategic defeat of al-Qaeda --
which is our national goal -- really was given a significant
boost on Sunday in the operation against  Osama bin Laden ,”
Donilon said on CNN.  Donilon said initial examination of the material recovered
from the raid showed bin Laden had continued to have “an
operational and strategic role” in al-Qaeda.  “Removing a leader of the significance of this man is
extraordinary,” Rudy Giuliani, who was the mayor of  New York
City  at the time of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “This is like removing a
Hitler or a Stalin in the middle of those conflicts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  