-- 
Ahmadinejad Office Rejects Iran Reports of Khamenei Ultimatum

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-08T11:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/ahmadinejad-office-rejects-iran-reports-of-khamenei-ultimatum.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s office rejected media reports that Supreme Leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei demanded he openly back the intelligence
minister or step down.  Newspapers, including Tehran-based  Shargh , have reported
there is a widening rift between Iranian leaders, reflected by
Ahmadinejad’s dispute with his minister, Heidar Moslehi. The
Tehran-based Aftab newspaper on May 5 said Khamenei issued an
ultimatum to Ahmadinejad to support the minister, citing
Parliamentary member Morteza Agha-Tehrani.  “This news is wrong and it’s hereby rejected,” the
president’s office said in a  statement  published late yesterday
on its website. “We request all media to avoid publishing
unofficial news about the president.”  Khamenei -- the country’s highest authority -- last month
reinstated Moslehi, whose resignation had earlier been accepted
by the president. Ahmadinejad stayed away from official meetings
for a week following the reinstatement, though he denied there
were conflicts when he returned to work on May 2. He didn’t
elaborate on his absence and has yet to back the reinstatement.  In a sermon in Tehran yesterday, senior cleric Kazem
Sedighi urged the president to submit to the will of Khamenei,
the state-run  Fars  news agency reported.  “If the supreme leader oversees the work of the president
it is because he knows what is best for the nation and the
government and as a guardian he controls the situation so that
no one will deviate,” Sedighi told a gathering in Tehran.  “Mr. President, you said that you would bring the enemies
to their knees through your obedience to the supreme leader. But
words are not enough for us, we are waiting for action,”
Sedighi said. “The people voted for you because of your
obedience to the leader and you must show this in practice.”  Ahmadinejad was re-elected in June 2009 amid fraud
allegations, which sparked days of protests. Islamic leaders
responded by authorizing the use of force, arresting thousands,
while Khamenei backed Ahmadinejad saying his victory was a
“celebration” for the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  