-- 
Manchester United Will Merit ‘Incredible’ 19th League Title, Ferguson Says

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-05-09T00:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/manchester-utd-beats-chelsea-2-1-to-close-on-premier-league-title.html
Alex Ferguson  said Manchester United
deserves a record 19th English league title after a 2-1 win
against Chelsea moved his team to the cusp of the championship.  Javier Hernandez  and  Nemanja Vidic  got goals at Old
Trafford yesterday to give United a six-point lead over second-
place Chelsea with two games remaining. Avoiding defeat in
either of those matches would guarantee a 12th title since the
Premier League was formed 19 years ago.  “We just need one point now and, knowing the players,
they’ll get their point,” United manager Ferguson told his
team’s website. “To win the 19th title would be fantastic. The
minute we won for the first time in 1992, the door opened for
us. It’s an incredible achievement.”  Third-place Arsenal lost 3-1 at Stoke yesterday, ending its
title bid. At the other end of the standings,  Wolverhampton
Wanderers  beat West Bromwich Albion 3-1 to climb out of the
relegation positions.  United led after only 36 seconds, Mexico striker Hernandez
getting the 13th league goal of his debut season in  England .
Park Ji-Sung slid through a pass to Hernandez, who ran onto the
ball before striking a low shot past goalkeeper  Petr Cech .  The home team dominated the early stages and Cech had to
make a diving save to keep out a 30-yard shot from  Wayne Rooney 
after eight minutes.  Rooney hit another long-range effort just wide six minutes
later and Park also tested Cech. Vidic then doubled United’s
lead in the 23rd minute, heading in Ryan Giggs’s cross from
close range.  Chelsea Chances  Chelsea had two opportunities soon after -- Edwin van der Sar pushing away a header from Salomon Kalou and beating away a
powerful drive by Didier Drogba.  The Blues pulled a goal back on 68 minutes through England
midfielder  Frank Lampard . Branislav Ivanovic headed down
Ramires’s pass for Lampard to score with a volley.  United almost replied moments later on a breakaway, though
Alex made a sliding clearance in front of goal to deny Rooney.  Hernandez should have scored in the 87th minute as he
headed over from six yards out.  At the other end,  Fernando Torres  dragged a shot wide as
United held on for its fourth win in five games against Chelsea
this season. A win for the Blues yesterday would have put the
defending champions top of the standings on goal difference.  Ferguson’s team can now secure the title with a draw or win
in their next game, at Blackburn on May 14. United then hosts
Blackpool in its final match. A 19th English league soccer
championship would lift United one ahead of the record of 18 it
shares with archrival Liverpool.  ‘Nearly There’  “We’ll try to get it done as soon as possible,” said the
37-year-old Giggs, who made his debut in 1991 when United had
seven titles to Liverpool’s 18. “It’s a great achievement by
the club and by the manager to haul back our biggest rivals over
the ’70s, ’80s and ’90s. We’re nearly there and if we do it, it
will be special.”  Arsenal’s slim chances of finishing atop the standings were
earlier ended by a defeat at F.A. Cup finalist Stoke.  Kenwyne Jones , Jermaine Pennant and Jonathan Walters got
Stoke’s goals at the Britannia Stadium to lift their team four
spots to eighth.  Robin van Persie  replied for Arsenal with his
20th goal of the season.  “It was a disappointing performance,” Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  told reporters. “The competitive level for Stoke
was higher than ours.”  At Molineux, Steven Fletcher got two goals, with Adlene
Guedioura also scoring to lift Wolves up two spots to 17th with
37 points, one ahead of Blackpool and Wigan. West Ham is in last
place with 33 points.  Blackburn and Birmingham, who both have 39 points, are also
not yet assured of retaining Premier League status. The bottom
three teams are relegated at the end of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  