-- 
Animal Kingdom Wins Derby After Series of Missteps for Jockey, Trainer

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/animal-kingdom-20-1-shot-gives-jockey-trainer-first-kentucky-derby-wins.html
Animal Kingdom gave jockey John Velazquez and trainer Graham Motion their first  Kentucky Derby 
wins amid a series of missteps.  Velazquez was a last-minute substitute aboard the 3-year-
old colt in the 137th running of the second leg of thoroughbred
racing’s Triple Crown. Jockey Robby Albarado lost the ride when
he sustained a broken nose after he was bucked off during a post
parade and was kicked in the face.  Velazquez was searching for a mount for the third straight
year after coming to Churchill Downs prepared to ride one of the
favorites. His original ride this year was Uncle Mo, withdrawn
the day before the Derby because of virus. Quality Road in 2009
and Eskendereya in 2010 were pulled because of injuries.  “For once, I’m on the good end of it,” said Velazquez,
who secured his first win in 13 rides. “All of a sudden I pick
up this one and he wins the Derby, so it was meant to be.”  Barry Irwin, the spokesman for Animal Kingdom’s ownership
group, said he was thinking of Team Valor International’s 20
partners when he decided to change jockeys.  “Robby has won a lot of races for us,” he said. “We got
a large investment and I had to do what I thought was in the
best interest of the partnership.”  Irwin also had changed trainers, bringing in Motion.  “I was tired of other trainers lying to me,” Irwin said.
“I just wanted someone to tell me the truth.”  Front-Runners  Animal Kingdom, making his debut on a dirt track, emerged
from 12th place and surged past the front-runners in the 19-
horse field at the Louisville, Kentucky, track.  The colt covered the 1 ¼-mile track in 2 minutes, 2.04
seconds and crossed the finish line 2 ¾ lengths ahead of Nehro.
Mucho Macho Man was third.  Velazquez may have to decide whether he will ride Animal
Kingdom or Uncle Mo in the 136th  Preakness Stakes  on May 21 at
Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore.  “I think I’m going to cross that bridge when we get
there,” he said.  Motion, who saw his chances of having a Derby winner this
year fade when Toby’s Corner was scratched with an injury,
called his first victory in three tries “extraordinary.”  “This horse was so powerful today,” he said. “I didn’t
know if he could handle the switch over to dirt.”  Animal Kingdom, leaving the starting gate at 20-1 odds,
returned $43.80, $19.60 and $13 on a $2 bet. Nehro paid $8.80
and $6.40 and Mucho Macho Man returned $7.  Dialed In, the favorite trained by Nick Zito, finished
eighth, while Stay Thirsty, the stablemate of Uncle Mo owned by
New York businessman Mike Repole and trained by  Todd Pletcher ,
came in 12th.  A record crowd of 164,858 watched the races at Churchill
Downs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  