-- 
Manny Pacquiao Wins Unanimous Decision Over Shane Mosley, Keeps WBO Title

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-08T05:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/manny-pacquiao-wins-unanimous-decision-over-shane-mosley-keeps-wbo-title.html
Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao won a
unanimous decision over U.S. fighter Shane Mosley in a 12-round
bout to retain the World Boxing Association welterweight title.  Pacquiao, 32, returning to the MGM Grand Garden ring in  Las
Vegas  where he made his U.S. debut 10 years ago, won his 14th
straight fight to improve his record to 53-3-2 with 38 knockouts.
Mosley scored a knockdown against the champion in the 10th round.  Mosley, 39, who was knocked down in the third round with a
right-left combination, fell to 46-7-1 with 39 knockouts. It was
only the third knockdown in Mosley’s 18-year boxing career.  “You had good power and speed,” Mosley told Pacquiao
after yesterday’s fight ended. “I’m proud of you.”  Pacquiao, introduced as the 8-1 favorite, connected on 182
of 552 total punches, Mosley delivered on about half as many.
The winner earned about $20 million, while his opponent was
guaranteed $5 million plus a portion of the pay-per-view fees,
the  Associated Press  reported.  “I thought I did a pretty good job,” Mosley said. “I
wouldn’t blame it on age. Manny is an exceptional fighter. He’s
a warrior.”  Mosley’s corner kept urging the boxer to take more risks
with his fighting style.  “When you take more risks, you are more susceptible to
getting knocked out,” Mosley said. “I fought the best and came
up short.”  Pacquiao kept complaining that his legs were tightening up
during the match, preventing him from moving around.  “In the middle rounds when I tried to move, my legs got
tight,” he said. “I have to work on my legs. I’m getting tight
and I can’t move.”  Pacquiao declined to name a possible next opponent, saying
he had to return to the  Philippines  where he was elected to
congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  