-- 
Manufacturing Booms as Deere Exemplifies Productivity Surge

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-09T15:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/manufacturing-booms-as-deere-exemplifies-surge-in-productivity-across-u-s-.html
After a 40 percent drop in sales from
October 2008 to February 2009, Materials Processing Inc. laid
off workers, changed the way it sets prices and took fewer risks
in the volatile  commodities markets .  The efforts returned the Logansport, Indiana-based metals-
processing company to profitability starting in March 2009, and
sales are back to pre-crisis levels, said Chief Executive
Officer Clay Barnes.  “We aggressively restructured and are going to be around
for our customers for a very long time,” he said.  Once-ailing manufacturers are enjoying a robust rebound as
cost-saving moves from job cuts to a greater reliance on
technology help drive stronger-than-forecast growth. The shift
has helped set the stage for a potential “manufacturing
renaissance,” says  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management. He predicts the
industry will set the pace for U.S. expansion and the American
stock market during this decade, as technology did in the 1990s.  “Manufacturing is leading the whole economy,” said
Paulsen, whose firm oversees about $340 billion. U.S.
manufacturers “had to find religion. They’ve really cleaned up
their balance sheets. What is left is the cream of the crop.”  Investors’ confidence in the industry is evident in the
 Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLI) , an exchange-traded fund made
up mostly of manufacturers including Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  in Chicago. The fund has climbed
37 percent since Dec. 31, 2009, compared with a 20 percent rise
in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Global Strength’  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) ,  Deere & Co. (DE) ,  Kennametal Inc. (KMT)  and
 Timken Co. (TKR)  are among businesses that “have emerged quite
strongly and are able to benefit not only from the domestic
recovery, but the global strength of markets,” said  Eli Lustgarten , a senior research analyst at independent investment-
research firm Longbow Securities in Independence, Ohio. While he
recommends all four companies, Lustgarten said neither he nor
Longbow owns their shares.  Timken, the Canton, Ohio-based maker of roller bearings and
steels used in tools, cars and farm equipment, hired back all
3,500 manufacturing workers it had laid off in the recession and
is creating 200 new jobs at three plants in its hometown, said
spokeswoman Lorrie Paul Crum. It’s also added new product lines
in areas such as  wind energy , she said.  “The company is now on pace to achieve record earnings
this year, and sales are growing substantially around the
world,” Crum said.  Falling Dollar  The rebound in manufacturing -- buoyed by a falling dollar
-- “has been much faster and stronger than companies
anticipated, and they’ve been able to ramp up production without
having to dramatically increase hiring,” Lustgarten said.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against currencies of six major trade partners
including the euro and yen, has dropped 12 percent in the past
year as emerging-market wages rise. China’s private-sector pay
in urban areas increased 14.1 percent on average to 20,759 yuan
($3,197) in 2010, according to the country’s National Bureau of
Statistics.  “We’re seeing quite an uptick in our exports from the U.S.
because of the low dollar,” said Eric Spiegel, president and
chief executive officer of Siemens Corp., a subsidiary in
 Washington  of Munich-based  Siemens AG. (SIE)  Siemens exports $2
billion to $3 billion a year from the U.S.  Shrinking Trade Gap  The Obama administration is counting on manufacturers to
help double shipments to foreign markets by 2015 and reduce the
trade deficit. Rising exports have helped shrink the trade gap
24 percent to $45.8 billion as of February, the most recent
month available, from $59.9 billion in January 2008, a month
after the recession began.  U.S. companies “recognize there are tremendous
opportunities overseas” and have made “some pretty impressive
productivity gains,” said Chad Moutray, chief economist for the
National Association of Manufacturers, an industry trade group
in Washington. “You’ve started seeing a lot of pent-up
demand.”  Signs of a robust rebound are reflected in the Institute
for Supply Management’s factory index, which shows the industry
expanding for 21 consecutive months through April. Manufacturing
led “moderate” growth across much of the U.S. in February and
March, according to the  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book regional
survey released April 13, with nine of the 12 Fed banks citing
improvements in production, orders or revenue.  Rising Profits  Manufacturing productivity rose 5.9 percent last year, the
third fastest increase since Labor Department records began in
1987, behind gains of 7.3 percent in 2002 and 6.3 percent in
2003. Profits from current production jumped 72 percent in 2010,
the biggest annual increase since 2004, according to Commerce
Department data.  At the same time, companies have added just 250,000 jobs
since December 2009, when employment dropped to a post-World War
II low of 11.5 million; the peak was 18 million in the late
1980s, according to Moutray.  “We are still a ways away from getting back to where we
were,” said William Strauss, a senior economist and adviser at
the Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago , which represents most of
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. While production
eventually should return to pre-recession levels, “I would
question to a degree whether employment levels go back to where
they were in late 2007,” he said. Still, “if you believe the
industries hit hardest come back the strongest, that’s
definitely true for manufacturing.”  Plummeting Sales  Sales at privately held Materials Processing’s three units
plummeted during the recession because of falling orders and a
decline in commodity prices that saw copper go from $4 a pound
to $1.50 a pound within months, said Barnes, 45.  The company laid off half of its 600 employees and began
setting prices when a customer placed an order, in anticipation
of further declines in metal values, instead of when a product
shipped, Barnes said. It initiated a third step: using futures
contracts as a hedge against falling prices for copper and
brass, which it was buying on the open market.  “We took the approach that things would not get better at
the  trough of the downturn  and we needed to re-size our
organization to what we considered to be a new reality,” Barnes
said. “The recession forced everyone to get leaner.” The
company has since rehired 150 of the 300 people laid off, he
said.  Cheaper than  China   Foreign companies increasingly see the attraction of having
operations in America. Siemens is spending $170 million to
expand a gas-turbine factory in Charlotte,  North Carolina , that
will manufacture the turbines “at the end of the year cheaper
than we can make them in Shanghai,” Spiegel said. “It’s a good
time to be adding new production capability in the U.S.”  Subsidiaries of overseas businesses consider America’s
skilled workforce an important reason to invest in the country,
according to a survey last year by the  Organization for
International Investment .  “For some of the European companies, the U.S. has become a
cheaper source of labor,” said Nancy McLernon, president and
chief executive officer of the Washington-based organization.  The downsizing of manufacturing during the last decade also
has left what Spiegel called a “void in a lot of areas,”
including wind energy. Siemens opened a new 300,000-square-foot
wind-turbine facility in Hutchinson, Kansas, in December. Rising
transportation costs, on the back of surging  oil prices , have
enhanced the attractiveness of setting up shop in the U.S.
rather than importing such heavy items as blades for wind
plants, according to Spiegel.  “You’re going to see more people like us starting to put
manufacturing back in the U.S.,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  