-- 
‘Thor’ Records $65.7 Million to Open Busy Summer Film Season

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-09T22:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/marvel-s-thor-hammers-box-offices-with-66-million-to-open-summer-season.html
The superhero saga “Thor” opened the
summer movie season with $65.7 million in U.S. and Canadian
ticket sales, as Hollywood studios enter the busiest period of
the year aiming to erase a 13 percent year-to-date deficit.  “Jumping the Broom” and “Something Borrowed,” also new
releases this past weekend, came in third and fourth places,
respectively, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “Thor,” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel Entertainment and
distributor  Paramount Pictures , leads a parade of comic-book
figures, sci-fi blockbusters and action-adventure flicks lined
up to run from May 1 through the U.S. Labor Day holiday in
September. The box office entered the weekend about $500 million
behind last year at this time.  “It will be difficult to make it up,” Gitesh Pandya,
editor of Box Office Guru, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. He said “Thor,” which met his expectations, doesn’t
have a broad appeal since the title character isn’t well-known.  Hollywood is also coping with shrinking home-entertainment
revenue, according to first-quarter data from the Digital
Entertainment Group, a studio-backed trade association. Total
U.S. spending on filmed entertainment fell 9.8 percent to $4.19
billion from a year ago, the DEG said.  The drop was led by a 36 percent decline in physical
rentals from video stores and a 20 percent drop in purchases of
packaged goods, dominated by DVDs. Blu-ray sales advanced 10
percent, the DEG said.  Summer Lineup  Films on tap for the coming weeks include new versions of
“Pirates of the Caribbean,” “The Hangover,” “Kung Fu
Panda” and “X-Men.” They are going up against last year’s
record summer season, which generated $4.35 billion at the
domestic box office, according to Hollywood.com.  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend fell 9.1
percent to $155.2 million from a year earlier, leaving ticket
sales down 13 percent year-to-date.  In “Thor,” based on the Marvel comic books, the hammer-
wielding god of Norse mythology is banished to Earth to live
among humans. The movie’s weekend take wasn’t enough to lift
industry sales year over year because “Iron Man 2” generated
$128 million in sales over the weekend of May 7, 2010, according
to Box Office Mojo.  Actor Chris Hemsworth is Thor, who is sent to Earth after
his arrogance angers his father, Odin. Thor begins to accept the
responsibility that comes with his great power when evil forces
invade Earth.  Anthony Hopkins  plays Odin and  Natalie Portman  is
Thor’s human love interest. Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , is
distributing the movie for Marvel, which was acquired by
Burbank, California-based Disney last year.  ‘Fast Five’  In second place was “Fast Five,” the fifth installment in
the series about elite street racers, with $32.4 million in
receipts. The movie has generated $139.8 million for  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  in two weeks of release.  In the film, Vin Diesel returns as a renegade street racer
and professional thief on the run. He and friends confront a
Brazilian drug lord and pursuing federal agents to win their
freedom.  Paul Walker  and Dwayne Johnson co-star.  ‘Jumping the Broom’  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Jumping the Broom,” in which two African-
American families from different backgrounds meet for a wedding
in  Martha’s Vineyard , took in $15.2 million. The movie stars
Angela Bassett, Loretta Devine and Mike Epps.  “Something Borrowed,” distributed by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
Warner Bros., stars Ginnifer Goodwin as a young attorney who
falls in love with her best friend’s fiance. Kate Hudson plays
the friend. John Krasinski co-stars in the movie, which had
$13.9 million in ticket sales.  “Rio,” the animated film from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, had sales of $8.5 million, falling to fifth from
second. “Rio,” featuring the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse
Eisenberg , tells the story of a domesticated macaw who travels
to  Rio de Janeiro  from  Minnesota  to find a mate. The movie has
earned $115.2 million in four weeks.  “There’s nothing else for kids out there,” Box Office
Guru’s Pandya said.  The table below is based on actual ticket sales for May 6-
8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  