-- 
Australia to Make ‘Substantial’ Budget Cuts Amid Currency Rise, Swan Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-09T00:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/australia-s-budget-will-make-substantial-savings-swan-says.html
Australia will make "substantial"
spending cuts in the budget after a rising currency, the
nation’s costliest natural disasters and  Japan ’s earthquake
crimped revenue, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Swan, who delivers the budget to Parliament tomorrow, said
yesterday the deficit in the government’s finances will widen in
the fiscal year ending June 30 before increased mining revenue
and an improving economy help bring about a surplus in 2012-13.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration has said the
budget will reduce welfare payments to get people back into the
workforce and cut 1,000 jobs in the civilian defense industry in
the next three years. The government also aims to stop high-
income earners receiving a subsidy for having private health
insurance.  "This budget is tough and it will keep spending tight, give
incentives to companies to create more jobs,"  Craig James ,
senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney,
said in a phone interview yesterday. "There won’t be much in it
for people, although treasurers have a habit of pulling rabbits
out of hats."  The government, which steered Australia through the global
financial crisis, is trying to emphasize its economic management
skills as its popularity declines over plans to impose a tax on
mining companies’ profits and charge polluters in order to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  Restrain Spending  “We need to restrain spending and return to surplus in
2012-13 so we’re not adding to the pressures that come from the
mining boom,” Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic note.
“Our fundamentals are strong, with low unemployment, record
terms of trade and a huge pipeline of investment in the
resources industry.”  Flooding, a tropical cyclone, bush fires, the Australian
dollar’s rise against the U.S. currency and slower  consumer
spending  have caused revenue to fall by A$6.5 billion ($7
billion) since a November budget forecast. Japan’s March 11
earthquake will cut commodity exports by A$2 billion, Swan has
said.  The Australian currency’s 18 percent gain in the past year
has also hurt export revenue, Swan said yesterday. The dollar
touched $1.1012 on May 3, the highest level since it began
trading freely in 1983.  Skilled Migration  Swan, who has promised to create 500,000 jobs in the next
three years, which would lower the  unemployment rate  to 4.5
percent from its current 4.9 percent, said the government may
also seek to increase skilled migration to help fill positions.  “The most important thing to note is that net overseas
migration in this country has come down dramatically,” Swan,
56, told reporters in Canberra today. “We will put forward in
the budget, our estimates for the future.”  Credit-rating companies, a  Reserve Bank  of Australia board
member, economists and analysts have said the government could
delay the surplus without harming the economy.  Australia, the world’s biggest coal and iron ore exporter,
is entering its 20th year of economic growth as companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group expand to meet
surging Asian demand. The central bank increased its benchmark
lending rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to November
last year.  ‘Short-Term Softness’  “There is short-term softness in the economy caused by
natural disasters and international uncertainty but there’s
medium-term strength,” Swan said in his note. “What we must do
in the years ahead is not compound any of the inflationary and
capacity pressures.”  The budget will include assistance for low-income earners
faced with higher living costs, cut taxes and give vehicle
incentives to small businesses, Swan said. The reduction, which
will begin in July, would cut taxes by an amount equal to A$300
annually for those earning A$30,000 per year and benefit 6.5
million workers, he said.  Australia  will also provide A$308.8 million to help
pensioners, regional and low-income households switch to digital
television as analog transmission is turned off.  Interest Rates   The central bank on May 6 said it will likely need to raise
interest rates “at some point” as inflation accelerates. It
increased its forecast for consumer-price growth for 2011 to
3.25 percent from a previous estimate of 3 percent. The bank has
an annual inflation target of between 2 percent and 3 percent.  Swan in November forecast a A$41.5 billion deficit for this
fiscal year, followed by a A$12.3 billion shortfall next year
and a A$3.1 billion surplus in 2012-13.  The budget implications from the emissions-trading system
won’t be known until the project, which is scheduled to begin in
July 2012, is completed, Swan said. The plan also needs to be
approved by Parliament.  “Labor will never to deliver a surplus,” opposition
Liberal-National treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday. “On budget night, when
they claim to deliver a surplus in 2013, there will be a gaping
hole and that hole will be the carbon tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  