-- 
FTSE 100 Index Retreats; HSBC, Centrica, Thomas Cook Shares Lead Declines

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-09T16:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/barclays-glaxosmithkline-vedanta-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks fell after  Centrica Plc (CNA) 
said profit will grow more slowly than previously predicted,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said costs soared and  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded  Greece ’s credit rating.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, slid 0.5 percent. Centrica,
Britain’s largest energy supplier, slumped 3.8 percent.  Thomas
Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-biggest tour operator, sank 2.9
percent after saying its first-half loss widened because of the
cost of assisting holidaymakers affected by popular revolts in
north  Africa .  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 34.08, or 0.6 percent, to
5,942.69 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge last week
posted its biggest weekly drop since March after a slump in
commodities prices dragged energy and mining companies lower,
overshadowing a bigger-than-forecast increase in U.S. payrolls.
The measure today swung between gains of as much as 0.4 percent
and losses as much as 0.9 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
today slid 0.5 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index decreased 0.2
percent.  “Fears over sovereign debt resurfaced,” said Giles Watts,
the head of equities at City Index Ltd. in London. “There
remains enough near-term fragility in the market to convince
investors not to jump full flight back into riskier asset
classes. Today’s numbers from HSBC were slightly concerning
regarding the jump in costs the bank has endured.”  S&P lowered Greece’s sovereign-credit rating by two levels
to B and said further reductions are possible. Another cut would
make Greece the lowest-rated country in Europe.  HSBC, Centrica Slip  HSBC fell 0.5 percent to 648.2 pence. Pretax profit in
Europe declined 65 percent to $652 million, reduced by a
provision for payment-protection insurance and a “lower
contribution” from its investment banking unit, the bank said.
The lender said costs as a proportion of income rose to 61
percent from 50 percent. HSBC set aside $440 million to
compensate clients who were improperly sold British personal-
loan insurance.  Centrica slid 3.8 percent to 303.5 pence. Earnings will
grow at a “more modest” rate than predicted because of higher
taxes for its production from the  North Sea , the company said in
a statement today.  Thomas Cook   Thomas Cook slid 2.9 percent to 165.7 pence. The European
tour operator said revenue rose 4 percent in the first half of
the year to 3.43 billion pounds ($5.6 billion). Earnings were
affected by a seasonal operating loss of 166 million pounds in
the first six months of its fiscal year due to the effect of
disturbances in the Middle East and north Africa.  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  climbed 4.4 percent to 619 pence. The biggest
provider of satellite services to the maritime industry reported
a 15 percent increase in first-quarter revenue to $323.9
million.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  rallied 1.4 percent to 139 pence.
Europe’s third-largest electronics retailer may get bids from
leveraged-buyout firms including PAI Partners SAS, Sky News
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Rank Group Plc (RNK)  rose 1.9 percent to 151.6 pence after saying
that a 150 pence per share offer from Guoco Group Ltd.
“significantly undervalues” the operator of Mecca Bingo clubs
and Grosvenor casinos.  Misys Plc (MSY)  soared 8.4 percent to 343.5 pence as Credit
Suisse Group AG reinstated the shares with an “outperform”
recommendation.  “The stock’s current valuation is overly discounting the
risks associated with the integration of Sophis as well as a
turnaround in the company’s core banking software business,”
Frederick Grieb, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote
in a report today. In February, it closed a deal to buy Sophis
to expand its operations in treasury and capital markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  