-- 
U.K. Should Build More Nuclear, Less Offshore Wind Power

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-09T11:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/britain-should-rely-on-more-nuclear-power-less-offshore-wind-panel-says.html
The U.K. should build more nuclear
reactors than planned and slow down investment in offshore wind
power to meet targets for carbon emissions and renewable power,
the government’s climate advisory panel said.  Two more reactors than currently planned, totaling 3.2
gigawatts, will be needed by 2030, the Committee on Climate
Change said today in a  report  to the government. It noted the
disaster at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. plant in  Japan  may slow
nuclear developments in Britain and recommended delaying some
offshore wind parks, saying current targets are “aggressive.”  “Nuclear, for the foreseeable future, looks like it will
be the lowest cost low-carbon technology,” David Kennedy, chief
executive of the committee, said in  London . “It’s only as you
get to the end of the 2020s and the beginning of the 2030s that
the cost of renewables starts to converge.”  The government in the past has followed the committee’s
advice. Decisions lawmakers make on the power mix will affect
wind turbine makers such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA, which plan factories in the
U.K. German utilities  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG are working on both
nuclear plants and offshore wind farms.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and
Electricite de France SA are also planning new reactors.  Officials should lower targets for 13 gigawatts of wind
farms off Britain by 2020, the panel said.  EU Goals  The U.K. is striving to meet a European Union target of
deriving 15 percent of energy for power, heat and transport from
renewables in 2020. The government should aim to double that
proportion by 2030, the committee said. By then, 40 percent of
electricity, 35 percent of heating and 15 percent of
transportation fuels could come from renewables, it said.  At the same time, ministers should look for cheaper ways of
meeting the EU goal, according to the report. Kennedy said this
could involve switching from offshore to onshore wind, buying
renewable energy certificates from other European nations, and
purchasing concentrated solar power from a project being
developed in Tunisia by London-based Nur Energie Ltd.  The study is “clearly” a negative for the offshore wind
industry, Meg Brown, a renewables analyst in London with
Citigroup Inc., said today by telephone. “The climate change
committee have recognized the costs of offshore wind, and
ministers will probably be quite open to their advice.”  The U.K. currently has 1.3 gigawatts of offshore  wind
turbines  in operation, with another 2.2 gigawatts being built
and 1.8 gigawatts approved. Last year the country’s third round
of seabed licenses were awarded, paving the way for a further 32
gigawatts to be built in projects starting later this decade.  Turbine Rights  The biggest of the round 3 projects allows a group that
includes  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , RWE,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and
Statkraft SF erect up to 9 gigawatts of turbines, while an
alliance of  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power unit and Vattenfall AB
was given rights to 7.2 gigawatts of potential farms.  The U.K. currently aims to build 13 gigawatts of offshore
wind farms by 2020, according to its  renewable energy action
plan  submitted last year to the EU. That should be slowed, with
some of the construction moved to the 2020s because the
technology is expensive and would get stronger backing if its
growth was ensured through 2030, Kennedy said.  “We don’t envisage shaving off more than 3 gigawatts” by
2020, he said. “There’s a very aggressive schedule, and then
there’s nothing in the 2020s. A smoother profile going out to
2030 would make a lot of sense. We need to avoid stop-start
investment cycles.”  Energy Efficiency  Current U.K. plans would add about 50 pounds ($82) to U.K.
energy bills in 2020, according to the study. Once plans to
boost the energy efficiency of homes and appliances are factored
in, costs would instead decline by about 150 pounds, it said.
Switching 3 gigawatts of offshore wind to onshore wind would
knock an extra 5 pounds off, the committee said.  The government in the past has followed the committee’s
advice on greenhouse gas reductions, raising its commitment to
an 80 percent cut by 2050.  The committee said carbon emissions, which are blamed for
 climate change , can be nearly eliminated from electricity
production by 2030. By then, 40 percent of power could come from
renewables, 40 percent from nuclear power, 15 percent would come
from gas and coal plants fitted with  carbon capture  and storage
equipment, and the remainder from unabated gas plants, it said.  Current plans for nuclear power mean that in 2025, Britain
would have 18 gigawatts of new nuclear power stations, with one
existing 1.2-gigawatt plant still operating, according to the
committee, which recommended an additional two reactors be built
by 2030.  Fukushima Effect  “While the specific circumstances in Japan differ
significantly from those for new nuclear in the U.K., in
principle this could affect the potential for nuclear power to
contribute to decarbonization,” the committee said. “Full
reliance on nuclear would be inappropriate, given uncertainties
over costs, site availability, long-term fuel supply and waste
disposal, and public acceptability.”  The environmental groups Greenpeace and Friends of the
Earth both said nuclear power shouldn’t play a significant role
in the U.K.’s efforts to cut  carbon emissions .  “Nuclear power can’t be part of the answer,” Friends of
the Earth Director of Policy Craig Bennett said in an e-mailed
statement. “If their promises of cheap, low carbon energy were
true, they would have been delivered by now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  