-- 
Cheney Gives Obama ‘High Marks’ for Ordering Bin Laden Raid

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-08T15:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/cheney-gives-obama-high-marks-for-ordering-bin-laden-raid.html
Former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney , a critic of President Barack Obama’s foreign policy,
said he gives the president “high marks” for ordering the
operation that killed  Osama bin Laden .  “There’s no question that was his responsibility and I
think he handled it well,” Cheney said in an interview aired
today on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I give him high
marks for making that decision.”  U.S. Navy SEALs raided a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan,
on May 2 and killed bin Laden, capping a decade-long pursuit of
the al-Qaeda leader. Obama called the raid “one of the greatest
intelligence and military operations in our nation’s history.”  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  told CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program today that Obama’s choice to go
ahead with the raid was “the right decision.” He said the
coordination between intelligence officials and the special
operations forces was “absolutely perfection.”  At the same time, Rumsfeld said he would have preferred
White House officials speak less about the intelligence cache
the U.S. took from the al-Qaeda leader’s  Pakistan  compound.  “The people in the Pentagon worry about the lives of the
men and women who serve, and the more information that goes out
about intelligence, the greater the risks to our people and the
less likelihood we’re going to be able to capture or kill some
of the people who would result from the intelligence take
there,” Rumsfeld said.  “Not Clear” on Libya  While complimentary of Obama’s decision to order the raid
on bin Laden’s compound, Cheney remained critical of the
administration’s role in the conflict in Libya, the future of
the war in  Afghanistan  and stance on interrogation techniques.  “I’ve been confused by it,” Cheney said of U.S. role in
 Libya . “It’s not clear what the policy is.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led forces are in
the midst of an air campaign over Libya against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in support of rebels battling the country’s
leader.  “NATO only functions effectively when the  United States  is
involved to lead NATO,” Cheney said. “It looks as though what
the policy of the administration has been is to hope for
Qaddafi’s departure, but not be prepared to do enough to make it
happen.”  Cheney also said he had concerns that the administration
may use bin Laden’s death as a reason to pull out of the war in
Afghanistan.  War in Afghanistan  “I’m a bit concerned that we’re now going to see a
situation where because we’ve got bin Laden, there will be a
rush to get out of Afghanistan,” Cheney said. “I’m not sure
that’s wise at all.”  Cheney defended the Bush administration’s enhanced
interrogation programs, including waterboarding, saying that the
techniques had been effective in protecting the country while
President  George W. Bush  was in office and he was concerned that
those programs had been “taken off the table.”  “It’s not clear to me today if we still have an
interrogation program that we could put somebody through should
we capture a high-value detainee that had crucial information,”
Cheney said.  Rumsfeld also said that the interrogations techniques used
by the Central Intelligence Agency had worked and that ruling
them out “may be a mistake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  