-- 
Clegg Vows Louder Lib Dem Voice in Coalition After Voting Referendum Loss

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-05-08T14:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/clegg-vows-louder-lib-dem-voice-in-coalition-after-voting-referendum-loss.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
promised a “louder voice” for his Liberal Democrat party in
the coalition government after his party’s worst local election
results since it was formed in 1988.  Clegg said he’s ready to block a revamp of the  National
Health Service  unless there are “substantial, significant
changes” to the legislation and wants people to see how Liberal
Democrats are a brake on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives in the 1-year-old coalition.  “People want to hear a louder Liberal Democrat voice in
government,” Clegg said in an interview with  BBC  TV’s Andrew Marr Show. “We need to show people where we are a moderating
influence on the Conservatives. We need to stand up for our
values and say that loud and clear.”  Clegg said his party will force changes to the  Health and
Social Care Bill , which allows for the transfer of about 60
percent of the NHS budget from local boards to community doctors
and for the extension of a competitive market in health-care
provision. The party wants to slow the pace of NHS reform and
will emphasize its role in reducing tax for the low-paid,
additional funding for schools and improving pensions, he said.  “I’m not going to ask Liberal Democrat MPs and Liberal
Democrat peers to proceed with legislation on something as
precious and cherished as the NHS unless I personally am
satisfied that what these changes do is an evolutionary change
in the NHS, not a disruptive revolution,” Clegg said. “And
where we achieve Liberal Democrat policies in government, we’ve
got to tell people about it.”  Cable, Banks  Clegg said eliminating the bulk of the  budget deficit  and
“restoring prosperity and confidence to the British economy”
by the time of the next election in 2015 remains a “crucial
vocation” for the government. There is no plan to draw up a
“revamped” coalition agreement, he said.  Business Secretary and fellow Liberal Democrat  Vince Cable 
suggested another area in which the party may “promote Lib Dem
values and policies” is in increasing pressure on banks over
lending to business beyond the 190 billion pounds ($311 million
agreed to in February’s Project Merlin accord.  “We’ve got to follow through on the agreements we’ve
reached with the banks,” Cable said in an interview with Sky
News. “We may need to take further steps. If we’re going to get
the economy growing we’ve got to deal with this problem. That is
a real priority.”  Referendum Rejection  In local elections in  England , Clegg’s party lost 695
seats, while Cameron’s Conservatives gained 81. The main
opposition  Labour Party  added 800 seats. A  referendum  on the
voting system, which was a Liberal Democrat condition of last
year’s coalition agreement, saw voters reject the overhaul
proposed by Clegg by 68 percent to 32 percent.  The referendum campaign increased tensions within the
coalition, with Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
comparing the tactics of the ‘No’ camp, which was supported by
Cameron, to those of Nazi propaganda chief, Joseph Goebbels, and
threatening to sue over allegations of financial impropriety in
the ‘Yes’ campaign.  The BBC and other U.K. media reported the energy secretary
clashed with Conservative ministers, including Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , during a Cabinet meeting.  “Things are said and there’s a lot of heat in election
campaigns, but we’ve had the result and now we move on,”
Osborne told the BBC today. “This is a five-year parliament,
this is a five-year coalition with a five-year coalition
agreement. We’re absolutely committed to delivering on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  