-- 
Crude Oil Rebounds to $100 After Biggest Weekly Loss Since 2008

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-09T12:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/crude-oil-advances-in-new-york-after-biggest-weekly-slump-in-two-years.html
Oil rose in  New York , rebounding from
the biggest weekly decline since 2008, as signs that the global
economic recovery remained intact stoked speculation the slump
was exaggerated.  Futures climbed as much as 3.6 percent, snapping a five-day
losing streak, after a report today showed German exports surged
in March to the highest monthly value ever recorded and the U.S.
Labor Department said May 6 that payrolls expanded more than
forecast. The world economy isn’t weak enough to justify a
freefall in prices, Qatar Oil Minister Mohammed bin Saleh al-
Sada said yesterday.  “Energy prices are rebounding sharply and no one really
should be surprised given that West Texas Intermediate fell
nearly $19 from the start of last week through the close on
Friday and that Brent fell $21,”  Dennis Gartman , economist and
editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter, said today
in a note. “Weakness of that magnitude deserves bounces of $4
to $6 a barrel easily.”  Crude for June delivery increased as much as $3.51 to
$100.69 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $99.80 at 1:43 p.m. London
time. On May 6, the contract fell 2.6 percent to $97.18, the
lowest settlement since March 15.  The market is undergoing a “technical rebound” after last
week’s losses, said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst in London at
VTB Capital, a unit of  Russia ’s second-largest bank. “There are
still major supply issues” underpinning prices, he said.  Oil slumped 15 percent last week, the biggest drop since
December 2008. Prices are up 30 percent in the past year.  Brent Crude  Brent crude for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $4.06, or 3.7 percent,
to $113.19 a barrel.  “Brent has recovered a little and risen to $111 a barrel
as the new trading week kicks off,” Commerzbank AG analysts led
by  Eugen Weinberg  in  Frankfurt  said in a note. “Some market
players see the lower price level as a buying opportunity.”  Hedge funds  were caught with bullish bets near record highs
last week as oil in New York plunged.  Large speculators reduced net-long positions by 2.4 percent
to 293,823 futures and options in the seven days to May 3,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. That’s still within 5.7
percent of an all-time high in March.  German Exports  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, jumped 7.3 percent from February, when they gained 2.8
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.
Economists had forecast a 1.1 percent increase, according to the
median of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Exports were
worth 98.3 billion euros ($141.4 billion) in March, the most
since records began in 1950, the statistics office said.  The euro advanced against the dollar after the report was
released, increasing commodities’ appeal as an alternate
investment, said Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  Brent, the benchmark for Europe and  Africa , has rallied 19
percent this year as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and disrupted exports from
 Libya , a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its oil-price forecasts because
OPEC and other producers aren’t matching rising demand and
consumers will take time to react to higher prices.  Forecast Raised  The bank boosted its 2011 Brent crude forecast to $120 a
barrel from $110, and changed its estimate for West Texas
Intermediate crude to $109.50 from $99.  “While financial bushfires or perhaps a rapid resolution
to the Libyan civil war could radically alter market dynamics,
the balance of both risks and fundamentals still points to a
supply-constrained world,” JPMorgan analysts led by New York-
based  Lawrence Eagles  wrote in a report on May 6.  Supplies of crude and petroleum products in the U.S. may be
curtailed by high water levels on the  Mississippi River , the
largest waterway in the U.S. Operations could be threatened at
riverside refineries owned by Valero Energy Corp., Marathon Oil,
and Exxon Mobil.  “One of the supplies risk for the next two weeks will come
from the rising level of the Mississippi River,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of Switzerland-based researcher Petromatrix
GmbH, said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 Lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ; 