-- 
Mavericks Sweep Two-Time Champion Lakers From NBA Playoffs, Hawks Win

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-09T04:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/dallas-mavericks-sweep-two-time-nba-champion-lakers-from-nba-playoffs.html
The  Dallas Mavericks  swept the  Los
Angeles Lakers  in four games to end  Kobe Bryant ’s pursuit of a
third straight National Basketball Association championship and
probably finish  Phil Jackson ’s coaching career.  Jason Terry scored 32 points and matched an NBA playoff
record with nine 3-pointers yesterday as the Mavericks beat the
Lakers 122-86 in Game 4 of their second-round series. Dallas
made 20 3-pointers to tie a postseason record.  “We ran into a buzz saw,” said the 65-year-old Jackson, a
Hall of Famer who said he’s likely coached his last NBA game
after winning 11 championships.  The  Atlanta Hawks  tied their best-of-seven series against
the  Chicago Bulls  at two games apiece with a 100-88 victory last
night over the Eastern Conference’s top seed. The Hawks
outscored the Bulls 16-4 over the final 4:03 to snap an 84-84
tie at Philips Arena in Atlanta. Chicago hosts Game 5 tomorrow.  The Mavericks will face either the  Memphis  Grizzlies or
 Oklahoma City  Thunder for a spot in the NBA Finals after winning
their Western Conference series 4-0. The Lakers became the sixth
defending champion to get swept the next postseason and the
first since the 2007  Miami Heat .  “It’s great to get through this series,” Mavericks
forward  Dirk Nowitzki , who scored 17 points, said in a televised
interview. “This team is as deep and as good as any team I’ve
been on here, so we’ll try to go for it.”  Tonight’s Games  In tonight’s games, Memphis hosts Oklahoma City with a 2-1
advantage in their Western Conference series. The Miami Heat,
also leading 2-1, visit the  Boston Celtics  in Game 4 of their
Eastern Conference series.  At American Airlines Center in  Dallas , the third-seeded
Mavericks outscored the second-seeded Lakers 36-16 during the
second quarter to take a 63-39 halftime lead.  “It was like the roof fell in on us,” Jackson said.  Terry tied the NBA postseason record of nine 3-pointers
with 2:58 left in the third quarter and missed only one of his
10 attempts from beyond the arc. Teammate Peja Stojakovic hit
all six of his 3-point shots and finished with 21 points, while
Jose Juan Barea had 22.  With the Lakers trailing by 26 points, Lamar Odom was
thrown out of the game with 9:06 remaining after a flagrant foul
at midcourt on Nowitzki. Less than a minute later, Andrew Bynum
elbowed Barea in the chest as the Dallas guard drove for a
layup. Barea was knocked to the court and Bynum was immediately
ejected, pulling off his jersey as he walked from the court and
being jeered by the Dallas crowd.  Ugly Game  “To make the game ugly like that where players can get
hurt, it’s something you don’t want to see, ever,” said Bryant,
who led the Lakers with 17 points.  It was the first time a Jackson-coached team was swept in
21 postseasons.  “You’d like to have an opportunity to challenge, but we
didn’t,” said Jackson, who was fined $35,000 by the NBA
yesterday for being publicly critical of referees after the
Lakers’ Game 3 loss. After last night’s game, Jackson said he
still plans to retire.  “All my hopes and aspirations are that this is the final
game that I’ll coach,” he said. “It’s been a wonderful run.”  In Atlanta, the Hawks scored 10 straight points during the
closing minutes to pull away from  Derrick Rose  and the Bulls.
Josh Smith had 23 points, 16 rebounds and eight assists for the
fifth-seeded Hawks, who had lost their previous nine second-
round playoff games at home.  “We can compete with this team,” Smith said during a
televised interview. “No matter what anybody says about this
ballclub, I believe in it.”  Joe Johnson scored 24 points for Atlanta, while Al Horford
added 20. Rose led the Bulls with 34 points, though he was
limited to a 12 of 32 shooting performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  