-- 
Djiboutian President Pledges to Focus on Skills Development in Third Term

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-05-08T11:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/djibouti-leader-to-focus-on-skills-development-in-third-term-1-.html
Djiboutian President Ismail Guelleh
pledged to focus on developing workers’ skills during what he
said will be his final term, aiming to transform one of  Africa ’s
smallest countries into a Red Sea hub.  “We will opt for targeted training, tailored for the real
needs of our economy both nationally and regionally,” Guelleh
said in a speech today at his inauguration in the capital,
Djibouti. “Our aim is to eventually make Djibouti a regional
business platform, combining logistics, industry and finance.”  Djibouti, host to the only U.S. military base in Africa,
has a $982 million economy with fewer than a million people that
relies on services related to its strategic location on the Red
Sea, one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes, according to the
U.S. State Department. The nation’s port provides the only
access to the sea for neighboring  Ethiopia , Africa’s second-most
populous nation.  Djibouti’s economy has grown an average of 5 percent
annually over the past five years, the  International Monetary
Fund  says. The expansion has been spurred by projects including
a new container terminal, built by  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  and the
government, and Nakheel PJSC’s construction of a five-star hotel
that boosted tourism. Growth is expected to be 4.8 percent this
year and 5.7 percent in 2012, according to the IMF’s website.  Economic Strategy  Reorganization of Djibouti’s education system will be
combined with an economic strategy that will “develop new
unexploited areas such as small industries and the maritime
economy,” Guelleh said, without providing details.  Guelleh has led Djibouti since 1999. He succeeded his uncle
Hassan Gouled Aptidon, who was the country’s first president
after it gained independence from  France  in 1977. In March 2010,
Guelleh amended the constitution to allow him to extend his rule
by two more six-year terms.  In April, Guelleh won 81 percent of the vote in a
presidential election boycotted by opposition parties. Mohamed
Warsama Ragueh, the only other candidate, obtained 19 percent.
An international team of observers that included officials from
the  African Union  and the League of Arab States declared the
vote “ free and democratic .”  The 63-year-old leader said he was taking his oath of
office today for the “third and final time.”  Among dignitaries at his inauguration was Sudanese
President Umar al-Bashir, who has been indicted by the
 International Criminal Court  for  war crimes  in Darfur. Ethiopian
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed also attended the ceremony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Djibouti at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 