-- 
Dubai Financial Market’s First-Quarter Net Plunges 96% Amid Mideast Unrest

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-05-08T15:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/dubai-financial-market-s-first-quarter-net-plunges-96-amid-mideast-unrest.html
Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC, the only
Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public, had a 96
percent plunge in first-quarter profit as trading volumes
declined amid political unrest in the Middle East.  Net income for the quarter ended March 31 was 2.18 million
dirhams ($594,000), the exchange said in an e-mailed statement
today, without giving comparative numbers for the year-earlier
period. The bourse had a profit of 53.58 million dirhams in the
first quarter of 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  First-quarter trading volumes dropped to a daily average of
116 million from 235 million in the year-earlier period as
political unrest toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg data. Abdullah Al Turaifi, chief
executive officer of the Securities & Commodities Authority,
said in February the market regulator would support a merger
between the exchanges in Dubai and neighboring Abu Dhabi.  “Dubai Financial Market pursues an ambitious strategy to
diversify revenue streams and downscale reliance on trading
commissions as the main source of income,” Chairman Abdul Jalil Yousef Darwish said in the statement. “Since the beginning of
this year we have started the implementation of this strategy,
which will reflect positively on our revenue and profit and
maximize shareholders’ value.”  Shares of Dubai Financial Market fell 1.5 percent to 1.31
dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai today. The stock has lost
13 percent this year compared with a 2.4 percent decline in the
benchmark Dubai Financial Market General Index.  Signing Agreements  Revenue for the first quarter was 48.7 million dirhams,
comprising 33.6 million dirhams of operating income and 15.1
million dirhams in investment returns, the company said. The
value of shares traded was 10.9 billion dirhams during the
quarter, it said, without giving year-earlier figures.  Dubai Financial Market in that past few months signed
agreements to sell market data to 14 local, regional and
international data vendors and applied listing fees in April,
Chief Executive Officer Essa Kazim said in the statement.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, is home to the
Dubai Financial Market, Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange and Nasdaq
Dubai. Dubai Financial Market and Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange
are implementing systems to qualify for an upgrade to emerging
market status at index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Dubai’s benchmark has gained 18 percent since reaching an
almost seven year-low on March 3. The gauge fell 1 percent
today.  Time for Brokerages  The United Arab Emirates’ stock exchanges will give
brokerages until May 29 to switch to the so-called delivery-
versus-payment system, one of MSCI’s criteria for the country’s
upgrade. MSCI in June cited a dual account structure as one of
the reasons for frontier market status of the U.A.E. and kept
the country under review for reclassification. MSCI will
reassess the ranking next month, according to its website.  DvP is a procedure in which payment for a security must be
made on delivery. Usually, payment is made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security. Short sellers borrow and sell an
asset, hoping to profit by buying it back later for less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  