-- 
Dubai Shares Drop to Month Low After Oil Plunges; Egypt Retreats on Deaths

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-05-08T14:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/dubai-shares-retreat-to-three-week-low-after-oil-plunges.html
Dubai’s shares retreated to the lowest
in almost a month, leading a decline in Persian Gulf stocks,
after oil capped its biggest weekly slump since 2008. Egypt’s
gauge fell amid clashes in Cairo.  Arabtec Holding PJSC, the biggest publicly traded
construction company in the United Arab Emirates, lost 1.4
percent.  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU)  dropped the
most in a month. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 1 percent to
1,591.75, the lowest since April 12, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  tumbled 1.2 percent to 4,878.41, the
lowest since April 2009, on reports sectarian violence yesterday
killed ten people. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf stocks
gained less than 0.1 percent.  “There was a lot of volatility at the end of last week on
the back of the commodity sell-off and the latest issues with
 Greece ; this is a cloud over local markets,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment at Royal
Capital.  “There is a negative momentum on regional markets”
even as  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  posted “positive results,” he
said.  Crude oil slumped 15 percent last week to $97.18 a barrel
in  New York , the lowest level since March 15, following the
death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and as the dollar
gained. The euro fell the most in four months against the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled he may not raise  interest rates  in June and concern
grew that Greece’s debt crisis is worsening. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index dropped 0.9 percent last week.  Aldar Profit  Aldar,  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest real-estate developer by market
value, reported a profit after five quarterly losses, as it
delivered more completed homes to buyers. The shares were
unchanged at 1.55 dirhams. Arabtec retreated to 1.41 dirhams.
Emirates Integrated, the phone company known as Du, dropped 1.5
percent, the most since April 4, to 3.25 dirhams.  In  Egypt , 186 people were injured in yesterday’s clashes
outside two churches in Cairo, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported today, citing Hisham Shiha, a Health Ministry
official. The army was deployed in the capital city to stop the
violence sparked by reports of a romance between a Coptic
Christian and a Muslim, Al Jazeera television reported. Prime
Minister Essam Sharaf canceled a trip to Bahrain and the U.A.E.
because of the violence.  Sectarian Conflict  “The sectarian conflict over the weekend in Cairo is the
main cause behind the overly exaggerated panic today,” said
Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage Co.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.4 percent and Oman’s
 MSM30 Index (MSM30)  lost 0.8 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and
Kuwait’s gauge slipped 0.2 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.1
percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.7
percent. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  In Israel, the TA-25 Index increased 0.6 percent. The
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due January 2020 rose,
pushing the yield on the 5 percent note down 4 basis points to
5.22 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  