-- 
U.S. Will Urge China to Boost Interest Rates as Talks Start

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-09T14:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/geithner-will-urge-china-to-allow-higher-interest-rates-stronger-currency.html
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
will urge  China  to allow higher interest rates when he meets
with Chinese leaders this week, as the U.S. extends its push for
a stronger yuan.  Geithner will say China should relax controls on the
financial system and give foreign banks and insurers more
access, said David Loevinger, the Treasury Department’s senior
coordinator for China. Officials from both nations are meeting
in Washington today and tomorrow as part of the annual Strategic
and Economic Dialogue.  U.S. officials argue that a yuan kept artificially cheap to
help exporters also makes it harder for China to lift interest
rates and curb an inflation rate that hit a 32-month high in
March. China, led at the talks by Vice Premier Wang Qishan,
blames record U.S. budget deficits for contributing to lopsided
flows of trade and investment.  “It’s pretty clear that the current system is hurting them
in their inflation fight,” said Dan Dorrow, head of research at
Faros Trading LLC, a currency trading firm in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The reason for that is the improperly priced
exchange rate.”  The yuan was little changed at 6.4939 per dollar as of the
4:30 p.m. close in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.4892 on April 29,
the strongest level since 1993.  Domestic Demand  As the talks opened today, Geithner called on China to
shift its economy toward domestic demand and said the goals of
the two nations are “not in conflict.” Wang acknowledged that
there are some “clashes” in U.S.-China economic ties, while
also emphasizing the “shared aspirations” between the two
countries.  Senators Charles Schumer of  New York  and  Jeff Merkley  of
Oregon called May 6 for a “rebalancing” in the U.S.-China
economic relationship. The two lawmakers, who just returned from
a trip to China, said the Chinese need to open their financial
sector, address “abnormally low deposit and lending rates” and
allow broader market access to foreign firms.  Chinese production and U.S. consumption shouldn’t be such
dominating themes, the two Democrats said. “This situation is
not sustainable and harms nearly all involved,” they wrote in a
letter to Geithner.  China has raised  interest rates  four times since mid-
October and lenders’ reserve requirement seven times. The
benchmark one-year lending rate increased 0.25 percentage point
to 6.31 percent on April 5. The one-year deposit rate stands at
3.25 percent.  Inflation Eases  The median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for an annual inflation rate in April of 5.2 percent,
down from 5.4 percent in March.  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said on May 6 that China
is paying “close attention” to U.S. efforts to reduce its
 budget deficit , and his country will focus on improving the
quality of its exchange-rate mechanism.  China says a loose monetary policy in the U.S. has helped
lower the value of the dollar, stoking global inflation in food
and energy. A commentary today by the official Xinhua News
Agency said the “plunging” dollar “has become the source of
many current global economic problems.”  China held $1.15 trillion in Treasuries at the end of
February, more than any other country. The  U.S. trade deficit 
with China came to $18.8 billion in February.  Top Officials  Geithner and Wang will meet alongside Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  and State Councilor Dai Bingguo at this week’s
meetings, which will draw about 30 top Chinese officials.  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s
currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage, costing American jobs. Geithner is trying
to convince Chinese officials that a stronger yuan has benefits
for their economy.  Geithner said last week that allowing the yuan to rise and
making the financial system less dependent on government-
controlled interest rates would give Chinese leaders an
“enhanced” ability to damp inflation.  The Treasury argues that higher interest rates on deposits
will also encourage  consumer spending  in China, another way to
reduce imbalances.  “We’re going to encourage China to move more quickly in
lifting the ceiling on interest rates on bank deposits in order
to put more money into Chinese consumers’ pockets,” Loevinger
said at a briefing last week in  Washington .  Limited Gains  Investors are betting the yuan’s rise may be limited over
the next 12 months. Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards
dropped 0.81 percent last week to 6.3520 per dollar on May 6,
their biggest weekly loss of the year, on speculation that China
won’t allow faster appreciation to reduce inflation.  John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council,
said support for a stronger yuan among Chinese leaders has
increased in the past year.  “The strong hand has switched over to those who are saying
that the exchange rate can help us fight inflation,” Frisbie
said in a telephone interview. He said his group, whose members
include companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , wants China to resume opening its financial
services sector to allow more foreign investment.  Foreign Banks  The American Chamber of Commerce in China said last month
that foreign banks play an “insignificant role” in China.  Foreign lenders’ market share in China has dropped since
the government first opened the industry in December 2006. Banks
such as New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and London-based  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  want to tap household and corporate savings that
reached $10 trillion in January as China overtook  Japan  to
become the world’s second-biggest economy.  The U.S. has delayed its semi-annual foreign-exchange
report, which had been due on April 15, until after this week’s
meetings. The previous report, due on Oct. 15, 2010, was
released on Feb. 4 and declined to brand China a currency
manipulator while saying the No. 2 U.S. trading partner has made
“insufficient” progress on allowing the yuan to rise.  The yuan goes beyond the U.S. and China to become “a
multilateral issue, in terms of the impact on Brazil, Korea,
Thailand and  India ,” said  Edwin Truman , a former Federal
Reserve and Treasury official who is now a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics.  ‘Causing Trouble’  The “slow” appreciation of the yuan “relative to the
dollar in an environment where the dollar is going down against
other currencies is causing trouble for other countries and
currencies,” Truman said.  Diplomats at the Strategic and Economic Dialogue also will
discuss events in the Middle East, including military operations
in Libya and the ramifications of the region’s popular
uprisings.  Officials are likely to discuss efforts to revive six-party
talks on North Korea’s nuclear program. Negotiations between the
two Koreas, Russia, Japan, China and the U.S. stalled in
December 2008 and tensions flared on the peninsula after North
Korea’s Nov. 23 bombing of a South Korean island.  “We want to compare notes on where we stand with respect
to North Korea, and we will be very clear on what our
expectations are for moving forward,” Kurt Campbell, assistant
secretary of state for East Asia, said on May 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  