-- 
German Wireless Merger Overdue, Telefonica Executive Says

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-09T11:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/german-wireless-merger-is-overdue-telefonica-executive-says.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  predicts consolidation
in Germany’s mobile-phone market, one of Europe’s most
competitive, as operators seek scale to offset higher costs from
data services, according to the head of the Spanish company’s
German division.  The market is too small for four companies and a deal may
involve a linkup of a larger and a smaller company, said Rene Schuster, who runs the German unit of Telefonica,  Spain ’s
biggest phone company. A merger will probably take place in the
next three to five years and his division is large enough to
execute its strategy on its own, he said.  The German wireless market, the largest in western Europe,
generates about 18 percent of earnings for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
20 percent for  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and 25 percent for Royal KPN
NV, estimates  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein. As competition intensifies, pressure may grow for
Telefonica and KPN to find a partner, she said.  “The most obvious merger of assets in the German market is
Telefonica’s assets and KPN’s assets from an operational and
industrial point of view as they’re subscale,” said
Bienenstock, who rates Madrid-based Telefonica “underperform”
and KPN “market-perform,” in a telephone interview.  The analyst wrote in a report last month that a joint
venture between Telefonica Germany, which that sells services
under the O2 brand, and KPN’s E-Plus may be the best solution
amid more permanent margin decline and an uncertain long-term
outlook. A combination of the two networks could generate cost
savings of about 4.2 billion euros ($6.1 billion).  Consolidation Overdue  Nico van Geest, an analyst at Keijser Securities, estimates
E-Plus alone is worth 11 billion euros, based on The Hague,
Netherlands-based KPN’s enterprise value.  Telefonica declined 1 percent to 17.01 euros at 1:22 p.m.
in Madrid trading. KPN added 0.2 percent to 10.66 euros in
Amsterdam. Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.3 percent in Frankfurt and
Vodafone was up 1.5 percent on the London exchange.  E-Plus had 20.4 million customers at the end of 2010,
compared with 17 million for Telefonica  Germany . Together they
control about a third of the German market by customers.  Revenue per customer in Germany, measured by the size of
the monthly phone bill, may drop 8.3 percent to $19.95 through
2015, compared with an 8 percent decline to $43.71 in the U.S.
and a 3.3 percent decline to $29.43 in the U.K, according to
research from Informa Plc.  Discount Offers  “The market isn’t large enough in the longer run,”
Schuster said on May 4 in an interview during a conference in
Duisburg, Germany.  A reduction in the number of operators is overdue in a
number of European markets, he said. Regulators will probably
become more receptive to the idea in the coming years, he added.  Deutsche Telekom and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  combined their U.K.
wireless networks in 2009 into the country’s biggest mobile-
phone company.  France Telecom  said last week it’s reviewing its
European portfolio excluding France, Poland and Spain, and will
examine opportunities for tie-ups as well as asset sales. The
company also operates in Austria, Belgium and  Romania .  E-Plus and the Telefonica Germany, which target the
discount segment, added customers in Germany last year by
expanding smartphone offerings. Deutsche Telekom posted 7.3
billion euros in German mobile-service revenue last year,
followed by Vodafone with 6.6 billion euros, E-Plus at 3.1
billion euros and Telefonica at 2.9 billion euros.  Latin America   KPN is open to partnerships in Germany, Chief Executive
Officer Eelco Blok told shareholders April 6. The company isn’t
considering a sale of E-Plus and isn’t in talks with any
possible partners, he said at the time.  The Dutch operator surprised investors on April 21 when it
cut a full-year forecast and announced plans to reduce its local
workforce as much as 25 percent, putting E-Plus in an even more
central role as an earnings generator for the company.  Telefonica Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta told investors on
April 14 that he isn’t interested in any merger and acquisitions
movement this year, and that he isn’t worried about further
consolidation taking place in  Europe .  “Consolidation will take part, but not only through M&A
but also by weakening members of the market itself,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1 billion euros at Aramea Asset
Management in Hamburg. “There will be some room, especially for
Telefonica, to take part in this consolidation process.”  Spain’s former phone monopoly plans to cut its workforce in
the home market by about 20 percent in the next three years and
is targeting growth in Latin America to make up for declining
revenue in Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  