-- 
Irish to Avoid Doomsday, Honohan Says as Rescheduling Mooted

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-05-09T08:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/ireland-will-avoid-doomsday-honohan-says-amid-debt-rescheduling-debate.html
Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the country will avoid economic “doomsday,” as a
government minister and prominent professor suggested the nation
should reschedule debts from its as much as 85 billion-euro
($121 billion) bailout.  Honohan was responding to Morgan Kelly, an economics
professor dubbed Ireland’s Doctor Doom, who wrote in the Irish
Times  newspaper  that Ireland faces a “prolonged and chaotic
national bankruptcy.”  “What we are working on is a plan, that if things go well
in terms of economic growth, is clearly something that will
bring debt on a sustainable path,” Honohan said in an interview
with Dublin-based  RTE  radio yesterday. “If things don’t go
well, it will be much more difficult. In that case, there will
be a problem.”  Kelly said the country faces “economic ruin” unless it
walks away from last year’s bailout, withdraws support for banks
and cuts its fiscal deficit to zero. Ireland’s debt will peak at
116 percent of gross domestic product in 2014, according to
government forecasts published on April 29. The figure was 25
percent at the end of 2007. Energy Minister Pat Rabbitte said
yesterday “in my own view” the debt stemming from Ireland’s
bailout “must be rescheduled.”  ‘Options Open’  Ireland last year sought the bailout as investors shunned
government and bank debt after the economy shrank about 15
percent since 2007. Talks on the terms of the aid are
continuing, with the government seeking a cut on the average 5.8
percent interest rate it are paying on the loans.  The debt “is a serious problem and needs to be managed in
discussion with our European partners,” Honohan said, adding
Ireland is on “a very low growth scenario.”  “We are keeping our options open,” he said. “We have a
number of cards, we don’t have many cards, in these
negotiations. There is a right time to play your most important
cards,” he said.  In an interview with RTE, Rabbitte said he hopes that the
“punitive” rate on Ireland’s bailout may be reduced at a
meeting of European finance ministers this month after European
Commissioners gave a “notice of approval” for a reduction.  The country’s loans will be repaid in line with their terms
and conditions, Eoin Dorgan, an Irish Finance Ministry
spokesman, said yesterday in a phone interview after Rabbitte’s
remarks. He said a report in the Irish Mail on Sunday that the
country may restructure its debts is “completely outlandish.”  The Mail reported that the government may restructure debts
to the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund ,
citing an unidentified “senior minister.”  ‘Abject Failure’  The cost of insuring Irish sovereign debt against default
for five years rose 10 basis points to 669, according to CMA
prices. The credit default swaps cost 644 basis points for
 Portugal  and 1,360 for  Greece .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities of similar maturity narrowed
4 basis points to 714 as of 9:37 a.m. in  London . A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point. The spread was 646 on November 6, just
before Ireland’s bailout was agreed.  Kelly wrote the bailout may be considered an “abject
failure.” A  University College Dublin  economist, Kelly was
given the “Doom” nickname by newspapers including the New York
Times after he forecast in 2006 that Irish property prices may
decline as much as 80 percent.  Kelly said ownership of Ireland’s banks should be handed
over to the  European Central Bank  and the government should
immediately reduce the fiscal deficit to zero from about 10
percent of gross domestic product. That would allow the country
to wean itself from reliance on outside aid and slash its debt.  “I always take him seriously,” said Honohan, adding that
a lot of his analysis is “absolutely spot on.” Also, “there
are some serious errors in it. The story he spins is somewhat
incomplete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  