-- 
Japanese Yields Touch Four-Month Low as Minutes Show BOJ Is Open to Easing

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-05-09T06:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/japan-bonds-may-fall-after-stocks-gain-u-s-jobs-growth-beats-estimates.html
Japan ’s 10-year bond yields touched a
four-month low amid speculation the central bank will ease
monetary policy to bolster the nation’s economy.  Bank of Japan  board members left the door open for more
measures to support the economy at a gathering where they
unveiled a lending program for companies damaged by a record
earthquake, according to minutes of the April 6-7 meeting.
Demand for Japanese debt increased as local stocks fell on
concern a government request to shut a nuclear reactor located
close to an earthquake fault-line may hurt the economy.  “If an economic recovery is slow, it’s highly likely the
Bank of Japan will ease monetary policy further,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in  Tokyo  at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest lender for farmers and
fishermen. “Speculation about policy easing is resulting in the
gradual decline in bond yields.”  The benchmark 10-year yield was unchanged at 1.140 percent
as of 3:03 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security due
March 2021 stood at 101.417 yen. The yield earlier touched 1.125
percent, the lowest since Dec. 30.  Ten-year bond futures for June slid 0.17 to 140.58 at the 3
p.m. close of the Tokyo Stocks Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average lost 0.7 percent.  Japanese government debt handed investors a 0.1 percent
gain this year through May 6, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, compared with a 3.6 percent drop
in the Nikkei 225.  BOJ Meeting  The central bank announced a 1 trillion yen ($12 billion)
credit facility for lenders in the earthquake-ravaged area at
last month’s meeting, after having injected a record amount of
cash into the money market and doubled its asset-buying fund in
March. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said the bank is ready
to ease monetary policy further if needed.  “Members confirmed that the bank would continue to
carefully examine the outlook for economic activity and prices,
including the possible effects of the disaster, and take
appropriate policy action as necessary,” said the BOJ minutes,
which were published today in Tokyo.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has asked Chubu Electric Power Co.,
Japan’s third-biggest utility, to shut all reactors at its
Hamaoka plant southwest of Tokyo. The government estimates there
is an 87 percent chance of an 8-magnitude earthquake in the area
near the plant within the next 30 years, Kan said on May 6.  “There are still many factors like the talks on the
Hamaoka plant’s shutdown that can cool the sentiment towards an
economic recovery,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee
about $17 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo. “That keeps yields from rising.”  China Imports  Gains in bonds were limited before a report from China
forecast to show the nation’s import growth accelerated.  China ’s imports grew 28.9 percent in April from a year
earlier, a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed before a
government report tomorrow. The country was Japan’s biggest
export market by the value of products shipped in 2010,
according to  data  from Japan’s Ministry of Finance.  “ Consumer spending  is strong in emerging countries,
including China,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., who travelled to
China last week. “It’s a blessing for Japan that overseas
economies are resilient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 