-- 
No Evidence Pakistan Leadership Knew of Bin Laden’s Location, Donilon Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-08T14:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/no-evidence-pakistan-leadership-knew-of-bin-laden-s-location-donilon-says.html
U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon said he hasn’t seen “any evidence” that  Pakistan ’s
government and military leadership were aware that  Osama bin Laden  was living in a compound inside the country.  “I’ve not seen any evidence at least to date that the
political, military, or intelligence leadership of Pakistan knew
about Osama  bin Laden  at Abbottabad, Pakistan,” Donilon said
today on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Donilon added that the proximity of bin Laden’s compound to
Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital, near a military school means the
country’s knowledge of his whereabouts “needs to be
investigated.”  In the wake of bin Laden’s killing in a town 35 miles (56
kilometers) from Pakistan’s capital, U.S. lawmakers have urged
the Obama administration to evaluate the nation’s relationship
with the country. Senator  Carl Levin , the chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, said last week Pakistani army and
intelligence officials have “a lot of questions to answer.”  The Pakistanis face “obviously a very big set of questions
in their country about what happened and how this came about,”
Donilon told  CNN , adding, “We need to work with them to
investigate what’s happened and how Osama bin Laden came to this
place as his home for the last six years.”  ‘Burden of Proof’  Michael Hayden, the former director of the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program
that Pakistan has “a lot of questions to answer and the burden
of proof is on them.”  “There was a terrorist in Pakistan that seemed to feel
like he was safe,” Hayden said when he was asked if Pakistan
harbored terrorists.  The U.S. asked for and hasn’t yet been given access to bin
Laden’s three wives who were in the compound, or the additional
materials recovered by the Pakistanis after the U.S. raid,
Donilon told CNN.  The U.S. “would expect to have access to the things we
need,” and “we’ll certainly press on this very hard, too,”
Donilon said on CNN.  The raid on the compound in Pakistan capped a decade-long
pursuit of bin Laden. The U.S. lost track of him in the wake of
the offensive on neighboring  Afghanistan , where the Taliban
harbored bin Laden and his core group at the time of the terror
attacks on New York and the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.  Strategic Defeat  “Our efforts to pursue strategic defeat of al Qaeda --
which is our national goal -- really was given a significant
boost on Sunday in the operation against Osama bin Laden,”
Donilon said on CNN.  Donilon said that based on the initial looks at the
material recovered from the raid, bin Laden “had an operational
and strategic role” in al-Qaeda.  “Removing a leader of the significance of this man is
extraordinary,” Rudy Giuliani, who was the mayor of  New York 
City at the time of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “This is like removing a
Hitler or a Stalin in the middle of those conflicts. It’s a
symbolic blow for an organization that feeds on emotion. It’s
not a death blow by any means.”  24 Hours a Day  A task force of experts is working 24 hours a day to review
material on computer hard drives, thumb drives, audio and video
files, hand-written documents and other items retrieved by the
U.S. Navy SEALs who raided bin Laden’s compound killed him, an
intelligence official told reporters yesterday. The intelligence
teams are still quantifying and cataloging the material, the
official said.  Information from the cache may help lead to other
individual terrorists and groups and to forestall further
attacks on the U.S. or other countries, the official said.  “This is the largest cache of intelligence derived from
the scene of any single terrorist,” Donilon, who made the
rounds of the Sunday talk shows, said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program. “It’s about the size, the CIA tells us, of a
small college library.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 