-- 
Djokovic Ends Nadal’s Run on Clay to Lift 2011 Tennis Season Start to 32-0

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-09T07:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/novak-djokovic-beats-nadal-in-madrid-extends-winning-streak-to-32-matches.html
Novak Djokovic stretched his unbeaten
start to the tennis season to 32 matches by inflicting  Rafael Nadal ’s first clay-court loss in almost two years to win the
 Madrid  Masters title.  Serbia’s Djokovic beat the top-ranked Spaniard 7-5, 6-4 at
the Caja Magica in Madrid yesterday for his  sixth straight 
tournament victory in 2011. His 32-0 record to start a season is
second only to  John McEnroe , who went 42-0 in 1984.  “I know that this run that I have is really incredible but
I try not to think about how long it’ll go and when I’m going to
lose,” Djokovic said after winning in two hours, 17 minutes.
“Every time I go on the court I’m motivated to win and not
thinking that this is the day I’ll lose.”  Djokovic, 23, hasn’t been beaten since losing to  Roger Federer  in the semifinals of the ATP World Tour Finals in
November. Including two victories in December’s Davis Cup final,
Djokovic has won 34 straight matches.  His run this year started at the Australian Open and was
followed by successes in Dubai,  Indian Wells  and Miami, where he
scored back-to-back final victories over Nadal. He also won a
tournament in his hometown of Belgrade.  Djokovic’s first victory over Nadal on clay in 10 attempts
narrowed Nadal’s lead in their head-to-head series to 16-10.  It also stopped Nadal’s run of clay-court wins at 37. Nadal
hadn’t been beaten on the surface since losing to  Robin Soderling  in the fourth round of the 2009  French Open .  ‘Really High Level’  “He’s playing at a really high level.” Nadal said of
Djokovic. “We’ve got to accept that. When someone is better
than you there is nothing you can do other than congratulate him
and look forward to your next tournament and try to keep up.”  The clay-court season continues this week with the Rome
Masters. The French Open, the second Grand Slam tournament of
the year, begins May 22 at  Roland Garros  in Paris, where Nadal
is the defending champion.  The victory took Djokovic closer to Nadal at the top of the
 ATP Rankings . Having won the Rome Masters, French Open and
Wimbledon last year, Nadal has more rankings points to defend
than the Serb over the next eight weeks.  Should Djokovic win the title in Rome and Nadal lose before
the semifinals, he would take the No. 1 spot for the first time
in his career, the ATP World Tour said. That would make him the
first player other than Nadal or Federer to hold the top ranking
since  Andy Roddick  in February, 2004.  “If I keep winning I’ll get closer but I’m trying not to
think about that,” Djokovic added. “I just started the clay
court season. I need to stay dedicated and focused on the
upcoming events because if I want to reach No. 1 I have to play
consistent because that’s what Rafa will do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  