-- 
President Obama Says Bin Laden Raid Among ‘Longest 40 Minutes’ of Life

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/obama-says-bin-laden-raid-among-longest-40-minutes-of-life.html
President  Barack Obama  said monitoring
the raid that ended in Osama bin Laden’s death in an Abbottabad,
Pakistan, compound was “the longest 40 minutes” of his life,
with the possible exception of when his daughter Sasha was
gravely ill as a three-month-old baby.  Obama said in an interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes” program
that he made the decision to send U.S. Navy SEALs in to raid the
compound on April 28 and informed his team the next morning.
Obama said his participation in the planning of the raid was
“about as active as any project that I’ve been involved with
since I’ve been president.”  The evidence that bin Laden was there was circumstantial,
so when the raid went ahead, “this was still a 55/45
situation,” said Obama. “I mean we could not say definitively
that  bin Laden  was there. Had he not been there, then there
would have been some significant consequences.”  The president noted the geopolitical risks of landing
helicopters and conducting a military operation on the sovereign
territory of another country, in a residential neighborhood.  “So if it turns out that it’s a -- wealthy -- you know,
prince from Dubai who’s in this compound -- and, you know, we’ve
sent Special Forces in -- we’ve got problems,” Obama said.  Past Failures  Obama, 49, also said the failures of past military
operations such as the Iranian hostage rescue attempt in 1980
and the U.S. mission in Somalia in 1993 weighed on him in the
days leading up to the raid. “The day before I was thinking
about this quite a bit,” Obama said.  Obama said in monitoring the operation from the Situation
Room in the White House, “we knew as events unfolded what was
happening in and around the compound, but we could not get
information clearly about what was happening inside the
compound.”  When U.S. Navy SEALs raided the compound and killed bin
Laden, they capped a decade-long pursuit of the al-Qaeda leader.
The U.S. lost track of bin Laden during an offensive in the Tora
Bora mountains of  Afghanistan , where the militant Islamic
Taliban harbored bin Laden at the time of the terror attacks on
 New York  and the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.  “As nervous as I was about this whole process, the one
thing I didn’t lose sleep over was the possibility of taking bin
Laden out,” Obama said. “Justice was done. And I think that
anyone who would question that the perpetrator of mass murder on
American soil didn’t deserve what he got needs to have their
head examined.”  Support Network  Bin Laden had been living in the Pakistan compound for at
least five years, Obama said.  “We think that there had to be some sort of support
network for bin Laden inside of  Pakistan ,” Obama said. “But we
don’t know who or what that support network was. We don’t know
whether there might have been some people inside of government,
people outside of government, and that’s something that we have
to investigate and, more importantly, the Pakistani government
has to investigate.”  Information seized in the raid may help lead to other
individual terrorists and groups and to forestall further
attacks, Obama said.  “We anticipate that it can give us leads to other
terrorists that we’ve been looking for a long time, other high
value targets,” Obama said. “But also, this can give us a
better sense of existing plots that might have been there, how
they operated and their methods of communicating.”  Obama said he decided not to release a photo of bin Laden’s
body because it is “not who we are. We don’t trot out this
stuff like trophies.”  “There’s no doubt that bin Laden is dead,” Obama said.
“Certainly there’s no doubt among al-Qaeda members that he is
dead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 