-- 
Obama’s Abbottabad Lift May Be Ephemeral: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-05-09T19:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/obama-s-abbottabad-bounce-may-be-short-lived-commentary-by-albert-r-hunt.html
(Corrects date of Churchill’s defeat in eighth paragraph.)  The cardinal sin of political
prognostication is static analysis.  A short weekend ago the emerging wisdom was that President
Barack Obama’s re-election was in peril. The House Republican
whip,  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , perhaps the most politically
attuned elected member of his party, was saying that while he
always believed Republicans would have a good year in 2012, he
now thought it was likely Obama would be defeated.  Leading Democratic strategists and poll takers worried he
might be right. Comparisons were tossed out to  Jimmy Carter  more
than three decades before: a bad economy and an indecisive
president. That was April 30. By the end of May 1, the narrative
turned around: Obama, achieving what President  George W. Bush 
and his crowd of American exceptionalists couldn’t, bagged  Osama bin Laden .  The president now was invincible, crowed some Democrats;
Republicans publicly cheered and privately despaired, as their
party’s front-runner, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
was asked if the incumbent was unbeatable; on InTrade, a market
site to wager on outcomes, the odds of Obama’s re-election
exploded higher.  With decent odds, both times a smart investor would have
sold short. The reality is that at the end of April, Obama was a
slight favorite to win re-election; after the first day of May
his odds were only marginally better.  Economy, Terrorism  Prior to the raid in Abbottabad, Republicans had two cases
against Obama: He’s presiding over a lousy economy and spending
like an inebriated sailor; the other was that he’s soft on
terrorism, a cautious, multilateralist who’s imperiling U.S.
security.  He was bold, decisive and successful in contrast with the
Bush crowd’s fumbling when bin Laden was a target at Tora Bora
three months after the Sept. 11 attacks. Obama eliminated the
second leg of the Republican case.  History, however, shows how ephemeral foreign-policy
triumphs are in democracies.  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and  Winston Churchill  led the allies to victory in World War II. The Brits
threw Churchill out of office in 1945 and Americans turned the
 House of Representatives  over to the Republicans in 1946.  More recently, Carter achieved a notable foreign-policy
success with the 1978 Camp David accords; George Herbert Walker Bush scored big with the first  Iraq war . Both were defeated for
re-election.  ‘Win the Future’  Obama’s political advisers realize this and their strategy
is simple: The election is about the future -- their constant
refrain of “Win the Future” is sophomoric, yet repetition
works in messaging. The second mantra is that Republicans are
extreme, scary. Defense of the Obama record will be minimal. The
economy will dominate other issues including terrorism (barring
a new event), bin Laden or social issues; the May 6 jobs report,
showing robust employment gains, was a welcome bookend for the
best week in Obama’s presidency in a long time. The conversation
in the fall of next year will be about jobs, gas prices, debt
and the role of government.  That’s why the current battle over the budget and debt
ceiling is important. Any resolution is likely to be short term
and cosmetic. The argument, however, sets the table for the 2012
agenda and dialogue, with both sides believing they have an
advantage.  ‘Create a Narrative’  The Democrats are trying to “create a narrative,” says
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, “if you go to the Republicans they’re going to feed
you to the wolves in a dog-eat-dog society.”  This “narrative of shared scarcity,” Ryan says, will be
trumped by the Republican storyline. “We want to have growth.
We want an upwardly mobile society.”  Obama is equally confident he can win the fairness and
growth debate by emphasizing selective  investments  for the
future.  Democrats believe the tide already is starting to turn in
their favor. Only six months after a historic electoral victory,
public attitudes about the Republicans continue to sour as the
party is identified with cutting Medicare, defending the oil
industry and embracing divisive social issues. The presidential
nominating fight, the White House calculates, will only
exacerbate those deficiencies. The nominee will have to pander
to the party’s powerful conservative base, they argue, and the
field, by historical standards, looks comparatively weak.  Republican Candidates  That’s why Republicans such as Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels and the former Utah governor and Obama envoy to  China ,
 Jon Huntsman , are seriously thinking about getting in. They
might be formidable general-election candidates. Even more
formidable are the odds against them navigating the caucuses and
primaries to get the chance.  Team Obama isn’t without its own problems. Even with major
jobs gains last month the  unemployment rate  is at 9 percent;
since World War II no president has been re-elected with
joblessness anywhere near that level. Although Obama, unlike
Carter in 1980, won’t face a serious challenge from the left, he
still has to worry about the unrest among his liberal base, sure
to be aggravated if he slows down troop withdrawals from
 Afghanistan  this summer.  The White House took a little luster off last week’s
stunning success by exaggerating the circumstances surrounding
the killing of bin Laden. This was unnecessary and reflects a
penchant for focusing more on winning the short-term news cycle
than the longer-term objectives.  Vindication for Obama  Especially since this was a refutation of the national-
security critics and a vindication for Obama the candidate.
During the 2008 presidential campaign, the then Illinois senator
said repeatedly that if as commander in chief he had
“actionable intelligence” on the world’s most wanted terrorist
and “ Pakistan  is unable or unwilling to hunt down bin Laden and
take him out, then we should.” He was derided as naive and
reckless by both his Democratic primary opponent,  Hillary Clinton , and the Republican nominee,  John McCain .  There are political uncertainties ahead. This was a mission
accomplished.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 