-- 
Oil Stocks Cheap as Tax No Threat to Argentina-Sized Profits

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-09T15:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/oil-stocks-cheapest-as-tax-no-threat-to-argentina-sized-profits.html
U.S.  oil companies ’ profits have grown
so fast that they’ve become the cheapest equities in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, just as the debate about taxing
crude producers heats up.  Energy suppliers in the S&P 500 have earned $481.1 billion
since 2006, more than last year’s gross domestic product of
Argentina, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 41
drillers, refiners and oilfield service providers may generate
another $134.8 billion in 2011, based on analyst estimates that
jumped 8.5 percent in April. The growth reduced valuations to
11.5 times projected income from 13.7 in March.  Civil strife in the Middle East and northern  Africa 
combined with forecasts for the fastest U.S. economic growth in
seven years sent oil prices up 26 percent to $97.18 a barrel in
the past year, even after last week’s 15 percent plunge. With
gasoline prices up 64 percent since August and the  unemployment
rate  1.1 percentage point below the 26-year high reached in
2009, profits for companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are spurring calls for higher taxes.  “Multiples on energy stocks are very low and the
investment opportunity remains pretty good,” said Brian Barish,
who oversees $8 billion, including Chevron shares, as president
of Denver-based Cambiar Investors LLC. His Cambiar Aggressive
Value fund beat 99 percent of peers in the past year.  “The risk of a change in tax policy is unlikely, and $100
dollar oil is here to stay despite the recent price
volatility,” Barish said. “If you look at these companies’
valuations at $100 oil, you have to ask why they’re trading at
these relatively discounted levels.”  Weekly Decline  The S&P 500 fell 1.7 percent to 1,340.20 last week after
the biggest decline in oil since December 2008 drove Houston-
based Baker Hughes Inc. and Pioneer Natural Resources Co. in
Irving,  Texas , down more than 10 percent. The index has risen
6.6 percent in 2011, less than energy shares, whose 9.8 percent
gain is the biggest year-to-date gain through May 6 since 2006,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The S&P 500 climbed 0.2 percent
to 1,342.15 at 11:21 a.m. in New York today.  After a loss of $28.4 billion in the last quarter of 2008
and the start of 2009, U.S. energy industry profits rebounded to
$22.3 billion in the three months ended last December, data
compiled Bloomberg show. The companies probably earned $31
billion in the first quarter, based on analysts’ forecasts for
41 percent growth from a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  Total net income since 2006 compares with last year’s $351
billion in economic output for  Argentina , South America’s
second-biggest economy, according to  data  compiled by the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency.  Tax Breaks  President  Barack Obama  advocated ending tax breaks for oil
companies in a radio and Internet address on April 30. His  2012
budget  would repeal an estimated $46.2 billion of tax breaks for
oil and gas producers over 10 years and instead invest in
alternative energy. The proposal would generate $18.3 billion in
a decade by blocking oil and gas companies from receiving a
manufacturing deduction for drilling, among other proposals.  The legislation probably won’t pass because Republicans
controlling the House will vote against higher taxes, said
Andrew Laperriere, senior managing director of the International
Strategy and Investment Group in  Washington .  ‘Every Time’  “That’s the routine we go through every time the price of
oil and gas goes up,” said Laperriere, who is head of policy
research at ISI Group. “The industry will remain on the
defensive and under attack, but the odds remain relatively low
of any kind of adverse policy action affecting the industry.
It’s just as likely that with the Republicans in charge of the
House that higher gas prices and pressure to do something about
it will result in more opportunities for domestic production
than higher taxes.”  Energy is the cheapest industry in the S&P 500 after the
stocks failed to keep up with estimates from analysts such as
Jefferies Group Inc.’s Iain Reid in  London , who pushed up his
forecast for Exxon Mobil’s 2011 earnings by 36 percent to $9.13
a share over the past six months. Analysts’ forecasts for energy
industry profit in the next year jumped to $50.33 a share in
April in the biggest monthly increase since records began in
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy companies are cheap because investors doubt earnings
will grow as fast as predicted, according to Brian Jacobsen of
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo Asset Management. Industry
revenue is forecast to jump 26 percent this year, more than
twice as fast as the S&P 500’s, analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Bearish Bets  Short sellers have cut bearish bets on energy companies to
0.6 percent of the industry’s market value, compared with 2
percent in March 2008, according to Data Explorers, a New York-
based research provider. Shares borrowed and sold to profit from
declines total about 2 percent of the S&P 500’s market value.  “When everybody is buying into the story that we’re going
to have high gas prices and they’re going to go up forever,
that’s when I get increasingly incredulous,” said Jacobsen,
chief portfolio strategist for the mutual-fund division of Wells
Fargo Asset Management, which oversees more than $480 billion in
 San Francisco . “There’s uncertainty about the sustainability of
 oil prices  and about whether the energy companies are going to
be the favorite political whipping boy.”  Oil rallied amid increased optimism about the economic
recovery as companies reported better-than-estimated earnings
and U.S. job growth accelerated. Earnings beat analyst estimates
at 72 percent of the 417 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
results since April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Employers created more jobs than forecast in April as payrolls
increased by 244,000 workers last month, the biggest gain since
May 2010, the Labor Department said.  Oil Stockpiles  That contrasts with a weaker-than-estimated report on U.S.
service industries and higher American oil stockpiles, which may
limit crude increases this year. The Institute for Supply
Management’s index of non-manufacturing companies expanded at
the slowest pace in eight months in April, while crude
stockpiles rose to the highest level since October in the week
ended April 29, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Crude for June delivery fell $16.75 to $97.18 a barrel last
week, the lowest settlement on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
since March 15. Futures tumbled 15 percent for the biggest
weekly decline since December 2008. Gasoline fell 8.9 percent to
$3.05 a gallon last week after rallying 65 percent from its 2010
low in May. Refining margins measured by first-month crack
spreads have widened 142 percent in a year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Largest Company  Exxon, the world’s largest company by market value, is
valued at 9.6 times projected 2011 earnings, less than its 23-
year median of 15.5 using reported profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. First-quarter earnings for the Irving,
Texas-based company jumped 69 percent to an almost three-year
high of $10.7 billion, helping send the shares up 13 percent
this year.  “We’ve paid a total of $59 billion in taxes over the past
five years, and that’s a significant part of government revenue
as well as more than we’ve earned through our U.S. operations,”
 Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, said in an interview. “Any
claim that we’re not paying our fair share of taxes is
inaccurate.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, trades at
8.1 times estimated income even after a 13 percent advance this
year. The  San Ramon , California-based company beat analysts’
first-quarter profit estimates on April 29 and said sales rose
25 percent to $60.3 billion.  Competitive Hurdle  “Discriminatory taxes would put U.S.-based energy
companies at a competitive disadvantage around the world and
discourage development of domestic oil and gas resources,”
Lloyd Avram, a Chevron spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  The last time profit forecasts rose this much, in May 2008,
the shares peaked that month and began a 54 percent plunge as
the recession deepened. Oil reached an intraday record of
$147.27 a barrel in July 2008, during the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s, only to tumble 78 percent to $32.40 a barrel in
December 2008, six months before the recession ended.  “The outlook was very bleak, the economy was on much
weaker footing and we were losing jobs,” said New York-based
Priya Hariani, a U.S. equity strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research, which has an “equal weight” rating on energy
stocks. “Oil came back when  China  and the U.S. started to
grease the world economy through stimulus packages. As long as
the increase in oil prices is demand-driven, then it’s going to
continue to be positive for energy stocks.”  Trucks, Trains  In China, the world’s second-largest oil market after the
U.S., electricity consumption has risen 14 percent from a year
ago, an indicator of economic expansion that will require more
crude to fuel trucks, trains and airplanes,  Lawrence Eagles , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a May 5 note.  “I see no deceleration in the demand story,” said  Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees $48 billion.
“The energy sector remains a good long-term investment and if
we get some pullback in here, then my take is that you let the
stocks pull back and buy on weakness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  