-- 
LVMH’s Vuitton Gains, Gucci Declines in Brand Value, Research Group Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-09T15:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/louis-vuitton-rises-gucci-falls-in-2011-brand-valuation-study.html
Louis Vuitton , the French maker of
laminated canvas handbags, is the world’s most valuable luxury
brand for the sixth consecutive year, a research group said.  The brand, owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , has a value of $24.3 billion, an increase of 23
percent from 2010, according to Millward Brown Optimor’s 2011
 BrandZ  study published today. That’s almost as much as the
combined values of Hermes, Gucci and Chanel, which ranked
second, third and fourth in this year’s luxury-brand standings.  Vuitton’s value amounts to almost 28 percent of LVMH’s
market capitalization. The brand is benefiting from demand for
status symbols in developing markets such as Brazil, Russia,
 India  and  China , and the perception in  Europe  and the U.S. that
its products are exclusive, said Cristiana Pearson, a director
at Millward Brown Optimor who led the study.  “As we continue to come out of the recession, people will
continue to spend more on luxury, and the BRIC countries don’t
look like they’re slowing,” with growth in Brazil and China
particularly strong, Pearson said by phone from  London .  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, in which LVMH holds a 20.2
percent stake, posted the biggest increase in brand value in the
luxury industry with a 41 percent jump to $11.9 billion,
according to the BrandZ study. Florence, Italy-based Gucci’s
value declined 2 percent to $7.45 billion, affected by French
parent  PPR (PP)  SA’s financial performance, Pearson said. Chanel
advanced 23 percent to $6.82 billion.  LVMH’s Role  Hennessy, Moet & Chandon and Fendi placed seventh, eighth
and ninth in the study, respectively, with values of $3.42
billion to $5 billion, meaning LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-
goods maker, owns or has a stake in five of the industry’s 10
most-valuable brands.  LVMH has a lineup of labels “that have very high standards
in terms of craftsmanship and that give the impression of very
high exclusivity, even in some cases where it may not be so
exclusive,” Pearson said.  The Cartier and Rolex brands ranked fifth and sixth in the
luxury-brand ranking, while Burberry replaced Tiffany as No. 10.
The brand values of Burberry, Chanel and Vuitton benefited from
investment in technology, Millward Brown Optimor said.  Vuitton placed 26th worldwide among 100 companies across 13
industries in the BrandZ study.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad
tablet, is the world’s most valuable brand, with its estimated
value surging 84 percent from a year earlier to $153 billion,
according to Millward Brown Optimor.  The study was based on interviews with consumers as well as
analysis of company performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 