-- 
Reliance Fuel Exports Near Highest This Year on Gasoline Demand

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-05-08T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/reliance-fuel-exports-near-highest-this-year-on-gasoline-demand.html
Fuel exports by  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , India’s largest publicly traded company, remained near the
highest this year in April as demand for gasoline increased.  The Mumbai-based company, which operates the world’s
largest refining complex, shipped at least 2 million metric tons
of fuel products from its Jamnagar facility last month, little
changed from March, according to ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg and vessel fixtures from  Clarkson Research  Services
Ltd. March shipments were the highest so far this year.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , is
aiming to increase exports while state-owned rivals such as
Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp. sell more fuel
domestically at government-capped prices. Refinery shutdowns in
 Asia  are drawing gasoline shipments to the region. Demand for
the fuel in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, also peaks
during summer driving season, which lasts from the Memorial Day
weekend in late May to the Labor Day holiday in early September.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. All figures from Clarkson
are for single-voyage bookings and exclude long-term charters.
Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to report charters so the scope of
data capture can vary from month to month.  Gasoline Shipments  Reliance exported at least 1.2 million tons of gasoline
from Jamnagar in western  India  during April, compared with about
700,000 tons a month earlier, according to transmissions
captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and data from Clarkson
Research, a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  At least 40 percent of the month’s gasoline shipments went
to the U.S., while 25 percent went to  Singapore , the data show.
U.S. imports of gasoline jumped to 1.11 million barrels a day in
the week ended April 29, the highest in three months, according
to Energy Department data. Gasoline consumption rises when
Americans take to the roads for summer vacations.  In  Southeast Asia , Exxon Mobil Corp., the biggest U.S. oil
company, shut parts of its Singapore refining complex for nine
weeks starting March 9 for maintenance and upgrades.  Indonesia ’s
PT Pertamina stopped fuel production at its Cilacap, Central
Java, refinery from April 2 to April 8 after a fire broke out at
a storage tank.  The Stena Paris was hired by Mercuria Energy Trading SA to
transport 35,000 tons of gasoline to Singapore from the port of
Sikka near Jamnagar, the Clarkson data show. The vessel sailed
from near Sikka to Singapore in early April and was last tracked
headed back to India’s west coast, according to ship
transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Nord Observer  Reliance’s gasoil, or diesel, shipments dropped 33 percent
to at least 470,000 tons as the end of the winter season reduced
shipments to  Europe . Destinations for diesel cargoes in April
included the Middle East and  Africa , the data show. The company
also shipped 160,000 tons of naphtha to  Japan  and 120,000 tons
of jet fuel to Europe.  The Nord Observer sailed from Sikka to the Saudi Arabian
port of Jizan earlier this month, according to ship
transmissions. The vessel was hired by Cargill Inc. to transport
40,000 tons of gasoil to the Middle East, the Clarkson data
show. The tanker was last tracked near India’s west coast after
heading back to Sikka from Jizan.  Reliance runs two refineries in the western Indian state of
Gujarat, which are capable of processing heavier grades of
crude. They have a processing capacity of 1.24 million barrels a
day, and account for about 1.6 percent of global refining
capacity, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  