-- 
Retail Sales Probably Climbed in April: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-08T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/retail-sales-probably-rose-showing-u-s-consumers-bearing-higher-prices.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
climbed in April, reinforcing evidence that employment gains are
allowing Americans to weather higher fuel costs, economists said
before reports this week.  The projected 0.6 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.4 percent increase in March, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures
May 12. Another report may show the cost of living increased.  Demand at chains including Limited Brands Inc. and  Macy’s
Inc. (M)  topped analysts’ estimates last month as payrolls
nationally increased more than projected. While mounting fuel
and food costs are pinching household budgets, improving job
prospects mean  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, can keep growing.  “We’re seeing a pretty resilient consumer, even with the
headwinds from higher fuel prices,” said  Omair Sharif , an
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“What’s driving this is the pickup in employment. The labor
market will continue to improve and sustain consumer spending.”  The retail sales figures, which aren’t adjusted for
inflation, probably got a boost from receipts at service
stations that reflected higher gasoline costs. Regular fuel
averaged $3.81 a gallon in April, up from $3.54 the prior month.
The price reached $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Payrolls grew by 244,000 last month, the seventh straight
monthly gain, after increasing a revised 221,000 the prior
month, the Labor Department reported on May 6. Nonetheless, the
jobless rate climbed to 9 percent, the first increase since
November, a separate survey of households showed.  Same-Store Sales  More hiring helps explain the better-than-forecast retailer
results for April. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 8.7
percent from the same month last year, the 20th straight gain, a
report from Retail Metrics Inc. showed last week.  Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of Victoria’s
Secret, reported a 20 percent jump in same-store sales, almost
double the average estimate of analysts compiled by Retail
Metrics, which tracks more than two dozen U.S. chains. Sales at
Cincinnati-based Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department
store chain, rose 10.8 percent, also surpassing projections.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 3.7 percent from the end of March through May 6, outpacing
the broader  S&P 500 , which advanced 1.1 percent.  Autos, Gasoline  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
and service stations rose 0.5 percent last month after rising
0.6 percent in March, economists said.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.2 million in April, topping the 13
million pace for the third straight month, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
U.S. deliveries jumped 26 percent, while Dearborn, Michigan-
based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  had a 13 percent gain.  “We continue to believe that the economy will stay on the
current steady recovery course,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice
president of U.S. sales operations, said on a May 3 conference
call.  Labor Department figures due May 13 may show the cost of
living index rose 0.4 percent in April after a 0.5 percent gain
the prior month, and was up 3.1 percent from April 2010,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Core prices, which
exclude volatile food and fuel, may have climbed 0.2 percent in
April from a month earlier.  The consumer-price index is the broadest of three monthly
price gauges the Labor Department releases. Figures earlier in
the week may show wholesale prices and the cost of goods
imported into the U.S. also rose in April.  Confidence Stagnant  Bigger grocery and fuel bills are limiting confidence. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 70 in May from 69.8 in April,
according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of the May 13
report.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his chief
deputies have said in recent speeches that the threat from
accelerating prices will prove “transitory.”  “The broader economy is in a moderate recovery, and we
have recently seen some welcome, if gradual, improvement in the
labor market,” Bernanke said in an April 29 speech in
Arlington, Virginia.  Also this week, Commerce Department figures may show the
trade deficit widened in March from the prior month, reflecting
costlier oil imports, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  