-- 
S. Korea Raises Tsunami Walls to Quell Unease About Atomic Risks

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-05-08T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/s-korea-raises-tsunami-walls-to-quell-unease-about-atomic-risks.html
South Korea  said it will double the
height of sea walls protecting its oldest nuclear reactor to
quell unease about the risks of atomic power, drawing on the
lessons of the Fukushima disaster in Japan.  “Who could have imagined a worst-case scenario like
Fukushima,” said Chang Soon Heung, a nuclear scientist at the
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, who advised
the government on safety after radiation leaks in Japan. “We
couldn’t remain satisfied with current requirements. Citizens’
expectations for safety standards are high.”  South Korea, which aims to generate more than half its
electricity from nuclear energy, faces calls from opposition
lawmakers to decommission the oldest reactor and stop building
new ones. Residents in the town of Samcheok last month reversed
course on a bid to build reactors in their community while more
than 120 schools in the region surrounding Seoul closed on April
7 on concern that radiation from  Japan  could contaminate rain.  State-run Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., which operates
the nation’s four nuclear power stations, will lead a 5-year, 1
trillion won ($922 million) safety upgrade, Lee Ju Ho, the
Minister of Education, Science and Technology, said on May 6.  Walls protecting the Kori No. 1 reactor, which sits about
5.8 meters (19 feet) above  sea level  and began operation in 1978,
will be raised to more than 4.2 meters, from the current 1.7
meters, Minister Lee said. The wave that pummeled the Fukushima
plant on March 11 was as high as 15 meters.  Mobile Generators  Reactors at South Korea’s three other nuclear power
stations, Yeonggwang, Uljin and Wolseong, are already protected
against 10-meter tsunamis.  Lee said South Korea will also employ mobile generators to
help avoid the situation in Japan, where power was lost when
backup units at the Fukushima plant were flooded.  “The nuclear accident in Japan has motivated us to take
preemptive action,” Lee said. “We can significantly reinforce
safety levels.”  South Korea’s nuclear reactors have been built to withstand
magnitude 6.5 earthquakes, assuming the epicenter is directly
underneath them, and new ones are being designed to handle
temblors of 7.0, according to the Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology. The strongest earthquakes recorded in South
Korea were magnitude 5.2 and took place in 1978 and 2004,
according to the  Korea Meteorological Agency .  South Korea aims to generate 59 percent of its power from
nuclear energy by 2030, from about 33 percent now, according to
the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy .  Local Residents  As many as 97 percent of the residents of Samcheok, about
200 kilometers (125 miles) east of Seoul, signed a petition
before the earthquake in Japan supporting the local government’s
bid for a nuclear power station to be built in the community,
according to Lee Joung Soo, an official in the local
government’s strategy and planning division.  Explosions and radiation leaks from the plant in Japan
changed that, said Byun Hyung Cheol, a 52-year-old farmer who
grows paprika in greenhouses and rice in paddy fields about four
kilometers away from the plot where a plant housing two 1,400-
megawatt reactors would be built if his town was chosen ahead of
two other communities being considered.  “The leakage of radioactive materials in Japan brought
home the horrifying realization that it could happen here
next,” he said in a telephone interview on April 18.  Candle-Light Vigils  Byun said banners festooned around town supporting the bid
had disappeared and been replaced by opposition marches and
candle-light vigils opposing the plant, even though people knew
the nuclear power industry could bring better paying jobs.  Four reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant were damaged by hydrogen blasts after a
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami knocked out backup
power and cooling systems.  “We didn’t know or think seriously about the dangers of
nuclear plants until the news of the Fukushima accident,” said
Bae Jung Kyoo, who ran a kindergarten in Samcheok for 20 years,
said in an April 17 telephone interview that he and his family
will leave if a plant is built.  A checkup on South Korea’s 21 reactors completed last week
didn’t detect any problems, Minister Lee told reporters in  Seoul 
on May 6. The 587-megawatt Kori No. 1 reactor resumed operations
May 6 after it was halted on April 12 because of an electrical
fault. Power deliveries were scheduled to begin on May 8.  The cost of generating electricity from nuclear power in
South Korea is 36 won per kilowatt-hour, compared with 60 won
from coal, 128 won from liquefied natural gas, and 147 won from
oil, based on input costs in 2009, according to the Korea Energy
Economics Institute.  “For a resource-scarce country like ours, there’s no
alternative to nuclear power,” Knowledge Economy Minister Choi Joong Kyung told lawmakers on April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 