-- 
Saudi Petrochemical, Plastics Exports to China Hit 15-Month High

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-05-08T13:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/saudi-petrochemical-plastics-exports-to-china-hit-15-month-high.html
The value of  Saudi Arabia ’s non-oil
exports to  China , mainly chemicals used to make plastic
products, reached the highest in 15 months.  Saudi Arabia’s non-oil exports to China reached 1.75
billion Saudi riyals ($467 million) in March, up 34 percent from
a year earlier, according to data posted today on the Department
of Statistics and Information’s  website .  The value of non-oil exports to China increased as prices
for petrochemicals benefited from high  oil prices , as well as
the introduction of new products.  “Saudi makers have added many new petrochemical and
chemical products this year, and the majority of these products
were exported to China and Asia,” Abdul-Rahman al-Zamil, the
head of the Export Development Center, said today in a telephone
interview. The Riyadh-based center promotes the nation’s non-oil
exports.  China,  Singapore  and  India  accounted for one-quarter of
Saudi non-oil exports in March, the department’s data showed.
Saudi Arabia’s non-oil exports by value increased by 33 percent
to Singapore and by 5.8 percent to India.  Petrochemical exports made up 34 percent of non-oil exports
from Saudi Arabia in March, while exports of plastics such as
Polyethylene terephthalate comprised 33 percent, the data
showed. Polyethylene terephthalate is used to make plastic
bottles.  China was the largest importer of Saudi petrochemicals and
plastics in 2010 in terms of volume, according to the Department
of Statistics and Information. China imported 5.9 million tons
of non-oil exports in 2010 from Saudi Arabia, mainly comprised
of petrochemicals and plastics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in London at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net 
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  