-- 
Schumer Seeks More Funding for Rail Safety After Terrorist Plan Revealed

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-08T21:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/schumer-seeks-more-funding-for-rail-safety-after-terrorist-plan-revealed.html
New York Senator Chuck Schumer, the
chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, said he is seeking to increase
funding for rail safety after intelligence found in Osama bin Laden’s  Pakistan  compound showed terrorist plans to target U.S.
train infrastructure.  More money would help enhance track inspections for
commuter and passenger railways as well as monitoring at
stations throughout the country, Schumer said in an e-mailed
statement today. He also called for an Amtrak “No Ride List”
to keep suspected terrorists from boarding U.S. trains.  “One need only look to the bombing of commuter trains in
 Madrid ,  Spain , in 2004 to know how devastating an attack on our
rail systems could be,” Schumer wrote in a letter to Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye of Hawaii and
the ranking Republican member Thad Cochran of Mississippi.  “We must do more to make sure our critical infrastructure,
including our rail systems, are secured from potential
attacks,” he wrote in the letter released today and also
addressed to Senator Mary Landrieu of  Louisiana , who heads the
committee’s subcommittee on  homeland security , and ranking
Republican member Dan Coats of  Indiana .  Security was heightened last week across the U.S. and at
government installations worldwide following President Barack Obama’s May 1 announcement that the al-Qaeda leader had been
killed during a raid by U.S. Navy SEALs in Pakistan. Items found
in the compound suggest the terrorist group had been considering
attacks on American railroads, Schumer said.  Letter to Napolitano  In a separate letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Schumer suggested the “Secure Flight” program be
applied to Amtrak, the country’s intercity passenger rail
service.  The measures would be similar to those that require
airlines to collect and transmit passenger data. The information
on the no-fly list is used by security officials to stop
individuals from boarding or flag those in need of enhanced
screening.  “Although  Amtrak  does not currently use security screeners
at each of its gates, if Amtrak or the U.S. government receives
notice that someone on the terrorist watch-list is seeking to
board a train, Amtrak police and other law-enforcement can be
dispatched to that gate or to that train to screen the
passengers and apprehend potential terrorists,” Schumer wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  