-- 
Vettel Wins Turkish Formula One Grand Prix, Extending Lead Over Hamilton

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-08T23:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/sebastian-vettel-of-red-bull-wins-turkish-formula-1-grand-prix-in-istanbul.html
Sebastian Vettel headed a 1-2 finish
for Red Bull at the Turkish Grand Prix to extend his Formula One
world championship lead to 34 points.  Mark Webber  finished 8.8 seconds back in second place at
the Istanbul Park circuit yesterday.  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari
was third in the 58-lap race.  It was a third victory in four races this season for 2010
series champion Vettel, who has begun from pole position each
time. He dominated from the start, with Alonso and Webber
jostling for second spot during most of the contest.  “Throughout this race we had this cushion and were able to
act, rather than react,” Vettel said at the post-race news
conference. “We never really had anybody close behind, which
would have been a different situation. We saw last season how
quickly things can change, we have to go step by step.”  The 23-year-old German showed his exhilaration with the win
as soon as he passed the checkered flag.  “Yes, yes! That’s what I’m talking about,” he told his
team over a radio in his car. “What a race, we controlled it
from the beginning to the end.”  It was a reversal of fortune for Red Bull from last year’s
race in  Turkey , when Vettel and Webber were left ruing their
crash that allowed  Lewis Hamilton  and  Jenson Button  to finish 1-
2 for McLaren.  Pit Stops  Yesterday’s race was marked by overtaking incidents and
included more than 70 pit stops as teams coped with the faster-
degrading Pirelli & C. SpA tires brought in this season. While
Button went with a three-stop strategy, the other leading
contenders took four.  Two-time world champion Alonso had started in fifth place
on the grid, then moved up the field after getting past the
slow-starting Hamilton, the winner in Turkey last year.  Just as Alonso seemed set to finish second, Webber overtook
the Spaniard after the 50-lap mark and repelled his rival’s
attempt to retake the position. It was the first time Red Bull
swept the top two positions this season, while Ferrari returned
to the podium after failing to finish in the top three in the
opening three races.  “It was a good fight with Fernando,” Webber said. “You
lose a bit of time when you’re into each other like that, but it
turned out okay and I got him back in the end.”  Vettel, after his 13th career win, leads the standings with
93 points, followed by Hamilton (59), Webber (55), Button (46)
and Alonso (41). Red Bull heads the constructors’ championship
with 148 points. McLaren has 105 and Ferrari 65.  ‘Good Sign’  “Fighting with Red Bull these days is not easy, so to be
up there with them is a good sign,” Alonso said. “Hopefully we
can be closer next time.”  Hamilton ended in fourth spot, matching his starting place,
after seeing his chances hit by problems with a wheel nut that
delayed him at a pit stop. He was followed by  Nico Rosberg  of
Mercedes GP, Button, and Renault duo Nick Heidfeld and Vitaly Petrov. Sebastien Buemi of Toro Rosso and Sauber’s Kamui
Kobayashi rounded out the 10 scoring places.  The next race is the  Spanish Grand Prix  in Barcelona on May
22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  