-- 
Syria Extends Crackdown on Protesters With Shootings, Wave of Arrests

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-09T15:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/security-forces-shoot-demonstrators-in-syria-yemen-egypt-clashes-kill-12.html
Security forces in  Syria  renewed their
assault on pro-democracy protesters across the country, shooting
at people who joined in demonstrations and seeking to arrest
their organizers.  Two people were killed in Deir Al-Zour late yesterday as
security forces attacked a protest and at least 12 people died
in Homs in the past two days, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in a phone interview from
Syria today. Six people, four of them women, were killed in
 Banias  on May 7, he said. Some 450 people have been arrested in
the coastal city in the past two days, said Ammar Qurabi, head
of Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights.  The Damascus suburb of al-Muadamiya has been surrounded
since 3 a.m. and phones and power cut, signaling a security
sweep, Yassin Al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and activist, said
in a phone interview. Gunfire was heard in the suburb,  Agence
France-Presse  reported. Security forces are conducting house-to-
house raids nationwide seeking protest organizers, the
 Associated Press  said, citing the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights. The state news agency said six soldiers were killed in
operations in Homs, Banias and Daraa, the southern region where
protests began in mid-March.  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
President Bashar al-Assad that haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their attacks, sending tanks
into Daraa and other cities. The continuing repression of
protests in Syria and Yemen comes after revolts against longtime
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  helped spread unrest throughout the
Middle East.  Death Toll  More than 650 people have been killed during the Syrian
protests, according to Merhi. As many as 10,000 may have been
detained, Qurabi said. In Daraa, a curfew is in effect and
several mosques have been barred from calling people to prayers,
he said.  The country’s authorities are engaged in “a full-scale
assault on this uprising in an attempt to cow people into
submission,” a tactic that may be modeled on  Iran ’s repression
of protests after 2009 elections, said Chris Phillips, an
analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London . The use of
“serious force” has spread from Daraa to other areas, he said.  Syrian Amnesty  Syria’s Interior Ministry said more than 1,000 people
involved in protests have admitted their offenses and will
escape punishment under an amnesty offered by the government to
those who turn themselves in by May 15.  The state news agency said 10 Syrian workers were killed in
Homs when their bus was ambushed. It also reported that hundreds
of Syrians staged a sit-in at the U.S. embassy in Damascus
yesterday to protest what they called American intervention in
Syria’s internal affairs.  The U.S. has imposed sanctions on Syrian government
officials because of the violent crackdown on protests.  In Yemen, three protesters were killed early today in the
city of Taiz and about 80 sustained gunshot wounds as police
fired at an anti-government demonstration, according to Sadek
al-Shujaa, head of a field clinic there.  At least 100 people
have died in Yemen in protests that began in January.  Gulf Plan Spurned  Tens of thousands demonstrated yesterday in Taiz and other
cities demanding the immediate ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has been in power for three decades. Saleh would quit
within a month, with elections to follow two months later, under
the terms of an agreement brokered by Gulf Arab countries.
Groups leading the street protests have spurned the plan, saying
Saleh should quit immediately and shouldn’t be given immunity
from prosecution.  Saleh and leaders of the main opposition group initially
accepted the Gulf plan, though it hasn’t yet been signed. The
government must sign within two days, otherwise the opposition
will “halt the political process” and join the protesters in
the streets, Mohammed al-Mutawakil, a senior official with the
Joint Meetings Party, said in a telephone interview.  In  Egypt , where the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak  by
a popular revolt in February helped spur anti-government
protests elsewhere in the region, authorities arrested 23 people
suspected of involvement in sectarian fighting between Muslims
and Christians in Cairo on May 7 that left 12 people dead.
Justice Minister Mohamed El-Gendy promised yesterday to impose
the rule of law with an “iron fist.”  In Bahrain, the  Youth Society for Human Rights  called for
an investigation into the deaths and disappearances of
demonstrators killed since mid-February, when mostly Shiite
Muslim protesters began calling for democracy and human rights
in the Sunni-ruled monarchy.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa yesterday said the nationwide
state of emergency will be lifted on June 1. It was imposed on
March 15 after  Al Khalifa ’s government sent security forces to
attack the protesters, killing several, and invited troops from
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  to help keep order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at  mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 