-- 
Servier Denies French Allegation of Concealing Mediator Diabetes Drug Risk

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-05-08T12:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/servier-denies-french-allegation-of-concealing-mediator-diabetes-drug-risk.html
Les Laboratoires Servier , France’s
second-biggest drugmaker, denied allegations by government
investigators that the company concealed the risks of a drug now
suspected of having caused the deaths of as many as 2,000
people.  Servier also never pressed regulators to keep the drug on
the market regardless of the risks, the closely held company,
based in Neuilly-sur-Seine, said in a document sent via e-mail
made public today. The drug, benfluorex hydrochloride, was sold
in France for 33 years until it was pulled from the market in
November 2009.  A government investigative agency, the Inspection Generale
des Affaires Sociales, said in a Jan. 15 report that Servier
depicted benfluorex as a diabetes treatment, when in reality it
was a “potent” appetite suppressant closely related to
fenfluramine, a component of the diet-drug combination fen-phen.
Fenfluramine was withdrawn from the U.S. market in 1997 after it
was linked to heart-valve damage.  The report is mistaken and biased, Servier said. The agency
didn’t ask the company to provide clinical data that could have
led to more accurate conclusions, Servier said.  “Benfluorex is not a fenfluramine in disguise,” the
company said in the document. The treatment, sold in  France 
under the brand name Mediator, has a chemical structure similar
to that of fenfluramine, but the two compounds work differently
once inside the body, according to Servier.  “We always were transparent with regulators,” the
drugmaker said in the e-mailed document. “We acted responsibly
throughout the entire life of this medicine.”  Estimate of Deaths  Benfluorex was sold in 34 countries. Between 500 and 2,000
people in France may have died following the use of Mediator,
Claire Dufour, a spokeswoman for the Caisse Nationale de
l’Assurance Maladie, the French health-insurance agency, said in
a Jan. 17 interview. The estimate was obtained by France’s drug
regulator based on a study conducted by the insurer, she said.  The estimate shows “imprecision in the analysis,” Servier
said.  “To this day, and notwithstanding the figures cited, no
pertinent study makes it possible to estimate with precision the
number of patients who may have died of heart-valve damage
caused by Mediator,” the company said.  The drug was often prescribed by doctors in France as a
treatment to lose weight, an indication for which it didn’t have
approval, according to the investigative agency.  So-called off-label prescriptions of benfluorex “cannot be
blamed on Servier,” the company said in the e-mailed document.
Servier said it wrote letters to doctors to remind them of what
the medicine was approved for.  Regulatory Overhaul  Servier also blamed French regulators for delays in
evaluating the safety of benfluorex.  French Health Minister Xavier Bertrand said in January he
plans to change the way in which the nation’s drug regulator,
the Agence Francaise de Securite Sanitaire des Produits de
Sante, or Afssaps, operates and is governed. He said he also
will overhaul the rules about the relationships between
drugmakers, doctors and health-care experts.  The way in which the probe was conducted goes against the
investigative agency’s own internal rules of fairness, Servier
said. Servier representatives weren’t questioned in the inquiry
and were therefore unable to present the company’s point of
view, the drugmaker said.  Servier “will assume all responsibility” towards Mediator
patients and their families, the company said.  Sanofi SA is France’s largest drug company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  