-- 
Seven Stocks Look Like Prime Takeover Targets: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-05-08T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/seven-stocks-look-like-prime-takeover-targets-john-dorfman.html
Picking takeover candidates for fun
and profit is a perennial investment sport.  How can it not be? When one company takes over another, it
typically pays a 20 percent to 70 percent premium over the
target’s prevailing stock price. Takeovers can enrich investors
instantly.  According to Bloomberg’s database, there were 2,061 deals
announced in the first quarter. The dollar volume of $269
billion was more than in any of the previous nine quarters.  In the second quarter so far, the average takeover premium
has been unusually rich -- 61 percent, the highest in 12 years.  I don’t expect that lofty figure to last. Premiums will
probably revert to a more normal range of 30 percent to 45
percent. The good news is that I expect a continuing flow of
deals in 2011 and 2012.  On Oct. 4, 2010, when merger and acquisitions started to
resume after a recession-induced freeze, I wrote a column
mentioning nine stocks that I thought could become takeover
candidates. As a group, through May 4, their performance has
trailed one percentage point behind the 19 percent total return
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  I prefer to judge stock picks based on a time frame of one
year or more. Yet I’m doing a new takeover-candidates list now
because M&A activity is heating up.  Finding Candidates  To find a new crop of candidates, I am using the following
set of criteria, which are modified slightly from those of six
months ago:  -- U.S.-based companies with a market value of $500 million
to $5 billion.  -- Enterprise value (the combined value of a company’s
stock and debt) divided by Ebitda (earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortizing) of five or less. This
EV/Ebitda ratio is often used by companies scouting for
acquisitions.  -- Total debt no more than 75 percent of shareholders’
equity (corporate net worth, or assets minus liabilities).  -- Cash or safe short-term investments of $75 million or
more.  -- Stock price no more than 1.5 times the company’s sales.  When I ran this screen on May 4, only 39 companies met all
the criteria. Here are seven that look to me like they have
takeover allure, and should be decent investments even if no
suitor calls.  Coventry, GameStop  The largest, with a market value of $4.9 billion, is
 Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  of Bethesda,  Maryland . Selling for
only 1.15 times book value, I think it is alluring bait.  Coventry, which provides managed health care services, has
been the subject of takeover speculation. In the summer of 2008,
for example, the stock jumped on speculation Aetna Inc. would
take it over.  GameStop Corp. (GME)  of Grapevine,  Texas , is the world’s largest
video game and entertainment software retailer, according to its
website. Its stock peaked at more than $63 in late 2007, and
sells for a little more than $25 now.  With GameStop shares fetching less than 10 times earnings
and 1.3 times book value, it appears to me to be a potential
magnet to buyers. In March 2010 the stock ran up 27 percent amid
acquisition rumors, which later subsided.  Chicago-based  Telephone & Data Systems Inc. (TDS) , the parent of
U.S. Cellular, has a market value of $3.3 billion. At a time
when AT&T Inc. is trying to acquire T-Mobile USA Inc. for about
$39 billion, it’s not hard to imagine this company giving up its
independence.  Telephone, Oshkosh  Telephone & Data is profitable, yet has struggled with
growth. It has $592 million in cash and near-cash along with
$300 million in short-term investments. To me, it looks ripe for
the plucking.  With the U.S. defense budget under pressure, mergers may
pick up among defense contractors.  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , which makes
military transport vehicles and specialty trucks such as fire
engines and cement mixers, could be picked off by a larger
competitor. The Oshkosh, Wisconsin, company’s stock languishes
at five times earnings.  Seacor Holdings Inc. (CKH) , located in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ,
transports men and material to and from offshore oil platforms.
Selling for about 1.2 times book value, it could probably be
acquired for less than $3 billion.  In the semiconductor-equipment industry, I favor  Kulicke &
Soffa Industries Inc. (KLIC)  of  Fort Washington ,  Pennsylvania . At five
times earnings, it strikes me as a very cheap stock.  One more candidate is  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , based in  Fort
Worth , Texas. It earned $1.84 a share in 2000 and $1.68 a share
in 2010. A larger retailer could probably milk more growth and
profitability out of this well-known brand.  Disclosure note: I own Kulicke & Soffa personally and for
clients. I have no long or short positions in the other stocks
discussed in this week’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  