-- 
Singapore Foreign Minister Yeo Is Biggest Election Casualty

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-09T00:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/singapore-foreign-minister-george-yeo-becomes-biggest-casualty-in-election.html
Singapore  Foreign Minister George Yeo,
a two-decade veteran of the ruling  People’s Action Party , was
the biggest casualty in the nation’s elections as the opposition
captured its first-ever multiple-seat district.  The  Workers’ Party  won the five-seat district of Aljunied,
defeating the PAP ticket led by Yeo. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s PAP, which has ruled Singapore for more than five
decades, won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1 percent
of the popular vote in the May 7 polls, according to the
 Elections Department .  “It was a great campaign, we fought hard, we had no
regrets and we respect the decision of the people of Aljunied,”
Yeo said after the results were announced. “A new chapter has
opened in Singapore history. It’s a tide which we were not able
to overcome. But that’s life.”  The opposition won an unprecedented six seats in total,
turning a new page in the city-state’s politics. Lee, 59, may
face increased pressure to reach out to the growing number of
citizens who have questioned government policies during the
campaign. Singaporeans turned out by the tens of thousands for
pre-election rallies where PAP and opposition candidates offered
proposals for dealing with the city’s rising cost of living and
competition with foreigners for jobs and housing.  A parliamentary seat is a requirement to hold a minister
post in the Cabinet.  Policy Review  “The outcome is one that will force the PAP to go back to
the table and review its policies on social support systems,
including those for housing, and see how best to deal with the
obvious unhappiness on the ground,” said Chua Hak Bin, a
Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “My
sense is the government can afford to be a lot more generous
given its strong fiscal position.”  Yeo, who had promised to lead a push for reform within the
PAP, was one of two Cabinet officials who lost their seats, the
other being Lim Hwee Hua, Singapore’s first woman minister. Yeo
has been a member of parliament since 1988 and has served at
various ministries including the Ministry of Trade and Industry
and Ministry of Information and the Arts, according to the
 Cabinet website .  “There is considerable resentment against the government
and its policies and some of them run deep,” Yeo said in an
interview with the Straits Times newspaper on May 5. “We have
to listen harder to what people say.”  Maturing Democracy  Candidates competed in single-seat wards or multiple-seat
districts called Group Representation Constituencies, or GRCs,
where the party that gets the most votes wins all the seats. The
PAP lost a GRC for the first time in this election, as six
opposition parties contested a record 82 parliamentary seats.  Workers’ Party Secretary-General Low Thia Khiang and
Chairman Sylvia Lim, who called for a stronger voice in
parliament and more affordable public housing, led the Aljunied
effort, while Yaw Shin Leong won in Hougang.  “Your votes tell the world that you want Singapore to
mature as a democracy, and you want to tell the government that
you want a more responsible, inclusive, transparent, accountable
government,” said Low, who has been in parliament since 1991.  Singapore’s gross domestic product expanded 14.5 percent
last year, the most in  Asia , as manufacturing surged and
integrated casino resorts operated by Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
Genting Singapore Plc made their maiden contributions to the
economy. As trade minister in 2004, Yeo helped initiate an end
to Singapore’s ban on casinos.  ‘Still Poor’  Singapore’s economic success has widened the  income gap ,
with a world-leading ratio of dollar-millionaire households
contributing to higher property and consumer prices, leaving
some citizens behind. Inflation accelerated to a two-year high
of 5.5 percent in January.  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , an income inequality measure,
rose to 0.48 last year from 0.444 in 2000, according to the
statistics department. A reading of zero means income equality,
while a reading of one means complete inequality.  “Generally people should feel that their wealth increased,
but people may still feel poor if they cannot afford housing,”
said former stockbroker Gabriel Yap, now executive chairman of
investment management firm GCP Global Pte. “Even if they can
afford their homes, people essentially spend a lifetime paying
off their mortgage. So where is the quality of life?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  