-- 
Singapore’s Election ‘Watershed’ May Loosen Political Hold of Lee’s Party

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-09T03:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/singapore-s-election-watershed-may-loosen-political-hold-of-lee-s-party.html
Singapore  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong pledged his  People’s Action Party  will change the way it
governs after returning to power with the smallest margin of
popular votes and the opposition won a record number of seats.  The party, in power since independence in 1965, won 81 out
of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1 percent of the vote on May 7,
compared with about 67 percent in the 2006 election,  Elections
Department  data show. Two cabinet members lost their seats,
including Foreign Minister George Yeo, as the opposition
Workers’ Party won a multiple-seat district for the first time.  Lee, 59, faces pressure to be more responsive to criticism
of government policies. He said his party will engage the
population more in decision-making after what he called a
“watershed” election. A reduced monopoly on political
discourse may mean increased attention to calls for reining in
housing costs and tightening immigration policies that boosted
the island’s population by about a fifth since 2005.  “All those expressions of humility, the need to work
harder to understand the people better, to connect with them
emotionally -- all these cannot be hollow policies” in the
aftermath of the vote, said Catherine Lim, a Singapore-based
author and political commentator. The political structure is
poised to shift after the emergence of a “new, sophisticated
and more articulate people and opposition,” she predicted.  Housing Policy  In the run-up to elections, the government pledged to build
more homes and review the income ceiling that lets families buy
new units from the public housing authority, instead of through
the more expensive resale market.  A higher income ceiling would also allow more people to get
lower  interest rates  on mortgages from the Housing & Development
Board, rather than banks such as  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)   “All Singaporeans of different strata and groups have
higher aspirations and expectations, and many of them wish for
the government to adopt a different style and approach to
government,” Lee said in a press conference yesterday. “We
hear all your voices. And that means not only the government
working hard on its own with a population passive, but engaging
Singaporeans in the more difficult decisions and trade-offs
which governing Singapore involves.”  While the PAP’s vote tally was down, it still held above
the level some analysts said would mark a particularly poor
showing. Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law at the  Singapore
Management University , had set a bar of a loss of more than
seven seats by the PAP or its share of the popular vote dipping
below 60 percent.  Stock Market Rally  Singapore stocks rose the most in two weeks today,
rebounding from their worst weekly decline in almost two months.
The benchmark Straits Times Index rose 1.3 percent, rebounding
from a 2.5 percent loss in the week leading to the May 7 polls.
The  Singapore dollar  rose 0.6 percent.  “It was certainly a positive political advance but I don’t
think it will change the economic policies in the near term,”
 David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Their policies
including free trade, an efficient and corruption-free
bureaucracy, healthy investment and infrastructure, and
education have been very effective.”  The PAP’s diminishing vote signaled that the success of the
party in nation-building since independence in 1965 is less of a
lure to younger voters. A similar pattern has occurred in some
post-colonial countries, from  India , where the Congress Party’s
hold on politics was broken in the 1990s, to  Malaysia , where the
ruling party has seen its grip loosened in recent years.  Lee Kuan Yew , 87, the Cambridge University-trained lawyer
who led the island from British rule and serves as minister-
mentor in the cabinet led by his son, Lee Hsien Loong, was
returned to office. His constituency was the only one that went
uncontested.  Economic Success  The island that former economic adviser Albert Winsemius
once said was considered a “poor little market in a dark corner
of  Asia ” is now ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place
to do business, has the world’s second-busiest container port,
and boasts the highest proportion of millionaire households,
according to the  Boston Consulting Group .  Still, citizens say they are bearing the impact of policies
to allow hundreds of thousands of immigrants and foreign workers,
causing an increase in  home prices , competition for jobs and a
stretched public transportation system.  The influx of foreigners, both skilled and unskilled, has
boosted sales for transportation providers including SMRT Corp.
and telephone companies such as  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) 
It also helped consumption, since the birth rate has been below
the level needed to replace the population since the 1970s.  Wealth Gap  With the influx of foreign workers restraining the wages of
some Singaporeans, some citizens became angered by the salaries
received by government ministers, which are among the world’s
highest.  Property stocks including  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and Keppel Land
Ltd. had fallen before the election on concern there would be
increased pressure to rein in home prices. CapitaLand dropped
4.7 percent in the month to May 6, exceeding the 2.2 percent
decline in the Straits Times Index, while Keppel Land retreated
11 percent. The Singapore dollar fell 0.8 percent last week.  The Workers’ Party that won a multiple-seat district
fielded its so-called A-team, including Secretary-General Low Thia Khiang, Chairman Sylvia Lim and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
lawyer Chen Show-Mao, who has advised on deals like  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ’s $22.1 billion initial share sale.  Politicians competed in single-seat wards or multiple-seat
districts called Group Representation Constituencies, or GRCs.
The May 7 election was the first time the PAP lost a GRC since
the electoral system was started in 1988.  Opposition’s Call  “Your votes tell the world that you want Singapore to
mature as a democracy, and you want to tell the government that
you want a more responsible, inclusive, transparent, accountable
government,” said Low, who has been in parliament since 1991.
“Your votes tell the world that Singapore is not just an
economic success to you. Singapore is our home.”  The PAP has overseen a 41-fold jump in gross domestic
product, combining a focus on education, homeownership, business
friendliness and strict laws to boost citizens’ wealth.  Lee’s recent efforts to spur the economy include the
opening of two casino resorts, bringing Formula One races to the
island and attracting foreign workers.  “We’ve gone through a roller-coaster ride, we’ve been
exposed to stresses and uncertainties from the globalized
economy and also we are undergoing significant changes in our
society,” Lee said.  Singapore’s GDP was about S$285 billion ($231 billion) last
year, compared with S$6.9 billion in  1960 , based on 2005 market
prices. GDP grew 14.5 percent last year, the most in Asia. The
government plans to spend S$6.6 billion on benefits for citizens
in this year’s budget to ease the burden of inflation.  After losing a GRC, “hopefully that’s a wake-up call for
the PAP to be less complacent and arrogant and to step up and do
their work,” said Lim Yii Hong, a 33-year-old doctor. “If they
actually do that, I think Singapore is the one that benefits in
the end and all of us will benefit.´´  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  