-- 
Singapore Stocks, Currency Gain as Ruling Party Retains Power in Elections

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-09T09:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/singapore-stocks-may-post-relief-rally-after-ruling-party-retains-power.html
Singapore  stocks posted Asia’s second-
biggest gain and the currency gained the most in a week as the
ruling party retained power with 81 out of 87 parliamentary
seats after facing the biggest electoral battle.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong won by a record-low 60.1
percent margin, down from 66.6 percent in 2006 and 75.3 percent
in the 2001 polls. While the May 7 election led to the defeat of
Foreign Affairs Minister George Yeo, it was better than the
Straits Times newspaper’s worst-case  scenario  of the possible
loss of 14 seats from three multiple-seat group districts.  “There has been concern among investors that if you have a
big opposition win, there might be some policy discontinuity and
that could be bad for the market,” Tham Mun Hon, Hong Kong-
based regional strategist at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Now you don’t have
that issue, the market should be biased to the upside.”  The benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  climbed 1.2 percent to
close at 3,136.94 in Singapore, rebounding from a 2.5 percent
loss in the week leading to the weekend polls. The  Singapore
dollar  rose 0.2 percent to S$1.2329, the biggest advance since
April 29, after falling 0.8 percent last week.  The opposition, which tripled its seats, has called for
more limits on the influx of foreign workers and urged steps to
contain record home prices. The city’s success has fueled wider
 income inequality , with the world’s highest share of dollar-
millionaire households adding to pressure on consumer prices.
The  Workers’ Party ’s victory included the opposition’s first-
ever group constituency of five candidates.  Property Stocks Rebound  Property stocks including  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT)  led declines in the run-up to the election
amid concern there will be increased pressure to rein in home
prices. CapitaLand, the nation’s biggest developer, dropped 3.5
percent last week, while rival City Developments Ltd. lost 5.1
percent, both posting their biggest weekly losses since the five
days ended March 18.  CapitaLand gained 0.3 percent to S$3.23, and City
Developments increased 2.7 percent to S$11.54, the biggest gain
since March 25.  Singapore in January raised down payment requirements for
second mortgages and extended the period homeowners must hold
properties to avoid a  sales tax  as it intensified efforts to
curb speculation after prices rose to a record. The government
has been attempting to rein in  home prices  since 2009 when it
barred interest-only loans for some housing projects.  ‘Fundamental Rethinking’  “There could be a fundamental rethinking of government
policies, with the opposition gaining influence,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. “In the past decade, the government has been very pro-
business, opting to cut costs for companies rather than
supporting individuals during times of crisis.”  The ruling party’s loss of its first multiple-seat district
in Aljunied meant the departure of Yeo. Opposition groups
contested a record 82 of 87 seats. The five-seat constituency of
 Lee Kuan Yew , 87, the Cambridge University-trained lawyer who
led the island from British rule and became its first premier,
was the only one not contested.  “Investors will be comforted that even though the
opposition has more seats, the PAP is still in charge and that
many of the government’s policies will continue,” said Vasu Menon, vice-president of  wealth management  at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp., Singapore’s second-largest lender. “But clearly,
they now have to listen to the people and tweak some of their
policies accordingly.”  Drive for Growth  Singapore’s drive for growth in the past decade has
included the opening of two casino-resorts and bringing the
Formula One race to the island to boost tourism. More than a
third of Singapore’s 5.1 million population is made up of
foreigners and permanent residents, whose growing numbers have
led to increased competition for housing, jobs and education.  Smaller than  New York City  and without natural resources,
Singapore’s gross domestic product was about S$285 billion ($231
billion) last year, compared with S$6.9 billion in  1960 . GDP
surged 14.5 percent last year, the most in  Asia . Singapore is
the only Asian country with AAA ratings from Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “Your votes tell the world that Singapore is not just an
economic success to you,” Low Thia Khiang, who led the Workers’
Party with a record of six opposition seats in Parliament, said
in his victory speech yesterday. “You want a more caring
political leadership that truly listens to every Singaporean.”  Growth ‘Dividend’  The government said it hasn’t neglected its citizens for
the sake of growth. In this year’s budget, the government plans
to spend S$6.6 billion on benefits to ease the burden of
inflation, and is distributing cash to all adult citizens as a
“dividend” from record growth.  “Generally people should feel that their wealth increased,
but people may still feel poor if they cannot afford housing,”
said Gabriel Yap, executive chairman of GCP Global Pte, an
investment management firm, who was a stockbroker in the city-
state for more than a decade. “Even if they can afford their
homes, people essentially spend a lifetime paying off their
mortgage. So where is the quality of life?”  Singapore stocks and the currency were also be lifted by
stronger-than-forecast growth in jobs in the U.S., bolstering
confidence in the world’s largest economy and Singapore’s
second-biggest export market. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 0.4 percent on May 6 after the data. S&P 500 Futures
gained as much as 0.8 percent today.  “It’s a relief to the market,” said Craig Chan, a
Singapore-based Asia foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “The PAP still holds a massive majority, more
than what the opposition was hoping for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  