-- 
Syrian Forces Detain Homs Residents Amid Gunfire, Activist Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-08T10:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/syrian-government-detains-homs-residents-as-tanks-ring-city-activists-say.html
Syrian security forces deployed in the
central city of Homs overnight and detained residents, hours
after six protesters, including four women, were shot and killed
in the port city of Banias, a local activist said today.  Heavy gunfire was heard in Homs, home to one of the
country’s two refineries, during the night, Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone
interview from Damascus.  “The situation is tense. Communications and power have
been cut and tanks are ringing the city,” Merhi said. “It has
not been possible to determine the number of people detained.”  Anti-regime protests in  Syria  have persisted for almost two
months, presenting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with the
most serious challenge to his 11-year rule. Assad’s promises of
reform have failed to quell the demonstrations that were
inspired by uprisings that ousted rulers in  Tunisia  and Egypt
earlier this year.  Syrian tanks stormed Banias on May 7, Merhi said. They were
met by protesters linked in human chains to block the advance,
 Agence France-Presse  reported.  Human rights group  Insan  reported that at least 632 people
have been confirmed dead and 2,843 detained since Syria’s unrest
began. The detainees include activists, family members of
demonstrators, including minors, and people seen taking pictures
of the events with mobile phones, Insan said on its website.  Hasan Abdul-Azim, 81, a spokesman for the opposition
Democratic National Group, and Riad Seif, 65, a political
activist and former member of parliament, were among those
arrested, according to Merhi.  Humanitarian Aid  Assad is blaming the protests on foreign-led conspirators.
He has appointed a new government, ended emergency rule that had
been in place since 1963 and promised reforms. He has also
allowed humanitarian aid into the country, according to United
Nations spokesman Farhan Haq, and Red Cross and Red Crescent
help began arriving May 6.  Unrest has spread throughout the Middle East and North
Africa in recent months, toppling or threatening regimes in
 Egypt , Tunisia, Bahrain,  Libya  and Yemen.  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh, whose country has
been shaken by anti-government protests since Feb. 11, called on
the military to “raise the security alert in the country and
deal firmly with anyone seeking to harm Yemen’s security and
stability,” the official Saba news agency reported yesterday.  Saleh’s remarks were made during a meeting with military
and security forces commanders that focused on the “negative
impacts” of the unrest.  Yemen Timetable  Yemen’s ruling General People’s Congress offered a new
timetable for Saleh to relinquish power, Mohammed al-Mutawakkil,
a member of the opposition Joint Meeting Parties’ higher
council, said yesterday in a telephone interview from the
capital, Sana’a.  According to the proposal, senior ruling party members
would sign a previously agreed deal with the opposition and then
Saleh will endorse it, al-Mutawakkil said.  The country’s ruling and opposition parties were scheduled
to sign the accord on May 1, in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh . That
ceremony was canceled after Saleh said he would sign the
agreement in his capacity as chairman of the ruling council, not
in his role as president.  That was unacceptable to the opposition Joint Meeting
Parties, representing six opposition groups, Al-Mutawakkil said.
“It makes no sense,” he said. “The president has said he’s
willing to step down, so why doesn’t he sign the agreement as
president?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ; 