-- 
U.K. First-Time Homebuyers Become Less Pessimistic on House-Price Outlook

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/u-k-first-time-homebuyers-call-bottom-of-market-report-says.html
British first-time homebuyers have
become less pessimistic about property values as a growing
number call the “bottom of the market,”  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Thirty-three percent of people who intend to purchase their
first property in the coming 12 months said prices will be
higher in a year, the operator of Britain’s biggest property
website said in an e-mailed report in London today, citing an
April survey. That compares with 22 percent in January.  It “appears to indicate more first-time buyers are calling
the bottom of the market,” said  Miles Shipside , commercial
director of Rightmove. “A significantly higher proportion of
them now believe prices are set to increase over the next 12
months and so are perhaps looking to enter the  property market 
in greater numbers before their affordability deteriorates.”  U.K. house prices have declined in the past year as the
biggest budget squeeze since World War II and accelerating
inflation undermines consumer confidence and hurts housing
demand. At the same time, tougher lending rules are forcing
buyers to raise bigger deposits to buy homes.  Rightmove said that among those planning to purchase a home
in the next year, 26 percent are first-time buyers, up 3
percentage points since January. Still, that’s below the level
seen as needed for the “long-term health” of the housing
market, it said.  Job Security   Separate reports today showed Britons became less
pessimistic about their employment prospects in April, while
companies’ inflation expectations rose to the highest in almost
2 1/2 years.  A job-security index by Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
increased 9 points to a 12-month high of minus 18 last month. An
employment prospects gauge climbed to a seven-month high, the
unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said.  A measure of inflation expectations among businesses for
the next three months gained to 108.5, the highest level since
November 2008, from 106.2 in March, accountancy firm BDO LLP
said. A reading of more than 100 indicates companies expect
inflation will be above its average trend and exceed the central
bank’s 2 percent target.  An index of estimated business output for the next three
months fell to 97.6 from 99.3, BDO said. A reading above 95
signifies expansion.  The most recent first-time homebuyer data are part of
Rightmove’s first-quarter consumer-confidence survey, which
questioned 26,240 people between April 4 and April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  