-- 
Huawei Climbs ‘Food Chain’ in Cisco Enterprise Challenge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-09T08:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/huawei-moves-up-the-food-chain-in-cisco-enterprise-challenge.html
Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
largest telephone-network equipment maker, is banking on the
rising mergers of computer and communication networks to narrow
its gap with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in data routers and switches.  “Cisco is clearly the leader in this domain, but we also
believe changes are happening,” Leon He, president of solution
sales at Huawei’s enterprise business unit, said in an interview
in Shenzhen, China. “When those changes occur, the current
market and customer needs will change.”  Huawei is expanding beyond its traditional business of
supplying equipment for phone networks as it strives to more
than triple sales to $100 billion in the next 10 years. The push
to win more orders from businesses and government agencies may
pose its biggest threat to Cisco and bolster Huawei in the U.S.,
where its bids for acquisitions were thwarted.  The time is right for Huawei to push into the enterprise
market because of the opportunities created by businesses and
governments merging their audio-visual systems with telephone
and computer networks for functions including video
conferencing, He said. The potential market is in the
“trillions of dollars,” Senior Vice President John Roese said
in  Shanghai  on April 27.  ‘Food Chain’  “Huawei is definitely moving up the food chain,” Sandeep Shyamsukha, an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in San Francisco, said.
“As their products get better and their pricing remains
aggressive they can take away market share from other players,”
said Shyamsukha, who has a “hold” rating on Cisco and doesn’t
own the shares.  Bidding for enterprise business will mean more head-to-head
competition with  San Jose , California-based Cisco.  “Enterprise is our core capability,” Cisco Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  told investors at a technology
forum on April 7. “We’re an enterprise company. That’s where we
started.”  The enterprise business and public sector contribute about
46 percent to Cisco’s sales, Chambers said. David McCulloch, a
spokesman for Cisco, declined to comment.  “The market Huawei sees is huge,” Huawei’s He said. “If
we digitize, we will bring a revolution. When the shift occurs
from digital to smart networks, that will be another
revolution.”  Sharpening Focus  Cisco’s shares have declined 33 percent in the past year,
trailing the 16 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
as the company struggled to maintain its historic levels of
profitability amid an expansion into more than 30 side
businesses such as smart grids, home networking and digital
music hosting.  Cisco’s Chambers has promised to sharpen the network-
equipment maker’s focus. The company overhauled management May 5
to concentrate on three regions and rein in its council-style
management structure. Last month, the company said it will shut
its Flip video-camera unit and cut 550 jobs.  “Cisco’s issues recently could open up some opportunities
for Huawei,” said Duncan Clark, chairman of Beijing-based BDA
 China , which advises technology companies. We’ve seen Huawei’s
margin-sucking abilities and they may be applying that to the
enterprise segment.’’  U.S. Concerns  Huawei has faced concerns from U.S. lawmakers about
security risks from the Chinese company, which it says are
unfounded. The company failed in its bids to acquire  Santa
Clara , California-based 3Leaf Systems’s patents this year, 2Wire
and Motorola’s wireless business last year, and 3Com Corp. in
2008.  The Chinese company has seen its global share of switches
and routers sold to carriers and telecommunication companies
rise to 12 percent last year from 2 percent in 2005, according
to Matt Walker, a  Chiang Mai , Thailand-based analyst at
telecommunications consultant Ovum. Cisco’s share of that market
has dropped to 41 percent, from 49 percent, over the same
period, Walker estimates.  Huawei said last month it will seek supply contracts with
 Australia ’s A$36 billion ($39 billion) government-backed
national broadband network.  The company had less success cracking the market for
enterprise routers, where Cisco still holds 81.8 percent of the
market in the fourth quarter of last year, compared with fourth-
placed Huawei’s 2.5 percent share, according to  Redwood City ,
California-based Dell’Oro Group.  Doubling Sales  Huawei aims to double annual sales at its enterprise group
to $4 billion this year, from $2 billion last year, He said.
Within three to five years sales will more than triple again to
between $15 and $20 billion, He said. Huawei’s Roese said the
company is moving 10,000 employees into the new enterprise
division, including 6,000 research and development staff. That’s
about 9 percent of the company’s 110,000 staff worldwide.  The initiative is being led by William Xu Wenwei, one of
four executive directors on the company’s 13-member board,
according to its annual report released last month.  Given Cisco’s track record, it’d be foolish to write the
company off, said Tim Savageaux, an analyst at Terrapin Research
in  San Francisco .  “Companies very rarely go from being bellwether, genius,
best-in-category to complete and utter idiots in the space of a
few quarters” said Savageaux, who has covered the industry for
17 years and doesn’t own shares of the company. “You take Cisco
lightly at your peril.”  Rivalry  Huawei set up its U.S. business in Plano,  Texas , in 2001 as
the company founded in 1987 by Chief Executive Officer Ren Zhengfei began going global. The company was sued by Cisco in
2003 for copying software and infringing patents. That lawsuit
was settled in 2004 after Huawei agreed to stop selling some
products and alter some designs.  In 2003, Huawei formed a joint venture with Cisco rival
3Com Corp., and sold its stake three years later. Huawei formed
a joint venture with  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  in 2007 that blended
Huawei’s storage and security hardware with Symantec’s software.  Huawei will be a threat with its renewed focus on
enterprise, and tends to be “very price disruptive” entering a
new market, said Mark Fabbi, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in
Uxbridge,  Canada .  “You can’t throw 1,000 engineers at a problem that might
bear fruit five years from now,” Fabbi said. “Huawei can.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  