-- 
Won May Advance Under New Finance Head, Hyundai Securities Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-08T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/won-may-advance-under-new-finance-minister-bahk-hyundai-securities-says.html
South Korea ’s won may extend gains
after President Lee Myung Bak proposed a change in finance
minister that will keep the inflation fight high on the
government’s priority list, according to Hyundai Securities Co.  Labor Minister Bahk Jae Wan, who served as Lee’s secretary
for state affairs for more than two years until July 2010, was
nominated finance chief in a May 6 reshuffle that affected four
other Cabinet posts. He will take over from Yoon Jeung Hyun
before June, once the appointment has been approved by
parliament, the president’s office said. Consumer-price gains
exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling in each of the
last four months and Lee on Jan. 4  called for “a war against
inflation” to protect low-income households.  “The new finance minister will likely focus on controlling
prices initially, in line with government policy, which means
the won may strengthen more,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based
economist at Hyundai Securities. “It would still be difficult
for any minister to let the won gain too rapidly as he seeks a
balance between price controls and economic growth.”  The won appreciated 28 percent against the greenback since
Yoon took office in February 2009, a performance second only to
 Indonesia ’s rupiah among  Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He said last month that
gains in the currency, which hit a 32-month high a week ago,
“would have a stabilizing effect” on import costs while also
having “some impact on the price competitiveness of exports.”  End of Term  Yoon, 64, has served as finance minister for more than twice
as long as his predecessor, Kang Man Soo, the first person to
hold the office after the Lee administration began in February
2008. The average term for a vice minister or minister in South
 Korea  to stay in the same job is 15 months, according to an
October statement from ruling party lawmaker You Jung Hyun, who
analyzed data on 836 Cabinet officials since 1993.  The government is “going all out” to limit price gains,
which are among the biggest risks to the economy, Yoon said in a
May 3 interview in Hanoi.  The  Bank of Korea  projected on April 13 that consumer
prices will rise 3.9 percent this year, close to the 4 percent
upper limit it’s targeting through 2012, while economic growth
will slow to 4.5 percent from 6.2 percent in 2010. The monetary
authority is expected to raise  interest rates  by a quarter of a
percentage point to 3.25 percent at a May 13 meeting, according
to nine out of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Harvard Educated  Bahk, 56, worked as a civil servant for 16 years, mostly at
the Board of Audit and Inspection, before becoming a Grand
National Party lawmaker between 2004 and 2008. He earned his
master’s and doctor’s degrees in public policy from  Harvard
University .  Bahk has demonstrated the ability “to resolve problems and
propose solutions at all his previous posts,” Lee’s Chief of
Staff Yim Tae Hee told reporters on May 6.  Vice Labor Minister Lee Chae Pil will be promoted to
replace Bahk as labor minister, and Former Vice Agricultural
Minister Suh Kyu Yong will succeed Yoo Jeong Bok as agricultural
minister, according to the May 6 statement from the president’s
office.  Kwon Do Youp, former first vice minister for land and
transport, will become the new land minister and Yoo Young Sook,
a senior researcher of the Korea Institute of Science and
Technology, will be the next environment minister.  The changes are subject to confirmation hearings in the
National Assembly, where the ruling  Grand National Party  holds a
majority of seats. The parliament doesn’t have power to veto the
president’s appointments.  Unification Minister  President Lee decided to retain Unification Minister Hyun
In Taek, in charge of North Korean affairs, on concern that a
replacement could be “misunderstood as signaling a change in
policy,” Yim said on May 6.  North Korea  has repeatedly called for the replacement of
Hyun, who the state-run Korean  Central News Agency  on March 21
called a “diehard confrontation maniac.” Tensions heightened
on the Korean peninsula after North Korea torpedoed a South
Korean warship in March last year and shelled an island south of
their disputed western sea border in November. The two attacks
killed 50 South Koreans, including two civilians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  