-- 
Typhoon Aere Leaves 9 Dead in Philippines, Floods the Capital

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-05-08T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-08/typhoon-aere-leaves-9-dead-in-philippines-floods-the-capital.html
Typhoon Aere killed nine people as it
pounded eastern provinces of the  Philippines  and brought
flooding to the capital, leaving thousands stranded in ports.  The storm, with maximum winds of 85 kilometers per hour (53
miles an hour), made landfall in Catanduanes yesterday and was
forecast to move to the northern portion of  Luzon  island in the
next two days, according to the 5 p.m. bulletin of the
 Philippine Atmospheric , Geophysical & Astronomical Services
Administration yesterday.  Nine people died and one is missing, the  National Disaster 
Risk Reduction & Management Council said on its 6 p.m. bulletin
yesterday. The list has three people killed in a landslide in
Camarines Sur, said Bicol regional police spokesman Ayn Natuel
in a mobile phone message.  The Philippines is regularly battered by tropical cyclones
that form over the  Pacific Ocean  to the east of the country.
President  Benigno Aquino  last month said the government will
spend 1 billion pesos ($23 million) for a three-dimensional map
of the country to improve its disaster response.  In September 2009, Tropical Storm Ketsana flooded Manila
and parts of Luzon, killing more than 400 people and affecting
almost 5 million, exposing the government to criticisms. Less
than a month since his term started in June 30, Aquino ordered a
review of the nation’s weather forecasting system.  Throwing Garbage  Parts of the capital, an hour-away by plane from
Catanduanes, suffered flooding as deep as 18 inches for as long
as two hours,  Metropolitan Manila Development  Authority Chairman
Francis Tolentino said by phone yesterday.  Water ways in the capital are clogged because of “people
throwing garbage anywhere,” Tolentino said. The state agency
lacks funds to clean drainage after a 62 percent cut in its
budget, prompting Metropolitan  Manila  Development to instead
boost its anti-littering campaign, the chairman said.  Aquino, who attended the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations Summit in Jakarta,  Indonesia  moved his return flight to
Manila to noontime today instead of midnight due to bad weather,
spokeswoman Abigal Valte said.  Pacquiao Fight  More than 5,000 families were evacuated in affected areas
and more than 4,000 people were stranded, the National Disaster
agency said.  Fishermen in Catanduanes were advised yesterday to avoid
going out to sea, provincial police Senior Superintendent Lito
Pitallano said by phone yesterday.  In Albay, a province in eastern Luzon, about 300 families
living near riverbanks were “preemptively evacuated,” Senior
Superintendent William Macavinta said yesterday.  Power supplies had been intermittent in Bicol and people
were anxious because everybody wanted to watch or at least
monitor radio broadcasts of the world welterweight championship
fight between Manny Pacquiao and Shane Mosley, Macavinta said.  Lightning struck an Airbus SAS 320 plane of Philippine
Airlines Inc., injuring six ground staff, ABS-CBN Corp. reported
on its website yesterday.  Editors: Paul Tighe,  Mike Anderson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  