-- Abe Spurs Tripling of Overseas Debt Buying on Yen: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-11-28T01:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/abe-spurs-tripling-of-overseas-debt-buying-on-yen-japan-credit.html
Shinzo Abe, the front-runner to
become  Japan ’s next prime minister, is helping drive an almost
tripling of foreign bond buying by local investors as he calls
for central bank steps to fuel inflation and weaken the yen.  Net purchases of  overseas debt  climbed 285 percent to 15.2
trillion yen ($185 billion) this year through Nov. 17, Ministry
of Finance data show. Japan’s currency dropped 5.1 percent this
quarter, boosting import costs and eroding demand for local
securities. While Japan’s 20-year bond yield has climbed 1 1/2
basis points to 1.66 percent since the end of September, it’s
lower than the 2.3 percent on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  The opposition  Liberal Democratic Party ’s Abe has called on
the  Bank of Japan  to pump unlimited cash into the market to
kindle inflation, sapping demand for longer-dated bonds before
elections next month. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Japan’s 20-year debt instead of 10-year bonds rose to a 13-year
high on Nov. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are going abroad for higher yields because of
declining interest incomes” caused by the BOJ’s monetary
easing, said Shuntaro Take, the deputy general manager for the
corporate accounting and investment department at Tokio Marine &
Nichido Life Insurance Co., which manages about $47 billion in
 Tokyo . “Stronger expectations for effective policies from the
Abe administration would put the yen in a weakening trend,
increasing foreign-bond investments even more.”  BOJ’s Responsibility  Abe, who was the prime minister for a year through
September 2007, said yesterday that the Bank of Japan isn’t
taking responsibility for the real economy. He called for adding
a mandate to spur inflation as part of any changes to the law
governing the central bank. The BOJ aims for annual inflation of
1 percent.  The government “ strongly ” expects the central bank to
continue powerful monetary easing to overcome deflation, while
the bank hopes for measures from the government to strengthen
Japan’s growth potential, Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara ,
Finance Minister Koriki Jojima and BOJ Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa said in a statement on Oct. 30.  A Nikkei newspaper poll on Nov. 16-18 showed that 37
percent of the respondents supported Abe becoming the next prime
minister, compared with 25 percent for Yoshihiko Noda, the
current premier. The nation will hold elections on Dec. 16 for
the lower house of parliament.  “An Abe-led administration may create a bigger flow to
foreign bonds because of possible  capital gains  from exchange
rates on top of yield differentials,” said Shinji Kunibe, chief
portfolio manager for fixed-income investment in Tokyo at Nissay
Asset Management Corp., which oversees the equivalent of $62
billion. “Investors had been unable to foresee any sustainable
yen weakness until recently.”  Fujifilm Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Fujifilm Holdings
Corp. raised 130 billion yen yesterday in its first sale of non-
convertible bonds, the nation’s biggest debt offering by a non-
financial company since March. The Tokyo-based copier and camera
maker issued three tranches, including 60 billion yen of 0.33
percent five-year notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Toho Gas Co., which supplies gas to the Nagoya metropolitan
area in central Japan, offered 10 billion yen of 0.792 percent
10-year debt, according to a statement yesterday from Daiwa
Securities Group Inc.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.14
percent loss this month, compared with a 0.21 percent return for
sovereign notes, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Company debt worldwide has gained 0.13 percent.  BOJ Outlook  The yen dropped to 82.84 per dollar last week, the weakest
since April 4, and traded at 81.95 as of 10:42 a.m. in Tokyo.  Sixteen of 22 economists surveyed this month by  Bloomberg
News  forecast the BOJ will expand monetary easing at its next
meeting on Dec. 19-20. The central bank refrained on Nov. 20
from increasing the 66 trillion-yen asset-purchase program that
buys securities including government debt maturing in three
years or less.  A government auction of two-year notes yesterday drew bids
valued at 13.9 times the amount on offer, near a seven-year
high. The BOJ’s purchases have driven down one- to three-year
yields to about 0.1 percent, almost matching the  rate  that banks
charge each other for overnight loans in the money market.  The nation’s 20-year debt  yields  climbed to 95 basis points
above 10-year securities on Nov. 16, the highest since July
1999, steepening the so-called yield curve. One basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  ‘Substantial Expansion’  “Abe’s remarks on extreme reflationary policy are leading
to speculation of a substantial expansion in the BOJ’s monetary
easing, which is causing short-term yields to fall,” said  Tokio
Marine ’s Take. “This sort of policy may boost inflation
expectations.”  Among the 12 sovereign markets tracked by the Ministry of
Finance, France attracted the most demand from Japanese
investors after the U.S. They bought a net 2.84 trillion yen of
long-term French government debt this year through September.
That would be the largest yearly purchase on record going back
to 2005.  Japanese investors increased holdings of France’s bonds
even after  Standard & Poor’s  in January stripped the nation of
its AAA rating. Moody’s Investors Service followed on Nov. 19,
cutting the nation’s Aaa grade to Aa1 with a negative outlook.  Kokusai’s Holdings  Kokusai Asset Management Co.’s Global Sovereign Open Fund
boosted its  holdings  of  France ’s debt in the year through
October to 2.2 percent of the total after selling them at the
height of the region’s financial woes in 2011, according to
 reports  posted on the company’s website. The $18.2 billion fund
cut German and Dutch debt by 2.2 percentage points and 2.3
percentage points respectively during the same period.  France’s 10-year bonds yield 2.2 percent for Japanese
investors who hedge against a fluctuation in the euro. Rates on
similar-maturity debt in Japan were 0.72 percent today, matching
the nine-year low reached July 23.  “I’m relatively optimistic about  Europe  now because the
region’s debt crisis is unlikely to spark a crash in the
financial market,” said Masataka Horii, who runs  Asia ’s biggest
bond fund at Kokusai in Tokyo. France’s bonds are one of the
sovereign securities he would consider buying if he decides to
add to his euro-holdings, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  