-- Ackman Gets $2 Billion for Public Fund as Clients Convert
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-11-28T19:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ackman-gets-2-billion-for-public-fund-as-clients-convert.html
Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP received $2.2 billion in commitments for a
new fund that will eventually be publicly traded, he said in a
letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  The money is coming primarily from existing investors who
elected to convert some or all of their investment in Pershing
Square funds, Ackman wrote in the letter, dated Nov. 26.
Pershing Square Holdings Ltd. will be a “publicly traded
permanent capital vehicle” that will ultimately be listed on
the  London  Stock Exchange, Ackman said.  Pershing Square joins hedge funds such as Brevan Howard
Asset Management LLP in London and Third Point LLC in New York
in selling shares in individual funds. By having a publicly
traded fund, investors can increase or reduce their stake
without affecting the fund’s holdings, allowing fund managers to
make investments with a longer-term horizon.  “Our principal goal in launching PSH was to convert
existing capital to an eventual permanent form,” Ackman said in
the letter. “With more stable capital, we can increase the
proportion of our capital in the core active investment strategy
which has historically generated much higher returns than our
passive holdings.”  Pershing Square received commitments from more than 120
investors, Ackman said. More than half of the committed capital
came from U.S. investors and the rest from offshore clients. The
firm has to increase assets in the new fund to a minimum of $3
billion in order to publicly list it. The company aims to grow
the proportion of assets from offshore investors to a
“substantial majority” of the fund, he said.  Ackman didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  