-- Thailand Holds Policy Rate as Economic Data Signal Recovery
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-11-28T08:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/thai-central-bank-holds-rate-as-economic-data-point-to-recovery.html
Thailand  kept its policy interest
rate unchanged today after an unexpected cut last month, and
signaled it may be done with easing as data show the economy is
improving after last year’s floods.  The Bank of Thailand held its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 2.75 percent, it said in Bangkok today. The outcome was
predicted by 16 of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey, while
the rest called for a quarter-point reduction. The monetary
policy committee’s decision was unanimous, the central bank said.  Thai manufacturing and exports increased in October, adding
to signs from the U.S. and  China  of a recovery in the global
economy. While the central bank last month lowered its growth
forecast for 2013, it said today risks to expansion have
subsided, and that it doesn’t see much need for more rate cuts.  “Although the recovery seems to be slowing, the economy
continued to expand,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “There’s no pressing reason
for them to cut, especially when the economy has started to
expand again. I think they are probably already done with the
easing cycle.”  The  Thai baht  fell 0.1 percent to 30.71 per dollar as of
3:41 p.m. in Bangkok today. The benchmark Stock Exchange of
Thailand index gained 0.3 percent.  Manufacturing Gains  Some Asian officials have restrained their stimulus efforts
as global expansion slowed, while others have refrained from
interest-rate cuts to preserve firepower should  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsen. The Philippines today reported  gross domestic
product  rose a better-than-estimated 7.1 percent last quarter,
while  India  may say on Nov. 30 that GDP increased 5.3 percent.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has extended fuel
subsidies and introduced wage increases after last year’s floods
to spur domestic demand and offset weaker exports. Auto
production hit a record 252,165 units last month as
manufacturers including Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp.
increased output, encouraged by the government’s tax incentives.  Thai GDP increased 3 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, after expanding a revised 4.4 percent in the
previous quarter, the government said last week. Still,
 manufacturing  jumped 36.1 percent in October from a year earlier,
when the floods shuttered thousands of factories, while  exports 
rose 15.6 percent, the fastest pace in more than a year.  “With the current economic data, there is not much need
for further easing,” Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told a news conference today. “Private
consumption and investment would continue to be the main growth
drivers for the economy, supported by strong private-sector
confidence and accommodative monetary conditions.”  Political Risk  The central bank last month lowered its growth forecast for
next year to 4.6 percent, while maintaining its prediction for
this year at 5.7 percent. It lowered its inflation estimate for
2013 to 2.8 percent from 3.4 percent.  Yingluck’s government today survived a no-confidence vote
in Parliament, following a debate over her administration’s
handling of the economy and allegations of corruption in a state
rice program, four days after an anti-government protest.  “The political risk is always there for Thailand,” said
Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “As long as the protest doesn’t flare up to disrupt
economic activities, the economy should be quite safe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  