-- Malaysia Airports May Bid to Run China, Indonesia Facilities
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-11-29T04:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/malaysia-airports-may-bid-to-run-china-indonesia-facilities.html
Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB) , the
operator of Kuala Lumpur’s international airport, may bid to run
facilities in  China  and  Indonesia  because of rising travel
demand in the Asian nations.  The two countries are “growth areas” and in need of
airport upgrades, Managing Director Bashir Ahmad Abdul Majid
said in a Nov. 27 interview in Sepang, near Kuala Lumpur. He
declined to comment further on its bidding plans. The company
already has operations in India and  Turkey .  The airport operator is also in talks to build a theme park
and golf course on land near airfields in  Malaysia  as it works
on boosting  earnings  70 percent in the five years through 2014.
The company has already surpassed its Malaysian passenger goal
for the period as low-cost carriers led by  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  help
make flying affordable to more people in the region.  The company is “on track” to meet its goal of increasing
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to 1 billion ringgit ($328 million) in 2014, Bashir said. It
expects to handle 70 million passengers a year in Malaysia by
2014, compared with a previous low-end forecast of 60 million,
he said. The company handled 64 million last year, he said.  Maldives Airport  Separately, the company said yesterday it is studying its
legal position after a venture with Bangalore, India-based GMR
Group was stripped of the right to run an airport in the
Maldives. The island nation’s new government faulted how the
contract was awarded in 2010 by then-Prime Minister Mohamed Nasheed, who was ousted in February. Malaysia Airports owns 23
percent of the operating venture.  Malaysia Airports rose as much 4.4 percent to 5.42 ringgit,
the biggest gain since Dec. 28, and was trading at 5.39 ringgit
as of 12:29 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur. The shares have fallen 6.9
percent this year  compared  with a 5.3 percent advance in the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI  Index. (FBMKLCI)   At Kuala Lumpur International, the airport operator plans
to woo three or four new airlines a year, Bashir said. Air
France and Malindo Air, a planned budget carrier backed by PT
Lion Mentari Airlines, will begin flying from the airport next
year.  The company is in talks with domestic and overseas
businesses as it looks to develop 6,000 acres (2,400 hectares)
of land surrounding its airports, Bashir said. He declined to
comment further on the golf and theme park plans. It has agreed
to build a factory-outlet mall on a 50-acre site near Kuala
Lumpur airport with Mitsui Fudosan Co. Ltd, a Tokyo-listed real
estate company.  Bashir declined to comment on whether Malaysia Airports
will bid to buy Stansted Airport in  England . The Sunday
Telegraph reported Nov. 25 that the company will join a group
including Manchester Airport Group to bid for the facility. It
didn’t give say how it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  