-- Allstate Says October Disasters Cost $1 Billion Led by Sandy
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-28T14:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/allstate-says-sandy-led-1-08-billion-in-october-disaster-claims.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. auto and home insurer, said catastrophes cost $1.08
billion before taxes in October as superstorm Sandy lashed
states including New York and  New Jersey .  The projection is net of reinsurance, Northbrook, Illinois-
based Allstate said today in a statement. Autos represented
about 40 percent of the $1.28 billion gross loss. New York
accounted for 66 percent of the claims, followed by New Jersey
at 20 percent. The insurer had made about $340 million in
payments as of Nov. 26, according to the statement.  Allstate joins insurers and reinsurers in tallying losses
from Sandy, which killed more than 100 people, cut off
electricity to 8 million customers and damaged homes, vehicles,
businesses and public infrastructure in the U.S. Northeast.
Projecting costs involves determining whether damage was caused
by flooding, which usually isn’t covered under homeowners’
policies, said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “The claims that are the easiest are when a house blows
over,” Dwelle said before Allstate’s announcement. “They want
to adjudicate them as fairly as they can,” he said in a phone
interview. “But likewise, they don’t want to pay what they
don’t owe.”  Allstate rose 0.4 percent to $40.37 at 9:32 a.m. in New
York. The insurer has climbed 47 percent this year compared with
the 11 percent gain in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   The insurer typically discloses monthly catastrophe figures
on the third Thursday of the following month when the cost
exceeds $150 million. Allstate said Nov. 15 that it would need
more time than usual to calculate October’s result.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said
this week that it may pay $900 million in claims related to
Sandy. Total market losses could be as much as $25 billion, the
Zurich-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  