-- Amgen Therapy Slims Monkeys as Study Seeks Obesity Drug
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/amgen-therapy-slims-monkeys-as-study-seeks-obesity-drug.html
An antibody discovered by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) 
researchers reduces weight and increases glucose tolerance in
monkeys, according to a study, potentially opening up a new
approach for treating obesity and diabetes in humans.  The obese monkeys lost about 10 percent of their body
weight during the 11-week trial, according to the study, which
was paid for by Amgen and published today by the  journal  Science
Translational Medicine. The drug also lowered insulin, glucose
and triglyceride levels.  “This type of antibody has not been described before,”
Yang Li, an author of the study and scientific director at
Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen, said in an interview.
“The significance of the antibody, even just finding it,
expands our view of what antibodies could potentially do.”  The antibody mimics a metabolic hormone naturally produced
in humans called Fibroblast growth factor 21.   FGF21 , which
regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, has also been called the
“starvation hormone” because it’s secreted by the liver during
fasting.  A separate  study  by researchers at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in  Dallas  found that mice bred to
overproduce FGF21 received the benefits of dieting without
having to diet. They also lived 30 percent to 40 percent longer
than their peers who weren’t genetically modified. A side effect
was a loss in bone density.  Making a drug from FGF21 itself has proven challenging,
because its effect lasts only an hour or so when injected, Li
said. The new antibody, dubbed mimAb1, was given in two
injections over the course of the trial and its effects lasted
for weeks, Li said.  Obesity Data  More than 78 million U.S. adults are  obese , according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The condition
raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and stroke, and
costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in
medical expenses and lost productivity, the Atlanta-based agency
says on its website.  The  Food and Drug Administration  this year approved its
first new obesity drugs,  Vivus Inc.’s (VVUS)  Qsymia and  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s (ARNA)  Belviq, since Roche Holding AG’s Xenical
in 1999.  Diabetes, caused by the body’s inability to sufficiently
produce the insulin needed to convert blood sugar into energy,
affects almost 26 million Americans, or 8 percent of the  U.S.
population , according to the CDC  Li said it’s too early to say whether Amgen will pursue
testing the antibody in humans.  “These profound effects are quite encouraging, and we are
currently still evaluating these results,” Li said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  