-- Manchester United Wins in Premier League; Chelsea Ties Again
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/manchester-teams-win-in-premier-league-chelsea-ties-with-fulham.html
Manchester United beat West Ham 1-0
to stay atop English soccer’s Premier League as Chelsea played a
second straight goalless draw for interim coach Rafael Benitez.  Robin van Persie  scored after 33 seconds as United
maintained its one-point lead over defending champion Manchester
City, which beat Wigan 2-0. The Manchester rivals were the only
teams among the top six entering last night to win last night.  “We got the three points and are still ahead in the
league,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said on the club’s
website. “City are still on our tails and it’s going to be a
long season.”  Swansea beat West Brom 3-1, Everton and Arsenal drew 1-1,
Tottenham beat Liverpool 2-1, Southampton tied Norwich 1-1 and
Stoke defeated Newcastle 2-1 in the night’s other games.  Van Persie’s goal at Old Trafford was the fastest in the
league this season. It was his 12th score since moving from
Arsenal in August.  Van Persie  took a pass from Michael Carrick at the edge of
the area, turned past defender Winston Reid and sent a shot that
looped off James Collins and over goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen
into the net.  West Ham’s Kevin Nolan then re-directed a corner kick into
the side of the net and Andy Carroll sent a volley over the goal.
Jaaskelainen saved against  Javier Hernandez  and  Wayne Rooney  in
the second half, while United keeper Anders Lindegaard stopped a
close-range chance late from Carlton Cole.  ‘Hard Night’  “It was a hard night and we played a lot of good football
but we never quite finished them off,” Ferguson said. “West
Ham fought hard and made it difficult for us.”  Second-half goals from  Mario Balotelli  and James Milner
helped Manchester City keep pace with United. Balotelli scored
his first league goal in the 69th minute and Milner clinched the
victory three minutes later with a blast from 25 yards (22
meters) out.  “We found it quite tough going in the first half, but
ground it out in the second half and that’s a great three
points,” City’s Gareth Barry told Sky Sports.  The victory extends City’s unbeaten run to 20 Premier
League matches dating back to last season.  Chelsea fans booed after the home team’s 0-0 draw against
Fulham at Stamford Bridge. The Blues also tied Manchester City
three days ago as Benitez was given a hostile reception by the
fans, who were upset that Roberto di Matteo was fired a week ago
after leading the club to the Champions League and F.A. Cup
titles last season.  “You always want to win,” Benitez said in an interview
with the British Broadcasting Corp. “It was not an easy game,
but we still have to improve.”  Chelsea Third  The draw moved Chelsea into third place on goal difference
over West Brom, with both teams on 26 points. Wayne Routledge
scored two goals and Miguel Michu had one as Swansea ended West
Brom’s four-match winning streak.  Aaron Lennon  and  Gareth Bale  scored at White Hart Lane in
north London as Tottenham ended Liverpool’s eight-game unbeaten
run in the league. The victory moved Spurs into fifth place over
Everton and Arsenal, who drew at Goodison Park.  Theo Walcott opened the scoring for the Gunners after 52
seconds and  Marouane Fellaini  answered for Everton in the 28th
minute. It was the sixth tie in eight matches for the Toffees.  Goals from  Jonathan Walters  and  Cameron Jerome  late in the
second half gave Stoke the win over Newcastle. Robert Snodgrass’s goal just before halftime earned Norwich the away
draw at Southampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net . 