-- Ban on Anchored Strokes Proposed by Golf Rulemakers in 2016
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-11-28T14:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/anchored-putters-to-be-banned-from-golf-starting-in-three-years.html
Golfers won’t be able to make
strokes with a club anchored to their bodies under a proposal by
the sport’s rulemakers sparked by changes in putting.  A stroke in which the putter’s butt-end is rested against a
player’s body to create a pendulum-like swing has been used by
players to win three of golf’s last five major tournaments.  While the clubs -- including long-handled and so-called
belly putters -- wouldn’t be banned, their intended method of
use would be under the rule proposed to take effect in 2016  “This is all about the stroke,”  Mike Davis , executive
director of the U.S. Golf Association, said during a media
conference call. “We believe a player should hold the club away
from the body and swing it freely.”  The leaders of the USGA and the Royal & Ancient Golf Club
of  Scotland , and their respective rules and equipment directors,
disclosed the decision this morning.  The long putter has been a boon to club manufacturers
battling a drop in a marketplace worth almost $150 million.
While long clubs can still be used, a ban on anchoring likely
would make some of them less effective and draw opposition from
club makers.  The two groups said they consulted with legal advisers
before drafting the proposed rule.  “Shame on us if we’re scared of litigation,” Davis said.
“We can’t make that part of our decision. We understand that
there will be certain players who aren’t happy about this.”  Sagging Sales  Putter companies have struggled to sell clubs in the last
decade. In 2011, sales of putters at golf courses and in golf-
specific shops accounted for $141.3 million, down 30 percent
from $200 million in 2003, according to data provided by
Kissimmee, Florida-based Golf Datatech. It was the ninth
straight year of declining sales.  While belly anchored putters have been around for two
decades, their use was mostly limited to players on the 50-and-
over senior tours. Their popularity has increased among junior
golfers and PGA Tour players in recent years, drawing concern.
In 2012, 15 percent of professional golfers used anchored
putters, up from 6 percent from 2006 through 2010, the two
groups said.  The rule, which will be reviewed for three months before a
final decision is made, would apply to strokes used with any
club on the course, not just putters, the two groups said.  Woods’s Support  A ban on anchor-style strokes has been supported by many of
the games top players, including  Arnold Palmer  and 14-time major
tournament winner  Tiger Woods .  “The art of putting is swinging the club and controlling
nerves,” Woods told reporters yesterday at the World Challenge
event in  Thousand Oaks ,  California . “Having it as a fixed
point, as I was saying all year, is something that’s not in the
traditions of the game. We swing all other 13 clubs. The putter
should be the same.”  The decision won’t take effect until Jan. 1, 2016, when the
newest edition of the Rules of Golf will be published. It will
affect players worldwide, from millionaire professionals to
weekend duffers, as well as a club-making industry that has
struggled through the last decade.  Peter Dawson , chief executive of the  St. Andrews , Scotland-
based R&A, said his group and the Far Hills, New Jersey-based
USGA are focused on a player’s stroke, not the club itself.  ‘Integral’ Stroke  “Anchored strokes have very rapidly become the preferred
stroke of a number of players,” Dawson said. “Our conclusion
is that anchored strokes threaten to supplant traditional
strokes, which with all of their frailties, are integral to the
longstanding character of our sport.”  A violation of the rule during play would result in a two-
stroke penalty or a loss of the hole if used during head-to-head
match play.  In the last two years, professionals Keegan Bradley,  Webb Simpson  and Ernie Els have won major championships using putters
anchored to their body. Guan Tianglang, a 14-year-old Chinese
golfer, used a so-called belly putter to win the Asia-Pacific
Amateur Championship this month, earning a spot in April’s
 Masters Tournament . He will be the youngest competitor in the
history of the event, the first major of the golf season and the
only one never won with an anchored putter.  The USGA sets the rules for the U.S. and  Mexico , while the
R&A covers the rest of the golf world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  