-- Apollo Latest Fund Offers Clients Bigger Share of Fees
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-11-28T16:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/apollo-latest-fund-offers-clients-bigger-share-of-fees.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , will give investors a
larger share of fees levied on companies held in its next
flagship fund, according to a marketing document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Apollo Investment Fund VIII LP, which is seeking $12
billion, will direct 80 percent of fees it charges portfolio
companies to clients, the document shows. The prior fund, which
raised $14.7 billion in 2008, offered 68 percent, according to
the limited-partnership agreement for that fund. The share
credited to investors is used to pay down the management fee
owed to New York-based Apollo.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates, declined to comment on the fund terms.  Private-equity firms charge the companies they own fees for
services including consulting, investment banking and advice.
Some clients have protested the fees, saying they reduce the
value of holdings and provide a source of revenue for firms that
isn’t linked to  investment performance .  In response, buyout firms have increased the portion of the
fees going to investors to as much as 100 percent as they
compete for money in a crowded fundraising environment. Firms
have been less willing to make broad concessions on management
fees, which are based on fund assets, even as they offer
discounts to win large commitments and to encourage investors to
join initial closes.  Large Commitments  Apollo is keeping its management fee consistent with the
prior fund, charging 1.5 percent on the first $7 billion in
commitments and 1 percent on total pledges that surpass $7
billion. It will give fee breaks for larger commitments,
reducing the management fee by 10 basis points a year for checks
of $250 million and by 20 basis points for $500 million.A basis
point is one hundredth of a percent.  Under the fund terms, the firm can decide to add other
thresholds for other investors.  The fund will take 20 percent of investment profit, the
same as its predecessor, after an 8 percent preferred return is
met.  The new fund will invest in distressed assets, corporate
carve-outs and opportunistic buyouts. Apollo believes it can
find value in distressed debt as the economic environment
remains uncertain. It’s also focusing more on specialized
buyouts such as carve-outs of company units and “investments
that are less correlated to broader economic trends,” the firm
said in a cover letter accompanying the documents. It likes
natural resources, saying it can purchase physical assets at
discounts to where they trade in the financial markets.  Investment Returns  Founded in 1990, Apollo managed $110 billion of assets as
of Sept. 30. The firm’s private-equity funds have generated a 25
percent net internal rate of return since inception, according
to the sales documents.  Fund VII was generating a 26 percent return rate as of
Sept. 30, after taking advantage of distressed opportunities
that arose from the 2008 financial crisis. The firm’s $10.1
billion Fund VI, which invested during the buyout boom from 2006
to 2008, was producing an 8 percent internal return.  The firm realized $27 billion of proceeds and had an
additional $11 billion of value in publicly trade investments as
of Nov. 1 across its last three funds, according to the cover
letter. Over the last 18 months, those funds have realized about
$8 billion of proceeds as of the same date.  The firm recently realized $664 million of proceeds through
a block trade of a portion of its position in chemical company
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , according to the marketing
document. Portfolio companies that have held initial public
offerings this year include  Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) , a provider
of real estate and relocation services;  Rexnord Corp. (RXN) , an
industrial company; and  Berry Plastics Group Inc. (BERY) , a packaging
company. Another holding, Smart & Final Inc., signed an
agreement this month to be sold to Ares Management LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  