-- Argentina Wins Delay of Order Forcing Bond Payment
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-11-29T13:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/argentina-wins-stay-of-order-forcing-payment-on-defaulted-bonds.html
Argentina won a delay of U.S. court
orders that would have required paying holders of defaulted
bonds next month when it makes about $3 billion in scheduled
payments on its restructured debt.  A federal appeals court in New York yesterday postponed the
effect of the rulings, issued by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa, pending a further order of the court. The court, which
is considering Argentina’s appeal, said it will handle the case
on an expedited basis, setting Feb. 27 for oral argument.  The ruling is a setback for the defaulted bondholders
including billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp., which rejected restructuring offers and are
trying to collect on court judgments against Argentina.  Griesa ruled Nov. 21 that Argentina had to pay $1.3
billion, the amount claimed by holders of the defaulted debt,
into an escrow account by Dec. 15 if it makes the restructured
debt payments. The Griesa rulings have sparked a bond rout and
caused Fitch to cut ratings on its debt.  Argentina is appealing to reverse Griesa’s rulings, which
require the country to treat holders of the defaulted debt
equally with holders of the restructured bonds. The country
sought an emergency stay to permit it to make the December
payments without making the escrow payment.  Dropping Values  Holders of the restructured debt joined  Argentina ’s request
for an emergency stay, claiming that concern about whether
Griesa’s rulings would force the country to default was causing
the value of their bonds to drop. The appeals court yesterday
granted their request to join in Argentina’s appeal.  “The second circuit’s order signals its understanding of
the serious constitutional and equitable issues at stake,” Sean
O’Shea, co-counsel with Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP for the
bondholders group and Gramercy Funds Management LLC, its
organizer, said in a statement.  The stay ensures that holders of the restructured debt get
their payments until the court can make a final ruling, he said.  Argentine GDP warrants surged 1.90 cents at 8:07 a.m. in
 New York , the biggest jump this year, to 11.42 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina is scheduled to make a
payment of about $3 billion on the securities on Dec. 15.  Argentine dollar debt has lost 14.9 percent in November,
the worst returns in  emerging markets , compared to a 1.3 percent
gain on average, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global
index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentina debt over
 U.S. Treasuries  plunged 232 basis points, or 2.32 percentage
points, the most in emerging markets, to 1,108, according to
JPMorgan.  Fitch Ratings  cut the rating on Argentina’s international
law bonds on Nov. 27 to CC, eight levels below investment grade,
from B, and on bonds sold under Argentine law to B- from B
predicting a probable default after the Griesa payment deadline
of Dec. 15.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  