-- Marriage Cases Thrust Supreme Court Into Gay-Rights Fight
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/marriage-cases-thrust-supreme-court-into-gay-rights-fight.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  is raising
the stakes in the same-sex marriage debate as it considers
taking up the issue for the first time, testing momentum built
by advocates through electoral wins in four states this month.  The justices are scheduled to confer privately on Nov. 30
on 10 pending appeals, including clashes over the U.S. Defense
of Marriage Act, which blocks gays from receiving federal
marriage benefits, and a  California  ballot measure that outlawed
same-sex nuptials there in 2008. The high court may say as early
as that afternoon which cases it will consider.  Supreme Court involvement would come as gay marriage has
seen a surge in public support since 1996, when the Defense of
Marriage Act was  approved  342-67 in the  House of Representatives 
and 85-14 in the Senate and signed by President  Bill Clinton . By
Jan. 1, same-sex couples will be able to wed in nine states and
the  District of Columbia , and President  Barack Obama  has said he
backs that right.  “Even if the court avoids ruling on the big question --
whether gays and lesbians are entitled to marry -- these cases
will still be hugely important,” said  Adam Winkler , a
constitutional law professor at the  University of California  at
Los Angeles School of Law. “They will establish standards and
rules that will impact future gay-rights cases.”  Previous Supreme Court cases provide few hints as to how
the court will rule. Although Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who may
cast the deciding vote, backed gay rights in 1996 and 2003
rulings, neither case involved marriage.  Olson, Boies  Advocates on both sides say the court is all but certain to
review the Defense of Marriage Act, a law that two federal
appeals courts have said is unconstitutional. Less clear is
whether the justices will take up the potentially more sweeping
fight over California’s Proposition 8.  The challenge to that ballot measure is being pressed by
 Theodore Olson  and  David Boies , the lawyers who faced off
against each other at the Supreme Court in the Bush v. Gore case
that resolved the 2000 presidential election deadlock. They
filed the suit with an eye toward winning a Supreme Court ruling
establishing same-sex marriage as a constitutional right.  The California case “would be an opportunity for the court
to go on the record for the first time” on that issue, said
Jane Schacter, a Stanford Law School professor who teaches
constitutional and sexual-orientation law. The question is
“whether they want to engage with the underlying issue of
whether same-sex couples have a right to marry.”  Landmark Victories  Voters this month approved gay marriage in Washington,
Maryland and Maine -- the first states to give such consent at
the polls -- and rejected a bid in  Minnesota  to amend the state
constitution to bar the practice.  The Obama administration announced last year that it would
begin opposing the Defense of Marriage Act in court, leaving
congressional Republicans led by House Speaker  John Boehner  to
spearhead the defense.  Opponents say the law, known as DOMA, unconstitutionally
bars legally married gay couples from getting the same federal
benefits as opposite-sex spouses. Under the law, people in same-
sex marriages can’t file joint federal tax returns, claim
exemption from estate taxes, receive Social Security survivor
benefits or obtain health insurance as the spouse of a federal
employee.  “This is an arbitrary law,” said  Mary Bonauto , a Boston
lawyer with the Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders whose
clients include seven gay Massachusetts couples and three
surviving spouses challenging DOMA. “It is arbitrarily treating
one group of married people as unmarried.”  Congress Right  Supporters of the law say it promotes traditional marriage
and by extension makes it more likely that children will grow up
in a nurturing environment.  “Of course, Congress has the right to define such a
fundamental institution,” said Brian Brown, president of the
Washington-based National Organization for Marriage, which
opposes same-sex nuptials. “This is a question for the
representatives of the people. Congress represents the people.”  The Boston-based 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and the
New York-based 2nd Circuit both rejected the measure. Ruling in
the Massachusetts case, the 1st Circuit pointed to “a lack of
any demonstrated connection between DOMA’s treatment of same-sex
couples and its asserted goal of strengthening the bonds and
benefits to society of heterosexual marriage.”  The 2nd Circuit broke new legal ground by saying that laws
discriminating against gays, like those targeting racial
minorities and women, should get especially rigorous scrutiny
from the courts. The Supreme Court has never adopted that
approach.  Aging Widow  The 2nd Circuit ruling was a victory for 83-year-old  New
York  resident Edie Windsor in her fight against a $363,000
estate tax bill imposed after the 2009 death of her spouse, Thea
Clara Spyer. Windsor and Spyer were married in Canada in 2007, a
marriage the 2nd Circuit concluded would be recognized under New
York law.  Although both sides in the case are asking the high court
to rule on the marriage law, they disagree about which of the
eight pending appeals the justices should take up.  Congressional Republicans are asking the court to review
the 1st Circuit decision. That case probably would disqualify
Justice  Elena Kagan , who played a role in the Massachusetts
litigation when she was Obama’s top courtroom lawyer.  Proposed Alternatives  The Obama administration, while not saying directly that it
would like to have Kagan involved, has  proposed  alternatives for
the court to consider, including the Windsor case. The
administration says the court also could take up a suit pressed
by same-sex couples in  Vermont , Connecticut and New Hampshire or
a California lawsuit by a federal court employee seeking to have
her spouse enrolled on her government health-care plan.  The legal battle over DOMA doesn’t affect a separate
provision in the law that says states can refuse to recognize
same-sex marriages from other jurisdictions.  Supreme Court review of California’s Proposition 8 is less
of a sure thing. Voters approved the initiative in 2008 as a way
to reverse a decision by the California Supreme Court, which
five months earlier had said the state constitution guaranteed
the right to gay marriage.  Lawyers Olson and Boies, who sought constitutional
protection for gay marriage, instead won a narrower ruling with
limited applicability beyond California’s borders. A federal
appeals court said Proposition 8 unconstitutionally stripped
same-sex couples of a right that they had once enjoyed -- and
that heterosexual couples would continue to possess. Gay
marriage is on hold in California while the litigation plays
out.  Defining Issue  Supporters of Proposition 8, led by former state Senator
Dennis Hollingsworth, are appealing to the Supreme Court. They
argued that the lower court’s reasoning was a “suggestion that
any experiment with the definition of marriage is irrevocable.”  Olson and Boies are urging the Supreme Court to reject the
appeal, even as they said in court papers that it touches on
“the defining civil rights issue of our time.”  Olson said in an interview that, should the court take up
the case, he would make both California-specific arguments and
broader contentions that could establish same-sex marriage
rights nationwide. Marriage, Olson said, is a “fundamental
right that cannot be taken away from citizens on the basis of
their sex or sexual orientation.”  Some gay-rights advocates say they worry that a high court
review of Proposition 8 might lead to a split decision, with the
justices striking down DOMA while upholding the California
initiative.  Rights Champion  Justice Kennedy has been a champion of gay rights in past
cases, writing the 2003 decision that said states can’t
criminalize gay sex acts. Overturning the convictions of two men
in  Texas , he wrote that “the state cannot demean their
existence or control their destiny by making their private
sexual conduct a crime.”  Kennedy, appointed by President  Ronald Reagan  in 1988, also
wrote the court’s 1996 decision striking down a Colorado
constitutional amendment that barred cities and counties from
enacting anti-discrimination laws to protect gays.  Even so, he underscored in 2003 that he wasn’t passing
judgment on gay marriage, saying the case “does not involve
whether the government must give formal recognition to any
relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter.”  He and his colleagues might decide to bide their time to
see whether more states legalize gay marriage. Lawmakers in  New
Jersey , Delaware,  Hawaii , Illinois and Minnesota all plan to
revisit the issue next year.  “You’ve got the political forces throughout the country
very engaged in this,” Schacter said. “Things are changing
very quickly. They may just continue to let this percolate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  