-- Tarullo Says Fed Seeks More Capital at Foreign Banks’ Units
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-11-28T20:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/tarullo-says-fed-to-demand-more-capital-at-foreign-banks-units.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said the central bank is planning tougher capital and
leverage rules for U.S. units of foreign banks, which some firms
have sought to skirt.  “We need to adjust the regulatory requirements for foreign
banks in response to changes in the nature of their activities
in the  United States , the risks attendant to those changes, and
instructions from Congress,” Tarullo said today in a speech at
 Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  The Fed will force non-U.S. firms to house all of their
U.S. businesses, including securities trading, within regulated
holding companies, Tarullo said. Those holding companies also
must abide by capital and liquidity rules that already apply to
U.S. counterparts, he said. That means foreign banks’ local
units would have to bolster capital in the U.S. to guard against
losses regardless of their parents’ resources.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have changed
their U.S. legal status in the past two years to discard the
holding-company structure. The treatment could force foreign
banks to inject capital into their U.S. units and limit their
ability to move funds across borders, said Luigi De Ghenghi, a
partner at law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in New York.  “Fragmenting capital along regional lines will impose real
costs on doing cross-border banking,” said De Ghenghi, a member
of the firm’s financial-institutions group. “Global banks will
risk ending up with overcapitalized units all around the world
because regulators are reluctant to allow the repatriation of
capital once it’s moved to their jurisdiction.”  Dodd-Frank  Tarullo, who leads the Fed’s committee on bank supervision,
said in response to audience questions that the regulator is
entering the “homestretch” of completing the proposal that
would include these new requirements.  While Tarullo didn’t indicate which banks would be covered
by the new rules, he said 23 foreign lenders have at least $50
billion in assets in the U.S., the threshold established by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act for treating U.S. firms with “special
prudential measures.”  Seizing Assets  The Fed’s move fits with a worldwide trend of increasing
local supervision powers, according to  Barbara Matthews ,
managing director of BCM International Regulatory Analytics LLC,
a Washington-based consulting firm. Regulators are moving in
that direction because of the failure to agree on a cross-border
resolution framework for globally active banks, she said.  “So when the next crisis hits, you can seize the assets of
the local unit and prevent its liquidity from fleeing your
jurisdiction,” Matthews said.  Tarullo also pointed in his speech to obstacles facing an
international resolution framework. He said other countries were
moving toward tougher rules for foreign banks functioning in
their jurisdiction and referred to the 2008 crisis when the Fed
came to the aid of foreign lenders operating in the U.S. as a
reason why a new regulatory approach was needed.  The Fed provided $538 billion of emergency loans to the
U.S. units of European banks during the financial crisis, almost
as much as it did to domestic firms. That increased political
pressure on lawmakers and regulators to tighten rules for all.  Foreign lenders currently can choose whether to create U.S.
bank holding companies. Those units were exempt from capital
standards as long as their parent firms were well-capitalized.
Dodd-Frank removed that exemption. Some non-U.S. lenders then
altered their legal structures to remain outside the scope of
local capital rules.  Barclays, UBS  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, estimated in 2010
that it might need to inject almost $20 billion into its U.S.
unit to comply with the same rules as domestic banks, the Wall
Street Journal reported last year, citing an internal company
document. The division, known as Taunus Corp., dropped its
status as a  bank holding company  in February.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, said in February
2011 that it deregistered Barclays Group U.S. as a bank holding
company, partly to sidestep the  capital requirements .  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, were among firms that didn’t have holding companies to
start with. Most of the largest foreign institutions have small
commercial-banking units in the U.S., where their operations are
largely centered on  securities trading .  Canadian Repercussions  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  already has a holding company in the
U.S. that will have to add about $5 billion in capital to comply
with Dodd-Frank, according to  Brad Smith , an analyst at Stonecap
Securities Inc. A requirement to consolidate all U.S. businesses
into the holding structure would boost the capital need by
billions of dollars, Smith said in a note today.  “This is not great news for any Canadian bank as it will
likely push up the amount of capital required to run their U.S.
businesses,” Smith said. “All Canadian banks that are running
capital markets businesses in the U.S. will need to take a very
close look at their business lines.”  Spokesmen for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Barclays and
UBS and Credit Suisse, both based in Zurich, declined to comment
on the potential rule changes.  Forcing foreign lenders to put U.S. assets under bank
holding companies would subject them to U.S.-specific leverage
requirements, in addition to global capital rules agreed to by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Leverage Cap  Basel regulations dictate how much capital banks need based
on the riskiness of their assets. Lenders headquartered in the
U.S. are subject to an additional leverage cap based on total
assets, rather than on those weighted by risk. Leverage is a
measure of a bank’s debt in relation to shareholder equity.  While it would be easier for U.S. trading units of foreign
banks to comply with the risk-based standard, the simple
leverage limit could force them to raise more capital, a bank
executive familiar with the discussions said before Tarullo’s
speech.  The Institute of International Bankers, a New York-based
lobbying group that represents 100 foreign lenders operating in
the U.S., has warned regulators against blanket rules that would
treat all firms the same, according to Chief Executive Officer
Sarah “Sally” Miller.  “Based on the risk Bank X poses to the U.S. financial
system, then they could ask that one for more capital, as Dodd-
Frank stipulates,” Miller said. “But across-the-board, one-
size-fits-all rules like this can be very harmful, discouraging
foreign banks to be here. That could hurt lending, considering
that 25 percent of all commercial and industrial bank loans in
the U.S. are made by foreign firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  