-- Stocks Gain, Commodities Trim Loss on Budget Optimism
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-11-28T21:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/asian-stocks-drop-dollar-holds-gains-on-fiscal-cliff.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing early
losses, and commodities pared declines as lawmakers said they
are optimistic a budget agreement can be reached to avoid
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up 0.8 percent at
1,409.93 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after earlier slumping 1 percent.
The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials was down 0.5 percent,
trimming an earlier decline of 1.4 percent as oil pared losses
following an unexpected decline in U.S. supplies. Ten-year
Treasuries pared early gains, with rates down less than one
basis point at 1.63 percent, and the Dollar Index reversed an
earlier advance to fall 0.1 percent.  Equities reversed  morning declines as Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters he is optimistic that budget
talks can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later.”
President  Barack Obama  said more Republicans are agreeing on a
“balanced approach” to cut the deficit, and he hopes a deal
can be reached before Christmas.  “The market is at the mercy of the fiscal cliff until we
get some sort of resolution,” Liz Ann Sonders, the New York-
based chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab Corp., which
has $1.9 trillion in client assets, said in a telephone
interview.  Obama urged Congress to extend tax cuts for the middle
class, while Boehner said he continues to oppose the expiration
of tax reductions for top earners and Democrats need to get
“serious” on budget cuts. Obama is sending Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to meet with congressional leaders tomorrow
as lawmakers debate ways to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts that will kick in next year if an agreement is not reached.  ‘Measured Pace’  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “measured pace” in recent
weeks as gains in consumer demand and housing were tempered by a
slowdown in manufacturing and the impact of superstorm Sandy,
the  Federal Reserve  said. The report indicates the Fed is
unlikely to curtail monthly purchases of $40 billion in housing
debt and bolsters Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that an
agreement on reducing long-term  federal budget  deficits without
abrupt tax increases and spending cuts would remove a barrier to
growth.  Gauges of consumer-discretionary, energy and industrial
shares rose at least 0.9 percent to lead gains in  all 10  of the
main  S&P 500  industries today. The S&P 500 fell on the first two
days of the week after optimism that a budget deal will be made
sent the index up 3.6 percent last week, its biggest gain since
June.  Housing Data  Equities extended losses earlier after Commerce Department
data showed purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined
0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace in October, showing limited
progress in the housing market recovery.  Among U.S. stocks moving today,  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
advanced 6.3 percent after saying it plans to pay a $3 billion
special dividend.  Costco joins a growing number of U.S.
companies, from Wynn Resorts Ltd. to Tyson Foods Inc., which are
announcing special dividends at four times the pace of last year
ahead of potential tax increases next year.  Knight Capital Group Inc. jumped 15 percent as Getco LLC
submitted a proposal to buy the market maker. Principal
Financial Group Inc. dropped 1.9 percent after the insurer said
fiscal 2013 corporate losses could be as much as $165 million.  Natural gas, gold, lead and silver lost at least 0.8
percent to lead declines in 14 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI Index. Oil slipped 0.8 percent to $86.49 a barrel after
tumbling as much as 2.1 percent before U.S. Energy  Department
data showed an unexpected decrease in supplies.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent, erasing an
earlier loss of as much as 0.6 percent. Celesio AG and Metro AG
both dropped more than 2.5 percent after Franz Haniel & Cie.
GmbH said it will reduce its stakes in the companies. Swiss Life
Holding AG lost 1 percent as the life insurer took a larger-
than-estimated writedown for its German brokerage. Nestle, which
accounts for 3 percent of the Stoxx 600, gained 1.2 percent
after saying it will form a joint venture with Hutchison China
Meditech Ltd.  OAO MegaFon,  Russia ’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
dropped 2 percent on its debut in  London  after raising $1.7
billion in the biggest initial offering by a Russian company in
three years. Raiffeisen Bank International AG, eastern  Europe ’s
second-biggest lender, sank 5 percent in Vienna as third-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell for a third day.
Volatility in  U.S. government debt  dropped to the lowest in five
years yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
MOVE index.  Yen Strengthens  The yen strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro and 0.3
percent per dollar. Shinzo Abe, the front-runner to become
 Japan ’s next prime minister, and incumbent Yoshihiko Noda debate
policies tomorrow before a general election next month.  The euro weakened was little changed at $1.2940, trimming
an earlier 0.5 percent decline. Italy’s 10-year bonds advanced,
pushing the  yield  down 14 basis points to 4.59 percent, the
lowest since May 2011. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish
notes slid 19 basis points to 5.33 percent, the lowest on a
closing basis since March.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.5 percent as
 Brazil ’s Bovespa added 0.5 percent and Russia’s Micex Index lost
1 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.9 percent. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index jumped 0.9 percent to
a record after the country’s growth unexpectedly accelerated
last quarter at the fastest pace since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  