-- Aston Martin Is in Talks With Investors to Secure Funding
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-29T07:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/aston-martin-in-talks-with-investors-to-secure-funding.html
Aston Martin , the British luxury-car
maker controlled by Investment Dar Co., is in “advanced” talks
to sell new shares to investors to boost funding for future
development.  The proposed plan will ensure the Gaydon, England-based
company can “deliver its medium- and long-term growth plans,”
Aston Martin spokeswoman Janette Green said in an e-mail,
without providing details on possible buyers.  Kuwaiti owner Investment Dar has received competing bids
from Investindustrial and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  for half the
sports-car maker led by Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Bez,
three people familiar said last week. Investindustrial, a
European private-equity fund based in  London , offered just under
250 million pounds ($400 million), with Indian automaker
Mahindra then making a higher bid, they said.  Investment Dar, part of the group that bought Aston Martin
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  for 503 million pounds in 2007, has been
seeking an investor for Aston Martin, the maker of luxury  sports
cars  featured in James Bond movies, for months, people familiar
with the matter said earlier this month. The talks have the
support of Aston Martin’s owners, Green said late yesterday.  “The main question that you have to ask at Aston Martin
is, ‘Who is ready to invest any further?,’” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the  University of Duisburg-Essen . “There are clearly some
people, but it seems the existing shareholders are not among
them. Aston Martin is a strong brand, with great tradition,
which has developed enormously under Bez’s leadership, but it
needs investment to expand its market position.”  Competing Bids  The winner of the bid would get 50 percent of  voting rights 
and a 40 percent equity stake, one of the people said last week.
While the Mahindra bid is higher, Investindustrial includes
plans to use technology and car parts from AMG, the Mercedes-
Benz unit that makes sports cars, two of the people said.  While Aston Martin still gets engines from Ford, it lost
access to Ford’s other resources after the sale and remains the
only global luxury brand that’s not part of a larger auto group.  That independence could be a handicap with the  auto
industry  under pressure to develop technologies to improve  fuel
efficiency . Bayerische Motoren Werke AG is investing more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) this year on making engines more
efficient and developing electric vehicles. That sum exceeds
Aston Martin’s 2011 revenue of 507 million pounds.  Bentley Challenge  A new backer for the iconic British brand may help the
maker of the 1.2-million-pound One-77 to boost volumes and
develop cars that can challenge  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat
SpA (F) ’s Ferrari. Investindustrial earlier this year sold Italian
motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA to VW’s Audi.  Most of Aston Martin’s models are based on the same
aluminum platform introduced with the DB9 coupe in 2003 under
Ford. An inability to invest in new architectures has stymied
other independent carmakers, with Saab, the Swedish brand sold
by  General Motors Co. (GM)  in February 2010, forced to halt
production last year because of a cash shortage.  Volkswagen, which is  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, is able to
keep development and production costs down by sharing
architectures across its units. The Lamborghini Gallardo shares
the same platform as the Audi R8, while the Bentley Continental
Flying Spur and GT models are based on the same underpinnings as
the VW Phaeton.  Aston Martin’s lineup mostly comprises two-door coupes such
as the DB9, Vanquish and Vantage. The Cygnet city car, which it
also offers, is based on  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ. Aston Martin
vehicles have been featured in 11  James Bond movies , including
the vintage silver DB5 in the latest one, “Skyfall.”  The British carmaker’s adjusted earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year fell 18 percent
to 76.2 million pounds, with deliveries steady at about 4,200
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  