-- AT&T Sells Euro Bonds as U.S. Budget Concerns Boost Credit Risk
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-11-28T17:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/at-t-taps-euro-bond-market-as-risk-rises-on-u-s-budget-concern.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S.
telephone operator, and Italian lottery company Lottomatica
Group SpA tapped bond markets even as credit risk rose on
concerns about the progress of U.S. budget talks.  AT&T sold its first bonds in euros since April 2008, while
Lottomatica’s offering of benchmark notes came after a two-year
issuance hiatus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
cost to insure corporate debt with credit-default swaps rose,
touching a one-week high in earlier trading.  Bond risk eased as U.S. Speaker of the House  John Boehner 
said he’s “optimistic” budget talks will continue, after
Erskine Bowles, co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010
fiscal commission, said it was unlikely a deal will be struck by
year end. The concerns haven’t dissuaded borrowers taking
advantage of record-low yields and companies raised 2.6 billion
euros ($3.4 billion) from sales of unsecured bonds today.  “Investors are awash with cash and need to put it
somewhere, so even with this backdrop there’s a huge amount of
appetite,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, the London-based head of
credit research at Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd.  Corporate bond yields have plunged to 2.2 percent from 4.4
percent at the start of the year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate Index. The premium to the
benchmark German government debt has narrowed 161 basis points,
or 1.61 percentage points, to 150 basis points since the end of
December.  AT&T, Lottomatica  AT&T in  Dallas  raised 1 billion euros from eight-year bonds
that were priced to yield 60 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, or about 2 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lottomatica sold 500 million euros from notes due March
2020. The securities for the Rome-based company, rated Ba2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , were
priced at a spread of 235 basis points more than the swap rate.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the Italian defense contractor whose
bonds were the best performers in this year’s European credit
rally, offered 600 million euros of five-year notes in its first
debt issue in three years. The Rome-based company’s bonds were
priced at a spread of 365 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose eight
basis points to 508 at 4:50 p.m. in  London . The Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed two basis points to 125.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased three basis points to 165 and
the subordinated index climbed two to 286.  A basis point on swaps contract a protecting 10 million
euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. The derivatives pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  