-- Louisville to Join Atlantic Coast Conference in Exiting Big East
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-28T16:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/atlantic-coast-conference-votes-on-adding-louisville-espn-says.html
The University of Louisville is
headed to the  Atlantic Coast Conference  after the school’s
application was unanimously approved in a vote of the league’s
presidents and chancellors.  The ACC was seeking a school to replace the  University of
Maryland , which is leaving for the  Big Ten Conference  in 2014.
Louisville is expected to join the ACC from the  Big East  that
year, according to  ACCsports.com .  Louisville is the fourth school to exit the Big East for
the ACC in the past 1 1/2 years, following Pittsburgh, Syracuse
and  Notre Dame , which will be a member in all league-sanctioned
sports except football. Pittsburgh and Syracuse are scheduled to
join the ACC in 2013.  “The University of Louisville is an outstanding addition
to the Atlantic Coast Conference and I commend the Council of
Presidents for continuing to position our league for the long-
term future,” ACC Commissioner John Swofford said in a
statement. “If you look at what has been done over the last 15
months, the ACC has only gotten stronger.”  Louisville’s jump to the ACC is the latest move in the
realignment of college athletic conferences.  “When it became apparent to us that we needed to make a
move, the ACC is the perfect fit for us and we are so elated to
be joining this prestigious conference,” Louisville Athletic
Director Tom Jurich said in a statement. “We sincerely
appreciate this opportunity. This will open so many more doors
for us both athletically for all of our sports programs, and
academically for our university.”  Changing Roster  The Big East, in addition to the planned departures of
Louisville, Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Notre Dame, is losing
 Rutgers University  to the Big Ten in 2014 and had West Virginia
University exit for the Big 12 this season. The Big East
announced yesterday that  Tulane University  and East Carolina
University would join the league in 2014 from Conference USA.  Louisville’s arrival in 2014 would give the ACC 14 schools
for football, a number Swofford has said is desirable for
scheduling purposes. Louisville, Pittsburgh and Syracuse are
joining  Boston College , Clemson, Duke, Florida State, Georgia
Tech, Miami, North Carolina, North Carolina State, Virginia,
 Virginia Tech  and Wake Forest.  “What I really like about this move is it’s terrific for
our fans, with the proximity of the institutions and we never
have to leave the Eastern time zone,” Jurich said.  The ACC began a 15-year, $3.6 billion television contract
with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN in July, with league members set to
receive about $17 million annually through the 2026-27 academic
year. The league may renegotiate the contract with ESPN with the
addition of Notre Dame, the loss of Maryland and the addition of
Louisville, according to ACCsports.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  