-- Aussie Remains Lower Before Business Investment Report
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-28T06:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/aussie-remains-lower-before-business-investment-report.html
The  Australian dollar  remained lower
following a decline yesterday amid speculation a report tomorrow
will show a slowdown in capital expenditure growth, damping the
outlook for the economy and the currency.  The so-called Aussie dropped for a third day versus the yen
as investors boosted bets the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will cut
rates at its next meeting on Dec. 4. Demand for New Zealand’s
dollar was tempered after the country’s central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said the local currency’s gains have hurt
manufacturing and as Asian stocks retreated. The South Pacific
currencies were supported after  China ’s commerce minister said
he sees his nation’s trade improving in the second half of 2013.  “If non-mining  capital investment  doesn’t show signs of
picking up in 2013, that suggests that policy needs to be easier
and that would be consistent with a rate cut next month” from
the RBA, said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist in Sydney at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “It might weigh on
the currency in the very short-term.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.0447 as of 4:46 p.m. in
Sydney after falling 0.2 percent yesterday to $1.0446. It
dropped 0.4 percent to 85.50 yen. New Zealand’s currency fetched
82.10 U.S. cents from 82.03 and was at 67.19 yen, 0.3 percent
below yesterday’s close.  The yield on 10-year Australian  government bonds  fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.21 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, declined 1 1/2 basis points to 2.605 percent.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.6 percent.  Slowing Investment  Australian  business investment  probably rose 2 percent in
the three months through September after advancing 3.4 percent
in the previous quarter, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The statistics bureau
will release the figures tomorrow.  Data published today showed the value of  construction work 
completed in Australia in the third quarter rose 1.7 percent
after rising a revised 0.9 percent in the three months ended
June 30.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 66 percent chance the RBA will cut the overnight cash rate
target by 25 basis points to 3 percent at its next gathering.
That’s up from 60 percent yesterday.  ANZ is among 15 of 26 companies polled by Bloomberg this
month that are predicting a quarter-percentage point interest-
rate reduction from the Australian central bank.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Wheeler declined to
comment on the economic outlook or interest rates when he
testified before parliament’s finance and expenditure select
committee about the central bank’s 2011-12 annual report.
Wheeler is expected to hold New Zealand’s  borrowing costs  at a
record-low 2.50 percent on Dec. 6, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said trade will
improve in the second half of 2013 from the first six months of
the year, speaking today at a Caijing financial forum in
Beijing. China is the largest buyer of Australia’s overseas
shipments and is New Zealand’s second-largest export
destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  