-- Aussie Near 2-Month High on Stock Gains, U.S. Budget Optimism
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-29T05:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/australia-dollar-gains-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff-optimism-before-data.html
Australia’s dollar traded near a
two-month high after equities rebounded globally on speculation
the U.S. will avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, boosting demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The  New Zealand dollar  remained higher versus the greenback
after U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he’s optimistic
officials can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later.”
Demand for the so-called Aussie was limited after a report
showed Australia’s business investment grew at a slower pace in
the third quarter, supporting expectations that the country’s
central bank will cut  interest rates  next week.  “Everybody expects some resolution to the fiscal cliff,”
said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “The better the solution, the smoother it is, the
easier it will be for the economies to grow, which is good for
Australia’s dollar.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0472 as of
4:52 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it gained 0.3 percent.
It touched $1.0490 on Nov. 27, the highest since Sept. 21. The
currency was poised for a 0.9 percent gain this month.  New Zealand’s currency added 0.2 percent to 82.52 U.S.
cents from 82.37 yesterday, when it advanced 0.4 percent. It has
risen 0.3 percent since the end of last month.  Fiscal Cliff  U.S. President  Barack Obama  assured company executives
yesterday that he was ready to cut spending as he dispatched
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to meet with
congressional leaders today amid negotiations to lower the
nation’s budget deficit. If lawmakers fail to reach agreement,
more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases are set to begin Jan. 1.  “Cautious optimism from the key players in the
negotiations, first House Speaker Boehner then President Obama,
restored confidence to the jittery market,”  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney,
wrote in a note to clients today. The South Pacific currencies
“bounced sharply as equities rose steadily.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks climbed 0.9 percent,
following a 0.4 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
yesterday.  Capital Expenditure  Demand for Australia’s currency was limited after the
nation’s business investment slowed. Private capital
expenditures rose 2.8 percent in the third quarter, compared
with 3.4 percent in the previous three-month period, the
Australian Bureau of Statistics said today.  Fifteen out of 26 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
expect the  Reserve Bank  of Australia to cut  rates  by a quarter-
percentage point to 3 percent on Dec. 4, while the remaining 11
forecast no change.  “We think they should be cutting rates because the
Australian economy is slowing,” said St. George’s Kunnen, who
expects an interest-rate reduction in February. “It’s a 50-50
call for next week. It shouldn’t lead to a large selloff or a
substantial gain in the Australian dollar.”  Australian  government bonds  were little changed, with 10-
year debt yielding 3.22 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps for Australian debt, a gauge
of bond-risk perceptions, cost 1 basis point more than that for
the U.S. yesterday, the smallest gap since July 2011.  In  New Zealand , a private survey showed business
expectations for inflation fell to a 13-year low in November,
adding to the case for benign price pressure that may prolong a
period of record-low interest rates. Annual inflation will be
2.24 percent in a year, down from a 2.36 percent outlook in
October and the lowest since October 1999, ANZ Bank New Zealand
Ltd. said in a report today.  The nation’s two-year overnight-index swap rate, an
indication of what traders expect the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand’s key interest rate will average during the period, was
little changed at 2.42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  