-- Bank Robbers Can Show Congress Where the Money Is
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-11-28T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bank-robbers-can-show-congress-where-the-money-is.html
By this time, anyone with a 
heartbeat knows that there is some sort of unique financial rock
formation posing a threat to the  U.S. economy  at year-end; that
if President  Barack Obama  and Congress don’t find a way around
it -- something at which  Washington  excels -- bad things will
happen to all of us.  Pardon my verbal gymnastics, but I’m trying to avoid typing
“fiscal cliff” even as our government barrels toward it. In
case you were under the impression there was a sense of urgency
about preventing $500 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect in the new year, think again.
Obama scheduled no meetings with congressional budget
negotiators this week. As soon as lawmakers returned to
Washington, Obama decided to  take his case to the people  or,
alternatively, bring the people to him to plead his case.  Ever since the Nov. 6 election, both parties have been
focusing on a single, controversial issue: whether the Bush-era
tax cuts for individuals making more than $200,000 a year
($250,000 for households) will be allowed to expire. Obama has
 threatened to veto  any legislation that extends the cuts on the
top 2 percent “because it’s bad economic policy,” according to
White House spokesman  Jay Carney .  The expiration of tax cuts on top earners would increase
federal revenue by $824 billion during the next 10 years,
according to  Congressional Budget Office estimates . If Congress
does nothing -- if taxes go up across the board, discretionary
spending is cut and Medicare payments to doctors are slashed,
among other automatic adjustments -- the Treasury would take in
an additional  $5.1 trillion of revenue  over 10 years.  No Solution  That’s hardly chump change, but even “big tax increases
can’t cover the rising cost of entitlements,” said  Joe Carson ,
director of global economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in
 New York .  Mandatory spending  on programs such as Medicare, Medicaid
and  Social Security , totaled $2.05 trillion in fiscal 2012, or
58 percent of the  federal budget . Based on demographic trends,
entitlement spending will reach $3.55 trillion in 2022,
consuming almost two-thirds of the entire budget. In the past,
the U.S. generated enough revenue to cover future costs. During
the 1980s and 1990s, for example, the ratio of current revenue
to entitlement spending five years out was 1.4, according to
Carson.  Then the cost curve started bending in the wrong direction.
The ratio of revenue to future entitlement costs fluctuated
between 1 and 1.1 over the past decade: Tax revenue barely
covered the part of the budget that is on automatic pilot. Even
with a revenue boost from inaction on the fiscal cliff, the
ratio of current revenue to projected entitlement spending never
exceeds 1.15 during the rest of the decade, Carson says.  “The future cost of mandatory programs absorbs all of the
projected growth in revenue from tax increases and economic
expansion over the next decade,” he said.  In other words, without reforming entitlements, there will
be no money for defense, education and other discretionary
programs. That may be fine with  Grover Norquist , he of the  no-
tax pledge , but it isn’t practical.  Neither is the notion that the U.S.’s fiscal problems can
be fixed by raising revenue, eliminating waste, fraud and abuse
(peanuts in the grand scheme) or tinkering with discretionary
spending. Congress should heed the advice of Willie Sutton.
According to lore, when Sutton was asked why he robbed banks, he
replied: “That’s where the money is.” (Sutton  denied  ever
saying that.)  Doubting Thomases  If Congress wants to reduce the  deficit , stabilize the
 debt , put spending and revenue on a sustainable path, or all of
the above, it has to go where the money is. And the money, or
the growth in spending, is in  entitlements . Obama has said he is
open to reforming the programs for the sick and elderly. Not
that he has put anything on the table just yet. And some members
of his party blanch at the idea of cutting even a dime in
benefits.  Still, many sensible ideas for  reforming entitlements  have
been floated over time, including gradually raising the
eligibility age for Social Security and Medicare; using prices,
not wages, to compute a worker’s initial Social Security
benefit;  indexing federal programs  to a chained inflation
measure that more accurately reflects changes in spending
patterns than the  consumer price index ; and subjecting programs
to means testing. None of these long-term options even mentions
the word “voucher.”  No one expects a short-term fix to avoid the fiscal cliff
to include any long-term restructuring of entitlements. My
concern is that whatever Obama and Congress come up with next
year won’t rein in these popular programs. Without that, it
isn’t a serious solution.  The “conciliatory” approach adopted by both parties this
time, compared with the July 2011 negotiations over the debt
ceiling, hasn’t convinced the public. About half (51 percent) of
those surveyed said the president and Republicans won’t reach an
agreement by Dec. 31, according to a Nov. 13  Pew Research Center
poll . Only 38 percent expect the parties to strike a deal by
year-end.  That doesn’t surprise me. I mean, how long can you listen
to the same old talk before you start to wonder about the
prospect for any real action?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today's highlights: the editors on the  FAA's wasteful staffing  at
little-used airports and on why  global imbalances will return  if
governments can't reform;  Margaret Carlson  on the  plot  to
stop  Susan Rice ;  Ezra Klein  on using the  fiscal cliff as an
opportunity ; Jonathan Mahler on  Ohio State's perfect season  that
doesn't count; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada's immigration quotas
would work in the U.S .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 