-- Barnier Says EU to Propose Joint Bank Resolution in 2013
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-28T19:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/barnier-says-eu-to-propose-joint-bank-resolution-in-2013.html
The European Commission next year
will propose a common policy for shutting down banks to
accompany a plan for a single euro-area supervisor, Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said.  This will follow existing plans to coordinate national bank
deposit guarantee schemes, which the EU should agree on in the
first part of the year, Barnier told reporters in Brussels
today. The proposal for jointly handling failed banks will go
further than prior bank resolution programs by spelling out how
to share costs.  “The Commission in 2013 will propose the creation of a
European resolution authority,” Barnier said. “It’s a complex
endeavor but essential to guarantee the efficiency and
robustness of the banking system.”  The EU is racing to meet a year-end deadline to agree on a
framework for the new bank supervisor. As planned, the ECB will
take the lead on oversight of banks in the euro area and other
participating nations by 2014.  The  European Central Bank  urged the EU to speed work on the
resolution authority, in a legal opinion on the single
supervisory mechanism published today on its web site.  “The ECB is of the opinion that such a single resolution
mechanism, focused on a European Resolution Authority, is indeed
a necessary complement to the SSM to achieve a well-functioning
financial market union,” the ECB said. “Therefore such a
mechanism should be established, or at least there should be
clear deadlines for its establishment, when the ECB assumes its
supervisory responsibility in full -i.e. at the end of the
transitional period.”  Joint Proposals  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure urged Barnier to
move quickly with the joint proposals for how to handle and pay
for bank stabilization.  “There cannot be a lasting situation with one single
supervisor and 17, or more, uncoordinated resolution
authorities,” Coeure said in a speech today in  Hong Kong . “I
look forward to the European Commission proposing a single
resolution mechanism as soon as possible in 2013.”  -- Editors: James Kraus, Karl Maier  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  