-- Baseball May Begin Year-Round HGH Blood Tests, Union Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/baseball-may-go-to-year-round-hgh-testing-union-s-chief-says.html
Major League Baseball and its
players’ union are discussing changes to drug-testing rules that
could take effect by the start of next season, union chief
Michael Weiner said.  The changes may include in-season and year-round blood
testing for human growth hormone as well as further rules for
testosterone detection, Weiner said at a news conference
yesterday following executive board meetings in New York.  His comments came a day after MLB announced a 25-game
suspension for Philadelphia Phillies catcher Carlos Ruiz for
amphetamine use and follow a season in which players including
Melky Cabrera were suspended for testosterone use.  “I would expect that you’ll see, before too long, some
announcements in that area,” said Weiner, the executive
director of the  MLB Players Association . “The number of
positives we’ve had have caught the attention of both sides and
we are trying to address it.”  Among those flunking drug tests during the 2012 season were
Cabrera, an All-Star outfielder for the San Francisco Giants;
Oakland Athletics pitcher Bartolo Colon, and San Diego Padres
catcher Yasmani Grandal. All were found to have used muscle-
building testosterone.  “The fact that we detected those shows that we do have a
strong deterrence in our program,” Weiner said. “I understand
the fact that there was a number of them suggest that people
thought they could use, but we caught some people that I’m not
sure any other detection program could have caught.”  In-Season Testing  Testing for HGH, which was adopted with the sport’s 2011
collective bargaining agreement, thus far has been limited to
the offseason and spring training.  “We’re having discussions with MLB that, if they’re
fruitful, would have in-season testing, and frankly, the
possibility of year-round testing for HGH,” Weiner said.
“There’s not really an objection at this point. It was more,
let’s go deliberately and make sure that guys are comfortable
with it, and at this point everybody’s had a chance to have that
kind of experience.”  Players receive a 50-game ban the first time they test
positive for steroids and other strength builders. While some
players have expressed a desire for stricter penalties for those
caught doping, the union feels on the whole “that the current
disciplinary scheme is appropriate,” Weiner said.  Patrick Courtney, a spokesman for MLB, said in an e-mail
that the league doesn’t reveal details about its bargaining
discussions.  Weiner, who announced in August that he had an inoperable
brain tumor, said he’s had multiple rounds of treatment for the
cancer, with the biggest side effect being the loss of most of
his hair.  “I’m doing OK, I’m doing well,” Weiner, 50, said. “I
haven’t had any major side effects and for that I’m very
thankful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  