-- Battersby Serves Mushy $27 Cod, Sublime Kohlrabi: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/battersby-serves-mushy-27-cod-sublime-kohlrabi-review.html
When a restaurant serves gravy-
drenched mashed potatoes as a main course, you wouldn’t expect
to pair them with a $16 glass of cabernet franc, any more than
you’d expect Iranian caviar on your pancakes at IHOP.  And yet that’s what you get at  Brooklyn ’s Battersby, where
a large plate of spuds (“pommes puree,” per the menu) will set
you back $20.  People who say “pommes puree” might call this tiny
Carroll Gardens spot “tres cher.” Waiters are keen to suggest
$65-$85 tasting menus. Glasses of entry-level riesling are $15.
Champagne starts at $88 the bottle. And a four-course a la carte
meal can total over $100 per person.  The new Brooklyn is quickly outgrowing its grunge stage and
pricing itself like  Manhattan . It’s not all that surprising,
since good food costs good money and rents aren’t exactly going
down.  Does Battersby merit the high tab? First, you have to
actually get in the door. Hostesses quote 2-hour waits at 5:45
p.m. I suppose that’s what happens when a national magazine
declares a 28-seat neighborhood joint to be one of the country’s
 best new restaurants .  Which Battersby isn’t.  It’s a fine, if uneven, local spot, not consistently good
enough to justify riding the F train from distant precincts to
Bergen Street.  American Express, the currency of choice for client dinners
everywhere, isn’t accepted here. That’s Battersby’s way of
saying: Leave your business at the office; maybe get a martini
at The Four Seasons instead.  Noisy Sprouts  Once you get in, order chaud-froid salad ($12). Kale and
Brussels sprouts sizzle and pop as they’re dropped in the frying
pan. It’s the loudest thing you’ll hear in this subdued place.
The perfume of wilted leaves and springy sprouts, musky and
inviting, fills the dimly-lit room.  They arrive crisp and warm atop a cool julienne of
kohlrabi, soaked in a tart mix of fish sauce, mint, palm sugar,
chili and lime. Every flavor is clean and transparent. The
result is salad made sublime.  It’s all par for the course from chefs Walker Stern and
Joseph Ogrodnek, alumni of  Alain Ducasse  at the Essex House,
once one of  New York ’s most expensive restaurant.  Rosemary Time  Chairs here, even the bar stools, have lumbar support.
Meals begin with amuses (rare in Kings County), perhaps a shot
of hot chestnut soup. Then a disc of warm rosemary focaccia
appears, reminding us that bread used to be not only free, but
actually an exciting start to the meal.  Sweet Nantucket bay scallops ($15) sit in a tangy
broth of lemon and fish sauce. You might cleanse your palate
with a steely Alsatian pinot blanc ($11), or you might opt for
the house gin and tonic ($12), a common drink made uncommon with
the addition of kaffir and mint.  You’ve got an excellent buzz going. Then you’re hit with a
culinary beanball that is fettuccine Bolognese, an arid mess
peppered with gravelly bits of beef.  This is when you realize that Battersby isn’t quite the
destination that is Roberta’s, La Vara, or Gwynnett St.  The menu, with just 13 savory items, has too many misses
for such a concise list. Garganelli ($14/$19) sit in a sour
pecorino-laced broth. Cod ($27), poached in duck fat to a baby
food-like mush, is a disaster. Duck ($28), medium rare with jus,
is a bore, a preparation that tastes cribbed from a culinary
school textbook.  Better Naked  And sweetbreads ($16), dripping with veal jus, are
excellent until mixed with the accompanying Caesar dressing, a
pairing I’m certain was concocted by the same folks who put
Dennis Miller on Monday Night Football.  Order carefully and you will eat well. Plump mussels soak
up a lovely Thai coconut broth. Fregola with tripe plays the
starchy, chewy foil to a perfectly balanced tomato sauce. Any
pork dish is perfect, whether fried and topped with mozzarella,
parmesan-style, or braised ($27) into a meltingly tender bliss
over  cocoa beans .  And those creamy mashed potatoes, topped with oxtail, bone
marrow and braising liquid, are the right rib-sticking dish for
human hibernation. I’d pay $25.  Getting full? Skip the forgettable panna cotta and hit up
the Clover Club for cocktails. They take Amex there.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: About $100 per person after wine, tax, tip.  Sound Level: Charmingly bustling. Around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Inviting in the winter; too hot in the summer.  Special Feature: Well-chosen wine list courtesy of Erika
DaSilva; no glasses over $18.  Inside Tip: Reservations only taken if you’re springing for
one of the tasting menus.  Back on My Own Dime: If I’m in Carroll Gardens.  Battersby is at 255 Smith Street. Information: +1-718-852-
8321 or  http://battersbybrooklyn.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  Scene  and hot  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 