-- LBBW Managers Charged by Prosecutors Over False Accounts
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-11-28T15:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lbbw-managers-charged-by-german-prosecutors-over-false-accounts.html
German prosecutors charged nine
current and former employees of Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
with false accounting after the country’s biggest state-run
lender received a 17 billion-euro ($22 billion) bailout.  Seven serving or ex-management board members, two employees
and two auditors were implicated, the prosecutors said in an e-
mailed  statement  from a court in Stuttgart today. No suspects
were identified.  LBBW’s owners, including the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
the city of Stuttgart and regional savings banks, had to inject
5 billion euros of capital and provide a 12 billion-euro
lifeline after the lender reported a 2008 loss of 2.1 billion
euros due to writedowns on the value of securities and credit
derivatives. LBBW’s headquarters and ten homes were raided in
2009 as part of the criminal probe.  The board members were charged with making incorrect
statements over LBBW’s accounts for 2005 and 2006, the
prosecutors said. The inaccuracies relate to investments in
asset backed securities through off-balance-sheet vehicles that
weren’t included in the bank’s financial accounts, they said.  ‘Dramatic Situation’  The board members “disguised the dramatic situation” at
LBBW when it got the bailout, the prosecutors charged.  The regional court now has to decide whether to open legal
proceedings. A separate probe into breach of trust related to
the investments has been discontinued, the statement said.  LBBW’s financial statements complied with the law and the
people concerned are confident that legal proceedings won’t
begin, Thomas Knierim, a lawyer for LBBW’s ex-chief executive
Siegfried Jaschinski and management board members Michael Horn
and Hans-Joachim Strueder, said in an e-mailed statement.  The bank declined to identify the people charged.  “LBBW has constructively supported the investigations and
has taken note of the prosecutors’ decision,” Supervisory Board
Chairman Hans Wagener said by e-mail.  The bank is led by Chief Executive Officer Hans-Joerg Vetter, who replaced Jaschinski in 2009. It returned to profit
last year as provisions for souring debt declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  