-- Billionaire Mori Plans $1.2 Billion Real Estate Investments
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-11-28T03:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/billionaire-mori-plans-up-to-1-2-billion-property-investments.html
Japanese billionaire Akira Mori
plans to buy as much as 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in
properties in Tokyo, New York and  London , his company’s first
investment of this scale since 2008, as local real estate values
recover and the yen strengthens.  The owner of Mori Trust Co., the nation’s most profitable
closely held developer, wants to buy assets such as office
towers and may focus on developing so-called smart buildings
that are energy efficient and have disaster-prevention systems
in place, he said.  Mori is taking advantage of the yen’s strength to explore
overseas opportunities for the first time as part of the
company’s most significant investment since the 76-year-old
declared the end of Japan’s real estate boom in 2008. Mori Trust,
which has refrained from purchasing to focus on strengthening
its finances, has boosted its capital ratio to 26.3 percent as
of March from 17.5 percent in March 2008, the year when global
financing evaporated as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  “This is the perfect timing to invest,” the chief
executive officer and president of the company, said in an
interview in  Tokyo . “We have continued to construct new
buildings, but for the acquisition of buildings, our plan would
be the first since Lehman went bankrupt.”  The Japanese currency has strengthened 35 percent against
the dollar in the past five years and traded at 81.90 yen per
dollar today in Tokyo.  Higher Return  Mori Trust manages 67 buildings in Japan, including the
Tokyo Shiodome Building in a commercial district near Tokyo Bay,
and operated about 30 hotels as of Oct. 1, according to the
company’s website. The company made 16 billion yen of profit for
the year ended March 31, almost double the net income generated
by Mori Building Co., which was run by his older brother, Minoru Mori, who died on March 8 from heart failure.  The office vacancy rate, a measurement of unoccupied office
space, has dropped for four straight months in Tokyo to 8.7
percent in October, after rising to a record high in June, as
excess supply decreased, according to Miki Shoji Co., an office
brokerage company.  “Rent decline has slowed,” Mori said. “The return from a
building is higher than the cost of borrowing. With interest
rates being very low, that makes it easy to buy.”  Mori Trust, which has an occupancy rate of 95 percent for
its buildings, plans to raise rents next year, Mori said.  ‘Desirable Locations’  The Tokyo-based company will also be looking to buy
residential developers as it anticipates rising demand for
serviced apartments and homes for the elderly, he said. A
quarter of  Japan ’s 127 million population will be older than 65
years in 2014, compared with 14 percent in the U.S., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Acquisitions overseas will focus on properties whose values
can withstand market downturns, Mori said. The company may
consider working with other investors in big cities such as New
York and London, he said.  “Property in a desirable location is good because it tends
to be the last to drop in value when the market is bad,” Mori
said, referring to properties in New York City. “Cheap
properties tend to be the first to decline and last to
recover.”  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, for
office buildings in New York declined to 6.9 percent in the
third quarter from a record high of 7.1 percent in the last
quarter of 2010, according to  REIS Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based real
estate data provider. A drop in the cap rate, which is a
property’s net income divided by the purchase price, usually
signals an increase in real estate prices.  China IPO  Mori is investing his own money beyond the property market.
MA Platform Group, a Tokyo-based company set up by Mori, became
the largest shareholder this year in closely held Tsingda eEdu
Corp., which offers English lessons over the Internet in  China .
Beijing-based Tsingda eEdu formed a tie with Princeton, New
Jersey-based Berlitz Corp. to offer online classes to children
and provide overseas study programs for elementary and junior
high school students, according to the companies.  Tsingda may seek to sell shares to the public in two years
after it doubles profit to about $40 million in 2014 from an
estimate of about $20 million this year, Mori said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  