-- Birmingham City Owner Carson Yeung Wins Delay of Trial
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-11-28T05:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/birmingham-city-s-yeung-asks-court-to-delay-his-trail.html
Carson Yeung, owner of the English
soccer club  Birmingham City , won a delay of his trial on  money
laundering  charges until April 29.  Hong Kong District Court Judge Douglas Yau today granted
the request from Yeung’s lawyer, who said the defense needed
more time to gather evidence to show how the hairdresser became
a successful businessman.  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309) , the West Midlands-
based team’s parent company, has been suspended from trading in
Hong Kong since June 2011, when Yeung, its chairman, was charged
with five counts of money laundering which involved HK$721.3
million ($93 million). He was refused permission to leave the
city before his trial and lost a bid last week for a delay until
June.  Yeung and his father owned a hotel in  China  before 2001 and
he was already wealthy at the time the alleged offenses began in
2001, his lawyer Joseph Tse told the court earlier.  John Reading, a lawyer for the prosecution, argued that
little had changed since the court rejected a similar
application last week and the trial shouldn’t be delayed.  “I do not agree that the defendant has been trying to
delay” the proceedings, Yau said. He scheduled 25 days for the
trial next year.  Yeung, 52, bought Birmingham City in October 2009 for 81.5
million pounds ($130.6 million) from David and Ralph Gold and
 David Sullivan . He paid for the club using funds from a share
offering underwritten by  Kingston Securities Ltd. (KINSEZ) , controlled by
billionaire Chu Yuet-wah, which has interests including casino
operations in  Macau  and investment services.  City Buyer  Birmingham International said last week that negotiations
to sell the team to a prospective Hong Kong-based buyer were at
an advanced stage. The company’s auditors resigned in October
and the company hasn’t published financial results since
February 2011.  Birmingham City was relegated from the English Premier
League in 2011, three months after winning the League Cup final.  The charges against Yeung have the “hallmark of money
laundering” according to forensic experts, the prosecution said
when the case was first brought to court in June 2011.  Cash was deposited in five bank accounts, including two of
which belonging to Yeung’s father, and then transferred to
securities accounts to “hide the real source of funds,”
according to police evidence disclosed in a related court
proceeding in May.  The case is  Hong Kong  Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, DCCC860/2011 in the Hong Kong District
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  