-- BOE’s Bean Says U.K. Underlying Growth Is Moderate: Interview
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-28T07:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/boe-s-bean-says-u-k-underlying-growth-is-moderate-interview.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean comments on the outlook for the U.K. economy,
inflation, the effectiveness of quantitative easing, and the
Funding for Lending Scheme.  He spoke in an interview yesterday.  On the economy:  “The business surveys, what we hear from our agents and
some of the other economic indicators also seem to be consistent
with an economy that in an underlying sense is growing in a
moderately positive pace. It’s highly likely that the fourth-
quarter GDP number will be quite weak but that will partly
reflect unwinding of the boost in the third quarter from the
Olympics.”  The economy is “growing weakly at best.”  On whether the economy will contract in the fourth quarter:  “One can’t rule it out as a possibility. If you look at
our Inflation Report, we estimated the direct effect of the
Olympic ticket sales of 0.2 percentage points. There was
probably an indirect effect of about the same magnitude. That
won’t be repeated, so the growth figure will be lower by that
amount purely as those idiosyncratic, erratic effects unwind. So
if the true underlying growth rate was 0.2, you could easily end
up with a negative number. But you shouldn’t immediately say
‘the economy is back in recession or anything like that.’”  On the impact of another contraction on confidence:  “It is one of the worries. You have a number that’s
artificially weak because of these temporary factors, but then
the special factors get lost in the coverage, and particularly
if the press choose to portray it as Britain back in recession.
That clearly may end up having some adverse effects on business
confidence.  ‘‘All we can do is keep trying to restate this message that
there will be this temporary factor depressing growth.’’  ‘‘In the first quarter, hopefully by the time we get there,
there shouldn’t be too many distorting factors so that may give
us a cleaner read on the underlying growth rate in the
economy.’’  On the biggest risk to the U.K.:  ‘‘If you’re thinking about how could things go badly wrong
from here, I think the euro area still has to remain that, the
biggest downside risk.’’  ‘‘The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions, I think that’s
a very important initiative which has taken some of the tensions
out of the financial markets but there is still a long way to go
for the periphery countries in terms of readjusting to the new
world, regaining competitiveness, getting their fiscal positions
under control and there is always the risk of disorderly
unravelling.”  “I don’t necessarily think that that’s a high probability
event but it could be bumpy if it happened.”  “The fact that there is this uncertainty associated with
the  euro zone  I think has helped to make businesses that bit
more cautious about investing in the U.K. at the moment.”  On whether uncertainty is making QE less effective:  “In current circumstances, uncertainty is quite high,
general uncertainty, and that being really the dominant issue
that’s holding businesses from investing. Reducing the cost of
finance for them by 50, 100 basis points may be rather
secondary.”  “It’s a question about how much traction you get onto
demand from having these lower yields. It’s not that the
quantitative easing doesn’t necessarily generate lower yields,
and in fact we’ve got evidence from the U.S. that if anything
maybe that bit is actually working a bit more strongly at the
moment. But it’s your second leg onto real spending and the
economy.”  “If the degree of uncertainty in the economy declined, and
people became more confident, you might at that point find
quantitative easing suddenly becoming much more effective.”  “Some people say that there’s diminishing returns from
doing more quantitative easing, this argument doesn’t imply
that, it just says that the size of the policy multiplier
depends on the state of the economy.”  “This is why it’s very important to understand the nature
of the productivity puzzle, what’s driving it, because it’s
crucial in deciding how much room for further policy stimulus
there is before it starts to feeding markedly into more
inflationary pressure, and also whether you need other policies
to help unlock the problem.”  “We’re certainly trying to do a hell of a lot to think
through what the cause of the productivity weakness is. Ideally
you want to try and get further down that road before you start
talking about a policy tool to deal with the problem that we
haven’t managed to diagnose yet.”  “Certainly, we haven’t closed the door forever on further
asset purchases and it would be incorrect to say that we’ve
decided they’re ineffective at the current juncture. The bang
for buck might be a bit less now than it was in 2009. That
doesn’t mean to say that you don’t want to do anymore of it, it
just means that to get the same effect, actually you have to do
even more than before.”  On inflation:  “The domestically generated inflation component is
probably not too much of a concern at the moment -- pay growth
is certainly subdued and it looks like it will continue to be
subdued. All of our contacts basically tell us next year’s pay
round is going to be like this year’s, and that means
settlements around 2-2.5 percent.”  “There’s always the risk of further spikes in commodity
prices.”  On the U.K.’s productivity puzzle:  “One way or another, we don’t think it’s plausible to
think that this low productivity growth can continue for very
much longer. It’s not clear how it will be resolved, whether
it’ll be more output or less employment, but one way or another
that will probably solve itself.”  On FLS and boosting demand:  “I wouldn’t say QE doesn’t work, you know it’s that it may
be less powerful, QE may be less powerful now than it might have
been say I think during the immediate aftermath of the collapse
of Lehman’s.”  “Although there was obviously a very heightened state of
uncertainty then, I think the action that we took probably
helped to take out some of the worst tail risks. These things
can be very state-dependent.”  “The thing with the Funding for Lending Scheme is of
course that, unlike QE where it’s mainly working around the
banking system, Funding for Lending obviously is designed to
work on the banking system and improve the availability of funds
to the banks to reduce the rate at which they have to pay to get
funds. Now in that sense I think it’s best to think of it as
being complementary to quantitative easing because it’s working
through this different channel.”  “But you are right to raise the issue. There may be
exactly the same issue on the demand for funds on the part of
business. You know if they’re concerned about the degree of
uncertainty and that being the dominant factor, reducing the
rate that’s being charged may have modest effects.”  On lack of demand for credit:  “You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make it
drink. However there will be plenty of businesses for instance
who would say, ‘we want to borrow and the banks are offering
unacceptable terms or not supplying credit at all.’ So at least
if we find out that the banks have made available a lot more
funds that’s not taken up we’ll have learnt a bit more about the
nature of the problem. The reality is it’s probably a mix of
both factors.”  On FLS impact on households, companies:  “It’s certainly true that the initial indications are that
it’s feeding through more quickly into lending to households,
particularly mortgage availability. The scheme itself doesn’t
try to discriminate across different types of lending. If you
want to go down that route that’s a route that really only
government can do, it’s quite difficult for the central bank to
do it.”  “The reason we introduced the Funding for Lending Scheme
was particularly to offset an upward drift in funding costs that
starting happening in the middle of last year on the back of the
deterioration in the euro zone. So it was to redress that
particular problem, but then it leaves open to the banks to
decide who they make their loans to under normal business
criteria.”  “We think there’s reasonably clear signs at least of it
feeding through to some degree into lending to households, both
in mortgage loan rates but also in our credit conditions survey
where there’s been clear signs I think of increased availability
of credit but that same survey does support what you say, which
is that so far, it’s not so visible on the corporate side.”  “Hopefully, we’ll discover more in the coming months about
the kind of impact it’s having.”  “But in an environment where plenty of people say to us
the supply of credit is constrained, whether that’s for
businesses, especially smaller businesses, or for households who
say it’s hard to get loans unless you’ve got a very large
deposit, something that frees that up a little bit may just help
to add a little bit more demand into the economy and hopefully
we can get ourselves into a virtuous circle where the recovery
becomes self-reinforcing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  