-- BofA Directors’ Merrill Settlement Flawed, Objectors Say
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-11-28T15:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bofa-directors-merrill-settlement-flawed-objectors-say.html
Bank of America Corp.  directors’ $20
million settlement of investor lawsuits over the purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co. is inadequate given the billions of dollars
of harm the deal caused, objectors to the accord said.  The proposed settlement amounts to 4 percent of the board’s
$500 million of insurance coverage and less than 1 percent of
the more than $2.4 billion Bank of America officials agreed to
pay in September to resolve other investors’ securities-fraud
claims over the Merrill Lynch deal, lawyers for the shareholders
said in federal court filings in New York.  “The grossly inadequate $20 million value of the proposed
settlement cannot be justified under any circumstances,” Paul
 Paradis , a New York-based lawyer for Bank of America investors
who sued in Delaware, claiming the bank overpaid for Merrill
Lynch, said in a filing yesterday. If the accord is approved, it
could wipe out the Delaware claims.  A federal judge in  Manhattan  still must decide whether to
approve  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America’s $2.43
billion settlement of shareholder suits that claimed management
hid Merrill losses ahead of the 2009 deal. The accord is
separate from the $20 million settlement of so-called derivative
claims against directors.  The shareholders claimed former Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth D. Lewis and other board members misled them about the
losses Merrill Lynch incurred before the $18.5 billion buyout
and should have pulled the plug on the deal.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the objection to the settlement.  ‘Outstanding Settlement’  Lawyers for two pension funds backing the $20 million
settlement contend that the accord forces Bank of America to
make corporate-governance changes that will spark more accurate
disclosures about acquisitions.  Plaintiffs “have achieved through good-faith, arms’-length
negotiations an outstanding settlement that is in the best
interests of Bank of America and its shareholders,” Albert
Myers, a Louisiana-based lawyer for the funds, said in a Nov. 6
court filing.  New York-based  Merrill Lynch , founded by Charles E. Merrill
in 1914, had at least $50 billion in losses and writedowns
linked to the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market
before agreeing to be sold.  ‘Paying Twice’  Bank of America officials said in earlier court filings
they acquired Merrill Lynch at the behest of government
officials concerned about the investment firm’s subprime losses.
The deal saddled the bank with losses and prompted regulators to
provide $20 billion in bailout financing.  The filings in the shareholder suit against the directors
include unsealed copies of internal e-mails from Brian Moynihan,
Bank of America’s current CEO, indicating he was concerned the
firm was overpaying for Merrill Lynch.  In a December 2008 e-mail, Moynihan complained the bank was
“paying twice (so to speak) for Merrill once to ml shareholders
and once to the govt by delivering them” shares. Moynihan was
an executive overseeing the bank’s private equity and global
operations units at the time, according to a Bloomberg
Businessweek  profile .  The filings also show that some Bank of America directors
said they had heard colleagues lay the blame for the Merrill
Lynch debacle at Lewis’s door.  ‘Ken Ego’  William Barnet III, a South Carolina businessman who
 stepped down  from Bank of America’s board in July 2009, said in
an e-mail, “some feel Ken ego and ambition cause of all this,”
in a reference to Lewis. The e-mail was sent to fellow director
Chad Gifford in January of the same year. Gifford is still on
the bank’s board, according to his Bloomberg profile.  Lewis, who as CEO spent more than $130 billion on
takeovers, clashed with regulators including the Federal Reserve
and then-Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson  by trying to back out
of the Merrill takeover over the brokerage firm’s deepening
losses.  Lewis went ahead with the deal under pressure, only to be
stripped of his chairman’s title later in 2009 amid a
shareholder revolt. That September, he announced plans to step
down by year’s end without a successor in place.  Andrew Ceresney, a New York-based lawyer who represents
Lewis, didn’t immediately return a call for comment today on
Barnet’s e-mail.  Legal Settlements  Moynihan, who took over in 2010, has approved more than $28
billion for settlements of legal and regulatory claims tied to
his predecessor’s takeovers of Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Merrill Lynch.  Anthony Saunders, a New York University finance professor
hired by shareholders to assess Bank of America’s losses from
the Merrill Lynch buyout, found the lender suffered at least
$5.9 billion in damages from the deal.  Included in those damages was a $150 million settlement in
2010 with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission over
executives’ misstatements about the Merrill Lynch purchase,
Saunders said in his 50-page report.  Federal regulators alleged Bank of America officials misled
investors about Merrill Lynch’s bonus payments before the 2009
acquisition and failed to disclose expected losses. The bank
said in a November 2008 proxy statement that Merrill Lynch
agreed not to pay year-end bonuses even though the bank had
already backed Merrill’s plan to pay as much as $5.8 billion,
according to the lawsuit.  ‘Damaged BAC’  “It is my expert opinion that the $150 million paid by BAC
to the SEC in connection with the merger damaged BAC,” Saunders
said.  In sworn testimony in the derivative case, Lewis
acknowledged that Bank of America officials had input on
‘individual amounts’’ of bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch
executives in December 2008 as the buyout moved toward
completion.  Objectors to the board’s settlement of shareholders’
derivative claims are asking U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel
to reject the $20 million accord and let them proceed with
claims against Bank of America’s directors in state court in
 Delaware .  The Delaware investors want to press forward with their so-
called derivative action, which would return any recovery from
insurance covering directors to the bank’s coffers rather than
to individual shareholders.  The New York case is In re Bank of America securities,
derivative and employee retirement income securities act
litigation, 09-02058, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.) The Delaware case is Rothbaum v. Lewis,
CA4307, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  