-- Bourke Loses Bid for Hearing Into Alleged False Testimony
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-11-28T16:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bourke-loses-bid-for-hearing-into-alleged-false-testimony.html
Frederic Bourke, the co-founder of
handbag maker Dooney & Bourke who was convicted of joining in a
foreign bribery conspiracy, lost his bid for a hearing into
whether prosecutors presented false testimony at his trial.  Bourke was convicted in 2009 of conspiring to violate U.S.
anti-corruption laws by joining in a bribery plot in a 1998 oil
deal in  Azerbaijan . A  Manhattan  federal judge sentenced him to
one year in prison. A federal appeals court upheld his
conviction last year.  Separately, Bourke had asked the trial judge for a new
trial or to reopen his case so his lawyers could question a
prosecutor on whether he permitted a witness to give false
testimony. The judge denied the request, and the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Manhattan today upheld the judge’s ruling. At issue
was a statement a prosecutor made during an argument in court.  “As the district court explained, it is difficult to see
how a prosecutor’s hypothetical response to a hypothetical
situation on appeal is evidence, newly discovered or
otherwise,” the appeals court said.  Bourke was accused of joining in a bribery scheme led by
Czech-born businessman  Viktor Kozeny  to buy Azerbaijan’s state
oil company.  His current claim focused on testimony from Hans Bodmer, a
Swiss lawyer who pleaded guilty and cooperated with prosecutors.
Bodmer said he told Bourke about the bribery plot in a morning
conversation on Feb. 6, 1998. Bourke presented proof at the
trial that he wasn’t then in Azerbaijan. The government argued
that Bodmer may have been mistaken about the date.  False Testimony?  Defense lawyers said Bodmer gave false testimony and
prosecutors should have known he did. Prosecutors deny the
claims.  Kozeny, who has also been accused in the bribery case, has
successfully fought extradition to the U.S. from the Bahamas,
where he lives.  Bourke’s lawyer,  Michael Tigar , said in an e-mailed
statement that he will ask the appeals court to consider the
case again.  Bourke has been free on bail since his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Bourke, 11-5390-cr, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  