-- Bowles Says Fiscal Cliff Deal Unlikely by End of Year
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-11-28T17:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bowles-says-fiscal-cliff-deal-unlikely-by-end-of-year.html
The co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 fiscal commission said it’s unlikely the president
and Congress will reach a deal by the end of this year to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff.  Erskine Bowles, also a former chief of staff to President
 Bill Clinton , estimated there is a one-third probability the
sides will strike a deal by the end of this year. Speaking today
at a breakfast in  Washington  sponsored by the Christian Science
Monitor, he said there’s another one-third chance that all sides
will reach a deal early in 2013.  “I’m really worried,” Bowles told reporters. “I believe
the probability is we’re going over the cliff.”  Bowles isn’t involved in the budget negotiations, though he
said he met with Obama yesterday. He also was among a group of
company leaders who met today with  House Republicans . Following
the meeting, Bowles told reporters he sensed no greater
willingness by Republicans to let income tax cuts for high
earners expire Dec. 31 as Obama is demanding.  “We’ve got a very long way to go and very few days to get
there,” he said. Bowles didn’t describe his conversation with
the president.  ‘Real Quick’  “There’s no scientific basis for me to say one-third, it’s
just what I feel having spent my life as a negotiator,” Bowles
said. As “people begin to react” and economic news comes out
in the fourth quarter, there’s another one-third chance “you
get something done real quick” in 2013, he said.  “That’s still leaves that one-third that we could actually
have real chaos and no deal, and I think that would be a
disaster,” Bowles said, a message he said he relayed to Obama.  While House Speaker John Boehner today reiterated his
opposition to touching income tax rates, he also said he is
“optimistic” that talks with Obama will continue.  The  bond market  isn’t showing anywhere near the same level
of concern.  As the national debt has soared to more than $16 trillion
from less than $9 trillion in 2007, U.S. borrowing costs have
tumbled.  The yield on the 10-year note touched a record low 1.379
percent on July 25, down from more than 5 percent in mid-2007
before the financial crisis. The super-low yields have pushed
rates for mortgages,  car loans  and corporate borrowing to
historic lows.  ‘Sticking Points’  The “sticking points” for a budget deal are the
president’s call for $1.6 trillion in new  tax revenue  and the
fact that “there’ve been no serious discussions” so far on
changes to entitlement programs, Bowles said.  Based on his White House meeting yesterday, Bowles said, he
also believes there is “flexibility” in the president’s call
to let George W. Bush-era tax cuts expire for the wealthiest
Americans.  “I didn’t sense it, I heard it” directly from Obama, he
said. Bowles said while Obama believes the major portion of
revenue should come from ending the tax cuts for the top 2
percent of taxpayers, a plan also could include limiting some
deductions and credits, an approach favored by Republicans.  The Campaign to Fix the Debt, founded by Bowles and former
Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  of  Wyoming , is working to gather
corporate and grassroots support for a bipartisan plan to cut
the U.S. deficit by trimming entitlements and increasing
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  