-- Abu Dhabi’s Taqa Buys BP North Sea Assets for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-11-28T16:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bp-sells-1-1-billion-of-u-k-oil-assets-to-abu-dhabi-s-taqa-1-.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  bought
stakes in North Sea fields for $1.1 billion from  BP Plc (BP/) , the
energy producer that’s disposing of assets in the wake of the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Taqa, as the state-controlled power and oil company is
known, will acquire interests in the Harding, Maclure and
Devenick fields, BP said in a statement today. The deal also
includes non-operated interests in the Brae and Braemar fields.
The price doesn’t include future payments dependent on oil
prices and production that BP expects to reach $250 million.  Today’s transaction adds about 21,000 barrels of oil a day
to Taqa’s North Sea production, a 50 percent increase, and
almost doubles the company’s reserves in the region. Taqa CEO
Carl Sheldon said the company was open to further acquisitions.  “We’re here to stay in the North Sea,” Sheldon said on a
conference call with journalists. “As opportunities present
themselves, they’ll be considered.”  BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is shoring up the
balance sheet of  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company as it faces
a trial over civil fines in the U.S. next year. Today’s sale
brings total disposals since 2010 to about $37 billion, close to
the $38 billion target.  BP shares closed down 0.4 percent at 429 pence in  London .
The U.S. said the company will be temporarily barred from
government contracts because of its conduct during the oil spill
in 2010.  Growth Potential  “This transaction is in line with BP’s strategy to focus
on a smaller number of higher-value assets with long-term growth
potential,” Dudley said in the statement. It continues “the
simplification of our portfolio with a further reduction of
operated infrastructure and wells.”  BP is trying to move on from the Gulf spill, the worst in
U.S. history, after reaching settlements with victims earlier
this year and a $4.5 billion deal with the U.S. government to
cover criminal and financial regulatory charges.  Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary said this month that
BP had already made arrangements for the rest of the sales
needed to reach the $38 billion goal. The company has set aside
more than $40 billion to cover the costs of the spill.  Taqa has made a deposit of $632 million and the anticipated
future payments will be made over three years, according to BP’s
statement. The deal is expected to close in the second quarter
of 2013.  Taqa, owned 75 percent by the Abu Dhabi government, holds
stakes in businesses generating power or producing oil and gas
in the Middle East, the North Sea,  India  and North America. The
company, which has oil production assets in U.K. sections of the
North Sea, is building the Bergermeer storage facility for
natural gas in the Netherlands.  Jefferies Group Inc. served as a financial adviser to BP on
the deal. Evercore Parnters advised Taqa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  