-- Brazil Beating U.S. in Soybean Exports Is Boon for ALL: Freight
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-28T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/brazil-beating-u-s-in-soybean-exports-is-boon-for-all-freight.html
Brazil , already the largest exporter
of coffee, orange juice and sugar, stands to overtake the U.S.
as the largest shipper of soybeans, with help from  ALL America
Latina Logistica SA. (ALLL3)   A 13,300-kilometer (8,266-mile) Brazil rail network makes
ALL the country’s largest rail operator and a key channel to
move soybeans to export ports from farms located hundreds of
kilometers from the sea. That means carrying more oilseed than
usual this season as Brazilian farmers plant a record forecasted
83 million tons, pushing the country ahead of the U.S. as the
world’s largest soybean grower.  The soybean boom will boost shares even more than investors
anticipate, said Karina Freitas, an analyst at brokerage
Concordia Corretora in  Sao Paulo .  “The size of the harvest still isn’t being priced into the
stock,” Freitas said in a telephone interview. “ALL is the
best-positioned company in the railroad sector to gain from the
record harvest.”  Other analysts like the company too. Nine of the 18  who
follow ALL  recommend investors buy the stock, and only one
advises selling. ALL shares have dropped 14 percent this year,
compared with a 0.9 percent drop for the benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV) 
index, on investor concern about whether the company will be
able to go through with a minority share sale.  Corn Record  ALL stands to benefit from growth in agricultural products
other than soybeans as well, as Brazil is set to bring in a
record corn crop, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Growth of all crops, including processed products such as sugar,
in the areas of Brazil where the company operates will reach 14
percent in 2013, UBS AG analyst Marimar Torreblanca said in a
Nov. 4 report to clients.  “From ALL’s perspective, this is quite positive given the
transportation needs,” Sergio Luiz Nahuz, ALL’s commodities
director, said in a phone interview from Curitiba. Of the 15
million-ton increase in the soy crop this season, “13 million
comes from the area we cover and is for export,” he added.  Soybean importers such as China are turning to Brazil and
 Argentina , which is also expected to grow a record crop in the
2012-2013 season, as U.S. farmers battle the most severe drought
in more than 50 years. Concerns over the lack of rain in the
U.S. this year drove prices of the oilseed to a record $17.66
per bushel on Sept. 4. Prices have since fallen 17.9 percent.  Freight Cars  Agricultural produce forms one of the three main categories
within ALL’s cargo business, together with minerals and
petrochemicals. The company also runs an 8,000-kilometer railway
in Argentina, has a total of 1,095 locomotives and 31,650
freight cars and operates storage terminals for grain in Brazil,
 according  to the ALL website.  The rail operator is well placed to benefit from booming
agricultural activity because of the high costs of moving
produce by alternative routes, such as roads or rivers, to
Brazilian seaports, said Antonio Alvarenga, president of the
country’s National Agricultural Society.  “Even though sea transportation from Brazil to  China  is
cheaper than from the U.S., sending soy from Mato Grosso do
Norte to China costs $180 per ton, while from the U.S. it costs
$132, because road transport in Brazil is absurdly expensive,”
Alvarenga said in a Nov. 19 phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“For the next harvest, ALL is well positioned to be one of the
top beneficiaries.”  Better Earnings  Analysts are forecasting better earnings in the first half
of 2013. ALL’s adjusted earnings per share will increase in the
first quarter to 7 centavos from 3 centavos a year earlier and
to 28 centavos from 20 centavos in the second quarter of 2013,
according to analysts’  estimates compiled  by Bloomberg. The bulk
of the soybean crop is harvested during the first six months of
the year.  An earnings boost could counteract the poor performance
this year of ALL stock, which has been affected by a share
 acquisition attempt  by  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3) , the
world’s largest sugar processor.  Cosan is seeking to acquire a 5.7 percent stake in ALL for
896.5 million reais ($432 million). The bid, announced in
February, faces opposition from minority stakeholders who are
demanding tag-along rights that would entitle them to the same
offer from Cosan. ALL’s shares dropped in June when magazine
Exame reported that the operation could be canceled. Cosan’s
Chief Executive Officer Marcos Lutz said Oct. 22 that the
acquisition will occur this year.  Sugar Processor  The two companies have had a partnership since 2009, when
the sugar processor agreed to invest 1.2 billion reais to help
ALL expand its railway in exchange for exclusive transportation
rights. The 2012-2013 Brazilian sugar crop is expected to grow
3.7 percent to 37.5 billion tons, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ALL’s stock also has been hit by investor uncertainty over
the government’s plans to draw more private infrastructure
investment, said Concordia’s Freitas. In August, President  Dilma Rousseff  announced a program calling for 91 billion reais in
investment in 10,000 kilometers of new railways over 30 years.
The rules under which the railroads would be built and operated
have not been fully spelled out.  “The stock is still being pressured in relation to the
railway package and possible reduction of tariffs,” Freitas
said.  Still, with the record soy harvest coming in next year, the
company will make more efficient use of its existing capacity,
said Giovana Araujo, an analyst with Itau Unibanco Holding SA.  “ALL is one of the obvious beneficiaries of a record
crop,” Araujo said in a Nov. 14 telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Bigger volumes mean they optimize use of the network.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  