-- Brazil Signals Key Rate to Stay at Minimum for Record Period
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-11-29T11:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/brazil-ends-streak-of-10-straight-rate-cuts-on-inflation-1-.html
Brazil  signaled it plans to keep its
 benchmark rate  at a record low for a period that economists
predict will be the longest in history to prop up an economy
heading toward its worst two-year performance in a decade.  Policy makers last night kept the Selic rate at 7.25
percent, ending the second-longest streak of reductions in an
effort to prevent  inflation  from accelerating. The unanimous
decision, which was forecast by all 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, took into account the “the balance of risks for
inflation,” the board said in its statement, which was almost
identical to last month’s announcement.  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini
reiterated their intent to keep rates steady for a “prolonged
period” as they try to keep inflation within their 2.5-to-6.5
percent target range without derailing the economy’s  recovery .
Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast that the Selic
will remain unchanged through 2013.  “ Interest rates  are at a level that allow for the economy
to rebound at a pace moderate enough to contain inflation below
the upper range of the target,” Marcelo Salomon, co-head for
Latin America economics at Barclays Plc, said in a phone
interview from  New York . “The idea is to leave interest rates
at a minimum for as long as possible.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.32 percent at
9:04 a.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to
2.0896 per  U.S. dollar .  Slowest Average  Brazil’s economy will post average economic growth of 2.23
percent a year in the 2011-2012 period, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey published this week. That
would be the slowest two-year average since the 1.91 percent
pace of 2002-2003.  Slower growth has failed to tame inflation, which
accelerated to the fastest pace in nine months in mid-November
and has remained above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for
more than two years.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
5.64 percent in mid-November from 5.56 percent the previous
month, and will remain above the target through at least next
year, the central bank survey shows.  Borrowing Costs  In addition to reducing borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage
points over the previous 10 meetings, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
administration has cut taxes, increased public spending and
freed up billions of reais in credit to bolster a recovery that
remains uneven.  In the aftermath of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., the central bank kept the key rate at a record
low 8.75 percent for nine months to boost growth.  “Economic growth has been moderate, and inflation is still
worrisome for the central bank because it is still above
 target ,” Fernando Fix, chief economist at Votorantim Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
economy has started to show signs of recovery, and the central
bank is signaling that it’s important to keep an eye on
inflation risks.”  Economists surveyed by the central bank expect growth to
more than double next year, to 3.94 percent.  Tax Breaks  Retail sales rose for the fourth straight month in
September, and tax breaks that were extended twice already led
car sales to jump 19 percent in October from the previous month.  Still, industrial output fell in September for the first
time in four months on a drop in machine and equipment
investments.  While a government report on Nov. 30 is likely to show that
 gross domestic product  growth accelerated in the third quarter
to the fastest pace in more than a year, economists surveyed by
the bank have reduced their forecast for 2013 in each of the
past two weeks.  Growth this year shouldn’t surpass 1.5 percent, the same
survey shows.  Tombini is forecasting that falling wholesale prices will
help bring inflation back to its target by the third quarter of
next year. Brazil’s  IGP-M index , which is 60 percent weighted to
wholesale prices, fell in November by 0.03 percent from the
month before, the first decline since February.  Weaker Real  Economists say that is optimistic, and point to recent
efforts by the government to weaken the real -- the worst-
performing major currency this year -- as a new risk to the
bank’s benign price outlook.  They’re forecasting prices will rise 5.4 percent in 2013,
according to the latest bank survey.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on Nov. 23 said that
Brazil’s currency, which has declined 10.8 percent against the
dollar this year, is still not at an “entirely satisfactory”
level.  The divergence over Brazil’s inflation outlook mirrors the
debate over interest rates. While analysts surveyed by the
central bank expect policy makers to keep the benchmark rate
unchanged throughout next year, traders are betting that policy
makers will raise it to 8 percent by the end of 2013 to keep
price increases under control, swap rates show.  The central bank will try to slow inflation by introducing
credit curbs, such as higher reserve and capital requirements,
before raising interest rates, said Italo Lombardi, economist at
Standard Chartered Bank.  “The central bank will try not to hike rates all next
year,” Lombardi said in a telephone interview from New York.
“They are signaling that they seem to be conformable with the
balance of risk of inflation and growth”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  