-- BTA Says Ablyazov Is Ordered to Pay 1.02 Billion Pounds by Court
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-11-28T14:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/bta-says-ablyazov-is-ordered-to-pay-1-02-billion-pounds-by-court.html
BTA Bank (BTAS)  said a U.K. court ordered
former chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov , accused of embezzlement from
the Kazakh lender before its default three years ago, to pay
1.02 billion pounds ($1.63 billion) plus interest.  The court also ordered “new post-judgment asset-freezing
orders be made against Mr. Ablyazov in an unlimited sum and new
asset-freezing orders in relation to certain other defendants,”
the Almaty-based bank said in  statement  on its website today,
citing a Nov. 23 ruling. The bank will now undertake enforcement
steps following the verdict, it said.  BTA is seeking an agreement on its second debt
restructuring by the end of this year after failing to make a
January interest payment on dollar bonds due July 2018.
Kazakhstan’s sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA,
the central Asian nation’s biggest bank by assets at the time,
two months before its default in 2009.  BTA, which has accused Ablyazov of helping embezzle more
than $5 billion, still holds the funds through investment
projects, Le Temps reported Nov. 26, citing an interview with
Ablyazov. Speaking with the Swiss newspaper via Skype, Ablyazov
said hiding the money would have been “impossible,” the
newspaper said.  The former banker has been in hiding since February after
he was found in contempt of a U.K. court for violating a 2009
asset-freeze order by lying about his assets and moving money.  Locksley Ryan, who previously worked as a spokesman for
Ablyazov, said by e-mail that he has no comment as he’s no
longer in contact with BTA’s former chairman.  A meeting of the bank’s noteholders to discuss its second
debt restructuring plan was adjourned on Nov. 16 because it
lacked a quorum and has been rescheduled to Nov. 30 at 11 a.m.
in  London  at the offices of law firm White & Case LLP, according
to a separate  statement  on the lender’s website.  BTA’s net loss widened to 658 billion tenge ($4.4 billion)
in the first half from 103 billion tenge during the same period
last year, according to the lender’s unaudited interim condensed
consolidated statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  