-- HTC Names New Marketing Chief Amid Smartphone Share Slide
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-11-28T07:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/htc-names-new-marketing-chief-amid-smartphone-share-slide.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  hired a new chief
marketing officer as it seeks to reverse declines in smartphone
share that have pushed revenue down for four straight quarters.  Benjamin Ho, head of  marketing  at Taipei-based phone
operator Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. will take up the HTC
post in January while current sales and marketing president
Jason MacKenzie will focus on strategy, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-
based company said in a statement today. Ho, who joined  Far
EasTone (4904)  in 2003, previously held the top marketing role at
Motorola  Asia  Pacific Ltd. and worked at Dentsu Inc. and  Omnicom
Group Inc. (OMC) ’s BBDO.  Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker suffered a 24
percent decline in brand value in the past year amid stronger
competition from Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
according to marketing consultants Interbrand. HTC’s revenue and
share of the global market both dropped by around half over the
past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ho’s first assignment will be to lead a project, dubbed
internally as Marketing 2.0, refocusing HTC’s efforts around
holistic marketing and mass-market brand outreach,” the company
said.  HTC plans to maintain spending on sales and marketing to
support new product releases this quarter and build its brand,
despite forecasting its lowest revenue in almost three years,
Chief Financial Officer Chang Chialin said on an investor
conference call last month. The lower sales amid continued
marketing will push its operating margin to 1 percent, he said.  Sliding Share  MacKenzie, who joined HTC in 2005 and became its head of
North and Latin America in 2007, was appointed to the new role
of president for global sales and marketing in July last year.
He handed the North America role to Mike Woodward, a former
executive of AT&T Inc., in July this year.  HTC’s global smartphone share has more than halved since
MacKenzie took on the sales and marketing role, dropping to 4.6
percent in the third quarter of this year, from 10.3 percent a
year earlier while Samsung and Apple both climbed, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Sales this quarter will be about NT$60 billion ($2.1
billion) after dropping 48 percent to NT$70.2 billion in the
third-quarter, its fourth consecutive decline, it said Oct. 26.  Founded in 1997, HTC began as a contract electronics maker
before releasing its own brand of smartphones. It was the first
company to release models with Google Inc.’s Android and
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows systems.  Earlier this month it signed a deal with Apple that ends
the two companies’ global lawsuits after the iPhone maker
accused the Taiwanese of copying its technology. The maker of
One and Desire handsets retaliated with its own lawsuits. Terms
of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  HTC’s brand value dropped 24 percent to $2.75 billion  this
year  after more than doubling  last year  to $3.6 billion,
according to Interbrand. Apple’s brand value is $76.6 billion
and Samsung’s is $32.9 billion, the consultancy  said .  HTC  shares  have lost 48 percent this year, closing at
NT$256 today in Taipei before the announcement, following a 42
percent decline last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 