-- Canadian Tire Plays Hockey Defense Against Target
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-28T22:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/canadian-tire-plays-hockey-defense-against-target.html
Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC/A)  will look for
more acquisitions to fortify its position as the country’s
largest sporting goods retailer after purchasing Pro Hockey Life
Sporting Goods Inc. for C$85 million ($85.7 million).  The purchase of closely held Pro Hockey Life will give
Toronto-based Canadian Tire 23 stores across five provinces and
annual revenue of about C$95 million, the company said in a
statement. The acquisition will be accretive to earnings in the
first year, Canadian Tire said.  “We believe organically we can grow and we’ll also
continue to look at other ways we can grow if there are other
things to acquire or grow our company in sports,” Michael Medline, the president of FGL Sports Ltd., a subsidiary of
Canadian Tire, said in a phone interview from Toronto. “We
think it has a lot of runway.”  Canadian Tire became the biggest sporting goods retailer in
2011 with its acquisition of FGL, owner of Sport Chek, Athletes
World and Sport Mart chains. It faces increased competition with
the arrival of Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-
largest U.S. discount retailer, next year, and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer undergoing its
biggest Canadian expansion since arriving in the country in
1994.  “Those competitors are active in sports, they’re big and
they’ve got a lot of square feet and we compete against them,”
Medline said. Competition from the U.S. mass retailers did not
motivate the acquisition, he said.  Sport Chek  Canadian Tire shares fell 0.2 percent to C$66.90 at the
close in Toronto today.  Canadian Tire plans to build 100 new Sport Chek stores in
the next five years, mainly in Ontario, which will increase the
chain’s square footage by 50 percent, said Medline.  “They’re going deeper in hockey and they’re pushing the
sporting goods side of things, and one thing it does do is
differentiate themselves from the Targets and Wal-Marts of the
world,” Brian Yarbrough, consumer analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. said by phone from  St. Louis . Yarbrough downgraded the
company from buy to hold on Nov. 13, citing lack of prospects
for large growth.  Smaller companies like Pro Hockey Life, based in Laval,
 Quebec , are among the few growth possibilities the company has,
Yarbrough said.  Executive Departures  “We believe that small transactions to strengthen existing
categories are much more likely than a larger deal to launch CTC
into a new space,” Mark Petrie, an analyst with  CIBC World
Markets , wrote in a note to clients today.  In a separate statement, the company said some senior
executives will depart which will provide an opportunity for the
company to reduce costs and streamline operations as it enters
“one of the most competitive retail environments in our
history.”  “Overall, we are reducing the total number of senior
leaders and putting more responsibility on our strongest, most-
proven talent,” Rob Nicol, the vice president of
communications, said in an e-mailed statement.  Among the executives leaving are Mike Arnett, executive
vice president of corporate development, Kristine Freudenthaler,
senior vice president of technology and Angela McMonagle, head
of  investor relations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  