-- Carmen Drives Lover Crazy, John Lithgow Farce: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/carmen-drives-lover-crazy-john-lithgow-farce-u-k-stage.html
One aggressive bump ’n’ grind
movement might look suitably brutal and randy on stage. Twenty
bumps ’n’ grinds look like desperation.  It’s the sort of flaw that often occurs in the work of
director Calixto Bieito, who now has a production of “Carmen”
at English National Opera.  The chorus violence never really looks like violence, nor
the lust like real sex. However hard the massed singers try to
channel their inner Tarantinos, it’s still just a dutiful grind,
bump, grind, bump. Makes you think of a car lurching along on a
flat tire.  That’s the gripe out of the way. There are plenty of
detailed positives to outweigh the negatives in his staging of
“Carmen.” They’re so positive, it’s actually a good show.  First among the pluses is Romanian mezzo  Ruxandra Donose  in
the title role. She has a caressing, velvety-smooth voice, and a
way of harnessing her stage energy to a point of stillness that
makes her mesmerizing. If men want her, they have to go to her.  There’s an enigmatic smile she does too, full of
infuriating and secret self-confidence, which hits the button
every time. It surely puts her in the front rank of Carmens.  American tenor Adam Diegel (Don Jose) has a nice line in
emotional immaturity. One minute he’s glad to see his old flame
Micaela; the next he’s disgusted with his own vulnerability and
pushing her away. He’s never less than watchable, even if his
voice lacks stability.  Honest Performance  Bieito draws meaty performances full of detail and honesty
out of them. This Carmen and Jose feel like flesh-and-blood
people, in a way that the chorus don’t quite manage.  The setting is modern, without being too specific, and the
action all takes place on a dusty surface which is half parade-
ground, half bull-ring. The smugglers deal in knock-off
microwaves and TVs, and travel in rust-bucket old cars.  Children are exploited, girls cruelly made to flirt for
money. It’s a picture of a society living on the edge, where
cruelty and violence are never far away.  So what if that cruelty looks as believable as warm snow
when the chorus do it? As long as the principals can portray it,
the atmosphere is still there.  Micaela (honey-voiced Elizabeth Llewellyn) is presented as
a more gutsy creature than usual, who is prepared to fight for
her man. With some exciting, and technically assured, conducting
from Ryan Wigglesworth, it means that there’s a persuasive core
to the staging which has the sort of impact only a good
“Carmen” can.  Rating: ****.  ‘The Magistrate’  Arthur Wing Pinero’s 1885 farce “The Magistrate,”
starring John Lithgow (“3rd Rock from the Sun”), is the
National Theatre’s major offering for the Christmas season.  Though it doesn’t quite reach the giddy slapstick heights
of “One Man, Two Guvnors,” there are enough laugh-out-loud
moments to send you away in a good mood.  The set-up is deliciously neat. When Agatha Poskett (Nancy
Carroll) marries again after the death of her first husband, she
shaves five years off her age. So she has to shave the same off
her son’s age too.  Joshua McGuire is amusingly bouncy as the bumptious little
Fauntleroy who dresses like a 14-year-old, and who likes to
gamble, smoke and drink. When he persuades his good-natured
stepfather, who happens to be the magistrate of the title
(played by Lithgow), to come with him to a dubious hotel for
some fun, the plot begins its series of twists and turns.  Musical Cuts  Those twists and turns are not efficiently handled after
the interval. Some of the subplots are so casually dispatched
you have to wonder why they were there in the first place. There
are some interpolated sub-Gilbert and Sullivan musical numbers
which desperately need to be cut too.  There’s still a magnificent scene for Lithgow in which he
returns to his courtroom battered, bruised, and covered in
sticking plaster, after a night of unfortunate escapades. His
description of his misfortunes is comic gold.  The performances are perfectly pitched in a fast-paced,
exaggerated fashion, and Timothy Sheader’s direction keeps
bubbles fizzing. It looks spectacular too, in a set which
marries the bizarre angles of “The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari”
with the coziness of a Victorian parlor. It magically folds up,
revolves, and pops up from under the stage at various times too.  Not a bad Christmas present from the National.  Rating: ****.  “Carmen” is at English National Opera. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300. “The Magistrate” is in
repertory at the National Theatre. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Ryan Sutton  on
 New York  food and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 