-- Carney Hiring Coup Will Bring New Thinking to BOE, Bean
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-28T12:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/carney-hiring-coup-will-bring-new-thinking-to-boe-bean.html
Mark Carney  will bring new and
useful ideas to the Bank of England and his hiring was a
“coup” for the U.K., said Charlie Bean, the deputy governor
who will stay on to help in the transition from  Mervyn King .  “I think when any new governor is going to come in, it’s
always an opportunity for change,” Bean said in an interview
yesterday. “With Mark, it will be somebody who will take the
best of the bank we have at the moment that Mervyn and his
forebears created, but I’m sure Mark will also bring new
thoughts. Having run the  Bank of Canada , he will have particular
things he may think useful for us to import.”  Carney’s innovations as governor of  Canada ’s central bank
included a promise in 2009 to keep the  benchmark interest rate 
low for 15 months as long as the inflation outlook didn’t
change, a measure followed by the  Federal Reserve . His surprise
hiring by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week
makes him the first foreigner to run the Bank of England. Bean
agreed to extend his own term for a year to assist the handover.  Carney “is somebody who ticks all the boxes,” and his
appointment is “a bit of a coup,” Bean, 59, said. As an ex-
employee of  Goldman Sachs Inc. (GS)  “he’s very familiar with
financial markets, and he was based in the City while working
for Goldman so he knows the City well.”  Carney, 47, beat contenders including Bank of England
Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , whose three-decade career at the
institution marked him out as the leading candidate. He will be
the first outsider to hold the post of governor since 1983.  Bean said there was a “good pool of candidates” to
replace King as governor and “any of the people mentioned would
have been able to do a good job.”  Testing Role  Carney’s skills will be tested as he takes over an
institution that was shaped by King over the past decade and is
now about to be given expanded powers. As well as guiding
monetary policy, he’ll be at the  forefront of regulation  in a
city whose status as the world’s leading financial center has
been dented by trading scandals.  “He’s an extremely impressive individual, the times I’ve
come across him at international meetings,” Bean said. “He can
always be relied upon to make telling, insightful contributions,
so I think he will be a really fantastic governor. Just the sort
of person we need at the current juncture.”  Bean joined the  Bank of England  in 2000 as chief economist
and became deputy governor in July 2008. He will stay in the
post until June 2014, a year after his five-year term ends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  