-- Casino Gamble Lures City on Mississippi to Borrow: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/casino-gamble-lures-city-on-mississippi-to-borrow-muni-credit.html
Davenport,  Iowa , 7 miles down the
 Mississippi  from the nation’s first riverboat casino, plans to
borrow $48 million so it can purchase its own.  The municipality of 100,000 wants to sell general-
obligation bonds to buy the Rhythm City riverboat on its
waterfront from  Isle of Capri Casinos Inc. , owner of 16 venues
across the nation. Mayor Bill Gluba said the revenue would
reduce reliance on property taxes and help cover rising costs.
 Kansas  may currently be the only U.S. municipal casino owner,
according to the American Gaming Association.  “Why would anyone want to allow huge profits to flow out
from citizens and tourists to the city to investors in  Las
Vegas , New Jersey and  New York ?” Gluba, 70, said by telephone.
“Why not keep the money in the community for the benefit of the
people who live in the community?”  Cities from Glendale,  Arizona , to Harrison, New Jersey,
have seen their taxpayers tapped and credit ratings cut because
of failed investments in sports and projects intended to spur
growth.  It’s unusual for local governments to pledge taxing power
for a project, unlike schools or roads, that must be profitable,
said Matt Fabian, managing director at Municipal Market
Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm.  Taxpayer Hook  “The city is putting taxpayers 100 percent on the hook in
case this casino doesn’t perform as expected,” he said. “It’s
hard to believe that taxpayers fully understand the risk they
are taking in this transaction.”  Gluba said Davenport, which has about $238 million in debt,
will get the cheapest borrowing rates by selling general-
obligation bonds to pay for the casino assets, including 931
 slot machines , 14 table games, and a 209-seat buffet restaurant.  The city, about 175 miles (282 kilometers) west of  Chicago ,
is planning the venture as municipal yields are at generational
lows. A Bond Buyer index of 20-year yields fell to  3.37 percent 
last week, the lowest since 1965.  Ten-year Davenport general-obligation bonds exempt from
federal taxes sold in February to yield 2.05 percent, or about
0.20 percentage point over a benchmark index. The debt, which is
subject to Iowa taxes, traded Oct. 2 at 2.1 percent. The city is
rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by  Standard & Poor’s , the third-
highest for both.  Needs-Based  Davenport spent about 21 percent of operating expenditures
on debt service in fiscal 2011, which S&P analysts called
“elevated.” Property taxes accounted for 85 percent of
general-fund revenue, and the city has drawn on reserves --
$577,000 in 2011 -- to cope with rising costs, they wrote.
Expenses have risen 9 percent since 2008, bond documents show.  “The needs are there and you can’t continually rely on
property taxes because that’s an unfair tax,” Gluba said.  Holly Wetzel, a spokeswoman at the gaming association in
 Washington , and  David Schwartz , director of the Center for
Gaming Research at the  University of Nevada , Las Vegas, could
name only Kansas as having a similar enterprise. The state owns
two facilities, which private operators run, Schwartz said.  Davenport plans to contract out the operation of its venue.  Brian Ohorilko, the  Iowa Racing & Gaming Commission’s 
administrator, said none of Iowa’s 18 casinos, riverboats and
racetracks is owned by municipalities.  1991 Opening  Gaming entrepreneur Bernard Goldstein opened the nation’s
first riverboat casino on April 1, 1991, in Bettendorf, Iowa, 7
miles away, according to the Rhythm City website. A venue in
Davenport started up later that day.  Buying a casino is the first step for Davenport.  The City Council last month voted for a term sheet with
Isle of Capri, which is based in  St. Louis  and will continue to
run a larger casino in Bettendorf.  Jill Alexander, a spokeswoman for Isle of Capri, said the
company is negotiating with Davenport and declined to say why it
is selling the casino.  Davenport plans to sell bonds in the first quarter to
finance the purchase, Gluba said. The city also issued a  request 
for proposals, due Dec. 20, for developers to build a land-based
casino of at least 1,000 slot machines and 20 table games. The
request doesn’t say how much the city would contribute to
construction.  The riverboat would close once the new facility is done,
which could take two years, Gluba said.  Annual Profit  Gluba said he expects the riverboat casino will generate
enough revenue to cover the cost, and that a bigger facility on
land will draw even more dollars.  Rhythm City had $8.3 million of operating income in the
year through April 29, from net revenue of $44.4 million, Isle
of Capri  filings  show. The debt service would likely be about
$3.5 million a year, Gluba said.  “It’s not rocket science to see the spread there,” he
said. “It’s what we keep in the community.”  For investors, Davenport’s venture would be a concern
because it could become “a money pit,” said Howard Cure,
director of muni research at New York-based Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $3.8 billion.  Pennsylvania’s capital, for example, tried to overhaul and
expand its incinerator and suffered from cost overruns, he said.
Harrisburg is now under a state receiver who plans to sell the
plant and other assets because of more than $300 million in debt
from the project.  “In an era when budgets from cities and states and the
federal government are being scrutinized more as how best they
serve their population, this strikes me as going counter to
that,” Cure said of Davenport.  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY  TRANSPORTATION TRUST FUND AUTHORITY plans to
sell $1.25 billion of revenue debt as soon as next week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds are backed by gas-tax
revenue the legislature appropriates annually. Proceeds help
finance highways, bridges and mass-transit. (Added Nov. 28)  TEXAS is set to offer $939 million in general-obligation
bonds, including $100 million of taxable debt, as soon as next
week to finance roads, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The debt will be issued through the Texas Transportation
Commission. (Added Nov. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  