-- Ceragon Targets Africa as Shares Jump on Deals: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-28T15:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ceragon-targets-africa-as-shares-jump-on-deals-israel-overnight.html
Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT)  Chief
Executive Officer Ira Palti is favoring  Africa  over the U.S. and
 Europe  for sales growth after two orders from the continent
spurred the biggest stock rally since July.  “Africa is one of the hottest telecom growing regions, and
an area we can focus on, especially given today’s economy around
the world,” Palti said in a phone interview from the company’s
headquarters in Tel Aviv yesterday. “We are increasingly more
distributed by geography, and this is a major advantage as
Europe is recovering very slowly and same with the U.S.”  Ceragon, which sells its technology to telecommunications
operators and Internet service providers, surged 7.2 percent to
$5.34 in New York yesterday, a one-month high. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded
in the U.S. rose less than 0.1 percent in its sixth daily
advance, while  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and  Partner Communications
Co. (PTNR) , the nation’s top mobile providers, tumbled. The Tel Aviv
benchmark TA-25 stock index fell 0.8 percent today.  Tel Aviv-based Ceragon said yesterday that it received two
orders valued at $28 million from existing telecommunications
customers in sub-Saharan Africa after announcing two weeks ago a
$6.5 million deal with Mozambique Cellular. Africa along with
Latin America is providing Ceragon with opportunities for growth
at a time when the company is “cautious” about sales in the
rest of the world, Palti said.  The U.S. is seeking to avoid $607 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts from coming into force next year as
its economy continues to emerge from the 2009 recession, while
European finance ministers are meeting over a bailout payment
for debt-plagued  Greece .  Sales Outlook  Ceragon plunged the most on record in Tel Aviv on Oct. 31
after reporting third-quarter net income that trailed analysts’
estimates and cutting its sales forecast for the last three
months of this year. The company’s largest market is Latin
America which comprised 34 percent of sales in the third
quarter, according to an Oct. 29 statement. Sales from Africa
fell to $8 million in the same period.  Shares of Ceragon traded in  Israel  slipped 3.1 percent
today to 20.48 shekels, or the equivalent of $5.32, after
jumping 9.9 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day advance since
October 2009.  Revenue in the fourth quarter and “coming quarters” is
expected to total between $105 million and $110 million, Palti
said yesterday, reiterating a forecast issued on Oct. 29.  Stock Overvalued  U.S.-traded shares in the company have lost 31 percent in
2012 as telecommunications equipment providers including
Finland’s Nokia Siemens Networks and Paris-based  Alcatel-Lucent
SA (ALU)  cut jobs and spending amid the slowing global economy.
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  are among Ceragon’s clients.  Ceragon trades for 22 times estimated earnings, compared
with the average multiple of 13 for companies included in the
Bloomberg Israel-US measure, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock is overvalued given business from Ceragon’s
larger customers has been inconsistent, according to Blaine Carroll, an analyst at Avian Securities LLC, who rates Ceragon
neutral.  “The orders from the bigger carriers can be lumpy,”
Carroll said in a phone interview in New York. “They have great
opportunities in front of them but the near-term visibility just
doesn’t support the valuation.”  Dankner Investigation  Cellcom, based in Netanya, Israel, plunged 4.1 percent
yesterday in New York to $9.38. Its shares in Tel Aviv fell 2.6
percent to 36.35 shekels, or $9.44. Rosh Ha’Ayin-based Partner
sank 3.5 percent to $6.05.  The Israeli shares fell 0.5 percent
to 23.69 shekels, or $6.16 today.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  fell in New York after the Israeli
Securities Authority said it is investigating whether Nochi Dankner, chairman of  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) , which owns a stake in
Given through two units, engaged in “securities fraud.” Given
dropped 1 percent to $18.16. Its Tel Aviv shares dropped 3
percent to 69.23 shekels, equal to $17.99.  Yokneam, Israel-based Given said last month that it’s been
approached about a possible sale of the company. IDB has been
selling assets, including a stake in Clal Industries &
Investments Ltd., to avoid defaulting on debt and to pay back
creditors. IDB shares in Tel Aviv plunged 7.4 percent today to
14.07 shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  