-- CFTC Said to Give Swaps Dealers 3-Month Clearing Time Delay
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-11-28T19:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/cftc-said-to-grant-swaps-clearing-delay-to-jpmorgan-barclays.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission granted  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and six
other lenders a three-month delay to meet swaps-clearing rules,
according to a person with knowledge of the decision.  The delay is intended to help banks comply with time limits
that require them to accept trades in less than two minutes,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  also asked for and received the extension from the
original Oct. 1 deadline, the person said.  Companies in the  $639 trillion  swaps market have requested
and obtained grace periods to comply with rules that the CFTC is
now implementing under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Last month,
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said the agency would issue 18 no-
action letters and other guidelines granting temporary relief
from regulations as the industry and the CFTC couldn’t meet the
target dates.  The CFTC time limit of two minutes goes down to one minute
90 days after the clearing rule determination is published in
the Federal Register.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately comment. Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup,
and  Katherine Herring  of Credit Suisse, declined to comment.
Representatives of the other banks said they were unable to
immediately comment.  ‘Technologically Practicable’  The requested extensions ranged from three banks saying
they could meet the requirement by Dec. 31 to others that said
the median of all trades could be accepted or rejected within 90
seconds by the 90-day deadline after the Federal Register
publication, according to a letter to Citigroup from Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the CFTC’s division of clearing and
risk, that was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “One of the firms stated it currently has over 70 percent
of the market share for customer trades,” the letter said. The
CFTC “believes that if the entity with the most volume is able
to comply” by Dec. 31 “then acceptance or rejection within the
same timeframe is technologically practicable for firms with
lesser volume.”  Radhakrishnan gave the banks until Jan. 1, 2013 to accept
trades within two minutes, according to the letter.  LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of the world’s largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, was granted a six-month delay
to upgrade its systems to accept trades in less than a minute,
Bloomberg News reported earlier today.  60 Seconds  “LCH has represented that it will use the extension period
to install, and to perform full regression and performance
testing of” its systems “to accept or reject trades within 60
seconds after submission,” the CFTC said in a Nov. 21 letter
granting the extension to London-based LCH.Clearnet. Rules
passed in March required clearinghouses to have the systems in
place by Oct. 1.  Nina Truman, a spokeswoman for LCH.Clearnet, confirmed that
the company had been given until March 31 to meet the clearing-
time requirement.  The CFTC is among several agencies writing and implementing
rules mandated by Dodd Frank, which overhauled U.S. financial
regulation in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The act
required U.S. regulators to oversee the over-the-counter swaps
market for the first time.  The  rule  passed in March for how much time banks and
clearinghouses had to accept or reject swaps said only that
transactions had to be completed as soon as technologically
possible if fully automated systems were used, leaving
regulators confused and market participants struggling to
comply. Radhakrishnan clarified the CFTC’s requirement in
separate e-mails in August and September to bank and
clearinghouse executives that they had two minutes and one
minute, respectively, to accept or reject trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  