-- Dodd-Frank Swap-Clearing Rule Gets CFTC Final Approval
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/cftc-said-to-have-votes-to-complete-swap-clearing-requirement.html
Wall Street’s largest swap dealers,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
will be required to guarantee trades at clearinghouses starting
in March under a rule made final by the top U.S. derivatives
regulator.  The five-member Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted
unanimously in a private process yesterday to complete the final
determinations, the agency said in a statement. The rule, which
had been scheduled for a public vote, determines which credit
and  interest-rate swaps  must be guaranteed at clearinghouses
owned by LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
 Intercontinental Exchange  Inc. The commissioners can vote on
paper outside of their public meetings in a process known as
seriatim.  “Central clearing lowers the risk of the highly
interconnected financial system,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
said in statement. “It also democratizes the market by
eliminating the need for market participants to individually
determine counterparty credit risk, as now clearinghouses stand
between buyers and sellers.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to write rules to curb risk
in a $639 trillion global market. Lawmakers took action after
unregulated trades helped fuel a credit crisis that in 2008 led
to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and U.S.
bailouts for companies including  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insurer.  Reducing Risk  Clearinghouses accept collateral from buyers and sellers to
reduce the risk from default in a trade. The commission’s  rule 
requires swaps in four interest-rate swap classes and two
credit-default classes to be submitted to clearinghouses.
Goldman, JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and other banks that
dominate the swaps market will face the clearing requirement by
March 11.  The Clearing Coalition, a group including investment
company Citadel LLC and trading firm Getco LLC, has urged the
CFTC to adopt the clearing requirement by the end of the year.
  “We welcome today’s final rule from the CFTC and commend the
commissioners and staff for their continued efforts to reduce
systemic risk, improve transparency and promote competition in
the OTC derivatives markets,” Adam Cooper, Citadel’s chief
legal officer, said in a e-mail statement before the vote was
announced. “The implementation of central clearing is critical
to achieving these goals.”  ‘New Market’  The CFTC requirements will help promote clearing of trades
between dealers and asset managers that buy swaps,  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It may not come
immediately in March but this is setting the structure in place
for a new market,” Repetto said before the announcement.  Third-party investment managers and pensions must comply on
Sept. 9, while other financial entities will need to meet the
mandate on June 10, the CFTC said.  The $639 trillion measure of the global swaps market
represents the total notional amounts outstanding of over-the-
counter derivatives through June, according to the Bank of
International Settlements, a Basel, Switzerland-based
organization that promotes global financial collaboration and
serves as a bank for central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  