-- LCH Given Six-Month Extension to Meet Swap Acceptance Time Rule
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-11-28T14:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lch-given-six-month-extension-to-meet-swap-acceptance-time-rule.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, has been given an extra six
months by the main U.S. derivatives regulator to meet a
requirement to accept trades in less than a minute.  “LCH has represented that it will use the extension period
to install, and to perform full regression and performance
testing of” its systems “to accept or reject trades within 60
seconds after submission,” the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a Nov. 21 letter granting the extension to
London-based LCH.Clearnet. The letter was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Rules passed in March required clearinghouses to have the
systems in place by Oct. 1.  Companies in the  $639 trillion  swaps market including  CME
Group (CME)  Inc. and  Intercontinental Exchange  Inc. have asked for and
received grace periods to comply with rules that the CFTC is now
implementing under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Last month, CFTC
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said the agency would issue 18 no-
action letters and other guidelines granting temporary relief
from regulations as the industry and the CFTC couldn’t meet the
target dates.  Nina Truman, a spokeswoman for LCH.Clearnet, confirmed that
the company had been given until March 31 to meet the clearing-
time requirement.  Regulation Overhaul  The CFTC is among several agencies writing and implementing
rules mandated by Dodd Frank, which overhauled U.S. financial
regulation in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The act
required U.S. regulators to oversee the over-the-counter swaps
market for the first time.  The  rule  passed in March for how much time clearinghouses
had to accept or reject swaps said only that transactions had to
be completed as soon as technologically possible if fully
automated systems were used, leaving regulators confused and
market participants struggling to comply. Ananda Radhakrishnan,
director of the division of clearing and risk, said in an Aug.
31 e-mail to clearinghouse executives that they had one minute
to accept or reject trades.  Earlier this month, CME Group and Intercontinental Exchange
and other swaps clearinghouses received an extra two months to
implement new collateral rules required by the CFTC to give the
industry more time to resolve technology problems, according to
a Nov. 1 letter fromRadhakrishnan. Clearinghouses sought an
extension from the CFTC in a letter on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 