-- Christie Says New Jersey Sandy Damage Now $36.8 Billion
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-28T20:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/christie-says-new-jersey-s-sandy-damage-rises-to-36-8-billion.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said the financial toll from  Hurricane Sandy  has risen 25
percent since last week, to $36.8 billion, as he named a former
colleague to oversee recovery efforts.  The estimate, up more than $7 billion from a preliminary
figure of $29.4 billion that Christie gave on Nov. 23, reflects
costs to rebuild and prevent future damage. New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  is seeking $41 billion in federal aid for Sandy,
which includes $9 billion for mitigation.  “I’ve called this our Katrina, because the damage is like
nothing we’ve ever experienced,” Christie, 50, told reporters
today in Trenton, referring to the 2005 hurricane that left much
of  New Orleans  underwater. “It’s going to require a great deal
of federal assistance.”  The U.S. government spent about $112 billion on Katrina
relief, according to Christie. New York and New Jersey will
cooperate in requesting aid for this storm, Christie said. The
states’ economies are “inextricably linked,” the two governors
said in a joint statement.  “It is our shared commitment to the people of our states
to work in partnership so that our needs are met and we receive
as much federal support as possible,” the governors said.  Christie said the New Jersey estimate jumped $7.4 billion
from last week because, “We have worked on our supplemental
mitigation, protection and prevention numbers.”  Federal Aid  New Jersey will request funding from the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  as well as from Congress for supplemental
appropriations, Christie said. He said his administration is
seeking 90 percent reimbursement from FEMA, rather than the 75
percent it typically provides.  The governor hired Marc Ferzan, a former assistant U.S.
attorney who has worked in the New Jersey attorney general’s
office, to lead the recovery. Ferzan, 45, of Lawrenceville, is a
managing director for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s
investigative-consulting practice. He will work out of the
Statehouse and earn a cabinet-level salary, $141,000.  Christie, a former U.S. attorney for New Jersey, said his
administration also retained Witt Associates, a disaster-
management consulting firm that has advised  Louisiana  in its
recovery. The Washington-based company’s founder, James Lee Witt, is a former FEMA director.  Homes Destroyed  Sandy struck Oct. 29, flooding  New York  City’s subway
system and leaving more than 2 million residents in the state
without power. In New Jersey, it caused massive flooding and
left 2.7 million customers in the dark. The storm killed more
than 100 people and left thousands homeless.  The tidal surge eroded 100 miles of the state’s coastline
and destroyed or damaged more than 30,000 homes, Christie said.  The governor, a first-term Republican, said he doesn’t know
yet what Sandy’s impact will be on state tax collections. He
said he will order mid-year spending cuts if revenue has a sharp
drop because of the storm. Revenue in the first four months of
the fiscal year that began July 1 trailed Christie’s budget
forecasts by 4.1 percent.  “We’ll work from day to day on it, and see how revenues
continue to come in,” Christie said. “This is still very new,
so I don’t have an idea yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  