-- CIMB Said to Consider Sale of Stake in Aviva Venture
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-11-28T02:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/cimb-said-to-consider-sale-of-stake-in-aviva-venture.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s
second-largest bank, is considering selling its 51 percent stake
in an insurance joint venture with  Aviva Plc (AV/) , said four people
with knowledge of the matter.  Prudential Plc (PRU) , Sun Life Financial Inc. and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  have made final offers to buy the business from
CIMB and Aviva, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by market
value, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
process is private. The Wall Street Journal in May reported that
Aviva was looking to sell its stake.  A sale of the entire venture, called CIMB Aviva Assurance,
may fetch about $1 billion, according to three of the people.
CIMB Aviva Assurance, led by Chief Executive Officer Yen Saw,
doubled profit to 49.7 million ringgit ($16.3 million) in the
six months through June, according to its  website .  The WSJ in May reported that Aviva had hired Morgan Stanley
to sell its 49 percent stake in the venture with CIMB, citing
people it didn’t identify. Spokesmen at CIMB, Aviva, Manulife,
and Prudential declined to comment on the sale process.  “Sun Life is focused on growing our business in  Asia  both
organically and through acquisitions but we cannot comment on
specific transactions,” Mei Velasques, a spokeswoman at
Canada’s third-largest insurer, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Sun Life has an insurance joint venture with CIMB in
Indonesia called PT  CIMB Sun Life .  CIMB is seeking approval from Malaysia’s central bank to
sell its stake in the joint venture, two of the people said.  In October,  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest Asia-based
insurer, agreed to buy ING Groep NV’s insurance business in
Malaysia for about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion). The deal
valued ING operations at 16.9 times 2011 earnings and 2.2 times
book value in the first half of 2012, ING said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  