-- AsiaInfo Jumps as Citic Said to Be in Talks Over Buyout
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-11-28T15:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/citic-capital-said-in-advanced-talks-to-acquire-asiainfo-linkage.html
AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA)  rose to an
eight-week high in New York on prospects Citic Capital Holdings
Ltd., controlled by the sovereign wealth funds of Qatar and
 China , is close to acquiring the Chinese software services
provider.  The  shares  gained 3.3 percent to $11.34 by 10:55 a.m. in
New York on trading volumes 24 percent above the daily average
over the past three months. AsiaInfo is poised for its highest
close since Oct. 1.  Citic Capital is in advanced talks to buy Beijing-based
AsiaInfo for about $900 million, said two people with knowledge
of the matter who asked not to be identified as the information
is confidential. The  investment company , based in  Hong Kong , is
teaming up with AsiaInfo’s management to take the company
private, according to one of the people. The companies are
expected to reach an agreement by year-end, the people said.  AsiaInfo had $255 million in cash and short-term
investments at the end of September, and no debt, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Excluding that, the deal would have a so-
called enterprise value of about $645 million, compared with
AsiaInfo’s current  enterprise value  of almost $593 million, the
data show.  The company’s shares  rallied  as much as 40 percent in  New
York  trading in the two months after it announced a buyout
proposal from a Citic Capital unit on Jan. 19. The stock is down
18 percent from a March 13 high as AsiaInfo’s profit sank to a
four-year low, giving the company a market value of $824
million.  Rival Bids  Primavera Capital Group, the Chinese private-equity firm
founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. investment banker
Fred Hu, and Silver Lake Management LLC, the biggest technology-
focused private-equity firm, have dropped out of bidding for
AsiaInfo, people familiar with the matter said in September.  Jimmy Xia, a Beijing-based spokesman for AsiaInfo, declined
to comment, as did Citic Capital spokeswoman Cindy Tam.  Citic Capital sold a 22 percent stake in itself to Qatar
Holding LLC in August, giving the fund additional capital for
making overseas acquisitions. China Investment Corp. owns 31.1
percent of the company, which oversees more than $4.4 billion.
 Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and Citic International Financial Holdings
together hold a 43 percent stake in Citic Capital.  AsiaInfo sells telecommunications software to China’s
biggest wireless carriers. The company’s third-quarter  profit 
dropped 65 percent to $4.6 million as costs increased, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross margins also fell to 37.3
percent from 43.9 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  