-- Coeure Says ECB Stands Ready to Activate OMT Program If Needed
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-28T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/coeure-says-ecb-stands-ready-to-activate-omt-program-if-needed.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said that while the ECB stands ready
to activate its government bond purchasing program, the central
bank can’t fix the causes of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Let me confirm that the ECB is ready to undertake”
purchases under its Outright Monetary Transaction program, once
a country “has successfully” applied to Europe’s rescue fund
for aid, Coeure said in a speech in Hong Kong today.  At the same time, he cautioned that “the ECB can address
the symptoms but not the root causes of financial-market
fragmentation.”  Financial markets have rallied since the ECB pledged
sovereign bond purchases in August to reduce the financing costs
of debt-strapped nations such as Spain and  Italy , and safeguard
the euro. The ECB expects Spain to trigger the bond program,
officials have said, and Coeure’s colleague Ardo Hansson noted
this week that the OMT may have tipped the balance in favor of
Europe beating the crisis.  Coeure said the “cures” to nurse the euro area back to
health are solvent sovereigns, making banks more resilient,
introducing “appropriate” macro-prudential instruments and
breaking the link between creditworthiness of banks and
sovereigns.  6,000 Banks  European leaders in June agreed to hand the ECB powers to
oversee all 6,000 euro-area banks from Jan. 1 as part of a so-
called banking union that would unlock joint recapitalization
funds for the region’s ailing lenders.  Germany ’s Bundesbank has
raised concerns about whether the ECB’s new role will compromise
its ability to control inflation, and there have also been calls
for the ECB to supervise only the biggest banks.  Coeure said “all banks” should be covered by the new
supervisor “so as to have a level playing field and to support
further integration of the industry.”  While a single banking overseer is “necessary” for the
euro area, it may also be “desirable for other European
countries as well,” Coeure said.  He also pressed European leaders to establish a “single
resolution mechanism” for failed banks “as soon as possible in
2013.”  On global regulation, the policy maker, who joined the
ECB’s executive board in January, said he was concerned that
“there is a risk that weak economic growth and an increasing
focus on domestic policies priorities can weaken the incentives
and appetite for coordinated reform efforts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  