-- U.S. Lawmakers’ Deficit Fears Not Mirrored in Bond Market
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-28T16:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/congress-fears-greece-amid-lowest-ever-treasury-yields.html
Lawmakers of both parties in
 Washington  have made  deficit reduction  a rallying cry. The  bond
market  isn’t showing anywhere near the same level of concern.  As the national debt has soared to more than $16 trillion
from less than $9 trillion in 2007, U.S. borrowing costs have
tumbled. The yield on the 10-year note touched a record low
1.379 percent on July 25, down from more than 5 percent in mid-
2007 before the financial crisis. The super-low yields have
pushed rates for mortgages,  car loans  and corporate borrowing to
historic lows.  The U.S. has financed four straight budget  deficits  of more
than $1 trillion with historically low interest costs. Recent
market movements show that lenders are uneasy because a
recession may result from failing to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff, and they have less immediate anxiety about the nation’s
long-term structural budget challenges.  “The market is definitely not concerned about the U.S.
becoming Greece,” Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in San
Diego at  LPL Financial  which oversees $350 billion in assets,
said in a telephone interview. Greece this year underwent the
biggest sovereign restructuring in history as yields on its 10-
year bonds soared to more than 30 percent.  Future Borrowing  Lenders seeking a safe investment in a slow world economy
are more optimistic than policy makers are about the amount of
room the U.S. has for future borrowing. The budget talks in
Washington focus on two issues rolled into one: the attempt to
prevent short-term harm to the economy and efforts to use the
pressure created by the fiscal cliff to address long-run budget
concerns by locking in higher revenue and spending cuts.  Congress and President  Barack Obama  created the fiscal
cliff and can avoid it with a law. Instead, because lawmakers
see the cliff as a prod to action and disagree on which pieces
to eliminate, they want to replace more than $500 billion in
deficit reduction set for 2013 with several trillion dollars in
deficit cuts over the next decade.  They disagree about how to reduce future deficits and how
quickly to do so, and those divides have stalled negotiations.
Obama wants to lean more heavily on  tax increases  for top
earners and less on structural changes to Medicare and Medicaid
benefits. House Speaker  John Boehner  has expressed openness to
higher revenue if accompanied by an overhaul of the  tax code  and
significant reductions in future spending on entitlement
programs.  Treasuries Rally  Treasuries rallied after Obama’s re-election and the post-
election statements from lawmakers, on concerns about the
ability of Obama and Congress to prevent tax increases and
spending cuts. Because Treasuries are a haven, money tends to
flow into  government bonds  when investors’ concern about a
crisis or recession increases, driving down yields.  Treasuries then fell after Obama met with congressional
leaders Nov. 16 and both sides expressed optimism about a deal.  Yields for the benchmark 10-year note touched the lowest
ever in July and are about two percentage points lower than the
average of the past decade. Treasuries rose again today, pushing
the yield on the 10-year note down by three basis points to 1.61
percent at 10:19 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Lawmakers, particularly Republicans, have been pushing for
spending cuts and warning that the U.S. risks a fiscal meltdown
if it doesn’t change course. They see a politically opportune
moment to reduce future deficits because of leverage that the
cliff creates.  House Leadership  “I appreciate money’s cheap, but I don’t think it stays
there forever,” said Representative Lynn Jenkins of Kansas, who
will become a member of the House Republican leadership in 2013.
“We know what’s coming. There’s no surprise in what’s coming if
we don’t get this fixed.”  Over the long term, projected increases in health-care
costs will make the U.S. budget path unsustainable. Debt as a
percentage of the economy exceeds 70 percent for the first time
since 1950, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Eventually, the U.S. would run the risk of a “sudden
fiscal crisis,” the CBO said in June.  “Such a crisis would confront policymakers with extremely
difficult choices,” CBO wrote. “To restore investors’
confidence, policy makers would probably need to enact spending
cuts or tax increases more drastic and painful than those that
would have been necessary had the adjustments come sooner.”  Higher Taxes  Obama’s budget plan, which includes higher taxes for top
earners and some spending cuts, would stabilize debt as a
percentage of the economy over the next decade at about 76
percent. After that, deficits would widen, according to the
Office of Management and Budget.  Jenkins said overhauling entitlement programs and the tax
code represents the only path to a better fiscal picture for the
government.  “There is an urgency, at least in our conference, to stop
the madness and to put us on a course correction,” she said.
“Now, I think we are very well aware that it’s taken decades to
make the mess and it’s going to take decades to clean up the
mess.”  Market data suggest that the U.S. has more room to borrow
money to finance investments and avoid moving too quickly toward
austerity that could undermine the economic recovery.  Good Idea  “If this was you and me running a business, would we think
this was a good idea to borrow some of this money and do stuff?
I think so,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at
Societe Generale SA in London, said in a telephone interview.
“The market is saying that the disciplines we would force on a
small open economy are not the same as the ones you force on the
world’s No. 1 reserve currency. That’s just the way it is.”  Optimism about the  U.S. economy  and its future isn’t the
only reason Treasury yields are historically low. Concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will intensify has made the U.S. a haven
and the  Federal Reserve  has lowered  interest rates .  “The market is not always perfect at looking far out
there,” said  Steven Rattner , chairman of Willett Advisors LLC
and former counselor to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Rattner is on the steering committee of the  Campaign to Fix
the Debt , a bipartisan group advocating deficit reduction. He
said markets don’t always understand the political forces
shaping policy.  ‘Very Impressionistic’  “It’s not like you can have a supercomputer to tell you
what’s happening in Washington,” he said in an interview.
“It’s very impressionistic and free form.”  Congress should try to strike a balance between avoiding
short-term economic harm and enacting changes that will reduce
“unsustainable” future deficits, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Nov. 20 in a speech at the  Economic Club of New
York .  “Preventing a sudden and severe contraction in fiscal
policy early next year will support the transition of the
economy back to full employment,” he said. “A credible plan to
put the  federal budget  on a path that will be sustainable in the
long run could help keep longer-term interest rates low and
boost household and business confidence, thereby supporting
economic growth today.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
yesterday cut its growth forecasts and warned of the risk of a
“major” global recession. U.S. gross domestic product will
rise 2.2 percent this year and 2 percent next, down from
predictions of 2.4 percent and 2.6 percent in May, according to
the report.  Deficit Reduction  The fiscal cliff would achieve significant deficit
reduction. Income taxes would increase at all levels. Automatic
spending cuts would take effect, half of which would come from
defense spending. According to the  Congressional Budget Office ,
$607 billion of first-year policy changes would reduce the
deficit by $560 billion.  Though the effects would be spread over a year, the deficit
reduction would occur too fast, Rattner said.  “The fiscal cliff is a draconian meat ax to deficit
reduction, and what we need is a more graceful scalpel approach
to deficit reduction,” he said.  Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities  in Washington, which supports deficit
reduction, said it should be done in a way that avoids
“starving real public needs.” The goal, he said, should be to
stabilize the debt as a percentage of the economy.  “We don’t want to kneecap the economy while it’s weak,”
said Kogan, a former budget official in the Obama
administration.  Senator  Mark Begich , an Alaska Democrat, said what
investors want is a direction and some certainty about U.S.
budget policy rather than a deficit-reduction target.  “No matter how you cut it, you’ve got to get a couple more
trillion,” he said. “If we have a course, the financial
markets will be a lot more stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  