-- Congo Rebels Prepare Goma Withdrawal as U.S. Presses Rwanda
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-28T10:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/congolese-rebels-prepare-goma-withdrawal-as-u-s-presses-rwanda.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
M23 rebel group said it’s preparing to withdraw from Goma, a day
after saying any pull-out would be conditional on President
 Joseph Kabila ’s government meeting a series of demands.  The renegade fighters plan to move 20 kilometers (12 miles)
outside Goma, the capital of North Kivu province, as requested
by regional leaders on Nov. 24, Bishop Jean-Marie Runiga, head
of M23’s political wing, said in a phone interview today from
the city. M23 military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Vianney
Kazarama said in a separate interview that he was withdrawing
with some troops to Masisi Territory in North Kivu.  “We will withdraw and then we will see if the government
is serious,” Runiga said. After the pull-out, the M23 wants
direct talks with Kabila that will include members of Congo’s
opposition and civil society, he said.  Congo’s North and  South Kivu  provinces are one of the
world’s largest sources of columbite-tantalite, the mineral
known as coltan that’s used in mobile phones and computers. The
central African nation is also the continent’s biggest producer
of tin ore, most of which is mined in the Kivus.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,
based in Toronto, operates the Twangiza gold mine about 200
kilometers south of Goma in South Kivu.  Conditional Pullout  M23, which captured Goma a week ago, said yesterday its
forces would only retreat once the government agreed to the
talks, dissolved the electoral commission and released political
prisoners. Congo rejected the call for broad-based negotiations
and said any talks would focus solely on the implementation of a
March 23, 2009 peace deal. The group, which takes its name from
the date of that pact, rebelled after saying the government
failed to respect it.  General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the  International
Criminal Court  for  war crimes , leads the group of soldiers who
mutinied in April. A United Nations group of experts monitoring
Congo’s arms embargo has accused Rwanda and  Uganda  of backing
the insurgents, allegations both governments deny.  M23’s indecision about whether to withdraw reflects
internal divisions, particularly between its political and
military wings, Jason Stearns, who researches armed groups for
the Nairobi-based Rift Valley Institute and headed the UN group
of experts panel in 2008, said in an interview today in Goma.  Rebel Divide  The split dates back to the group’s former incarnation as
the National Congress for the Defense of the People, or CNDP,
which was led by General Laurent Nkunda. In January 2009,  Rwanda 
placed Nkunda under house arrest, allowing Ntaganda to take
control of the rebellion and sign the March peace agreement.
Nkunda’s supporters within the rebellion, including M23
commander Brigadier-General Sultani Makenga, resented the move,
Stearns said.  “There are serious tensions between Ntaganda and
Makenga,” Stearns said. “Since the beginning, the M23 has
suffered from internal contradictions within the military, but
also between the military and political wings.”  Makenga did not answer calls to his mobile phone seeking
comment.  U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Africa Johnnie Carson
met Rwandan Foreign Minister Louise Mushikiwabo two days ago and
delivered a “very strong message” that the country use its
influence to end the conflict in eastern Congo, the State
Department said yesterday.  “We also expressed concerns in those meetings about any
Rwandan support for M23,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said, according to an e-mailed transcript of a press
conference. “Our understanding is that we are also continuing
to ask Rwanda to be active in this, but it is a slog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  