-- Copper Demand in China to Improve Next Year, Aurubis Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-11-28T09:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/copper-demand-in-china-to-improve-next-year-aurubis-forecasts.html
Copper demand in  China , the world’s
biggest user of the metal found in pipes and wires, is expected
to improve next year as the economy recovers, according to
 Aurubis AG (NDA) , the second-largest refined producer.  “China had a difficult year but when we look forward, we
see the economic indicators are turning more positive,” Stefan Boel, a board member, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Shanghai , where he’s attending a conference. The country will
remain the dominant factor in the market, said Boel, who’s
responsible for copper products at the Hamburg-based company.  The world’s second-largest economy, which accounts for 41
percent of copper demand, is poised to expand 7.7 percent this
year, the weakest pace since 1999, based on the median estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A preliminary purchasing
managers’ index for November from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics signaled the first expansion in 13 months.  “There’s more confidence from purchasing managers here and
our sales are quite positive,” Boel told  Susan Li  on “Asia
Edge” today. “There’s a very solid interest in our copper
products for next year.”  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange, the global benchmark, has advanced 2.4 percent this
year and traded at $7,785.25 a metric ton at 5:53 p.m. in
Shanghai. The price dropped 21 percent in 2011 as  China’s
economy  slowed and  Europe  battled the debt crisis.  Industrial Output  Other data from China have shown signs of a pickup.
Industrial output climbed in October at the fastest pace in five
months, while retail sales and exports rose more than estimated.
Economic growth may quicken to 8.1 percent in 2013, according to
the median of analysts’ forecasts tracked by Bloomberg.  The growth potential in China for copper usage remains huge,
Jerry Jiao, general manager of Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co.,
told the conference. Demand growth momentum will continue until
about 2023, he said. The company is a unit of China Minmetals
Corp., the nation’s biggest state-owned metals trader.  Aurubis’ profit fell 59 percent to 32.5 million euros ($42
million) in the three months to June as the European crisis,
slowing growth in China and a stalled recovery in the U.S.
weakened demand. Revenue rose 4 percent to 3.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  