-- Cosco Caps Dollar Debt Sale Surge With Guarantee: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/cosco-caps-dollar-debt-sale-surge-with-guarantee-china-credit.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , which lost
money for the past  seven quarters , capped the busiest month for
the nation’s dollar-denominated bond sales since April 2011 amid
signs of state support for global offerings.  China ’s biggest listed shipping company sold $1 billion of
notes, helping to boost bond sales by Chinese issuers to $5.98 
billion this month, an increase of 74 percent from October, 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cosco’s bonds due 
December 2022 werepriced to yield 4.152 percent and are 
guaranteed  by a letter of credit from the Beijing branch of 
state-backed  Bank of China  Ltd. Cosco’s yuan-denominated debt 
due September 2020 was  last quoted at a yield of 5.27 percent, 
according to Chinabond prices.  Letters of credit from state-owned banks allow companies
to sell debt more cheaply and may be a sign authorities are
encouraging offshore sales. Yields on Chinese corporate dollar
bonds dropped to a record low of 4.88 percent this week, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index shows. That compares with an average
5.16 percent for  yuan  debt onshore, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s China Corporate Index.  “If Cosco was on a standalone credit they would probably
struggle to raise any money from the market,” Jeffrey Yap, the
Hong Kong-based head of Asia fixed-income trading at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The company is not the first to use a letter of credit,
China Cosco said in an e-mailed response to questions about the
bond sale. The proceeds will be used for overseas operations,
according to the company statement.  Zijin Mining  China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. (1313) , a cement maker, sold
$400 million of five-year bonds in October guaranteed by a
letter of credit from DBS Bank Ltd., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In 2011,  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899)  sold $480 million
of bonds guaranteed by a letter of credit from Bank of China’s 
Paris branch, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China has refrained from monetary
easing since July after cutting  interest rates  twice in five
weeks. The benchmark  one-year lending rate  has since remained at
6 percent. Yields on the 10-year government bond increased one
basis point this month to 3.54 percent.  The average yield on Chinese dollar bonds dropped 25 basis
points in November, JPMorgan indexes show.  “The PBOC benchmark rate hasn’t come down that much
whereas the offshore U.S. dollar market yield has come down to a
historical low-level,” Fang Fang, chief executive officer of
China investment banking for JPMorgan Chase & Co. told reporters
in Beijing on Nov. 26. “Chinese companies are more educated and
sophisticated in tapping that market now. It is wise that the
regulators are letting them tap such a low-cost fixed-income
market.”  19-Year High  The yuan dropped 0.08 percent to close at 6.2273 per dollar
in  Shanghai  yesterday, down from a 19-year high after the
central bank lowered the currency reference rate.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s debt from
non-payment dropped 11 basis points this month to 57.1 as of Nov.
27, the lowest since November 2010, according to data provider
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  China Cosco, based in Tianjin, northern China, reported a
third-quarter net loss of 1.53 billion yuan on Oct. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. General Manager Ma Zehua, said last month it would take another two years to three 
years for a full recovery, though improvements in the global 
economy may mean that 2013 will be a bit better than 2012. The
company operates container vessels and dry-bulk ships.  Fifth-Highest Grade  Moody’s Investors Service assigned a provisional rating of
A1 to Cosco’s dollar-denominated bonds, its fifth-highest
investment grade credit ranking and the same as it grades Bank
of China’s senior unsecured debt, according to a statement on
Nov. 19. Moody’s cited the “unconditional and irrevocable
standby letter of credit provided by Bank of China” as support
for the rating.  China’s policy banks have also guaranteed debt in the
offshore yuan-denominated Dim Sum market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hai Chao Trading Co., a subsidiary of
tire maker Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co., sold 900 million yuan of
Dim Sum bonds last July guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of
China.  Chinese banks need regulatory approval to guarantee debt
offshore and don’t need to provide cash upfront, according to
 Steve Wang , Hong Kong-based head of fixed income research for
BOCI Securities Ltd., a unit of Bank of China.  Still, the banks are taking on off-balance sheet risk by
guaranteeing the debt, which could create problems if more
lower-quality companies’ bonds are protected, according to
Mizuho’s Yap. That could lead to a number of claims on the bank
for funds, he said.  “The authorities need to watch out if the banks are
putting on a lot of risky credit onto the book by guaranteeing
the credit of those companies,” he said. “If we start seeing
smallish companies, or even property companies, getting bank
guarantees that’s what we need to watch out for.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  