-- Costco Gains Most Since 2009 on $3 Billion Dividend
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-11-29T14:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/costco-to-return-3-billion-to-investors-with-special-dividend.html
(Corrects to remove extraneous word in next to last
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest
U.S. warehouse-club chain, gained the most in more than three
years after announcing a special dividend of $7 a share totaling
about $3 billion as it returns cash to investors.  The Issaquah, Washington-based retailer  rose  6.3 percent to
$102.58 at the close in  New York  for the largest gain since
Sept. 3, 2009. The shares have advanced 23 percent this year.  Costco joins a growing number of U.S. companies, from  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  to  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , which are announcing special
dividends at four times the pace of last year ahead of pending
tax increases in 2013. The rate on dividends, which was reduced
to 15 percent during the George W. Bush administration, is set
to go up as President Obama and congress work to draw more
revenue from top earners.  The $7-a-share payment reflects the company’s “strong
balance sheet and favorable access to the credit markets,”
Chief Financial Officer Richard Galanti said today as Costco
reported a 10 percent increase in first-quarter sales.  The special dividend will be paid on Dec. 18 and is in
addition to the regular quarterly cash dividend of 27.5 cents a
share that was declared on Oct. 30, Costco said.  ’Rewarding Shareholders’  “It’s a tangible way of rewarding shareholders that avoids
the lottery of a share buyback,” said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst
at Kantar Retail in  London . “They’ve amassed significant cash
reserves, partly due to their success. They have been one of the
most successful retailers in the past 20 years.”  Costco held $3.47 billion of  net cash  as of September, the
most at that point in at least two decades, even after spending
about $760 million to acquire the partner in its Mexican joint
venture. Galanti said on an analyst call last month that there
wasn’t “a great sense of pressure to change our modus
operandi” with regard to dividends.  Congress is expected to let the dividend tax rate revert to
the ordinary income rate, which tops out at 39.6 percent. From
the end of September through today, 71 companies in the Russell
3000 stock index have declared a one-time cash payment to
shareholders, up from 15 in the year-earlier quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Also today, Costco said comparable sales rose 6 percent in
the four weeks ended Nov. 25, with growth slowing from 7 percent
in the previous month. Excluding the effects of gasoline prices
and currency movements, monthly growth was 5 percent, it said,
unchanged from October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  