-- Czech Lawmakers Endorse Deficit-Cut Plan as Recession Lasts
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-28T16:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/czech-lawmakers-endorse-deficit-cut-plan-as-recession-lasts-1-.html
Czech lawmakers approved the 2013
draft budget in a first reading, endorsing the government’s plan
to cut the fiscal deficit as the economy faces the risk of the
longest recession on record.  Seventy-nine of the 152 deputies present voted to lock in
revenue and spending levels, setting the public-finance  deficit 
ceiling at 2.9 percent of economic output, before the draft goes
to second and third readings where individual items may be
amended. The plan is part of Prime Minister Petr Necas’s goal of
narrowing the gap to less than the European Union’s 3 percent
limit for the first time since 2008, when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Necas is sticking to deficit cuts even as the economy
struggles to exit a yearlong  recession . The government, which
has staked its existence in several votes on trimming the gap,
credits its fiscal strategy with helping to reduce borrowing
costs to record lows. Austerity measures, including tax
increases, have also curbed household demand. The Cabinet
expects a return of economic growth in 2013.  “I have nothing against applying counter-cyclical fiscal
policy, which should even out economic cycles,” Finance
Minister Miroslav Kalousek said today. “But we have no other
option than to propose a pro-cyclical budget in order to fulfill
the government’s priority of deficit reduction, which is aimed
at securing the  Czech Republic ’s sovereignty and independence on
financial markets.”  The koruna appreciated 0.3 percent to 25.253 per euro at
5:18 p.m. in Prague. Yields on five-year government bond fell 3
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 0.802 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The plan assumes 0.7 percent economic growth next year,
compared with the central bank’s forecast of 0.2 percent. The
government’s estimate carries “downside risks,” Kalousek said
on Nov. 26  Austerity Measures  The deficit limit for the central state budget, which is
the biggest part of public finances, is set at 100 billion
koruna ($5.1 billion), 5 billion koruna less than this year’s
target. The  Finance Ministry  estimates gross borrowing needs at
228 billion koruna in 2013 and expects sales of domestic medium-
and long-term bonds totaling 146 billion koruna. It may also
sell foreign bonds totaling an equivalent of 50.4 billion koruna
next year, according to the budget draft.  The Cabinet has cut investment, raised the  sales tax  and
curbed spending on public wages since taking power in 2010. The
budget shortfall narrowed to 3.3 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 4.8 percent in 2010. The Finance Ministry
estimates the gap at 3.2 percent this year excluding the one-
time accounting impact of a church restitution deal, which it
sees boosting the deficit to about 5 percent.  Weakening domestic demand is taming inflation, which pushed
the central bank to cut rates to effectively  zero  and prompted
talk of weakening the currency should the economy require more
policy easing.  The government pushed through this month a fiscal package
including further increases in sales levies and a new  tax rate 
for highest earners, with the central bank estimating the
measures to slow economic growth by about 0.8 percentage point
next year through lower real household consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  