-- Davis Polk, Wachtell, Weil, Freshfields: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-28T15:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/davis-polk-wachtell-weil-freshfields-business-of-law.html
ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  agreed to acquire
 Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  for about $5 billion, creating one of the
largest packaged food companies in  North America  and concluding
a pursuit that included three rejections since March last year.  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP offered legal counsel to ConAgra.
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz gave legal advice to Ralcorp.  Davis Polk  New York  corporate partners Arthur Golden and
Marc Williams are leading the firm’s team. Partners Jean M. McLoughlin, employee benefits; Neil Barr, tax; and Ronan P. Harty, antitrust and competition advice, are also advising
ConAgra.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partner Steven A. Rosenblum. Additional partners include Ilene K. Gotts,
antitrust; Michael J. Segal, executive compensation and
benefits; Eric M. Rosof, restructuring and finance; and T. Eiko
Stange, tax.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Barclays
Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., financial advisers to Ralcorp.
The Cleary Gottlieb team includes New York partners Ethan Klingsberg and Benet O’Reilly.  Buying Ralcorp, which sells foods under retailers’ own
brands, will more than quadruple ConAgra’s private-label sales
to $4.5 billion. The transaction will create a company with
sales of about $18 billion, providing leverage to boost prices
in a way ConAgra’s stable of second- and third-tier brands
haven’t, said Erin Lash, an analyst with Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   For more, click here.  Weil, Hogan, MoFo, Goodwin on $6.5 Billion Archstone Deal  Archstone Inc., the biggest property holding of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., will be sold to Sam Zell’s  Equity
Residential (EQR)  and  AvalonBay (AVB)  Communities Inc. in a deal valued at
$6.5 billion.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP provided legal counsel to
Lehman. Hogan Lovells US LLP and  Morrison & Foerster LLP  served
as legal advisers to Equity Residential on the transaction.
Goodwin Procter LLP was legal adviser to AvalonBay.  New York real estate partner David Herman led Weil’s team
which also included partners Michael Bond, real estate;, Raymond Gietz, mergers and acquisitions; Scott Sontag, tax; and Michael Kam, employment.  Hogan Lovells partner Bruce Gilchrist led the deal team
advising Equity Residential that included partners Warren Gorrell, Prentiss Feagles, Cristina Arumi, Lee Berner, Olesya
Barsukova-Bakar, Michele Harrington and Ira Greene.  Morrison & Foerester’s lead partner is David Slotkin,
corporate. Additional MoFo partners include Thomas Fileti, real
estate; Dom Bozzetti, benefits; and Peter Dopsch, finance.  The AvalonBay team was led by Goodwin Procter’s John Haggerty and included partners Craig Todaro, Ettore Santucci,
Jennifer Bralower, H. Neal Sandford and Christopher Barker.  Lehman will receive $2.69 billion in cash as well stock in
Equity Residential and AvalonBay valued at $3.8 billion, based
on closing prices from Nov. 23, New York-based Lehman said in a
statement.  The deal comes instead of an initial public offering for
Englewood, Colorado-based Archstone, which Lehman announced in
August. Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in 2008, left court protection in March.  “The sale of Archstone to Equity Residential and AvalonBay
is a very positive outcome for our creditors,”  Owen Thomas ,
Lehman’s chairman, said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Freshfields Says Energy Reforms Unlikely to Meet Climate Goals  The U.K.’s 110 billion-pound ($176 billion) effort to
reform the  electricity market  is unlikely to deliver on 2020
climate goals, a survey by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
shows.  The survey by the law firm of 101 executives and investors
in the U.K. electricity industry found 77 percent don’t think
the power market reforms will enable the country to meet legally
binding goals to curb greenhouse gas emissions. Many thought the
2020 target to cut emissions 34 percent was over-ambitious,
according to the survey.  Britain is overhauling its energy market to clean up
electricity generation, ensure demand is met and integrate more
renewables such as wind farms into the system. Final proposals
are expected before Parliament this week in an Energy Bill.  “This is a once in a generation chance to reform a market
that literally feeds the U.K. economy, yet analysts seem to be
struggling to make the EMR investment case understandable, let
alone attractive to their clients,” Alan Rae Smith, head of
energy projects at Freshfields, said in a statement. The 110
billion pounds of investment needed for the overhaul was seen as
“out of reach,” according to the research.  Most respondents were concerned their investments were at
risk from a lack of financial compensation in the event of
future law changes, according to the survey.  For more, click here.  Moves  SNR Denton Hires Partners in New York, Dallas  SNR Denton LLP announced two new partners this week. Eddie
Frastai, formerly of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson
LLP, joins the firm’s New York office as a partner in the real
estate practice. Matthew Harper, previously at Thompson & Knight
LLP, joined the firm’s Dallas office as a partner in the
intellectual property and technology practice.  Frastai advises property owners, developers, operators,
managers and financial institutions on national real estate
transactions, the firm said.  Harper’s practice focuses on patent litigation, complex
commercial litigation, trade secret litigation and business
counseling, primarily in telecommunications,  computer hardware ,
processing architectures, software and the Internet.  SNR Denton has 1,150 lawyers at 61 offices worldwide.  Locke Lord Hires Banking and Finance Partner in London  Banking and finance partner Samrad Nazer joined the London
office of Locke Lord LLP in the U.K. transactional banking team.
Nazer was a partner at  Squire Sanders  for the past four years,
the firm said.  Nazer’s practice includes acquisition and leveraged
finance, debt restructurings, real estate finance and structured
finance. In addition, he has provided debt advice to several
English Premier League and Championship Football Clubs during
takeovers, refinancings and restructurings.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 13 offices in the
U.S., London and  Hong Kong .  USPTO Deputy Administrator Joins Wilson Sonsini in Washington  Jasemine Chambers joins Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
PC’s patents and innovation counseling practice after spending
almost 25 years at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, most
recently as deputy administrator for the Office of Policy and
External Affairs. Chambers will be of counsel, based in the
firm’s Washington office.  “Jasemine’s extensive experience at the USPTO and her
familiarity with domestic and international intellectual
property systems, laws, and policies make her an excellent
resource for our life sciences clients globally,” Doug Clark,
co-managing partner of the firm, said in a statement.  As OPEA deputy administrator, Chambers assisted the
administrator in providing policy advice to the director of the
USPTO IP protection and enforcement matters and IP-related trade
issues, including proposed legislation and international
activities, the firm said. She also oversaw the day-to-day
operations of the organization and was a standing member of the
USPTO’s policy council and management council.  She worked with OPEA’s China team to focus on emerging IP
concerns and related issues in that country, such as improving
China’s IP environment for  market access  by U.S. right holders.  Wilson Sonsini  has lawyers in 11 offices in the U.S., Asia
and Brussels.  News  U.S., Lawmakers to Discuss Settling Suit Over Gun Probe Data  Lawyers for U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and a House
committee said they will discuss settling a lawsuit to enforce
congressional subpoenas probing the  Justice Department ’s
Operation Fast and Furious program.  Holding settlement talks “is the appropriate course
here,”  Ian Gershengorn , a deputy assistant attorney general,
told U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in a hearing
yesterday in Washington.  Kerry Kircher , the House general counsel, said the meeting
should occur in the “near future.” No date has been set. The
parties rejected the judge’s offer to appoint a mediator.  The lawsuit against Holder brought by the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee stems from the panel’s
investigation into so-called gun walking, which allowed illegal
gun purchases in the U.S. to proceed in an effort to link the
weapons to Mexican gangs. Holder, citing executive privilege,
has refused to give lawmakers some material they wanted.  The Republican-controlled House is seeking documents
describing internal Justice Department discussions about a
February 2011 letter to lawmakers that Holder later said
mistakenly contained incorrect information.  The letter said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives, which conducted Fast and Furious, hadn’t
“knowingly allowed” the tactics in the law enforcement
operation to be employed.  The committee cited Holder for contempt of Congress in
June. President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive privilege
over the documents and declined to turn them over.  In an October filing seeking dismissal of the case, Holder
said that under the U.S. Constitution’s separation of powers
doctrine, conflict over Operation Fast and Furious should be
resolved between the political branches.  The case is Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
v. Holder, 1:12-cv-01332, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Video  Reserve Fund’s Lawyer: My Clients Were ‘Victims’  John Dellaportas, partner at Duane Morris LLP, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about his successful representation
of Bruce Bent Sr., Bruce Bent II and their investment advisory
firm Reserve Management Co. in a securities fraud lawsuit
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  To see the report, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  