-- TDC Gains as Sale Turns Focus to Valuation: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-28T09:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/tdc-gains-as-sale-turns-focus-to-valuation-copenhagen-mover.html
TDC A/S (TDC)  rose the most in nine days
in Copenhagen trading after its private-equity owners cut their
stake and investors shifted attention to the stock’s valuation
after it trailed the market.  TDC,  Denmark ’s biggest phone company, rose as much as 1.2
percent, the most since Nov. 19. The stock advanced 0.7 percent
to 37.58 kroner at 10:18 a.m. in the Danish capital with trading
volume at 55 percent of the three-month daily average. The share
outperformed the  Copenhagen 20 Index (KFX)  which fell 0.3 percent.  TDC shares lost 4.2 percent yesterday when its private-
equity owners raised about 2.97 billion kroner ($517 million) by
selling 10 percent of the stock in their latest move to reduce
their stake in the Copenhagen-based phone operator. Credit
Suisse Group AG today raised its recommendation on the share to
outperform from neutral saying “investor focus will shift back
to the operational trends,” which include TDC’s ability to
raise prices. Sydbank A/S analyst Morten Imsgard said the share
is set to gain as the funds move closer to a complete exit.  “The private-equity funds’ sale of shares is a clouding
element for the TDC case as it has kept the spotlight away from
the company’s healthy fundamental values,” Imsgard, who’s based
in Aabenraa, Denmark, said by phone. “Investors are afraid they
might get wrong-footed amid a sale of a big chunk of shares, but
for the long term, it’s positive every time the sale of a chunk
has been completed and is over with.”  Imsgard, who has an overweight  recommendation  on TDC, said
the owners will probably complete three more lump sales in 2013
before they exit the investment completely. After yesterday’s
sale, the funds still hold about 33 percent of TDC, the phone
company said in a statement.  TDC’s shares have lost 18 percent this year compared with a
12 percent decline in the  Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index. (SXKP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  