-- Dollar Declines as U.S. Budget-Deal Optimism Curbs Haven Demand
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-29T16:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/dollar-remains-lower-before-geithner-meets-lawmakers-on-cliff.html
The dollar fell against most major
currencies as optimism U.S. lawmakers will reach agreement on
efforts to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff damped demand for
safer assets.  The euro rose against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after Spanish and Italian bonds rallied and global
stocks advanced. The U.S. currency gained against the yen amid a
report showing the  U.S. economy  expanded more than previously
estimated in the third quarter. Sweden’s krona declined after
the economy expanded at a slower pace last quarter.  “People must be getting the sense there is something going
on behind the scenes,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the
corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “There were a fair number of people that doubted the
lame-duck Congress would have the inclination to do anything,
but maybe the fact that there seems to be something being done
gives people hope.”  The euro advanced 0.2 percent to $1.2980 at 11:07 a.m. New
York time to extend its monthly gain to 0.2 percent. The single
currency gained 0.3 percent to 106.61 yen, advancing its
November rise to 3.1 percent. The yen fell 0.1 percent to 82.14
per dollar, increasing its decline this month to 2.9 percent.  Krona, Ruble  The krona extended its weekly decline as  Statistics Sweden 
said GDP expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent, compared
with growth of 0.7 percent the prior quarter. Economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast growth of 0.2 percent.
Annual growth slowed to 0.7 percent from 1.3 percent, the agency
said.  Sweden’s currency dropped 0.2 percent to 6.6647 per dollar
and is down 0.7 percent this week.  Russia’s ruble appreciated the most in six weeks as crude
oil, the nation’s main export earner, climbed for the first time
in four days on optimism the U.S. fiscal cliff will be avoided.  The currency rose 0.9 percent against the dollar to 30.8582
after touching 30.8011, the strongest level since Oct. 19. Oil
increased 2.1 percent to $88.30 per barrel in  New York .  Spain ’s 10-year  bond yield  dropped to the lowest level in
eight months while similar-maturity Italian yields declined to
the least in two years.  The euro has fallen 2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 2.2 percent and
the yen slid 9 percent to lead all decliners.  Stocks, Euro  The 120-day rolling correlation between the MSCI World
Index of stocks and the euro’s performance versus the dollar has
strengthened to 0.7 from 0.5 in June. A reading of 1 signals two
assets move in lockstep.  The MSCI Index rose 0.5 percent, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbing 0.4 percent.  Further gains in the shared currency may be limited as the
seven-day relative strength index versus the dollar rose to 74.
A reading higher than 70 indicates a currency’s rally may have
been too far, too fast and may be do for a correction.  The  Dollar Index  fell for a second day as U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate, up from a 2
percent prior estimate, revised figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 2.8 percent gain.
Household purchases climbed at a 1.4 percent rate, the least in
more than a year and down from a previously reported 2 percent
rate, and income gains were also cut.  The  index declined  0.2 percent to 80.178. The gauge, which
tracks the greenback versus the currencies of six major trading
partners, is weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  Expect ‘Resolution’  “We’re seeing investors look to put on risk and sell the
dollar,” said Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “We expect there will be a resolution to
the fiscal cliff over the next couple of weeks.”  BNP Paribas forecast the euro will rise to $1.33 by year-
end, Sneyd said.  Three out of four global investors expect a short-term
agreement to avert the fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect in January,
according to a Bloomberg Global Poll.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  meets congressional
leaders today as they seek to reach a framework deal by year’s
end setting targets for tax-revenue increases and spending
reductions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  