-- DuPont Sends in Former Cops to Enforce Seed Patents: Commodities
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-28T21:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/dupont-sends-in-former-cops-to-enforce-seed-patents-commodities.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the world’s second-
biggest seed company, is sending dozens of former police
officers across  North America  to prevent a practice generations
of farmers once took for granted.  The provider of the best-selling genetically modified
soybean seed is looking for evidence of farmers illegally saving
them from harvests for replanting next season, which is not
allowed under sales contracts. The Wilmington, Delaware-based
company is inspecting Canadian fields and will begin in the U.S.
next year, said Randy Schlatter, a DuPont senior manager.  DuPont is protecting its sales of Roundup Ready soybeans,
so called because they tolerate being sprayed by  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s
Roundup herbicide. For years enforcement was done by Monsanto,
which created Roundup Ready and dominates the $13.3 billion
biotech seed industry, though it’s moving on to a new line of
seeds now that patents are expiring. That leaves DuPont to play
the bad guy, enforcing alternative patents so cheaper “illegal
beans” don’t get planted.  “Farmers are never going to get cheap access to these
genetically engineered varieties,” said Charles Benbrook, a
research professor at Washington State University’s Center for
Sustaining Agriculture and Natural Resources. “The biotech
industry has trumped the legitimate economic interests of the
farmer again by raising the ante on intellectual property.”  Farmers Sued  Monsanto controls about 28 percent of the soybean market in
the U.S., the largest producer and exporter last year, while
Dupont has about 36 percent. The weed-killer tolerant seeds and
related licenses generated  $1.77 billion  in sales for Monsanto
in the year through August, 13 percent of the company’s total.
DuPont had  $1.37 billion  in soybean revenue last year, 3.6
percent of total sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The grain is used to make  animal feed , cooking oil, tofu
and biofuels, and it’s the biggest crop after corn in the U.S.  DuPont dropped 0.5 percent to $43.24 at the close in  New
York . It has declined 5.6 percent this year, the fifth-worst
performer of 31 companies in the  S&P 500 Materials Index. (S5MATR) 
Monsanto has gained 30 percent, the sixth-biggest gain in the
index.  Attacks on the modified  food industry  aren’t new. Farmers
criticized Monsanto in the 2008 Oscar-nominated documentary
“ Food, Inc. ” for contracts that keep them from saving seeds.
The St. Louis-based company has sued 145 U.S. farmers for saving
Roundup Ready soybeans since 1997, winning all 11 cases that
went to trial, said Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman. The
U.S. Supreme Court last month agreed to consider the legality of
such planting restrictions.  DuPont’s Challenge  DuPont currently markets Roundup Ready soybeans under
license from Monsanto, which is shifting to a newer version of
the crop along with most of the rest of the industry. The new
seeds produced an average of 4.5 bushels an acre more than the
originals this year, Monsanto said today in a statement. Some
farmers were anticipating a return to low-cost seed after
patents on the original beans expire, Benbrook said.  Monsanto Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  raised such a
prospect in 2010 when he said that growers could replant Roundup
Ready soybeans after the patents lapse.  “Our challenge is to get customers to understand the fact
that strong intellectual property protection is a benefit that
ends up at the customer level,” Schlatter, who works for
DuPont’s intellectual property program office, said by phone.
His company holds more than 225 soybean patents, he said.  “If we can’t make a profit, we can’t invest and we can’t
bring out new products.”  Court Review  Monsanto widely licenses its technology, getting the two
versions of Roundup Ready soybeans into 82 percent of the global
crop last year and 94 percent in the U.S. Patents on original
Roundup Ready beans expired in  Canada  last year and they expire
in the U.S. in late 2014.  Soybeans are easier for farmers to replicate than other
hybrid crops such as corn because second-generation beans don’t
lose vigor, tempting farmers to hold onto seeds.  The  Supreme Court  on Oct. 5 agreed to review a federal
appeals court decision that Vernon Hugh Bowman, a farmer,
infringed Monsanto’s patents when he purchased and planted
Roundup Ready soybeans from a grain elevator to save money. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, rejected Bowman’s
contention that Monsanto had “exhausted” its  patent rights  by
the time he bought the seed.  Argentina Exit  Monsanto pulled out of the Argentine soybean market a
decade ago after the country stopped enforcing Roundup Ready
patents. Pirated Roundup Ready beans are ubiquitous in the
country. Monsanto is working on agreements to get paid for a
newer technology that would allow it to re-enter the market on a
trial basis in a year, the company said today in a  presentation 
on its website.  Monsanto, which carries out the same kind of farm visits as
DuPont, is shifting enforcement efforts to its new Roundup Ready
2 technology, Powers said. It has switched most U.S. customers
to the new genetic trait, with 32 million acres planted last
year and about 40 million acres estimated for next year.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , which competes in the biotech seed
market, doesn’t need farm inspectors because it’s licensing the
new Roundup Ready 2 trait from Monsanto, said Garry Hamlin, a
Dow spokesman.  Genetic Analysis  DuPont has contracted Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Agro
Protection International for its farm audits. Agro typically
hires retired police officers to visit growers, its President
Dennis Birtles said. It has about 45 employees inspecting farms
in Canada and is adding as many as 35 to begin work for DuPont
in the U.S. next year, he said.  “Everyone always goes to the idea that we are trying to
intimidate people and nothing could be further from the truth,”
Birtles said. “We are trying to create deterrence.”  The inspectors are trained to remain polite and respectful
as they examine planting and purchase records and tour farmers’
fields, Birtles said. Crop clippings are sent to DuPont for
genetic analysis.  Agro found no major violations in “a couple hundred”
visits to DuPont’s Canadian customers this year, Birtles said.
Similar work for other clients typically find violations in
about 2 percent of visits, he said.  Brian Corkill, who grows 500 acres of soybeans and 1,200
acres of corn in Galva,  Illinois , said he knows another farmer
who was caught holding on to modified seeds two years ago.
Corkill said he would have no problem with inspectors visiting
his farm.  Biotech Benefits  “I don’t know if it’s worth the risk of saving seed,” he
said by phone. “We have all reaped the benefits of biotech seed
and we have to remember that.”  Agro will begin U.S. farm inspections two years before the
Roundup Ready patent expires in the country, so as to let
growers know that alternate patent protections are in place,
Birtles said.  “In my business, it is easier to slow the tide from the
very beginning than to try diving in three years later and then
get people to stop doing some bad habits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  