-- The Convoluted Campaign Against Susan Rice
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-28T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/the-convoluted-campaign-against-susan-rice.html
Lindsey Graham  and  John McCain 
finally came face-to-face with their prey this week.  The two angry Republican senators have been plotting for
weeks to stop Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations , from rising any further in the  Washington  firmament. On
Nov. 27, their task got more complicated.  Graham, of South Carolina, and McCain, of  Arizona  --
joined occasionally by Senator Kelly Ayotte of  New Hampshire , if
only to make it not seem like two men beating up on a woman --
are all aboil about the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. diplomatic
mission in Benghazi,  Libya , that killed four Americans. Well,
not exactly: They are upset about what Rice said about the
attack on several Sunday-morning talk shows five days later.  Why are they upset at Rice and not, say, officials in
charge of security at the mission? Or, if they want to go big,
why not Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ?  Probably because they wanted to go after a lesser official
whom President  Barack Obama  would like to be secretary of state.
Or because they don’t want to talk about how Republicans have
consistently denied funds to protect diplomatic posts in
dangerous places. Or because they don’t want to discuss how
supportive they were last decade when then National Security
Adviser  Condoleezza Rice  and Secretary of State  Colin Powell 
gave testimony that  Iraq  had weapons of mass destruction.  Powell and Rice then, like Susan Rice now, were relying on
information provided by the intelligence community. There is,
however, a major difference: Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice
were testifying before official government bodies to justify
going to war.  Susan Rice  was filling airtime between ads for
erectile-dysfunction drugs.  Washington Games  Of course, all of this is just more evidence of Washington
being full of itself. Only in Washington do people take
seriously something said to a tiny audience of insiders half-
watching their televisions on a Sunday morning. So seriously
that a few senators want to embark on a special investigation
beyond those already under way (hearings by congressional
committees and a State Department inquiry, headed by former
Ambassador Thomas Pickering and ordered by Clinton).  It doesn’t make sense unless you’re just looking for
conflict or are up for re-election. As it happens, McCain, the
grumpy old man of the Senate, is often spoiling for a fight, and
the ally of the man who defeated him four years ago is a
satisfying target. And Graham, who must face voters in the red
state of South Carolina in two years, already features his
dispute with Rice in campaign ads.  The renewed outrage this week was a bit of a surprise, as
McCain and Graham had softened their stances in recent days. Few
Republican colleagues were flocking to their side, and any hope
of Democratic support faded after the president’s passionate
defense of Rice at his post-election press conference.  Offering an olive branch, McCain said over the Thanksgiving
holiday that he would like to hear from Rice. Rice said she
would like to be heard. A meeting was scheduled. What might have
been the end of this fake melodrama over what Rice said
(although not the end of real concern over what to do about
preventing future Benghazis) was not to be.  Rice did admit that she was wrong about what happened in
Benghazi -- but that got lost when the story got a new twist.
Acting Central Intelligence Agency Director Michael Morell, who
accompanied Rice, said it wasn’t the director of national
intelligence or the CIA that provided edited intelligence to
Rice. It was the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation. After the
meeting, the CIA  changed its story  and said that it did, in
fact, change some details.  The confusion doesn’t end there. Shawn Turner, a spokesman
for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, told
foreign-policy blogger Josh Rogin that earlier news reports
claiming  James Clapper , the agency’s director, made the edits
were “ frustratingly wrong .” Turner said the talking points “were
debated and edited by a collective of experts” from the
intelligence community.  Doesn’t Matter  If you believe Rice was relying on intelligence given to
her, whether it was collected jointly or separately -- or even
if it helped paint a picture of what happened that the White
House liked -- doesn’t really matter. On Benghazi, Rice will
always be the messenger, not an actor. It will be left to
Pickering to sort out who did what to her talking points.  One senator, independent  Joe Lieberman  of  Connecticut  --
usually one of three amigos with McCain and Graham -- came out
of his meeting with Rice breaking with his friends. Rice was
telling “the whole truth,” he said.  That may not matter, either, given how invested Graham and
McCain are in making this tragedy all about Rice. Morell’s
addition of the FBI to the mix gives them a fresh detail to keep
this story going. Then Republican Senator Susan Collins of  Maine 
and the president himself all but assured a few more news cycles
of coverage: Collins, a moderate, said she couldn’t support Rice
without more information, while the president reiterated his
support of his ambassador.  Then again, this story is getting pretty convoluted. It’s
hard enough to know what really happened in Benghazi in
September. It’s harder still to implicate Rice in some kind of
cover-up. This week’s events will undoubtedly provide more
fodder for another round of Sunday-morning talk shows. But the
story McCain and Graham are trying to sell is getting harder and
harder to swallow.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  FAA’s wasteful staffing 
at little-used airports and on why  global imbalances will return 
if governments can’t reform; Caroline Baum wonders why we’re not
 talking about entitlement reform ; Ezra Klein on  using the fiscal
cliff as an opportunity ; Jonathan Mahler on  Ohio State’s perfect
season  that doesn’t count; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada’s
immigration quotas would work in the U.S.   To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  