-- ECB Lays Out Timetable for Single Euro-Area Bank Supervision
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-28T11:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ecb-lays-out-timetable-for-single-euro-area-bank-supervision.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
expects to assume full supervision of all euro-area banks by the
start of 2014 and that there is no need to change the law to
accommodate its new role.  In a  legal opinion  on the proposed single supervision
mechanism published today, the Frankfurt-based ECB set out a
timetable and stressed the need for governments to reach
agreement on the plan by the end of the year. It batted away the
concerns of  Germany ’s Bundesbank about the legality of the new
supervisor, saying the current European Union treaty provides
“the appropriate legal basis for rapidly and effectively
conferring specific supervisory tasks upon the ECB.”  European leaders in June agreed to hand the ECB powers to
oversee all 6,000 euro-area banks from Jan. 1, 2013, as part of
a so-called banking union that would unlock joint
recapitalization funds for the region’s ailing lenders. The ECB
said today that while the necessary regulation should enter into
force on that date, operational implementation would occur
gradually over the course of 2013 with “full implementation by
Jan. 1, 2014.”  The ECB “stresses the importance” of reaching agreement
on the supervision proposals by the end of 2012 to “maintain
the envisaged timetable,” it said.  The ECB called for the creation of a single resolution
mechanism to complement the single supervisor and “achieve a
well-functioning financial market union.” A resolution
authority “should be established -- or at least there should be
clear deadlines for its establishment -- when the ECB assumes
its supervisory responsibility in full,” it said.  Conflict Concerns  There are concerns that the new role may present a conflict
of interest for the ECB and compromise its ability to contain
inflation.  The Bundesbank this month questioned the legality of the
ECB assuming bank supervision responsibilities, saying it’s not
clear the treaty allows for “such a broad transfer of duties”
and that granting decision-making rights to a new body within
the ECB may breach the law.  “There should be a strict separation between the ECB’s new
tasks concerning supervision and its monetary policy tasks
assigned by the treaty,” the ECB said in the legal opinion.
“The ECB will establish appropriate internal rules and
procedures to ensure adequate separation within the functions
supporting these tasks.”  A single supervisor is a pre-requisite for the euro area’s
rescue fund to start directly aiding troubled banks.  The ECB welcomed the “inclusion of all  credit
institutions ” under the single supervisor, saying this is
“important to preserve a level playing field among banks and
prevent segmentation in the banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  