-- ECB Says Private Lending Contracted for a Sixth Month in October
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-28T09:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ecb-says-private-lending-contracted-for-a-sixth-month-in-october.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area contracted for a sixth month in October as the
economy entered recession.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.7 percent from a year
earlier after dropping an annual 0.9 percent in September, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. Loans were
unchanged in the month.  The 17-nation euro area succumbed to its second recession
in four years in the third quarter as the sovereign debt crisis
prompted governments to cut spending. At the same time, investor
confidence in  Germany  unexpectedly rose this month after growth
in  Europe ’s largest economy slowed less than expected and the
ECB pledged unlimited bond-market support for debt-strapped
countries.  “Although there is no credit crunch, there is still a
credit squeeze throughout the region,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “Despite the
ECB’s efforts to improve monetary-policy transmission, there are
still wide differences in lending rates and many banks are still
reluctant to extend credit given the recessionary environment.”  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report yesterday that the ECB should cut
 interest rates  further and commit to keeping them low as the
euro-area economy weakens and the risk of deflation emerges. The
ECB cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.75
percent in July and took the unprecedented step of reducing the
rate it pays banks on overnight deposits to zero.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, rose to 3.9 percent in October
from 2.6 percent in September, the ECB said today.  M3 grew 3.1 percent in the three months through October
from the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
money supply and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  