-- Ecolab’s Nalco Dismissed From Lawsuits Over 2010 BP Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-28T23:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ecolab-s-nalco-dismissed-from-lawsuits-over-2010-bp-spill.html
Ecolab Inc. (ECL) ’s Nalco Holding Co.
unit, which provided a chemical dispersant used to deal with the
2010  BP Plc (BP/)   Gulf of Mexico   oil spill , has been dismissed from
lawsuits over the incident.  BP used the Nalco dispersant to break up oil and reduce the
harm to the  Gulf Coast  following the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in April 2010. Plaintiffs
sued Nalco, claiming the dispersant, called Corexit, was
defective and more toxic than the oil itself.  Nalco said the claims for exposure-related injuries were
preempted by federal law giving the government authority to
direct all actions to remove a substantial spill. U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  agreed, finding today that the
claims were preempted by the U.S. Clean Water Act and the
National Contingency Plan, which put the government in charge of
the response.  “Nalco did not decide whether, when, where, how or in what
quantities Corexit was applied in response to the Deepwater
Horizon/Macondo Well oil spill,” Barbier said in a 36-page
opinion today.  Barbier also said allowing such claims might harm an all-
out response to future spills.  “If the court were to permit” the claims against Corexit,
even if the product was found to be defective or dangerous,
“then during the next substantial spill or ‘spill of national
significance,’ the threat of liability might cause the
manufacturer of dispersant X to refuse to provide its product,”
Barbier said.  ‘We’re Ecstatic’  Barbier said he wasn’t considering whether Corexit was
toxic or defective, just that the claims against Nalco had to be
dismissed as a matter of law.  “We’re ecstatic,” Michael J. Monahan, spokesman for  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based Ecolab, said today. “Its a vindication of
the position we’ve had all along,” he said in a phone
interview.  Steve Herman , an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail for comment on the dismissal.  The lawsuit is part of In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  