-- Eesti Energia Shale Oil Plant Delayed to Next Year, CEO Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-11-28T11:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/eesti-energia-shale-oil-plant-delayed-to-next-year-ceo-says.html
Eesti Energia AS,  Estonia ’s largest
utility, will delay the start of the world’s biggest shale oil
plant to next year due to technological problems, Chief
Executive Officer Sandor Liive said.  The Enefit280 plant in Auvere, north-eastern Estonia, is
about six months behind the initial plan of starting in
September, Liive told Bloomberg in an interview today in the
capital, Tallinn. The plant, due to process 280 tons of oil
shale an hour, would exceed the capacity of peers in Brazil and
 China , the only other shale oil producers, and double Eesti
Energia’s oil output to 10,000 barrels a day, Liive said.  “The launch is being delayed into next year,” Liive said.
“We’ll have to wait for the 50,000 tons of oil we hoped to get
from the new plant this year.”  Estonia is the only country that depends for most of its
energy supply on oil shale, a sedimentary rock from which
petroleum-like oil can be extracted by heating. The fastest-
growing economy in the European Union last year expects to
reduce its reliance on oil shale in electricity generation to
meet renewable energy goals, while expanding the use of the
resource in more profitable production of liquid fuels to remain
self-sufficient in energy and boost exports.  Privately-owned Viru Keemia Grupp AS, now Estonia’s largest
oil producer, and state-owned Eesti Energia have a combined
shale oil output of about 500,000 tons a year, with total
revenue of about $180 million in 2010 from oil operations. Both
aim to start refining their oil, now mainly used for heating and
ship fuel, from 2016 to make diesel and gasoline. Their combined
output may be as much as 40,000 barrels a day, according to
plans published by both companies.  Eesti Energia’s new plant is the first to combine shale
extraction and combusting oil shale in a boiler to produce
electricity for added efficiency and less pollution at twice the
capacity of the company’s existing units, Liive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  