-- El Salvador to Join America Movil, Cencosud Selling Debt Abroad
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-11-28T17:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/el-salvador-to-join-america-movil-cencosud-selling-debt-abroad.html
El Salvador  plans to sell dollar
bonds in a benchmark offering as emerging-market issuers from
America Movil SAB in  Mexico  to Chile’s  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  take
advantage of borrowing costs hovering near a record low.  The Central American country hired Citigroup Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG to sell the debt, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
terms aren’t set. A benchmark offering is typically at least
$500 million.  Near-zero benchmark interest rates in  Europe  and the U.S.
are boosting demand for emerging-market assets with higher
returns. The average  yield  on  debt  from developing nations was
4.62 percent yesterday after reaching a record low 4.59 percent
on Oct. 16, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI index.  America Movil , the biggest mobile-phone carrier in the
Americas by subscribers, is selling 10-year peso bonds overseas
in a benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set. Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley are
arranging today’s transaction.  Cencosud, a retailer controlled by billionaire Horst
Paulmann, plans to issue $1 billion of 10-year bonds as soon as
tomorrow, according to a person familiar with the transaction
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set  CFR Pharmaceuticals, Chile’s largest drug developer, plans
to sell $300 million of 10-year securities callable after 10
years, according to a person familiar with the offering.  Grupo KUO SAB (KUOB) , a Mexican industrial conglomerate, plans to
sell 10-year bonds to yield about 6.5 percent, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  Mongolia, Rosneft  Mongolia may sell five- and 10-year bonds in a debut
offering after meeting with investors, according to a person
familiar with the discussions who asked not to be identified
because details are private.  Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil company, plans to offer as
much as $3 billion of bonds due in five and 10 years, according
to Aaron Grehan, a  fund manager  at Aviva Investors who attended
an investor meeting yesterday.  Tinkoff Credit Systems, the Russian consumer lender part-
owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., may sell as much as $100
million of subordinated bonds due in 5.5 years, according to
President Oliver Hughes. Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are arranging meetings with bond investors in the U.K. and
 Switzerland , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  