-- Eli Lilly Chief Says China Too Slow in Approving New Drugs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-28T17:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/eli-lilly-chief-says-china-too-slow-in-approving-new-drugs.html
China takes eight years longer on
average to approve drugs than other major countries and U.S.
drugmakers are looking at ways to help speed things up,  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said.  “This is a drug lag that I hope we are able to close in
the coming years, by working with Chinese authorities to speed
up the process of doing clinical trials in China,” Lechleiter
said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. The 59-year-old
executive is spending the week in China to meet government
officials and business executives as chairman of the industry
group  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America .  Lilly itself plans to conduct simultaneous late-stage tests
in China for products such as the experimental diabetes drug
dulaglutide, according to Lechleiter. The Indianapolis-based
drugmaker wants introduce more than a dozen medicines in China
in the next five years, including drugs for diabetes and cancer,
and seeks to keep sales there growing 25 percent as they did
last year, he said in March.  Drugmakers are working to expand their offerings in  China ,
the world’s fastest-growing pharmaceuticals market, as revenue
drops elsewhere, hurt by expiring patents on blockbusters. Lilly
in October said quarterly earnings had missed analyst estimates
after generic competition hurt revenue from the schizophrenia
treatment Zyprexa, once the company’s top-selling drug.  Lechleiter said “prospects are good” for further
expansion of Lilly’s drug-manufacturing operations in China. The
company opened a second plant in June this year in the eastern
city of Suzhou.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  