-- Emerging Stocks Tumble on Outlook as Crude Sinks Russia
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-28T22:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-budget-concerns.html
Emerging-market equities declined
the most in two weeks, led by industrial and consumer stocks.
Falling oil spurred declines in Russia’s benchmark index.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  plunged in Cairo after
reporting a 31 percent drop in third-quarter net income, while
 Hankook Tire Worldwide Co. (000240)  slid to a four-week low in Seoul.
 Citic Securities Co. (6030) ,  China ’s biggest-listed brokerage, sank for
the first time in six days as equity trading shrank in China and
the Shanghai Composite Index declined to its lowest level since
January 2009. Russia’s  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  dropped the most in two weeks
as crude tumbled in  New York .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.5 percent to 991.27
in New York, its biggest one-day decline since Nov. 15. The
global economic recovery will be “hesitant and uneven” over
the next two years as a recession in Europe crimps demand, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  said  in a
report issued yesterday. The gauge pared losses as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  floated a resolution to the country’s
budget impasse by Christmas.  “The OECD report focused on the deteriorating growth
backdrop, and that certainly is going to weigh on emerging
markets,”  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging-markets and
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “This lingering concern over the fiscal
cliff as well as the overhang of the downgraded growth prospects
focused in on a number of risks that lie ahead.”  ‘Eye of Storm’  The developing-nations gauge dropped as much as 0.9 percent
earlier today as Erskine Bowles, co-chairman of Obama’s 2010
fiscal commission, said the president and Congress probably
won’t reach a deal to resolve the so-called fiscal cliff by the
end of 2012. Speaker of the House  John Boehner  said later that
he is “optimistic” budget talks will continue.  “We are now in the eye of the storm of debate regarding
the fiscal cliff,” Mark Burgess, the chief investment officer
at Threadneedle Investments, wrote in an e-mail. “If the
markets continue to be unsettled by the situation in the U.S.,
we will use the market weakness to increase our equity exposure
further.”  The $607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to
take effect next year should a deal not be agreed may spur a
recession and a higher U.S. jobless rate, the  Congressional
Budget Office  has said.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 1 percent in Moscow, declining for a
third day as oil, Russia’s chief export earner, dropped 0.8
percent to $86.49 a barrel. OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s state-run
telephone operator, dropped 5.2 percent after OAO MegaFon, the
country’s second-largest mobile operator by users, raised $1.7
billion in an initial public offering.  Egypt Slides  Egypt ’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  slid to a four-month low after
President Mohamed Mursi rejected demands to reverse decrees
awarding him sweeping new powers. Orascom Construction, the
nation’s biggest publicly traded business, declined 6.9 percent
after saying profit retreated in the last quarter because of a
“seasonal slowdown.”  Equity indexes in  Poland ,  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  slid,
while  India ’s market is closed for a holiday.  Brazil ’s Bovespa rose for the first time in three days,
adding 0.5 percent as  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo , the nation’s
biggest online retailer, surged to the highest level since
September 2011. Bank of America Corp. rated B2W a buy yesterday
on prospects an improved distribution infrastructure will cut
costs.  ETF Rises  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.6
percent to $41.51 in New York. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF  Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 1.9 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-listed
Chinese stocks slumped 1.2 percent today, retreating for a third
day. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.9 percent, with
trading volumes 18 percent below the gauge’s 30-day average. The
Jakarta Composite Index fell 0.8 percent.  The broader  emerging markets   measure  has advanced 8.2
percent this year, trailing a 10 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index of developed countries. The developing-nations gauge
trades for 11.4 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.4 multiple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuan Retreats  China’s  yuan  retreated from a 19-year high as the central
bank lowered its  reference rate  for the currency, meaning it had
to act to weaken the currency to remain within its permitted
trading range. China’s money-market rate climbed the most in
four weeks on speculation cash supply will tighten as banks
hoard funds to meet month-end  capital requirements .  China isn’t a currency manipulator under U.S. law, though
the yuan “remains significantly undervalued” and needs to rise
further, the Treasury Department said in a  statement 
accompanying its semi-annual currency report to Congress
yesterday.  The ruble depreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar, while
South Africa’s rand strengthened 0.3 percent on its fifth day of
gains.  Hankook Tire, South Korea’s largest tire manufacturer,
slumped 3.3 percent. The company got 26 percent of its second-
quarter revenue from North America, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Mando Corp. (060980)  tumbled 7.3 percent to the lowest price in two
years in Seoul. Mando was the worst performer on the developing
nations gauge on trading volumes almost three times the three-
month average, data collated by Bloomberg show.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916) , the nation’s biggest
developer of wind farms, surged 7.5 percent in  Hong Kong  after
the company started operating a 150-megawatt venture off the
eastern province of Jiangsu.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point to 289 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  