-- Lenovo Brings Mobile Push to Russia With Two Smartphones
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-28T10:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lenovo-brings-mobile-push-to-russia-with-smartphone-introduction.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  started selling
smartphones in Russia as China’s second-largest vendor of the
devices seeks to extend its global dominance in personal
computers to mobile phones and tablets.  Lenovo has started offering its S880 and P700i models in
the country, its fifth overseas market for the devices,
spokesman Chris Millward said in a telephone interview today,
without giving a target for sales.  Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing ’s PC maker surpassed
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  last quarter as the world’s largest and Yang
has said he intends to seek growth in global sales of mobile
devices. Lenovo, which introduced its first touch-screen handset
in China in 2010, in the past four months expanded sales to
India, Indonesia,  Vietnam  and the Philippines.  “The company has a good set of offerings that meet
emerging-market consumer needs at the right price points,”
Stephen Yang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sun Hung Kai
Financial Ltd., said in an e-mail. “Lenovo’s smartphone
strategy aims at large markets where they can achieve scale as
buyers switch from feature phones. They believe they can achieve
a top-five status in  Russia  over the next couple of years.”  Lenovo, whose headquarters are in Beijing and Morrisville,
North Carolina, rose 0.3 percent to HK$7.09 at the close in Hong
Kong trading. The  shares  have gained 37 percent this year,
compared with an 18 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  The company is the second-largest smartphone maker in China
and plans to seize the top spot from Samsung Electronics Co.,
Milko Van Duijl, president for the Asia-Pacific and Latin
America regions, said in an interview last month.  It started smartphone sales in Russia earlier this month,
Millward said.  Lenovo’s mobile Internet and digital home unit, which makes
smartphones, more than doubled  revenue  to $1.31 billion in the
first half of the year. The company’s total sales rose 11
percent to $8.67 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  