-- EU Nations Clash on Thresholds for Direct ECB Oversight
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-11-29T10:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/eu-nations-clash-on-thresholds-for-direct-ecb-oversight.html
The European Union is quarreling
over thresholds on how big euro-area lenders must be in order to
be designated for direct oversight by the  European Central Bank ,
according to draft proposals.  Nations are at odds over three different size thresholds,
according to the document drawn up by Cyprus, which holds the
EU’s rotating presidency. Some countries are seeking to set the
bar as low as banks with more than 2.5 billion euros ($3.2
billion) in assets, while others are calling for divisions at 20
billion euros or 60 billion euros, according to the text, dated
Nov. 27 and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  States are also split over having direct ECB supervision
triggered by a ratio between a bank’s assets and the gross
domestic product of its home country, according to the
proposals, intended to forge a deal on the supervision plan.
Suggested thresholds in the text put the tipping points at
assets of more than 20 percent, 50 percent or 75 percent of GDP.  Governments are racing to meet an end of 2012 deadline to
set up a single supervisor at the Frankfurt-based ECB. EU
finance ministers will meet next week to seek compromises on the
bank-oversight plan, which the bloc’s leaders have labeled as an
essential step to break the bank-sovereign link that has
worsened  Europe ’s debt crisis. The draft document didn’t reveal
what nations held what positions in the talks.  All Banks  Direct ECB oversight would automatically apply to any
lenders with cross-border presence, under the draft plans. The
ECB would have powers “at any time ” to sideline national
regulators and take over direct supervision of any bank,
according to the proposals.  Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte yesterday urged the EU to
press ahead with the new banking supervisor, starting with banks
that already receive aid and broadening to expand all banks.  “We believe it should be built,” Rutte said in an
interview in Amsterdam. “In the end, I believe you need to have
some way involving all the European banks, the problems didn’t
start with  Santander (SAN)  in  Spain , they started with the cajas,
which are the small local banks.”  Spanish Banks  The supervisor must be in place before the euro area can
consider giving banks direct aid from the euro area’s rescue
funds. Governments must currently take responsibility for loans
from the firewall fund, such as Spain’s 100 billion-euro
financial-sector rescue.  There is a “fundamental inconsistency between the single
monetary policy of the euro area and the national
responsibilities for banking policies,” said ECB executive
board member Benoit Coeure, in  a speech in  Hong Kong  yesterday.  “The need to sever the negative feedback loop between
banks and sovereigns by taking responsibility for the stability
of the banking system at European level has become clear. ”  Coeure said the ECB will delegate many tasks, “probably
most of them,” to nations. At the same time, this should be
“within a centralized decision-making process and according to
a single handbook,” he said.  The ECB said it needs “control powers” over the whole
supervisory system for the new oversight to work, according to a
 legal opinion  from the central bank.  ‘Full Recourse’  The central bank said it should have “full recourse to the
knowledge, expertise and operational resources” of national
bank regulators.  When delegating to the national banks, the ECB shouldn’t
give up its own right to step in, the  legal opinion  said. The
ECB should “without prejudice” be able to “provide guidance
and instructions, or assume the tasks of national authorities
when duly required,” the central bank said in an opinion
published on its website.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  has said that the ECB
is against a two-tier system that prevents it from  overseeing
some banks .  The revised plans drawn up by Cyprus would keep some power
with national regulators over banking licenses, and authorizing
mergers, while giving the ECB a 10-day period to veto decisions.  The Cypriot proposals also seek to address concerns from
non-euro area countries that they would lack a voice in ECB
decision making if they sign their banks up for joint oversight.  Anders Borg,  Sweden ’s finance minister, has said that the
EU may have to change its treaties to prevent non-euro nations
being second class members of the system, because current rules
ban them from sitting on the central bank’s governing council.  Under the updated proposals, non-euro countries could opt-
out of ECB decisions they disagreed with. The ECB would then
determine whether non-compliance means the countries’ banks
should be removed from the common oversight system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  