-- European Crisis Spurs Drugmakers to Pull Back Treatments
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-28T17:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/european-crisis-spurs-drugmakers-to-pullback-treatments.html
The European financial crisis is
creating a tug-of-war between the pharmaceutical industry and
governments as austerity measures clamp down on reimbursements,
especially for new drugs.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH are among
drugmakers delaying introductions or partially withdrawing their
products in markets including the U.K. and  Germany  as
governments raise the bar on what they’re willing to cover.  In Europe, which accounts for about 30 percent of
industrywide sales, governments have turned to price cuts and
close scrutiny of new drugs’ benefits to help rein in budget
deficits amid austerity measures. Cost reductions may continue
in 2013 after economic growth forecasts for the region declined,
Bloomberg Industries analysts said Nov. 15.  “More than ever it’s important to understand the benefit
of these new products,” said Jose Aymami, a fund manager at
Merchbanc in Barcelona, which holds shares in  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  ThromboGenics NV (THR) , among other
health-care stocks. “We are concentrating on companies that
will get a payback for development costs.”  The European Medicines Agency, the European Union’s drug
regulator, makes recommendations to the European Commission on
whether drugs should be approved for marketing in the 27-nation
bloc. Once cleared, drugmakers then negotiate with payers in
each country over pricing.  Pricing Law  In Germany, companies are required to show that a new
product works better than older medicines before they can charge
a premium for it. The review process falls under a 2010 drug
pricing law passed with the intention of saving 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) a year.  German authorities  said  Boehringer Ingelheim hadn’t
compared its diabetes treatment Trajenta with appropriate
existing treatments in a first-round evaluation in March.
Boehringer started a second review process in September, and if
the product is given “additional benefit” status, the
Ingelheim, Germany-based company will proceed with pricing
negotiations. Otherwise, “we will consider our next steps
carefully,” spokeswoman Judith von Gordon-Weichelt said in an
e-mail.  Glaxo in May withdrew its epilepsy drug Trobalt from the
German market for newly diagnosed patients after local
authorities said it would compare it with two generic medicines.
Glaxo plans further pricing discussions with Germany to make
Trobalt available to new patients, the London-based company said
this week.  ‘Punitive Measures’  “Recent years have seen the introduction of a series of
punitive measures in Germany,”  Richard Bergstroem , director
general of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries
and Associations, said in a statement. “This is not good for
German patients and not good for the country as it strives to
retain companies and attract new investments.”  More than two dozen therapies have gone through benefit
assessments in Germany, with companies leaving the market in
four cases, according to the industry group VFA.  The first product to go through the process,  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s Brilique blood thinner, was found by German reviewers to
have an additional benefit compared with older drugs for
patients with mild heart attacks or chest pain. In total, five
products have shown a considerable additional benefit, nine a
minor additional benefit and three a non-quantifiable additional
benefit, according to the G-BA, the German body that makes drug
reimbursement decisions.  ‘Valid Basis’  “The results show that this compulsory and fast
comparative assessment in the first year of marketing is
producing a valid basis for therapy decisions in health care and
price negotiations between industry and statutory health
insurance providers,”  G-BA Impartial Chairman Josef Hecken  said
in an e-mailed statement.  In the U.K., the biggest purchaser is the state-run
National Health Service. A separate body formed in 1999, the
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, known as
NICE, advises the NHS on which treatments represent value for
money.  Between January 2010 and August of this year, 26 drugs, or
33 percent of 79 approved by the European Medicines Agency, were
rejected by NICE, according to a Bloomberg Industries analysis.
Of the 26 rejections, 15 were based on insufficient benefit to
justify the cost, even though some drugmakers offered to
discount their prices, the analysis found.  NICE Rejections  Among those that NICE didn’t recommend were Glaxo’s breast-
cancer treatment Tyverb and Benlysta for lupus, though final
guidance hasn’t been issued on the products.  With drug prices in the U.K. among the lowest in  Europe  and
the rate of adoption of new medicines significantly lower than
on the continent, NICE isn’t adequately valuing innovation, said
Stephen Whitehead, chief executive of the Association of the
British Pharmaceutical Industry.  “It is increasingly becoming difficult to make any kind of
return on drug development,” Whitehead said in an interview.
“Patients are also not getting optimal treatment” with delayed
decisions or rejections of the latest therapies.  Price comparisons between countries can be misleading
because some require patients to pay for part of the cost of
some medicines, while in the U.K., many people are eligible for
free treatment, NICE said in an e-mailed statement.  “NICE has approved some of the most expensive medicines
made available in recent years, including Herceptin for breast
cancer and Sutent for renal cancer,” the agency said.  French Cuts  France said last month it’s planning to cut 2.1 billion
euros in health-care expenses next year by pushing drug prices
lower, urging doctors to write fewer prescriptions and spending
less on hospitals.  Such measures are easier to implement than reorganizing
hospitals and other system-wide changes, said Graham Lewis, vice
president at consulting firm IMS Health Inc. in  London .  “Governments and politicians are unwilling to recognize
how inefficient things are,” he said. “Structural changes are
politically very difficult to deliver.”  Programs to rein in health-care costs will lead to between
a 1 percent decline and 2 percent growth in European spending on
medicines from 2011 to 2016, compared with an almost two-fold
increase in  emerging markets , according to  IMS Health .  Orphan Drugs  There are some exceptions to the cost-cutting rule,
especially among treatments for rare diseases, said Rajesh Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros for DNCA Finance SA in
Paris. Sanofi’s Genzyme unit has even been able to raise prices
on its orphan drugs, which can cost “a couple hundred thousand
dollars a year,” he said.  “You have to look at how long these drugs have been
around, if there are generics around, if they are orphan
drugs,” Varma said. Complaining about pricing pressure “is a
lot of hot air.”  Investment opportunities can still be found even among
companies with substantial sales in Europe, said Merchbanc’s
Aymami.  His picks include Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, which
will continue to see growth from its existing and forthcoming
cancer drugs; Heverlee, Belgium-based ThromboGenics, whose
Jetrea eye treatment was approved in the U.S. last month and may
be cleared in Europe this year; and New York-based Bristol-
Myers, whose Eliquis treatment developed with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for
preventing strokes was approved in Europe this month.  More Acquisitions  To help cope with declining revenue, Pfizer,  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) , Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca will probably increase
spending on acquisitions beyond their normal budgets because of
“deep operating challenges coupled with deep pockets,” Fitch
Ratings said last week. Partnerships such as ViiV Healthcare
Ltd., a joint venture between Glaxo, Pfizer and Shionogi & Co.
focused on HIV medicines, may also be replicated by others, said
Thomas Rudolph, principal at  McKinsey & Co.  in Stuttgart,
Germany, which consults for all of the top 20 drugmakers
globally.  “We’ll see a lot more industry and site consolidation,”
Rudolph said. “Efficiency reserves are there, and companies
haven’t been forced to look at them very closely until now. They
need to be a lot bolder about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  