-- European Equity Commissions Drop 29% in Year, Tabb Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-11-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/european-equity-commissions-drop-29-in-year-tabb-says.html
The value of commissions paid to
European brokers fell 29 percent in 2012 as equity volumes
declined amid the  European debt crisis , according to a study by
Tabb Group LLC.  Payments dropped to 865 million euros ($1.1 billion) this
year from 1.2 billion euros in 2011, according to a survey of
money managers, who together oversee 13.6 trillion euros. About
45 percent of respondents said they have cut the percentage of
orders they route to traditional sales-trading desks, with 66
percent switching into computer algorithms, the study found.  “A combination of a deepening economic crisis, increasing
regulation, collapsing volumes and commission wallets is
escalating the need for immediate action on outdated business
models,” said Rebecca Healey, author of the Tabb report titled
“Changing the Rules of Engagement.” “The status quo can no
longer be maintained.”  Equity trading volumes have declined globally, with
exchanges including  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  all reporting a drop. The  volume of shares 
changing hands in Stoxx  Europe  600 Index companies, averaged
over the previous 50 days, has declined 27 percent from a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As volumes fall, 45 percent of those surveyed said they are
concentrating and reducing commission payments and 42 percent
said they are evaluating the broker services they use.  ‘Limited Resources’  “All market participants need to be prepared to achieve
more with less,” Healey said. “With no increase in volumes in
the immediate future, brokers will need to generate revenues
more effectively with reduced headcount and limited resources.”  As liquidity dries up, the number of traders using dark
pools, where prices aren’t publicly displayed, is climbing. Ten
percent of those surveyed said they did more than 30 percent of
trading in dark pools, an increase from 8 percent in 2011.  In 2011, securities firms were forced to scale back and
close divisions trading stocks in Europe as the region’s debt
crisis accelerated a decline in profitability.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
 Italy ’s largest bank, shuttered its western European equities
unit in November last year, joining at least five other
companies, including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , that eliminated
equities staff in Europe.  Tabb interviewed 60 head traders of equity desks in August
and September, of which 40 were traditional asset-management
firms and 20 were hedge funds.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Deutsche
Bank and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  were the region’s top equity
traders in 2012 by average daily volume, according to Tabb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  