-- European Descendants Carry Brunt of New Gene Mutations
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-28T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/european-descendants-carry-brunt-of-new-gene-mutations.html
Almost three quarters of gene
 mutations  occurred within the last 5 to 10 millennia of humans’
200,000 years existence, and those of European descent have most
of the harmful ones, an analysis of people in the U.S. showed.  About 14 percent of mutations scientists identified were
found to be harmful, according to a gene study of 6,500
Americans published today in the journal  Nature . About 86
percent of those variants arose in people with European heritage
in the last 5,000 years, the research found.  The exploding  population growth  of humans enabled DNA
errors to occur more rapidly, said study author  Joshua Akey , an
associate professor of genome sciences at the  University of
Washington  in  Seattle . People with European ancestry have most
of the new deleterious mutations because the population boom
among Europeans was more recent and natural selection hasn’t yet
removed them, he said.  “There’s an enormous amount of recently arisen, rare
mutations that’s directly attributable to the explosive
population growth over the last two to four generations,” said
Akey in a telephone interview.  The world’s population was 6.9 billion in 2010, more than
doubling from 2.5 billion in 1950, according to United Nations
data. The population boom may mean that unusual combinations may
affect more people, numerically, while remaining rare relative
to the world population, Akey said.  New Mutations  More people allow for rare variations to come up more often
and for new mutations to appear, Akey said. The growing
population also makes it more likely that new mutations will be
introduced, such as those linked to autism, leading to an
increase in certain diseases.  The findings are also consistent with the “out of  Africa ”
hypothesis of human evolution, which holds that modern humans
emerged in Africa before spreading across the rest of the world,
according to the researchers. Events such as the  Black Death , a
plague which killed about a third of the people in  Europe , could
be seen through their effects on the genome, said  Eric Topol , a
professor of translational genomics at the Scripps Research
Institute in  La Jolla ,  California .  Today’s data may provide other hints of how the human
population expanded, much like tree rings can provide records of
the past weather, Topol said.  “This helps us understand bottlenecks and how humans
evolved,” Topol said. He wasn’t involved in the study. Now when
scientists see new genes or mutations, they “can also begin to
ask when did they crop up,” he said.  Disease Clues  What’s more, the data may help doctors identify the genetic
basis of disease, he said. Researchers typically look for
frequent variants in common ailments, such as diabetes and heart
disease. Today’s results suggest that rare variations occur so
often that they contribute more than once thought to common
illnesses.  Because changes in the population have been so rapid and
studies until this point relied on much smaller samples,
scientists haven’t been able to detect increasing mutations.  For instance, scientists know from skeletons that humans
have gotten larger over the last 1,000 years, though smaller
analyses of the  exome,  the part of the genome that codes
proteins, didn’t find any signs of that growth in their data.  “It turns out the reason we couldn’t see it before is
because the growth happened so recently that you need thousands
to see it,” Akey said. “There’s a massive signature of
growth.”  The project, funded by the National Heart, Lung, and
Institute Blood, was begun in September 2008. Further research
may include sequencing parts of the genome that don’t code for
proteins, Akey said. Some of these non-coding regions regulate
the genes that code proteins, and may also be important.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 