-- European Court to Rule Over ECB’s Secret Greek File
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/european-court-to-rule-over-ecb-s-secret-file.html
A court will decide tomorrow whether
the  European Central Bank  should release files on how Greece
used derivatives to hide its debt in the first legal challenge
to the authority’s bid to shield its workings from scrutiny.  Bloomberg News  sued the ECB in December 2010 to obtain the
documents under European Union freedom-of-information rules. The
papers may illuminate the role the central bank played as Greece
covered up its deficit for almost a decade before seeking a 240
billion-euro ($311 billion) bailout and the biggest debt
restructuring in history.  The ECB, which puts greater limits on its disclosures about
its decision making than its British and U.S. equivalents,
withholds minutes from meetings for decades and keeps members’
votes private. The central bank is under pressure from policy
makers including governing council member Erkki Liikanen to
boost transparency as it becomes both lender of last resort to
nations hit by the debt crisis and regulator of the region’s
banks. The ECB this week endorsed a package of measures to keep
 Greece  from bankruptcy.  “It’s a momentous occasion for  Europe  to show its deep
commitment to the fundamental principle of accountability in the
face of fiscal mismanagement,” said Gustavo Piga, an economics
professor at University of Rome Tor Vergata, and former adviser
to the Italian Treasury.  Two Rejections  Bloomberg’s freedom-of-information request, filed in August
2010, was twice rejected by the ECB. Bloomberg’s  lawsuit  at the
General Court in  Luxembourg  seeks access to two internal papers
drafted for the central bank’s six-member Executive Board. The
first document is entitled “The impact on government deficit
and debt from off-market swaps: the Greek case.”  The second reviews Titlos Plc, a structure that allowed
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest lender, to
borrow from the ECB by creating collateral from a securitization
of swaps on Greek government debt, the Executive Board said in a
March 2010 cover note obtained by Bloomberg News.  If the court rules against the ECB, the central bank would
have two months to comply. Both sides can appeal the decision at
the  European Court  of Justice.  The ECB said at a court hearing on June 14 that making the
two documents public could still aggravate the crisis, putting
the future of the single currency at risk. The files contain
assumptions and hypotheses that were used to shape decisions and
their release could threaten policy making, the central bank has
argued.  Transparency Limits  “There are limits to transparency,” said Ernest Patrikis,
a partner at law firm White & Case LLP and a former general
counsel at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . “When things
are nurtured enough and old enough that they should be available
to scholars, that’s one thing, but too much transparency chills
discussion.”  The ECB has been central to keeping Greek banks afloat
since the crisis began, providing loans and at times risking
European taxpayers’ money in event of an outright default. The
central bank owns about 45 billion euros of Greek  government
bonds  after it began buying them in 2010 after the first rescue.  The briefings give officials’ views on the impact of the
swaps and analyze how the Titlos transaction would affect “the
Eurosystem collateral framework, and associated risk control
measures,” then ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in his
reply to Bloomberg’s initial request for information.  The files “played a role” in shaping policy and
“highlighted there were issues” when the ECB undertook a
review of its criteria for accepting collateral in its funding
operations, the ECB’s lawyers told the court in June.  Greek Crisis  One of the cornerstones of the ECB’s response to the crisis
was to provide banks with as much money as they needed in return
for collateral. In October 2010, the ECB changed the rules on
the asset-backed securities it accepted, and gave itself more
discretionary power to reject collateral.  In April 2009 -- seven months before the Greek crisis
erupted -- ECB officials spotted “a swap operation in unusual
terms,” according to the March 2010 cover note.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s budget figures starting in
October 2009 spurred a surge in the country’s borrowing costs,
eventually forcing the nation to seek aid from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . In 2010, Eurostat, the EU
statistics agency, gained additional powers allowing it to audit
countries’ financial data.  “An ECB view on a historical event in Greece is hardly
going to undermine its ability to influence markets and is
unlikely to undermine the ECB’s credibility,” said  Charlotte  Gaitanides, a lawyer and head of European Studies at the
University of Flensburg in  Germany . “If it was a bit more
transparent on issues that do not directly affect its ability to
conduct monetary policy, it would probably enhance it.”  European Ombudsman  Unlike the  Bank of England  and the U.S. Federal Reserve,
the ECB doesn’t publish minutes of governing council members’
deliberations at policy-setting meetings. The ECB argues that
policy shields policy makers from political pressure in their
home countries.  In a separate case, the ECB this year won the backing of
the European Ombudsman in a decision to keep its dealings with
governments private. The Strasbourg-based EU agency, which
handles complaints against EU institutions including freedom-of-
information requests, sided with the ECB’s decision to withhold
an August 2011 letter to the Spanish government on economic
reform in response to a public access filing.  Disclosing the letter could expose  Spain  to “speculative
threats” and undermine its economic policy, the Ombudsman said
in its  assessment  of the case published in July.  Still, the ECB should view transparency as an opportunity
to enhance its legitimacy, and not just as a legal obligation,
the Ombudsman wrote in its findings.  ‘Short Stick’  “When you protect the market to the exclusion of
everything else, the only way you find out what’s happening is
when everything has collapsed all around you,” said Lucy Dalglish, dean of the University of  Maryland ’s journalism
college and former executive director of the Reporters Committee
for Freedom of the Press. “Who’s getting the short stick here?
It’s the public, who doesn’t know what its government
representatives are up to.”  Public access to information about how the ECB works has
become even more constrained since the central bank was chosen
in 2010 to chair the European System Risk Board, a pan-EU
supervisor that monitors markets and financial risk.  In 2011, months after Bloomberg’s information request, the
ECB added a fresh exception to the instances in which access to
documents can be refused, allowing it to withhold information if
the stability of the financial system or in a member state could
be undermined.  “Financial stability is an economic concept and not a
legal one and can be applied to pretty much anything,” said
Hubert de Vauplane, a partner at Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel
LLP in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Katz in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 