-- Hewlett-Packard Credit Rating Cut by Moody’s on Competition
-- B y   T o m   G i l e s
-- 2012-11-28T21:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/hewlett-packard-s-credit-rating-cut-by-moody-s-amid-competition.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  had its credit
ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited concern
about the computer maker’s ability to contend with competition
and “execution challenges.”  Moody’s cut the company’s long-term credit  ratings  to Baa1,
three levels above junk, from A3, the credit-rating company said
in a statement. Its outlook is negative.  Hewlett-Packard is taking an $8.8 billion writedown related
to alleged falsified accounting at Autonomy Corp., the software
maker it acquired last year. That’s compounding challenges,
including management upheaval and dwindling demand for personal
computers, that have cast doubt on a push by Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  to revive growth. About $25 billion in debt
is affected by the cut, Moody’s said.  “Although HP will maintain strong to leading positions in
a number of product areas, the company’s credit profile will
remain weaker than previously expected over the intermediate
term,”  Richard Lane , a Moody’s senior vice president, wrote in
the statement.  Sales at Hewlett-Packard will decline 5 percent next year
and operating margins will narrow, compared with the company’s
historical average, Moody’s said.  “Nobody is worried about HP defaulting, but the downgrade
shows a lack of confidence in HP’s turnaround and its ability to
be a powerhouse going forward,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor
at the Ross School of Business at the  University of Michigan .  Confidence Ebbing  The cost of protecting Hewlett-Packard bonds from default
rose 2.9 basis points to 366.4 basis points as of 4 p.m. in  New
York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The contracts typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The contracts have risen from 349.4 on Nov. 19, the day
before the company announced the Autonomy-related writedown.  Hewlett-Packard’s $1.5 billion of 2.6 percent notes due
September 2017 fell 0.3 cent to 94.9 cents on the dollar to
yield 3.78 percent as of 4:19 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  