-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Boss Close to U.S. Plea Deal: Lawyer
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-11-28T11:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ex-credit-suisse-cdo-boss-close-to-u-s-plea-deal-lawyer.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a
bonus-boosting fraud tied to a $5.35 billion trading book, is in
late-stage talks with U.S. authorities on a plea agreement.  Ben Brandon, Serageldin’s lawyer, told a  London  court today
“our expectation is that the discussions will be fruitful” with
the U.S. Justice Department and it’s unlikely that there would
have to be an extradition hearing.  The case was adjourned until Jan. 14 so talks could
continue. Serageldin was negotiating a deal with U.S.
prosecutors when he was arrested in September outside the U.S.
Embassy in London.  Serageldin, a 39-year-old U.S. citizen who lives in
England, was charged in February with masterminding a scheme to
fake collateralized debt obligations. At the time when he was
first charged in  Manhattan  federal court, Serageldin said
through his lawyers that he was surprised, since he had been
cooperating with U.S. investigators for four years.  “I can say that we are close,” Brandon said today. “I’m
able to say that a final reply is awaited from the  Department of
Justice .”  Serageldin was named in an indictment unsealed in February
accusing him of conspiracy, falsification of books and records,
and  wire fraud . The conspiracy charge carries a maximum five-
year prison term on conviction. The other counts are punishable
by as many as 20 years. The case is being investigated by agents
of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New York.  Serageldin, who was born in Egypt, wants to renounce his
U.S. citizenship and serve part of any sentence in the U.K.,
Brandon told the London court on Sept. 27.  Two of his Serageldin’s subordinates,  David Higgs  and
Salmaan Siddiqui, pleaded guilty Feb. 1 in New York to
manipulating prices.  The U.S. criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and
U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  