-- Ex-Democratic Campaign Treasurer Gets 97 Month Sentence
-- B y   J a r e d   G o y e t t e   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-28T21:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ex-democratic-campaign-treasurer-gets-97-month-sentence.html
Kinde Durkee, a former campaign
treasurer to California Democrats including U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein , was sentenced to eight years and one month for
embezzling millions of dollars from political committees and
using some of the money to pay her bills.  Durkee, 59, who pleaded guilty in March to five counts of
mail fraud, was also ordered today by U.S. District Judge
Kimberly Mueller in  Sacramento , California, to pay restitution
of $10.5 million.  “I don’t think the violation of public trust and the
offense can be understated here,” Mueller told Durkee.  Durkee ran Durkee & Associates, which provided accounting
and campaign reporting services to political campaigns and
nonprofits. For 10 years starting in 2000, Durkee took money
from some clients’ accounts and deposited it into accounts of
other clients to cover unauthorized withdrawals, prosecutors
said. There are at least 80 victims of the embezzlement,
according to court filings.  Durkee took $156,000 in 2010 from Feinstein’s campaign
committee bank account and used it to cover mortgage payments on
her home in  Long Beach , California, and pay American Express and
Sprint bills, prosecutors said. Other politicians who hired her
lost hundreds of thousands of dollars. She had signature
authority for about 400 bank accounts over the years, relying on
her customers’ trust to continue the scheme, prosecutors said.  Trust, Betrayal  In court, Durkee apologized “to those who trusted me and I
betrayed.”  “I take full and complete responsibility for the harm that
I have caused,” she said.  Durkee was ordered to report to prison by Jan. 2. Mueller
recommended to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons that Durkee serve her
sentence in a facility that can accommodate her mental health
counseling needs.  The government sought an eight-year prison term for Durkee.
Her lawyers said that a “great deal” of the money she took
kept her business afloat and paid her employees until “it
spiraled out of control” and she lost track of the shortfall.
While her admission of guilt and cooperation could support a
more lenient sentence, eight years is “just and appropriate,”
Daniel Nixon, Durkee’s attorney, said in a court filing.  McGovern Campaign  A native of Oakland,  California , Durkee volunteered as
bookkeeper for George McGovern’s 1972 presidential campaign
while in college and from there began working for a campaign
finance company, eventually taking it over. The company’s
financial condition started going downhill as clients didn’t pay
their bills or employees made mistakes, Nixon said in court
filings.  Durkee started borrowing from one account to cover
shortfalls in others, and also started using client funds to
cover mortgage payments, food, credit card bills and payments to
her parents’ assisted living care, according to the filings.  Client losses total more than $7 million, which Durkee is
unlikely to be able to repay, her lawyer said.  “The scheme perpetrated by Kinde Durkee was broad in scope
and had a profound impact,” U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner in
Sacramento said in an e-mailed statement. “She will now spend
eight years in prison for exploiting her position of trust and
using complex maneuvers to fool her clients into thinking all
was well.”  The case is U.S. v. Durkee, 12-00123, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  