-- Ex-Delta Petroleum CEO Sued by SEC Over Alleged Tips
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-11-28T19:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ex-delta-petroleum-ceo-sued-by-sec-over-alleged-tips.html
Roger Parker, the former chief
executive officer of Denver-based Delta Petroleum Corp., was
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over claims
he told friends that Tracinda Corp. would purchase a stake in
Delta before making a public announcement.  Michael Van Gilder, an insurance executive, was sued last
month by the SEC in federal court in Denver over claims he
traded on confidential information from Parker related to a plan
by Tracinda, a Beverly Hills-based private investment firm, to
purchase a 35 percent stake in Delta Petroleum.  The SEC’s complaint was updated yesterday to add Parker, of
Englewood,  Colorado , as a defendant and claims that his tips
generated more that $890,000 in illicit profit, according to a
statement from the commission today.  “Parker was entrusted with highly confidential
information, and he betrayed that trust to help line the pockets
of his close friends,” Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy chief of the SEC
Enforcement Division’s Market Abuse Unit in  New York , said in
the statement. “Company officials who exploit their insider
status must realize that they do so at the risk of inviting SEC
scrutiny.”  The SEC said Parker and Van Gilder violated federal
securities laws and seeks disgorgement of the alleged ill-gotten
gains, penalties, and an order barring Parker from serving as an
officer or director of a public company, according to the
statement.  Parker couldn’t immediately be reached for comment because
his phone number is unpublished and court records don’t indicate
whether he has a lawyer.  Delta Petroluem last year filed for bankruptcy, reorganized
and in August emerged from bankruptcy as Par Petroleum,
according to a court filing.  The case is SEC v. Gilder, 12-cv-02839, U.S. District
Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  