-- Ex-UBS Steinert Appointed Stockland Chief as Quinn Retires
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-29T06:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ex-ubs-steinert-takes-over-as-stockland-chief-as-quinn-retires.html
Stockland (SGP) , Australia’s biggest
listed housing developer, named Mark Steinert its chief
executive officer and managing director, replacing Matthew Quinn.  Steinert,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s former global head of equity research,
returns to Sydney after a seven-year stint in  New York  with the
Swiss bank. He will take over as head of Stockland on Jan. 14,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange.  “Mark has a track record of successfully managing large
business operations, an extensive background in the property
sector and a strong reputation among property investors,”
Stockland Chairman Graham Bradley said in the statement. “It
was the board’s unanimous decision that Mark has the best mix of
skills and attributes to take Stockland forward.”  Quinn, who led Stockland for 12 years, has been overseeing
the sale of the company’s office and industrial properties and
shifting its focus to its retirement, residential and retail
property businesses. The new chief executive won’t be bound to
Quinn’s strategy, Bradley said in July.  Stockland  shares  added 1.5 percent to A$3.43 at the close
of trading in Sydney. That compares with A$3.56 in mid-October
of 2000 when Quinn took over as managing director. They’ve
climbed 7.5 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent gain
in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Steinert served as managing director, global head of  real
estate research  and co-head of  Australia  and New Zealand real
estate at UBS until 2004, and as head of Australasian equities
from then to October 2005 when he relocated to New York. He
became UBS’s head of product development and management for
global asset management this year, Stockland said.  Quinn will remain in his role until Jan. 11 and provide
support for the transition for a further three months, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  