-- Texas Feral Hog Wrecks Mark Losing Battle With Animals
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/texas-feral-hog-wrecks-mark-losing-battle-with-animals.html
Even before the fastest highway in
the U.S. opened, collisions began. Feral hogs were on the move.  Police report at least four such wrecks on the 85 mile (137
kilometer) per hour stretch since traffic began flowing Oct. 24.
 Texas  A&M University professor Billy Higginbotham offered a
sympathetic ear when roadway managers called him weeks earlier
about the pigs, which can top 400 pounds (180 kilograms).  “They said, ‘We’ve already hit seven or eight pigs at a
maximum speed of 45 mph, so what’s going to happen when people
are driving 80 or 85,’” said Higginbotham, who has studied
feral hogs for 25 years. Workers were testing the $1.3 billion
part of State Highway 130, an Austin bypass for Dallas-San
Antonio traffic, before opening it when the accidents happened.  The threat posed by high-speed wrecks is just the latest
wrinkle in a losing battle with the animals, first brought to
the region by European colonists. Last year, state lawmakers
authorized hunting wild pigs from helicopters. Caldwell County,
which the road crosses, pays a $2-a-tail bounty. Still, the
Texas feral hog population has swelled to about 2.5 million and
can grow 20 percent a year. That offers no comfort to drivers.  “At 85 mph, there’s not much time to react and those hogs
are built solid,” said Guadalupe County Sheriff Arnold Zwicke,
who shot three of the animals on his farm near Seguin this
month, including a 300-pound sow. He said there have been four
collisions with pigs on the new toll road since it opened in his
county. No one was killed or seriously injured, he said.  Road Kill  “Unless there’s a bumper guard, we see a lot of damaged
vehicles and usually deceased hogs splattered across the road,”
Zwicke said. Caldwell County road crews brought in 46 pig tails
in the past two weeks from traps set near the highway, said Nick
Dornak, coordinator of the Plum Creek Watershed Partnership. The
nonprofit group based in Lockhart promotes clean water.  Feral pigs have been documented in all but one of the
state’s 254 counties and outnumber their 1.4 million cousins in
domestic production on about 500 farms, the Texas Pork Producers
Association says. The wild variety congregate around rivers and
other water sources while avoiding people by moving at night.  Wild hogs are concentrated in  California  and across the
South from Texas to  Florida , according to the National Feral
Swine Mapping System. Described by the state as “extremely
adaptable,” the bristling beasts average about 120 pounds and
evolved from farm animals that made it into the wilds and
Eurasian boars, brought to the region to be hunted.  Hogzilla’s Record  Perhaps the most famous example of the breed, nicknamed
 Hogzilla , was killed in 2004 near Alapaha,  Georgia . The animal
was later estimated to weigh 800 pounds and measured about 8
feet (2.4 meters) long, according to the National Geographic
Society in  Washington . It had a record 18-inch tusk.  In Texas, the animals cause more than $50 million in farm-
related costs annually, plus millions of dollars more in
uprooted golf courses and green spaces, according to
Higginbotham and Texas A&M colleagues in College Station.  “Hogs can tear up a 10-acre corn plot in one night,” said
Gary Dickinson, a sales manager for  DuPont Co. (DD) ’s Pioneer seed
unit in Lockhart. He said he knows farmers in southeast Texas
who’ve quit growing corn because of damage done by the animals.  “With corn at $7 a bushel, and yields of 100 bushels per
acre, that’s $700 lost, plus another $300 in seed expense,” 
including planting and fertilizing each acre, Dickinson said.
 “The numbers are just tremendous.”  Leaping Carp  Invasive  species  from  Europe  and Asia threaten trees, fish
stocks and utilities in the U.S. One, the Caspian Sea zebra
mussel, was responsible for about $5 billion in  damage  annually,
according to an Environmental Protection Agency study in 1998.
Dutch elm disease, a fungal infection from Europe, has  killed  40
million American trees. Asian carp, a fast-growing fish,
threatens the Great Lakes ecosystem, according to the agency.  Carp sometimes leap from the water and collide with boats
and their passengers, yet the sheer size of feral hogs puts them
in a different class.  Caldwell County hunters have turned in about 300 tails
since October, when a  Cabela’s Inc. (CAB)  sporting-goods store in Buda
and other local merchants offered $1,000 in prizes for the most
kills, Plum Creek’s Dornak said. He said two-thirds of existing
hogs need to be taken each year just to prevent growth, and the
current kill rate is less than a third.  At the 1,100-acre Luling Foundation Farm in the county,
manager Mike Kuck pointed out holes dug up in recent nights by
hogs lured by pecans and the roots of native grasses.  Jarring Holes  “If you are driving a tractor over this field and ran into
these deep holes, it jars your teeth and often damages your
equipment,” Kuck said. “It’s 100 times worse than moles in
your yard.”  A test project in 2006-2007 with 60 Texas landowners showed
aggressive trapping of wild pigs could cut farm-related damage
by about 70 percent, Higginbotham said. Feral sows average 1.5
litters of about six piglets a year, according to Texas A&M
studies, making it tough to keep their  numbers  from growing.  Too many farmers and ranchers in Texas, where 97 percent of
land is privately owned, fear liability issues from airborne
hunters, said Mike Morgan, president of Vertex Tactical Aviation
Inc. of Houston. He offers helicopter flights for hunters at as
much as $600 an hour, after a mandatory $350 safety course.  “We can take out from 35 to 100 pigs in a few hours,
depending on the property, location and time of day,” Morgan
said. “We have a harder time with landowners than hogs.”  Warning Signs  The newly opened 41-mile toll-road stretch, built by units
of  Ferrovial SA (FER)  and Zachry Corp. and run as a concession, costs
as much as $8.21 for a passenger car to travel its length.
Highway operators are putting up wildlife-crossing signs to warn
drivers, said Chris Lippincott, a spokesman.  Curbing the hog threat probably will require toll-road
officials and the state to work with neighboring landowners on
trapping the pigs and erecting stronger fences or barricades,
Higginbotham said.  There’s little reason to believe feral pigs won’t outsmart
people, as they have for hundreds of years, said Jay Wallace, a
machinist and hunter in Splendora. He has taken more than two
dozen of the animals over 15 years and butchered them for hams,
steaks and sausage.  “I’ve eaten feral hog my whole life,” DuPont’s Dickinson
said in Lockhart. “They are good eating.”  Culinary interests aside, Wallace said, “until you see a
wild boar attacking a dog or, God forbid, a small child, people
really aren’t going to get very serious about getting rid of
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 