-- Fed's Evans Urges Near-Zero Rates Until 6.5% Jobless
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-28T02:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/fed-s-evans-urges-near-zero-rates-until-6-5-jobless.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank should keep
 interest rates  near zero until  unemployment  falls to 6.5 percent
or below as long as inflation is under 2.5 percent, aligning
himself more closely with other Fed officials.  Evans previously had proposed 7 percent for the jobless
rate and 3 percent for inflation.  “I now think the 7 percent threshold is too
conservative,” Evans said in the text of prepared remarks given
in Toronto today. “I am aware that the 3 percent threshold
makes many people anxious” as an inflation measure.  With a  benchmark interest rate  near zero since 2008, the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  has been discussing
new ways to signal its intentions to provide more economic
stimulus. Evans’ shift today underscores the FOMC’s progress
toward a consensus, with officials calling for different levels
of economic improvements even as a growing number endorse the
approach of tying policy to indicators.  “We have the ability to go even further in reassuring
financial markets and the general public that policy will stay
appropriately accommodative and that such steps would provide
the stimulus to growth,” the Chicago Fed chief said at the C.D.
Howe Institute Benefactors’ Lecture and Dinner.  Fed Guidance  Evans was the first Fed president to argue for a
clarification of the central bank’s guidance using the
 unemployment rate  and inflation, saying that clearer
expectations of its policy would further lower borrowing costs.
The FOMC currently says it anticipates keeping its benchmark
rate exceptionally low through at least mid-2015, an extension
from what was mid-2013 at first and was later moved to late
2014, without specifying any economic numbers.  Minneapolis Fed chief  Narayana Kocherlakota  has called for
near-zero rates until unemployment falls below 5.5 percent as
long as inflation remains below 2.25 percent, while Boston’s
 Eric Rosengren  has said he prefers a benchmark of 6.5 percent.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  on Nov. 13 said she is
“strongly supportive” of the idea of thresholds without
endorsing any set of numbers.  In response to a question from the audience, Evans said
today that he saw no need to begin tightening even if the
jobless rate fell below 6.5 percent, provided that the inflation
outlook remained below the Fed’s target.  No Consensus  He added that FOMC participants have yet to reach a
consensus on how best to communicate the committee’s intentions
to the public. Among the challenges central bankers face is that
no two sets of numbers can provide a comprehensive outlook on
the economy, he said.  Employers added 171,000 jobs to payrolls in October and the
 unemployment rate  rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent the month
before, Labor Department figures show. Inflation as measured by
the personal consumption expenditures index accelerated to 1.7
percent for the year ended in September. The Fed has set a
target of 2 percent inflation.  Richmond Fed chief  Jeffrey Lacker  said on Nov. 20 that he
opposes a proposal to tie central bank stimulus to the U.S.
unemployment rate because such a move may spur inflation.  Central bankers still need to resolve “a number of
practical issues” before a decision on quantitative thresholds
can be made by the FOMC, minutes of the Oct. 23-24 gathering
showed.  Vocal Advocate  Evans, who isn’t a voting member of the FOMC this year, has
been among the most vocal advocates for further stimulus within
the Fed. He was the only member to dissent in favor of more
easing in 2011.  Clarifying its policy outlook isn’t the only way the Fed
has been trying to bolster growth. The central bank voted last
month to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds per month.  The Fed would need to see monthly increases in payrolls of
at least 200,000 for about six months before it ends those
purchases, Evans said today. The economic expansion would also
need to be faster than what’s seen now, “noticeably above the
economy’s potential rate of growth,” he said. That may not
happen until the end of 2013, Evans told reporters before his
speech today.  Officials are next scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12, when they
may expand the purchases to include Treasuries as a separate
stimulus measure expires at the end of the year. Through the so-
called Operation Twist program, the central bank has been
swapping $45 billion of short-term Treasuries a month for
longer-term debt.  Current Pace  It’s important to maintain the current pace of bond
purchases -- with $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities and
$45 billion in longer-term government debt -- even after the
expiration of Operation Twist, Evans added to reporters.  Evans, 54, became president of the Chicago Fed in 2007
after serving as the bank’s director of research. Fed presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy with Evans voting next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  