-- Ford Extends Warranties on Touch-Screen Dashboard Controls
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-11-28T21:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ford-extends-warranties-on-touch-screen-dashboard-controls.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , beset with quality
problems with its touch-screen dashboard controls, is extending
the warranties on the feature and offering more than 1 million
owners another software upgrade to make it work more smoothly.  Ford is extending the warranty on its MyFord Touch controls
to five years from three,  Mark Fields , the automaker’s president
of the Americas, told reporters today at the Los Angeles Auto
Show. For Lincoln models, the warranty is being extended to six
years, Fields said.  A software upgrade that improves voice commands, navigation
functions and connecting a mobile phone to the car’s controls
will become available on Ford’s website the week of Dec. 10,
Fields said. For owners with navigation systems, the upgrade
will be available early next year, he said. Ford’s quality
scores have plunged as it has struggled to get the bugs out of
its system. This is the second software upgrade this year.  “When you look at the version we introduced back in the
springtime, in the surveys we’ve done, that increased our
customer satisfaction by over 20 points,” Fields said. “We’ve
seen an improvement from the upgrade we did in the spring and we
expect to see another improvement as we introduce this
version.”  Fields said Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford is extending the
warranties on the technology to give consumers more
“confidence” in the feature.  Distracting Drivers  MyFord Touch has been criticized for performing poorly and
distracting drivers. Ford’s namesake brand fell seven spots to
second-to-last place in Consumer Reports’ annual auto-
reliability survey last month. The Ford brand fell to 27th this
year in  Westlake Village , California-based  J.D. Power  &
Associates’ new-car quality survey, from fifth two years ago.  Ford in March sent a software upgrade to 377,000 customers
with the MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch dashboard controls.
The upgrade, which included faster touch responses, simpler
graphics, enhanced voice recognition and better phone controls,
didn’t arrive in time to improve this year’s J.D. Power scores.  Ford’s redesigned Fusion sedan has the latest version of
MyFord Touch, and the automaker has added regular control knobs
for radio volume and tuning and for heat and air conditioning.  “We’re thinking more and more like not only a car company,
but also a technology company,” Fields said. “It’s very
important to update the vehicles on a more frequent basis,
particularly around software and applications because consumers
are used to their smartphones.”  While improving the quality of the new technology, Ford
must be mindful not to compromise safety and distract drivers,
Fields also said.  “It’s very clear, particularly when you look at younger
consumers, for them, staying connected in their lives is hugely
important no matter where they go,” Fields said. “We want to
make sure we insure safety and integration into the rest of the
vehicle. Just plugging in a smartphone and allowing that to do a
lot of operations of the vehicles, there could be some issues
with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in  Los Angeles  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  