-- Ford Making Plans for Fiscal Cliff While GM Sees No Need
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J a m i e   B u t t e r s
-- 2012-11-29T02:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ford-s-fields-says-company-making-plans-for-fiscal-cliff.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, is making contingency plans should the nation’s
economy falter if President  Barack Obama  and Congress go over
the fiscal cliff. Its main domestic rivals aren’t.  “We want to be able to adjust our production appropriately
and make sure we have the right amount of liquidity,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s Americas chief who becomes chief operating
officer Dec. 1, told reporters yesterday at the Los Angeles Auto
Show. “It is encouraging to see that the administration is
working with the Congress in a bipartisan way.”  The looming fiscal cliff has  Detroit  unnerved. Just as the
auto recovery picks up speed, the administration that saved the
industry now could bring it to a screeching halt. Auto demand
would plunge as much as 20 percent if Washington can’t find a
solution to avoid a lethal combination of tax hikes and spending
cuts coming at the end of the year, said Lacey Plache, chief
economist of auto researcher Edmunds.com.  “I’d rather deal with certainty of misery than the misery
of uncertainty,”  Reid Bigland , Chrysler Group LLC’s sales
chief, said in an interview yesterday. The sooner there’s “a
deal made where consumers know what their taxes are going to be,
what their social-program payments are going to be, the better,
because it has a tendency to put the whole country on edge.”  Failure to avoid the fiscal cliff could reduce sales to 12
million to 13.5 million, instead of the 15 million Edmunds is
forecasting, said Plache, who added that the outcome is
unlikely. The economy would sink back into recession that would
last until the end of 2013 before rebounding more strongly, she
said.  ‘Painful Year’  “It would be a pretty painful year for auto sales,
especially after the recovery we’ve had,” Plache said yesterday
in an interview.  Through 10 months, the industry has reported almost 12
million sales in the U.S., up 14 percent from a year earlier.
From 2000 through 2007, the industry averaged 16.8 million
deliveries.  Unlikely as it may be, Ford is wise to brace for the worst,
Plache said.  “You have to plan for it,” she said. “It’s a low
probability event, but you don’t want to be caught short.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  isn’t making specific contingency plans,
because it has lowered its costs enough to withstand a
significant drop in sales, said  Mark Reuss , the automaker’s
North American chief.  “We’ve already made those contingency plans, which is a
breakeven around 11 million units,” Reuss told reporters
yesterday at the Los Angeles Auto Show.  Strong Month  A budget-induced sales plunge would disrupt the auto
recovery, which rebounded strongly this month after  Hurricane
Sandy  cost the industry sales in October, Fields said.  “November is going to be a very strong and solid month for
the industry,” Fields said. “We wouldn’t be surprised to see
an industry selling rate with a 15 in front of it,” he said,
referring to an annualized selling rate of 15 million vehicles
or more.  The most likely solution to the fiscal showdown is tax
increases for individuals making more than $1 million a year and
possibly for those making more than $250,000, Plache said. Those
tax increases wouldn’t have a “huge impact” on auto sales, she
said.  “I’m sure I’m going to pay higher taxes next year,” Reuss
said.  Fields’ Promotion  Fields’ upcoming promotion puts him in line to become chief
executive officer of a company thriving in  North America  as it
struggles overseas. Ford earned a record $6.47 billion in North
America in 2012’s first nine months and had an operating profit
margin of 11.2 percent. The automaker has said it will lose $3
billion in  Europe  this year and next and it has less than 3
percent share in  China , the world’s largest auto market.  “Fields has got to prove he’s a man of substance and that
he’s CEO material,” said Michelle Krebs, senior analyst with
automotive researcher Edmunds.com. “He’s had a lot of success
in North America, but if he can get things turned around in
Europe, he’ll be a real hero.”  Fields, 51, in charge of Ford’s North American and South
American operations since 2005, previously ran Ford of Europe
and was CEO of  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  from 2000 to 2002, when Ford
had a controlling stake in the Japanese automaker. A 23-year
Ford veteran, Fields led a transformation of its North American
operations from record losses in 2008 to record profits now.  CEO  Alan Mulally , 67, will remain at the automaker through
2014 and continue to guide Fields as he takes a broader role,
Ford has said. Mulally, who came to Ford from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in
2006, is credited with saving the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker without a bailout or bankruptcy.  Upcoming Challenges  Fields said that as COO he mostly wants to continue what
Mulally started.  “The first priority is continuing to deliver the same
plan,” Fields said. “The second priority is to realize
opportunities in all regions of the world.”  Fields said he is “so glad that Alan is going to be
staying around.”  Mulally will focus on “long-term strategic development”
of the strategy he introduced at Ford in 2006, as well as
“mentoring” senior executives, Fields said.  “In my role as the COO, I’ll be leading the operating
performance, the business units, the skill teams, to deliver on
our objectives on a day-to-day basis,” Fields said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in  Los Angeles  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters in Los Angeles at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  