-- France to Back Palestinian Statehood at UN, Fabius Says
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-28T13:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/france-to-back-palestinian-statehood-at-un-fabius-says.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz warned the Palestinians they face “surprises” if they
proceed with a bid to upgrade their status at the United
Nations, a move also opposed by the U.S.  “If the Palestinian Authority thinks it can attack us in
the UN and we will continue our cooperation on the ground with
them, there are some surprises in store,” Steinitz said in an
interview today on Army Radio. “When and to what degree -- that
we will have to discuss and decide.”  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said he will
ask the General Assembly tomorrow for the status upgrade, which
would put the Palestine Liberation Organization on a par with
the Vatican, calling it a first step toward achieving his
people’s rights.  Israel  has criticized the move as an attempt by
the Palestinians to bypass peace negotiations and achieve
international statehood recognition unilaterally.  Israel plans to withhold 800 million shekels ($210 million)
of tax revenue it would normally transfer to the Palestinian
Authority and use the money to cover Palestinian debt to the
Israel Electric Corp, an Israeli official told reporters in
 Jerusalem  this week, on the condition he not be identified
because of the sensitivity of the matter.  Spain said today it will back the Palestinian bid, after
 France  and  Russia  had announced their support. Foreign Secretary
William Hague told Parliament today that the U.K. is ready to
vote in favor if Palestinians offer assurances including
agreeing to resume peace talks without preconditions.  ‘Vast Majority’  The U.S. and European allies blocked Abbas’s efforts last
year to achieve full statehood status through the Security
Council, where the U.S. holds a veto. PLO official Hanan Ashrawi
said at a Ramallah press conference today she expects a “vast
majority” will support the bid in the General Assembly, where
no country has veto power.  “The French decision to vote is encouraging, and will have
an impact on others,” Ashrawi said.  Abbas, who controls only the West Bank, is pressing ahead
with the initiative after  Egypt  brokered a cease-fire to end
eight days of fighting between Israel and Hamas, the rival
Islamist group running the Gaza Strip. That conflict left six
Israelis and more than 160 Palestinians dead.  Hamas, which in 2007 fought Abbas’s Fatah for control of
Gaza a year after winning parliamentary elections, gave the
Palestinian Authority its backing for the UN bid on Nov. 22.
Abbas said he hoped a successful vote would be followed by
reconciliation between the factions. The U.S., the European
Union and Israel consider Hamas a terrorist organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  