-- France Will Need Energy Spending After Atomic Debate, Batho Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-28T18:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/france-will-need-energy-spending-after-atomic-debate-batho-says.html
France’s energy future, to be
decided by a national debate starting tomorrow, will require
“considerable” extra investment in the coming years, according
to Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho.  The government-led debate stems from a pledge by President
Francois Hollande to cut the country’s reliance on nuclear
power.  Electricite de France SA ’s 58 atomic reactors currently
provide more than three-quarters of electricity, a proportion
Hollande vowed to reduce to 50 percent by around 2025.  “Whatever the outcome, we will have to surmount a peak in
investment,” Batho told a power producers’ conference in Paris
today. The debate will take about six months and lead to a law
she has said will provide a roadmap for France’s power
production in the coming decades.  “The energy world needs planning,” Batho said. “There is
nothing to fear from this debate and everything to gain.”  Hollande decided in September to shut EDF’s oldest reactor
at Fessenheim in 2016 as well as maintaining a ban on hydraulic
fracturing, the technique used to produce oil and gas from shale
rock. Other decisions on energy have been pushed back until
after the national consultation.  The debate’s outcome may determine how long EDF is allowed
to operate existing reactors and whether it will have to shut
more by the end of the decade. While Batho didn’t provide clues
on nuclear reactors, she said  France  should develop more
renewable energy and ensure that its carbon emissions don’t
increase because of possible changes in its energy mix.  “Whatever direction is chosen at the end, we will need
lots and lots of capital,” Laurence Parisot, head of the
employers’ organization Medef, told the conference today. “We
will be taking decisions that could impact us for the next 30
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  