-- France Can Frack Without Destroying Environment, Montebourg Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-28T10:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/france-can-frack-without-destroying-environment-montebourg-says.html
Natural-gas extraction from shale is
possible without destroying the environment, French Industry
Minister Arnaud Montebourg said today, seeking to circumvent a
presidential pledge to retain a ban on hydraulic fracturing.  “A new generation of clean technologies can allow
extraction without destruction,” Montebourg told an energy
conference in Paris.  Energy explorers in  France , which with  Poland  is deemed by
the International Energy Agency to have the greatest potential
for recoverable shale gas in  Europe , are pushing for a reversal
of the ban on fracturing, or fracking. Opponents of the
technique, which blasts a sand and chemical solution into rock
to release gas, claim it contaminates underground water supply.  “Occasional harm from fracking is a reality,” Montebourg
said. Should gas use rise to replace nuclear output, “it would
be better to produce it here than import it. This question has
to be put on the table.”  France is about to begin a national energy debate about
President Francois Hollande’s plan to lower dependence on atomic
energy. He has already pledged to shut the country’s oldest
nuclear reactor at Fessenheim at the end of 2016.  The Senate this month requested a report on alternatives to
fracking that may “allow the resources to be better evaluated”
and developed under strict guidelines. The ban on fracking, a
method widely used in the U.S., was passed last year by
lawmakers before presidential and parliamentary elections.  Energy explorers have since lobbied the government to allow
research to quantify shale reserves in the hope that prospects
for job creation and cheaper energy would help lift the ban.
While Montebourg has spoken favorably about shale, Energy
Minister Delphine Batho has said the fracking ban should stand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  