-- Europe Bonds Rise: Bund Yields Slide Most in Two-Months
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-28T17:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/german-10-year-bonds-advance-before-inflation-data-note-auction.html
European bonds rose, with German
yields falling the most in two months, as concern U.S. lawmakers
will fail to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases
and spending cuts boosted demand for fixed-income assets.  Italy ’s 10-year yields fell to the lowest in 18 months
after borrowing costs declined as the nation sold bills. Spanish
10-year yields tumbled to an almost six-week low, while those on
French bonds slid to the least since August. The rate on  Belgium 
and  Austria ’s 10-year securities slipped to records. German
bonds also rose as a report showed inflation in the euro area’s
biggest economy slowed.  “The fiscal cliff is getting back into focus -- people are
taking a closer look at the negotiations in  Washington ,” said
Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische
Landesbank in Munich. “The broader trend looks disinflationary
and that’s potentially supportive for core European bonds, for
bunds in particular.”  The German 10-year yield dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.37 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time,
after sliding nine basis points, the most since Sept. 26. The
1.5 percent bond maturing in September 2022 gained 0.65, or 6.50
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,291) face amount, to 101.19.  U.S. lawmakers are trying to avert a collection of $607
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled
to take effect at the beginning of 2013 to prevent a short-term
shock to the economy and reach an agreement on long-term deficit
reduction. U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said yesterday
he is “disappointed” in the lack of progress in talks to avoid
the fiscal cliff in January.  Obama Talks  Any agreement over the fiscal cliff is likely to come at
the last minute, boosting demand for the safest assets, Richard McGuire, a senior rates strategist at Rabobank International in
London, said.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff remains the dominant force and that
should support risk-off, safe-haven related trades,” McGuire
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
with Guy Johnson. Uncertainty will probably add “support for
core safe havens in  Europe  as well, such as German bunds, even
at these very low yield levels, despite the fact that systemic
risk in Europe is diminishing in the wake of the green light
that we saw for the Greek aid package.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein joins other corporate executives at the White House
today as President  Barack Obama  courts their support in talks.  Two-year German  note  yields fell three basis points to
minus 0.01 percent. A negative yield means investors who hold
the bond until it matures receive less than they paid to buy it.  German Inflation  Annual inflation  in Germany, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, dropped to 2 percent in November from 2.1
percent last month, the Federal Statistics Office said in
Wiesbaden. Inflation rates also declined in the states of Hesse,
Brandenburg and Baden-Wuerttemberg. Slowing inflation preserves
the value of fixed-income payments on bonds.  Belgium’s 10-year bond yield fell to 2.187 percent, the
least since Bloomberg started collecting the data in 1993. The
rate on similar-maturity Austrian bonds dropped to 1.737
percent.  Italy’s  two-year yield  tumbled for a 10th day, the longest
run since August 2008, declining 12 basis points to 1.85
percent. The 10-year yield dropped 13 basis points to 4.59
percent after reaching 4.58 percent.  The nation sold 7.5 billion euros of 182-day bills at an
average yield of 0.919 percent, the Bank of Italy said. That’s
the lowest since April 2010 and compares with 1.347 percent at
the previous auction of the maturity on Oct. 29.  French Yields  Spain’s 10-year yields declined 19 basis points to 5.33
percent after falling to 5.32 percent, the lowest level since
Oct. 19. The additional yield, or spread, investors demand to
hold the securities instead of similar-maturity bunds narrowed
12 basis points to 396 basis points. The spread widened to a
euro-era record 650 basis points on July 25.  Germany  sold 3 billion euros of five-year notes today at an
average yield of 0.41 percent, versus 0.42 percent on Nov. 7.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in developed
markets today, followed by those of Switzerland and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt,
the spread between two-and 10-year securities, and credit
default swaps.  French 10-year yields dropped seven basis points to 2.05
percent after falling to as low as 2.04 percent, the least since
Aug. 24. That’s below the closing market rate on Nov. 19 when
Moody’s Investors Service lowered the nation’s credit rating to
Aa1 from Aaa.  Brussels Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels this week
eased the terms on emergency aid for  Greece , agreeing to lower
the rates on bailout loans, suspend the nation’s interest
payments for a decade, give the country more time to repay debt
and engineered a bond buyback.  Greece is setting aside money to repurchase debt and will
unveil the details next week in an offer to investors that must
succeed, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said in  Athens 
today. The buyback offer will be open to everyone and is
voluntary. He revealed that there is a “plan B” in case it
fails, but declined to specify further details.  Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023 fell, with
the yield jumping 12 basis points to 16.366 percent. The price
was at 34.67 percent of face value, up from 31.19 on Oct. 31.  Irish bonds rose on speculation the country will get easier
terms on its bailout loans after Greece won concessions.  Irish Bonds  The yield on Ireland’s 5 percent bond due in October 2020
dropped six basis points to 4.49 percent.  “Spreads to bunds in the periphery are very much supported
today by this Greece deal and by speculation that especially
countries like Portugal and Ireland will also get a better
deal,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “At the same time you’ve got bund
futures up nicely and Treasuries outperforming which shows in a
way uncertainty is still out there.”  German bonds returned 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spain’s
debt gained 4.1 percent and Italy’s rose 19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  