-- Gilead, Schindler, Ericsson, Rovio: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-28T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/gilead-schindler-ericsson-rovio-intellectual-property.html
Teva Pharmaceuticals agreed to delay
the introduction of generic versions of two  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) 
HIV drugs until June if a judge hasn’t ruled in its favor by
then in a patent case brought by Gilead.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan is set to
begin a non-jury trial of Gilead’s patent-infringement lawsuit
Feb. 20. If he doesn’t rule by June 1, Teva may begin to sell
the drugs Truvada and Viread, according to an agreement between
the two companies that was filed yesterday in federal court.  Gilead, based in Foster City,  California , sued Teva in 2008
and again in 2010, claiming that Teva’s applications to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  to make drugs to treat HIV
infections in adults infringed four of its patents. The
complaints also listed the HIV drug Atripla, which wasn’t cited
in yesterday’s filing.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , said in court papers
that Gilead’s patents were invalid and couldn’t be infringed.  The case is Gilead Sciences v.  Teva Pharmaceuticals (TEVA)  USA,
10-01796, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Otis Wins Schindler Fight Over World Trade Center Elevator  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis Elevator unit won a U.S.
appeals-court ruling that invalidates a patent owned by
 Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) , in a dispute over technology used in
elevators at New York’s 7 World Trade Center.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
said the patent owned by Schindler’s Inventio unit is invalid as
an obvious variation of earlier know-how. A July 2011 jury
verdict that upheld the patent “lacks substantial evidentiary
support,” the court said in a decision posted yesterday on its
website.  Patent 5,689,094 covers the use of magnetic cards or
similar identifying transmitters to direct a person to a
specific elevator that will go to a pre-designated floor without
having to use buttons. Inventio filed suit Nov. 6 against
Thyssenkrupp Elevator Corp., claiming elevators at 1 World Trade
Center and 11 Times Square infringe the same patent.  Otis’s system is installed at 7 World Trade Center, built
by New York developer  Larry Silverstein  to replace a tower
destroyed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The Otis elevator
system, called Compass, uses pre-programmed radio frequency
identification chips and was the first of its kind installed in
the U.S.  The trial judge threw out most of Inventio’s case on
damages and refused to order a broad ban on the use of the
Inventio patent. The Federal Circuit declined to address
Inventio’s appeal of those issues because it found the patent
invalid.  Inventio sued Otis in 2006, part of a broader dispute over
elevators used in high-rise buildings. Hergiswil, Switzerland-
based Schindler is challenging an Otis elevator patent in a case
pending in federal court in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  The case is Schindler Elevator Corp. v. Otis Elevator Co.,
2011-1615 and 2012-1108,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is Schindler Elevator
Corp. v. Otis Elevator Co., 06-cv-5377, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ericsson Sues Samsung as Patent-Licensing Negotiations Fail  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networking equipment, sued Samsung Electronics Co. for patent
infringement, saying the South Korean phone maker failed to
extend a licensing deal after years of negotiations.  In the suit filed yesterday in federal court in  Texas ,
Ericsson said that Samsung is improperly using its technology
for mobile phones after a previous agreement expired. The
Stockholm-based company said it offered to extend the deal on
fair and reasonable terms, known as FRAND.  “These negotiations have been unsuccessful for the simple
reason that Samsung refuses to pay the FRAND rate paid by its
competitors for Ericsson’s standard-essential patents,”
Ericsson said in the complaint.  Samsung is engaged in separate patent battles around the
globe with Apple Inc. as the two companies fight for dominance
in the smartphone and tablet computer markets. Stockholm-based
Ericsson spent $5 billion on research and development in 2011
and made a net gain of 6.2 billion kronor ($937 million) from
licensing the technology to other companies last year, Kasim
Alfalahi, Ericsson’s head of  intellectual property , said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Ericsson has “demanded prohibitively higher royalty rates
to renew the same patent portfolio,” Samsung said in a
statement yesterday. “As we cannot accept such extreme demands,
we will take all necessary legal measures to protect against
Ericsson’s excessive claims.”  The case is Ericsson v. Samsung Electronics, 6:12-cv-00894,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  German Top Court Partly Upholds Embryonic Stem-Cell Patent  Germany’s top civil court upheld a part of patent on
embryonic stem-cells, saying such an intellectual property may
be granted as long as embryos aren’t destroyed in the process.
Relying on a 2011 ruling by the  European Court  of Justice, the
German judges said patents can be granted for other methods used
which don’t destroy the embryo.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Rovio Says It Needs Immediate Action Against Fake Plush Toys  Rovio Entertainment Oy, maker of the “Angry Birds” game
for mobile devices, is continuing to argue for an immediate
court order barring infringement of its marks by an importer of
plush toys.  Rovio, of Espoo, Finland, filed suit in federal court in
Oakland, California, Oct. 29, accusing a number of companies
based in Livermore, California, of importing and selling plush
toys that are counterfeit versions of the “Angry Bird”
characters. At that time, Rovio asked for damages in excess of
$2 million, a court order barring further infringement and the
seizure and destruction of any infringing products.  The games company sought the seizure order without prior
notice to the defendants, saying the companies it was suing
might otherwise have opportunity to hide the evidence of their
actions.  In a Nov. 6 decision, U.S. District Judge Saundra Armstrong
refused the game company’s request for such an order without
notice to the defendants. She said that Rovio failed to
demonstrate the necessary immediacy of the harm it would
otherwise suffer.  Rovio responded in a Nov. 15 filing that it had a
“reasonable concern” that the defendants would hide or dispose
of products and business records related to the allegedly
counterfeit plush toys. The Finnish company said that a process
server saw “at least one box” of the toys when it served
papers on the defendant, who denied being in possession of
“Angry Birds” toys.  According to court papers, Rovio’s “Angry Birds” game has
been downloaded more than 1 billion times, with players logging
into the game more than 3.33 million hours per day. Rovio itself
sells plush “Angry Birds” toys, and, according to court
filings, these are the most popular ancillary product.  The case is Rovio Entertainment Ltd. v. Royal Plus Toys
Inc., 4:12-cv-05543, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Verizon Sued by Makers of Adult Films Over Subpoena Compliance  Three makers of adult films sued  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s Verizon Online unit seeking a court order forcing the
company to release information about some of its subscribers.  The complaint, filed Nov. 19 in federal court in San
Angelo, Texas, makes reference to 29 copyright-infringement
cases filed in federal courts in  Pennsylvania ,  Florida  and New
Jersey.  The filmmakers said they want the court to order Verizon to
comply with subpoenas issued in those cases. They seek the
information about Verizon subscribers they claim have infringed
their copyrights through unauthorized downloading and sharing
their films.  Verizon has objected to these subpoenas on “numerous
inappropriate and baseless grounds,” according to the
complaint. The filmmakers asked the court to overrule all of
Verizon’s objections, order the requested responses and find
that the New York-based company acted with contempt toward the
court.  In the infringement cases, Verizon has characterized the
subpoenas as an abuse of the discovery process, and said that
the information requested isn’t relevant. The company has also
said it’s too burdensome for it to go through the process of
responding to the subpoena and producing the requested
information.  The film companies said in their complaint that they are
willing to compensate Verizon for subscriber data that is
produced.  The case is Malibu Media LLC v. Verizon Online LLC, 12-
mc-00017, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (San
Angelo).  SingTel’s Optus Says Changes Needed in Aussie Copyright Law  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ’s Optus unit said
Australia’s present copyright law is being used to “protect
vested economic interests” and puts technological innovators
are a disadvantage, the Australian reported.  The company made its argument in a submission to the
Australian Law Reform Commission, which is seeking comments on
proposed changes to the nation’s copyright laws, the newspaper
said.  Optus noted that the postal service isn’t considered liable
for transmitting mail that may contain content that infringes a
copyright right and said that telecommunications companies
shouldn’t be treated any differently, according to the
Australian.  Copyright law shouldn’t make a distinction between uses of
copyright material based on the technology employed to access
it, Optus said in its submission, according to the Australian.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 