-- Goldman’s Blankfein Among CEOs Meeting With Obama Tomorrow
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-11-28T01:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/goldman-s-blankfein-among-ceos-meeting-with-obama-tomorrow-2-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  joins 13 other corporate
executives at the White House tomorrow as President Barack Obama
courts their support for his plan to raise revenue and cut
spending to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  Obama’s meeting, after a similar gathering with chief
executives Nov. 14, comes amid an administration campaign to
pressure Congress to extend tax cuts for middle-income Americans
while letting them rise for top earners.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and his House
Republican leadership team are scheduled to meet with Blankfein
and other executives before the White House session. The CEOs
are pressing for an agreement between the White House and
Congress to avoid the $607 billion in automatic tax increases
and spending cuts due to take effect in January.  With the Christmas holiday approaching, the Obama
administration is mounting a campaign-style push for public
support as the newly re-elected president faces off against
congressional Republicans over proposals to avert the fiscal
cliff. He met with owners of small businesses today and is
planning to visit a toy factory in  Pennsylvania  this week to
help build public support for his plan.  Tax Rates  Obama is urging Congress to act immediately on his plan to
keep existing tax rates for middle-income Americans while
letting those for the top earners rise, even as talks continue
on spending cuts and changes to entitlement programs such as
Medicare. Many Republicans say they are willing to consider
higher revenue as long as it’s accompanied by cuts in
entitlement programs.  The president is arguing that, without a deal, consumer
confidence may suffer, hurting holiday shopping and the economic
recovery.  “It is something that everyone in Washington agrees must
be done, and it is something that the House of Representatives
could do today or tomorrow if they so chose, because the Senate
has already passed a bill that extends those tax cuts,” White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Obama Meeting  The executives invited to the White House are:  Frank Blake ,
chairman and chief executive, the  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ; Joe
Echeverria, chief executive of Deloitte LLP; Ken Frazier,
president and chief executive, Merck and Co. Inc.;  Muhtar Kent ,
chairman and chief executive, the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Terry Lundgren ,
chairman, president and chief executive,  Macy’s Inc. (M) ;  Marissa Mayer , president and chief executive, Yahoo!, and Douglas Oberhelman, chairman and chief executive,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   Also in the meeting are Ian Read, chairman and chief
executive of Pfizer; Brian Roberts, chairman and chief executive
of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ; Ed Rust, chairman and chief executive of State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.; Arne Sorenson, president
and chief executive of Marriott International Inc.; Randall Stephenson, chairman and chief executive of  AT&T Inc. (T) , and
Patricia Woertz, president and chief executive of Archer-Daniels
Midland Co.  Negotiations have made little headway.  “There’s been little progress with the Republicans,”
Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  said today.  Negotiations  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told reporters he is
“disappointed” by the lack of progress in the talks since he
and other congressional leaders met with Obama at the White
House on Nov. 16. Lawmakers need to “get away from the happy
talk” and start discussing specifics, he said.  Still, Reid said he was “extremely hopeful” and didn’t
think Republicans will hold out and allow the tax increases and
spending cuts to be triggered.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.5 percent to close
at 1,398.94 at 4 p.m. in New York after earlier climbing 0.2
percent. The dollar rose against 13 of 16 major peers, while
crude and gold futures decreased at least 0.4 percent. Ten-year
Treasury yields were down 2.6 basis points at 1.64 percent.  Before tomorrow’s meeting with Blankfein and the other
executives, Obama will have an event with middle-income
Americans who would be affected if the tax rates rise.  Tax Increase  Obama warns that middle-class taxes could increase as much
as $2,200 unless an agreement is reached by year’s end. He wants
tax cuts extended for 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of
small businesses while ending tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans -- households earning more than $250,000 a year. He is
proposing more than $3 trillion in spending cuts, including
those already enacted.  Blankfein was at the White House in July to meet with Jack Lew, Obama’s chief of staff. He also is on the CEO fiscal
leadership council of the Campaign to Fix the Debt, which was
founded by the co-chairman of Obama’s fiscal commission.  The group is backing the framework laid out by 2010 fiscal
commission leaders Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson  for reducing
the nation’s deficit, which has exceeded $1 trillion in each
year of Obama’s first term. Bowles, a Democrat and former White
House chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton , and Simpson, a
Republican and former senator from Wyoming, proposed tax
increases and spending cuts.  CEO Council  The CEO councils’ principles call for Congress to overhaul
Medicare and Medicaid, “strengthen” Social Security and enact
“comprehensive and pro-growth tax reform” that lowers rates,
broadens the tax base, raises revenue and cuts the deficit.  Blankfein has urged policy makers to reach a compromise to
avoid the fiscal cliff, including cutbacks to programs like
Social Security and more revenue from the wealthiest Americans.  “ Social Security  wasn’t devised to be a system that
supported you for a 30-year retirement after a 25-year career,”
he said in an interview with CBS news on Nov. 19. “The
retirement age has to be changed.”  “In the long run, there has to be more revenue,” he said.
“The burden of that revenue will be disproportionately taken up
by wealthier people. That’s just logical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  