-- Gold Stocks Drop as Marcus Warns on Growth: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-28T14:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/gold-stocks-drop-as-marcus-warns-on-growth-johannesburg-mover.html
South Africa ’s gold stocks fell to
the lowest level in two months after central bank governor Gill
Marcus said growth is likely to remain low and on concern that
little progress is being made in U.S. budget talks.  The five-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index (JGOLD)  dropped
3.5 percent to 2,232.43, the lowest intraday level since Sept.
5, at 4:10 p.m. in Johannesburg. Harmony Gold Mining Co. fell
4.3 percent and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s biggest
producer of the metal, slipped 3.4 percent. Gold Fields Ltd.,
the world’s fourth-biggest gold producer, retreated 3.5 percent.  Growth in the fourth quarter “is likely to be very low,”
Marcus said in Johannesburg today. Africa’s biggest economy
expanded an annualized 1.2 percent in the third quarter, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession, as mining output plunged
because of strikes, the statistics office said yesterday.  “Every time there are worries about growth, miners will
get hammered,”  David Shapiro , a director at Johannesburg-based
Sasfin Securities, said by phone. “The rand weakens, commodity
prices weaken, people get worried about growth and we go down.”  Marcus’s comments saw the rand extend its first decline in
five days against the dollar, slipping as much as 0.6 percent to
8.8918. The rand retreated earlier as commodities fell on
concern talks to avoid the U.S.’s so-called fiscal cliff aren’t
progressing.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to meet with
business leaders today after Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said yesterday he was disappointed with congressional budget
talks aimed at averting $607 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts and as the 34-member Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development lowered growth forecasts for
advanced economies.  Commodities Drop  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of commodities declined for a
third day, losing 1.4 percent, the most in three weeks. Gold for
immediate delivery retreated 2 percent, the most since Nov. 2,
to $1,735.30 an ounce.  The gold-stock index’s 50-day historical volatility, a
measure of stock swings, increased to 28.2 from 27.7 yesterday.
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s (JALSH)  volatility measure for the
same period was at 10.3 compared with 10 yesterday. A higher
reading means an asset’s price can have bigger moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  