-- Google Says Proposed German Law Restricts Users Searches
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-28T01:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/google-says-proposed-german-law-restricts-users-searches.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said a proposal in
Germany’s parliament to extend copyright law would make finding
information online more difficult and has implications for its
business operations in Europe.  While existing law prevents copying of articles, the new
proposals, sought by German news publishers, “would place
restrictions on even a ‘snippet’ of an article,” such as is
commonly found in search results, said Simon Hampton, Google’s
director of public policy in Europe, in a  post .  The company, based in  Mountain View , California, is
starting an information campaign “to give the facts about the
proposed law” and invite debate, Hampton said. Germany’s
parliament begins debating the proposal this week, he said.  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, is
stepping up efforts to inform public opinion on policies that
affect Web companies, including rivals  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  The proposed law in Germany would force  search engines ,
news aggregators and others to contract with publishers in order
to show the snippets of information available, Hampton said.  “We want to build win-win ways to partner with
publishers,” Hampton said in the post. “What we want to avoid
is a system that puts the brakes on the open Internet, limits
choice for people looking for information, and dramatically
raises the cost of online innovation.”  ‘Complete Reversal’  The  bill  by Germany’s Justice Ministry proposes giving
publishers one year during which they have the sole rights to
commercially use their journalistic content. It pits website
operators such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo against German
publishers including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann AG, which
are trying to find ways to monetize content online.  The extended law would be a “complete reversal of the
legal situation today” and a reversal of current Web practices,
Hampton said. It also has implications for Google’s business in
Europe, Hampton said.  Users clicking through to publishers’ websites from
Google’s search and news pages is “significant” for the
company because there is no advertising on the Google News
service in Europe, Hampton said. The company’s “opportunity to
make money is when users click on a link” and go to a media
site, he said.  Google’s web crawler currently allows publishers to decide
whether their information can be used and “a further set of
highly refined controls is also available,” Hampton said.  The company’s shares rose 1.5 percent to $670.71 at the
close in  New York  yesterday. The stock has risen 3.8 percent
this year.  -- Editors: Ben Livesey, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  