-- Google Said to Oppose Consent Decree in Any FTC Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/google-said-to-oppose-consent-decree-in-any-ftc-deal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is seeking to persuade
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission it hasn’t broken antitrust
laws and that any final agreement with the agency over its
business practices shouldn’t be bound by a consent decree, three
people familiar with the matter said.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  met with FTC officials
yesterday in Washington as the agency moves to wrap up its 19-
month investigation of the company’s business practices, said
one of the people familiar with the discussions.  Google, operator of the world’s most popular search engine,
has been engaged in settlement talks with the FTC for about a
week, including an effort to define whether there’s a market
where Google has a monopoly, one of the people said. The
 Mountain View , California-based company is concerned that
entering a formal settlement agreement with the agency may hurt
its business prospects, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations aren’t public.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said yesterday in
an e-mail. He declined to comment on whether Page met with the
FTC or the existence of any settlement talks.  Peter Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment
on the talks.  Capitol Hill  On  Capitol Hill  yesterday, Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  was
spotted with the head of the company’s Washington office, the
former  New York  Republican Congresswoman Susan Molinari.
Kovacevich declined to comment on Schmidt’s schedule or
whereabouts.  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  is pressing Google to resolve
the agency’s concerns about its dominance of Internet search or
be prepared to face a lawsuit, two people familiar with the
matter said Nov. 13.  The agency has told Google it won’t accept a resolution
short of a consent decree, one of those people said at the time.  The talks since Nov. 13 aren’t focused on the most serious
antitrust allegations made by the company’s rivals -- that
Google is skewing search results to favor its own services, two
of the people said.  Issues that have been under discussion include Google’s
exclusive agreements to provide search services to online
publishers and alleged misuse of patents to try to block rivals’
smartphones from coming to market. The FTC also is treating
seriously complaints that Google used customer reviews from
other websites without permission.  Google also is in discussions with European Union officials
to resolve their antitrust concerns. Those include Google
ranking its services higher than rivals’ offerings in search
results; copying competitors’ Web content and making agreements
with websites and developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said Nov. 26
that he will meet with Leibowitz next week, without elaborating
further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  