-- Gorman Enlists Morgan Stanley Workforce in Fiscal Cliff Campaign
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-11-28T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/gorman-enlists-morgan-stanley-workforce-in-fiscal-cliff-campaign.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  asked the investment bank’s employees
to urge U.S. lawmakers to find an agreement that averts
the so-called fiscal cliff.  “No issue is more critical right now for the  U.S. economy ,
the global financial markets and the financial well-being of our
clients, which is why I am asking you to participate in the
democratic process and make your voice heard,” Gorman wrote in
a memo, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
message went to about 30,000 U.S. workers including 16,000
financial advisers, said James Wiggins, a company spokesman.  Gorman, 54, joins a roster of Wall Street leaders including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon in calling on politicians
to reach a deal that avoids $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts due to take effect in January.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein is among more
than a dozen corporate leaders set to visit the White House
today as President Barack Obama seeks support for his proposals.  Dimon, 56, said last month that bond markets may spurn U.S.
debt if lawmakers fail to reach a deal. Blankfein, 58, has said
he would be willing to pay higher taxes if he thought it would
help resolve the budget.  “The economic consequences of inaction by our government
could be terrible: a severe, negative impact on every taxpayer,
a shock to the financial markets and a painful return to
recession,” Gorman wrote in his memo. The Wall Street Journal
reported the contents on its website late yesterday.  Both Parties  Obama is urging Congress to act immediately on his plan to
keep existing tax rates for middle-income Americans while
letting those for the top earners rise, even as talks continue
on spending cuts and changes to entitlement programs such as
Medicare. Many Republicans say they are willing to consider
higher revenue as long as it’s accompanied by cuts in
entitlement programs.  “Neither political party can do this alone,” Gorman
wrote. “But I believe there is a real possibility a balanced
solution can be reached -- particularly if our elected
representatives hear how important this is from enough of their
constituents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  