-- Greek Bond Buyback Hostage to Below-Market Prices: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-11-28T11:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/greek-bond-buyback-hostage-to-below-market-prices-euro-credit.html
Greek efforts to ease indebtedness
by repurchasing its own bonds at less than their face value
depend on investors accepting below-market prices rather than
holding out for an improved offer.  Greece  may tender for bonds issued in its 100 billion-euro
($130 billion) restructuring this year at prices “expected to
be no higher than those at the close” on Nov. 23, euro area
finance ministers  said  yesterday. Those notes trade at about
29.5 cents on the euro, up from 28.1 percent last week,
according to brokerage Exotix Ltd. in  London .  “Non-domestic investors are probably expecting that they
can achieve a better price in the future,” said Craig Veysey,
head of fixed income at Sanlam Private Investments Ltd. in
London, a unit of Sanlam Group, which oversees $72 billion. “A
new deal on better terms, perhaps. Or the market price may
increase, too, over coming years.”  Greece’s rescuers are trying to keep the 17-nation currency
union intact by easing conditions on bailout loans and giving
 Europe ’s most-indebted nation more time to repay. The
 International Monetary Fund , along with the  European Central
Bank  and the European Commission, makes up the troika that is
implementing the bailout. The group has indicated it will insist
on a buyback as one of the conditions for the release of the
next installment of its cash.  Balancing Act  The more acceptances Greece wins, the greater the incentive
for some holders to refuse to take part in the hope their
holdings are small enough to get repaid in full at maturity. In
May, for example, owners of a floating-rate note sold in 2002
who declined this year’s restructuring, got repaid. Conversely,
defaulting on non-domestic lenders becomes a less risky option
for the nation provided its banks participate in the offer.  Finance ministers plan to meet again by Dec. 13 to review
progress and make a formal decision on Greece’s 34.4 billion-
euro disbursement. In their statement, the ministers included no
details of how the buyback would be implemented, how it would be
funded, or specifics about the size and what would count as
success.  “The details are still sketchy,” said Gizem Kara, an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “They probably didn’t
want to say anything because going into too much detail might
distort prices. It has to work, though, because the math of the
debt reduction targets assumes there’s a successful buyback.”  Bond Owners  The new bonds have collective action clauses, which in a
second restructuring would allow a preset majority -- typically
at least 66 percent -- to force holdouts to take part, according
to Gabriel Sterne, an economist at Exotix Ltd. in London. Still,
enforcing the CACs risks triggering credit-default swaps and
being put into default by the ratings firms to deal with a rump
of bondholders, he said.  “Would it be worth the fight with the  hedge funds ?” he
said. “I just don’t think they would want to go there yet
again.”  Greece has about 60 billion euros of restructured bonds
outstanding, handed to investors taking part in the debt
exchange. The notes, issued in 20 maturities ranging from 2023
to 2042, typically trade as a block called the strip at an
average price across all the maturities.  The bonds are held about a third each by Greek banks, other
Greek funds and non-domestic investors, primarily hedge funds,
German Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen said yesterday.  Greek bonds have gained, with the 2023 note rising to 35.21
percent of face value from 34.36 percent on Nov. 23, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 2042 notes advanced to 27.41
percent from 25.4 percent in the period.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , speaking after the
finance ministers’ meeting, said she wanted to see progress “on
specifying and delivering on the commitments made today, in
particular implementation of the debt buybacks,” before any
funds are disbursed. The IMF has pledged 1.6 billion euros per
quarter to Greece, a sum that is more important as a seal of
approval than for bolstering Greek finances, according to Kara
at BNP Paribas.  German Confidence  Greece may get a 10 billion-euro loan, most probably from
the region’s new bailout fund, to buy back 30 billion euros of
bonds and thereby cut its debts by 20 billion euros, Kara said.
A buyback of privately held debt also would protect Greece’s
creditor nations from having to write down the value of their
holdings.  “We’re relatively confident that it can work,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday at a press
conference in Berlin. If the buyback fails, “the troika will
have to take other measures and tackle the issue in another
way,” he said.  For the repurchase to succeed, Greece will have to offer a
higher price than the 24 cents that the strip traded at on Nov.
5, before speculation about a buyback gained credibility, said
Sterne at Exotix. Greece will have to balance that against the
risk of overpaying, he said.  Potential Gains  “If the buyback price is forced up too high, it will be
unpalatable to Greece and the European authorities, and the
buyback will fail,” Sterne said. “The incentive not to
participate is likely to be strong. The average value of the
bonds for those that do not participate could rise sharply if
there is very high participation.”  Sterne, a former IMF official, estimates that the strip
might go as high as 50 cents on the euro assuming there is broad
participation, compared with 24 cents if the buyback fails.  Bondholders probably will call the finance ministers’
bluff, said Peter Tchir, the founder of New York-based TF Market
Advisors.  “Now that the Eurogroup has made a condition out of the
bond repurchase, it is almost the obligation of the bondholders
to hold their feet to the fire,” he said. “I can’t see
bondholders accepting last week’s prices without trying for
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  