-- Gruma Readies Stake Repurchase From Archer-Daniels-Midland
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-11-28T19:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/gruma-readies-stake-repurchase-from-archer-daniels-midland.html
Gruma (GRUMAB)  SAB is moving forward to
exercise an option to buy back a 23 percent stake in the world’s
largest producer of corn and wheat tortillas from  Archer-
Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   Gruma is holding two meetings with shareholders on Dec. 13
to include in its bylaws a 1996 agreement with the corn
processor known as ADM in regards to their stake in the company
and to propose increasing the limit of its 2012 buyback program,
the San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based company said in a
regulatory filing today.  ADM reached a preliminary agreement on Oct. 22 with Mexican
businessman Fernando Chico Pardo to sell its stake in Gruma. The
deal was subjected to negotiation of a definitive agreement,
approval by ADM’s and Gruma’s boards of directors, the Decatur,
Illinois-based company said in a statement last month.  Carlos Hank Gonzalez, a grandson of Roberto Gonzalez
Barrera, the chairman of Gruma who died earlier this year, told
El Financiero newspaper that the family planned to exercise its
rights to acquire the stake.  ADM’s stake in Gruma is worth about $397 million, said a
person with knowledge of the deal with Chico Pardo who asked not
to be named because the talks are private.  Calls to Chico Pardo’s office and Gruma’s press department
were not immediately returned.  ADM has 131 million shares of Gruma, the world’s largest
producer of corn and wheat tortillas, according data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shareholders will approve the repurchase, Jose Maria
Flores, an analyst at Grupo Financiero Banco Ve Por Mas SA,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “The impact of this news
will be neutral,” he wrote.  Gruma fell 0.2 percent to 37.70 pesos on the Mexican Stock
Exchange at 12:33 p.m. The shares have gained 39 percent in the
past year.  ADM is Gruma’s second-largest stakeholder, according to
Bloomberg data. Chico Pardo is the chairman of  Grupo
Aeroportuario del Sureste SAB , an operator of airports in
southern  Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  