-- Gupta Wins Hearing on Bid for Freedom During His Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-28T18:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/gupta-wins-hearing-on-bid-for-freedom-during-his-appeal.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta  was granted a rare hearing before a federal
appeals court in New York next month for his challenge to an
order that he begin his prison sentence in January.  Gupta, 63, has asked to remain free while he appeals his
 insider-trading  conviction and delay his Jan. 8 surrender to
federal prison. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan said
yesterday that he has been granted a hearing on Dec. 4.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan last month
sentenced Gupta to two years in prison, rejecting his request to
remain free pending appeal. Prosecutors objected after Gupta
asked the appeals court to postpone his surrender date.  Gupta, who is free on $10 million bond, argued that he is
likely to win a reversal of his conviction.  “The prosecution’s theory in this case was that after a
‘lifetime of good deeds and philanthropy’ and while ‘at the
pinnacle of his profession’ Gupta decided to throw everything
away and--for no tangible benefit--tip hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam ,” his lawyers  Seth Waxman  and  Gary Naftalis  said in
court papers.  At the trial, Rakoff wrongly allowed prosecutors to use
three recordings of telephone calls of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam talking about his sources, calls in which
Gupta wasn’t a participant, the defense lawyers said.  Evidence Disallowed  Gupta also argues his defense team was hampered by Rakoff’s
refusal to allow him to present evidence that Rajaratnam
employed other tipsters at Goldman Sachs.  “The district court’s serious evidentiary errors
decisively tipped the scales in this case, and Gupta’s appeal
will likely result in reversal or a new trial,” the lawyers
wrote.  Prosecutors  Reed Brodsky  and Richard Tarlowe countered in
court papers that Rakoff “correctly determined that Gupta had
not identified a substantial issue of law or fact that would
likely result in reversal of his conviction or a new trial.”  Gupta, 63, was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner.  Rajaratnam’s Term  Rajaratnam is serving 11 years in prison for insider
trading at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,
Massachusetts. When he was sentenced in Oct. 2011, he wasn’t
granted a hearing on his request to remain free pending appeal.  Rakoff said at Gupta’s sentencing that he would recommend
to the Federal Bureau of Prisons that the term be served at the
federal prison in Otisville, New York.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York 
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 