-- Michelin Winnows Tokyo Three-Star Restaurants to 15
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-28T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/michelin-winnows-tokyo-three-star-restaurants-to-15.html
The Michelin Guide  cut two  Tokyo 
restaurants from its top rank, reducing the city’s three-star
winners for the first time.  Araki and Hamadaya were culled from the list, leaving the
capital with 15 three-star holders in the 2013 guide, down from
17 in 2012, the Clermont-Ferrand, France-based publisher said
yesterday in Tokyo. The edition goes on sale Dec. 1.  The Japanese capital still has more three-star restaurants
than any other city, a distinction it took from Paris starting
with the 2010 edition. Diners spent 1.4 percent less at
restaurants in the “dinner” category in Japan, where slumping
economic growth has damped consumer sentiment, according to
Japan Food Service Association data.  “The technique and quality of Japanese cuisine is rising
year-by-year,” Michael Ellis, international director for
 Michelin (ML)  Guides, said yesterday in Tokyo. “The country is
playing a huge role in the world of gastronomy.”  The 15 restaurants left on the guide’s three-star list are
all returned from last year.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category. Michelin has
produced restaurant and hotel guides since 1900 and published
the Tokyo 2008 guide, its first for the city, with eight three-
star winners.  Araki, Hamadaya  Araki, a sushi restaurant, is closing in Tokyo, Ellis said.
Hamadaya, which serves Japanese cuisine in the Nihonbashi
district and in Tokyo’s Midtown, was reduced to two stars, Ellis
said without elaborating.  Sukiyabashi Jiro Honten, a Ginza district sushi restaurant,
was awarded three stars for a sixth time.  “All we do is make every effort to make sure we don’t go
down to two-stars,” Jiro Ono, the restaurant’s owner, said
yesterday at the announcement ceremony in Tokyo.  Two-star establishments rose to 58, including one hotel
restaurant, from the 57 in last year’s guide, while
establishments earning a single star dropped to 215 from 219 on
the 2012 list, according to the Michelin website.  Michelin awarded three stars to 12 restaurants in western
 Japan , which includes Osaka, Kyoto and Kobe, in October. Another
51 venues and one ryokan, or inn, in the area gained two stars,
while 210 restaurants and three ryokans won one.  Michelin & Cie., a tiremaker, has been publishing its
restaurant and hotel guides since 1900, at the start of the
automotive era. Distributed for free until 1920, the guide was
originally meant for chauffeurs and included tips on using and
repairing tires.  “The Michelin Guide Tokyo Yokohama Shonan 2013” is
available in Japanese and goes on sale in Japan on Dec. 1.  Tokyo Area Three-Star Restaurants:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  