-- Microsoft Sees Surge in Windows Phones on Faster Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-11-28T17:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/microsoft-sees-surge-in-windows-phones-on-faster-software.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is selling four
times as many Windows phones as this time last year, helped by a
new version of its phone software for more powerful handsets
with faster screens, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said.  “Windows Phone 8 has been on sale for a few weeks and is
off to a great start,” Ballmer said at a  shareholders’ meeting 
today. Handsets made by  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  “are getting
rave reviews and have initially sold out in many countries.”  Microsoft is overhauling its product line to remain
relevant in the post-PC era. The Redmond, Washington-based
company dominated the technology landscape during the heyday of
the personal computer in the 1990s and much of the last decade,
yet has been eclipsed in influence by a resurgent Apple Inc. and
the rise of mobile devices taking the place of PCs that run
Microsoft’s flagship Windows operating system.  Windows 8 represents Microsoft’s biggest change to its
flagship product in nearly two decades -- designed around a
revamped home screen featuring colorful tiles that launch
programs and update users with current information from the
Internet. On Oct. 26, the same day Windows 8 went on sale,
Microsoft started selling Surface, a tablet computer designed
and built by the company.  Ballmer said Microsoft is seeing “fantastic demand” for
tablets and touch-screen PCs featuring Windows 8. There are now
1,500 different machines running the software, up from 1,000
when the operating system debuted, he said.  There are now 120,000 applications available for the
Windows phone, Ballmer said. He didn’t specify how many phones
running the new software have been sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  