-- IDB Bondholders, Trustee to Meet to Consider Insolvency Move
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-11-28T15:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/idb-bondholders-trustee-to-meet-to-consider-insolvency-move-2-.html
IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH)  bondholders will
meet next week to authorize trustees to start an insolvency
process if a debt settlement is not reached as the company’s
chairman confirmed he was subject to a securities fraud probe.  IDB  debt holders  of Series Aleph through Heh bonds will
vote on Dec. 2 to authorize the start of the process and other
steps to protect the holders’ rights, according to a company
filing today with the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. Bondholders will
stop the process if a settlement is reached, according to the
filing. The yield on IDB’s 5.1 percent bond due December 2020
jumped 13.82 percentage points, to 74.60 percent, the highest
since Oct. 16 at the close in  Tel Aviv .  “In recent months there was no improvement in the
financial situation of the company and there is a possibility
that the third-quarter results will also include a ‘‘going
concern warning’’, according to the  statement .  The Israel Securities Authority said yesterday it was
probing IDB Chairman Nochi Danker for alleged securities fraud.
He said yesterday that he is confident of the legality of his
actions. IDB  shares  plunged 10.2 percent, the most since Feb. 26
to 13.65 shekels extending a 19 percent decline in the last
three days.  IDB’s  Dalet (DLT)  series debt holders are scheduled to receive 65
million shekels ($16.8 million) in interest payments in
December, according to the statement. As IDB struggles under
about 2 billion shekels of debt, it has recently been seeking
funding and selling assets, to avoid defaults.  The company said this month it is considering securing a
‘‘significant loan’’ from  KKR & Co. LP (KKR) , the alternative-asset
manager run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts . IDB said on
Sept. 23 that parent company Ganden Holdings Ltd. signed an
agreement with Eduardo Elsztain for an investment of as much as
$100 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  