-- Hillary Clinton Turns to Husband to Help Erase 2008 Debt
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-11-28T20:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/hillary-clinton-turns-to-husband-to-help-erase-2008-debt.html
Hillary Clinton ’s 2008 presidential
committee is mounting a new effort to pay off debt from her
failed campaign, relying again on help from her husband, former
President Bill Clinton, in its fundraising appeal.  The secretary of state’s campaign committee owed $73,000 as
of Sept. 30, all of it to the polling firm of her former chief
political strategist, Mark Penn, Federal Election Commission
reports show. She has whittled her debt down from $5.4 million
at the end of 2008.  Hillary Clinton, then a U.S. senator from  New York , lost
that year’s Democratic presidential nomination to then-Senator
 Barack Obama  of Illinois, who went on to win the White House and
picked her to serve as secretary of state. Clinton has said she
will leave that post soon, and her name has been prominently
mentioned as a potential 2016 presidential candidate.  The latest fundraising pitch by Clinton’s 2008 campaign
committee includes offering a free trip for a donor and a guest
to New York to spend time with  Bill Clinton , who heads a
philanthropic organization there. The committee has conducted
similar contests in the past.  “There is nothing I enjoy more than good conversation with
good people, which is why I’ve enjoyed it so much whenever we’ve
brought one of Hillary’s strongest supporters to New York to
spend the day with me,” the former president wrote in
soliciting donors. “I’m happy to tell you that I’ve asked to do
it again.”  Recent contributors to the Clinton committee include
Obama’s pollster, Joel Benenson, who gave $2,300 in July. The
president and his wife, Michelle, earlier gave $2,300 each --the
maximum for individuals.  The Clinton committee also has raised money by renting its
donor list to other Democratic candidates, including Harvard
University law professor  Elizabeth Warren , who in the Nov. 6
election defeated incumbent Republican Senator  Scott Brown  in
 Massachusetts , and Sean Patrick Maloney, a former aide to
President Clinton who won a U.S. House seat in New York by
defeating Republican incumbent Nan Hayworth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 