-- Millionaire Sydney Homes Aid RBA Drive as Mining Slows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-28T02:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/millionaire-sydney-homes-aid-rba-drive-as-mining-slows-economy.html
The go-ahead for multimillion-dollar
harborside apartments in Sydney’s biggest property development
in a century reflects confidence the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s
interest-rate cuts will heat up  construction  just as the
nation’s mining boom cools.  Lend Lease Group (LLC) , the nation’s largest developer, applied
last week to build 159 units at Barangaroo South as part of a
A$6 billion ($6.3 billion) project. Early signs of a residential
revival contrast with pessimism in the resource industry, where
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  has shelved an estimated $55 billion in mining
and port-expansion plans as commodity prices weakened.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens , who carried out the developed
world’s steepest rate reductions since October 2011, is aiming
to rebalance Australia’s two-speed economy, where mining regions
thrive and manufacturers, builders and retailers struggle. He’s
telegraphing lower borrowing costs to maintain job growth and
extend a 21-year run without a recession.  “Growth in the resource sector will start to cool off
following the peak in the investment boom over the next 12 to 18
months and to pick up the slack you’re going to have to see
residential construction increase,” said Tom Kennedy, an
economist in Sydney at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The central bank’s board  lowered  the overnight cash-rate
target by 1.5 percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3.25
percent. Still, the number of Australian construction jobs fell
by 70,200 to 978,000 in the 12 months through August, helping
lift the  unemployment rate  to a 2 1/2-year high of 5.4 percent.
Mining  employment  gained by 44,600 over the same period to
271,000, according to government figures.  December Meeting  Traders are pricing in a 67 percent chance of another
reduction Dec. 4 to 3 percent, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That would match the half-century low of 3 percent at the
height of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. In response to
that rate and government handouts of as much as A$21,000 to
buyers,  house prices  surged an annual 19 percent in the first
quarter of 2010.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg indicate a 62 percent
chance that the RBA cash rate will be at a record 2.75 percent
or lower by May.  At Barangaroo, a defunct stevedoring terminal that
developers are modeling after  London ’s Canary Wharf, the plan
calls for apartments, offices, a park, restaurants and a casino.
One-bedroom apartments will go for about A$1 million and the
penthouse is valued at A$8 million to A$10 million, said Justin
Brown, chairman of residential projects at CBRE Group Inc.  Tentative Signs  RBA  board members  said in minutes of their Nov. 6 policy
meeting that “there were tentative indications that housing
activity may be reaching a turning point.” Borrowing costs were
left unchanged at the meeting.  A government report today showed the value of private
residential construction rose 0.9 percent in the three months
through September, the first gain in six quarters.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a government report
showed Philippine gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, faster than the 5.4 percent
median growth forecast of 22 analysts surveyed.  The Bank of  Thailand  will keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a policy meeting today, 16 of 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast.  South  Korea ’s current-account surplus narrowed in October
to $5.8 billion from a revised $5.9 billion in September,
according to a report from the  Bank of Korea .  German Inflation  In Europe, German consumer prices probably fell in November
from the previous month, according to the median estimate in a
survey ahead of data due today.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show new-home
sales were little changed from a month earlier at a 390,000
annual pace in October, a survey of economists showed. The
 Federal Reserve  will release its so-called  Beige Book , a
regional snapshot of the nation’s economy.  In Australia, housing data in the past month have shown
signs that a two-year slide in  home prices  is stabilizing.  Home-loan approvals rose in September for a second month
and home prices advanced in the three months through September,
the first back-to-back quarterly increase since 2010. New-home
sales declined for a third straight month in September, while
home-building approvals surged for a second straight month on
apartment and renovation projects.  Easing Considered  “Members considered that further easing may be appropriate
in the period ahead,” the RBA minutes released Nov. 20 showed.
“While a gradual recovery in both dwelling and other business
investment was anticipated, assisted in part by the lower level
of  interest rates , there was also uncertainty about the timing
and magnitude of this pick-up.”  The RBA, in its quarterly monetary policy statement
released Nov. 9, reduced the 2013 growth forecast as lower
investment in iron-ore, coal and natural-gas projects and the
government’s pledge to deliver an election-year  budget surplus 
restrain the economy.  The central bank predicted a peak in resource spending at
about 8 percent of gross domestic product from a prior 9
percent. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid for a A$44 billion
budget swing back to the black “appears to be weighing on
growth over the second half” of this year, the report showed.  Weaker commodity prices and an elevated currency prompted
mining companies including BHP and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) 
to put off projects and cut jobs in recent months.  The nation’s currency has remained resilient even as
commodity prices eased, averaging about $1.03 in the past two
years, compared with 73 cents in the prior decade.  Slower Expansion  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
echoed the RBA’s view in a report yesterday. GDP will rise 3
percent next year, still the group’s fastest-growing developed
economy, down from 3.7 percent projected in May, the OECD said.  Consumers may be emboldened by a stock market that has
risen in the past four straight months. Australia’s benchmark
10-year government bond yield has risen 29 basis points this
quarter, the biggest gain among 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg, reflecting prospects the RBA has stimulated the
economy sufficiently to leave rates unchanged.  “Household demand will need to fill a large part of the
gap to be left by the forecast decline in mining investment,”
said  Paul Brennan , a senior economist in Sydney at Citigroup
Inc., which is predicting a rate cut in the first quarter next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  