-- India Criticizes Maldives Decision to Scrap GMR Airport Contract
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-11-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/india-criticizes-maldives-decision-to-scrap-gmr-airport-contract.html
India  criticized the Maldives after
the island-nation  scrapped  a contract to run its largest airport
without consulting the operator, a group led by Bangalore-based
 GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)   The decision “sends a very negative signal to foreign
investors” and India is “prepared to take all necessary
measures to ensure the safety and security of its interests,”
the Ministry of External Affairs said in a  statement  Nov. 27.  The contract was awarded to GMR and  Malaysia Airports
Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  in 2010 by then-Prime Minister Mohamed Nasheed,
who was ousted in February. GMR, controlled by billionaire G.M. Rao, along with its partner had planned to spend about $510
million in upgrades.  The contract never received the necessary approval from
parliament and was signed under “dubious circumstances,”
Masood Imad, a spokesman for President Mohamed Waheed, said in a
phone call from Male, the Maldives capital, yesterday. Waheed
took power after Nasheed resigned.  The cancellation was “unilateral and completely
irrational,” GMR said in a statement on Nov. 27, adding that it
will challenge the decision.  Malaysia Airports, which owns 23 percent of GMR Male
International Airport Pvt. Ltd., is studying its legal position
on the notice from the Maldives government, the company said in
a statement yesterday.  The Malaysian company said it has invested a total of $6.9
million in the equity of the joint venture and has accounted for
about $13.2 million of associate profits.  The Maldives, a group of 1,190 coral islands with a
population of about 400,000 people, is located southwest of
India. About 198 of the islands, spread across 900 kilometers
(559 miles), are inhabited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  