-- Indonesia Set to Top India as World’s Largest Palm Oil User
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-11-29T11:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/indonesia-poised-to-top-india-as-world-s-largest-palm-oil-user.html
Indonesia , the world’s biggest
producer of palm oil, is set to surpass  India  as the largest
user next year as economic growth boosts demand.  Consumption may climb 13 percent to 8.5 million metric tons
from 7.5 million tons this year, Indonesia’s Deputy Trade
Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said by text message. That exceeds
U.S. government estimates of 7.95 million tons for India and
7.87 million tons for Indonesia in the 2012-2013 year.  Rising demand for palm used in everything from instant
noodles and candy to fuel may curb exports that rose 2.9 percent
in October from a month earlier. The economy grew at more than 6
percent in the past eight quarters as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono raised spending, luring investors such as  Unilever (UNA)  and
L’Oreal SA. Palm use jumped 51 percent in the past four years as
wheat climbed about 21 percent and sugar rose 15 percent, U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates show.  “We’ve seen very strong demand growth from Indonesia,”
said Erin Fitzpatrick, a London-based analyst at Rabobank
International. “You certainly can see that story continuing,”
she said by phone Nov. 27.  The country may surpass  Germany  and the U.K. by 2030 to be
the world’s seventh-largest economy, generating $1.8 trillion in
sales for agriculture, consumer and energy companies by that
year, McKinsey & Co. said in September. McKinsey estimates
 consumer spending  in urban areas will rise 7.7 percent a year to
$1.1 trillion by 2030, according to the report.  L’Oreal, Unilever  L’Oreal (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetic maker, expects to
boost sales in Indonesia by as much as 35 percent in the next
five years, Vismay Sharma, the company’s country head, said Oct.
29. The Paris-based company is investing $128 million to build
its largest factory globally in West Java province.  Unilever plans to spend $150 million building a factory in
Sei Mangkei, North Sumatra, that will produce ingredients for
soaps and shampoos, said Sancoyo Antarikso, a Jakarta-based
director at the unit of the second-largest consumer-goods maker.  Consumer-product companies like Unilever and noodle-maker
 PT Indofood CBP Sukses Makmur (ICBP)  will benefit from a government
plan to raise minimum wages, according to John Rachmat, an
analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, in a Nov. 22 report.  Jakarta province will increase the minimum by 44 percent to
2.2 million rupiah ($229) a month in 2013 from this year, said
Mandiri Sekuritas. East Kalimantan will boost the wage by 49
percent to 1.75 million rupiah, while Papua, the eastern most
province, will raise it by 8 percent to 1.71 million rupiah,
according to the report.  Rising Incomes  Improved  living standards  have increased palm demand from
the  food industry , said Achmad Suryana, head of the Food
Security Agency at the  Agriculture Ministry .  “The characteristics of people in Indonesia are
changing,” Suryana told reporters at a conference in Bali,
Indonesia, today. “More people are living an urban lifestyle
even in the small towns. They like to consume processed food now
because of increased incomes.”  Total palm demand from the food industry, including use of
cooking oil, is growing at about the same rate as the
population, or 1.5 percent annually, Suryana said. “I see
higher growth from processed food makers of around 3 percent.”  Consumption will increase as Indonesia raises the blending
rate of palm-based biofuel in petroleum diesel to 7.5 percent
from 5 percent, said Sahat Sinaga, executive director of the
Indonesian Vegetable Oil Industry Association, said by phone
Nov. 27. Demand from oleochemicals is also increasing, he said.  Refining Industry  Palm-oil  refining capacity may climb to more than 30
million tons next year, exceeding output, as companies step up
investments following tax changes, Andreas Bokkenheuser, a
Singapore-based analyst at UBS AG said last month. Investors are
planning $1 billion of investments following the duty reduction,
Sinaga said then.  Capacity has gained “significantly” this year, said
Krisnamurthi on Nov. 27, without specifying the increase.  The government cut taxes in October last year to boost
processed exports as it seeks to raise the value of commodity
shipments to spur growth and create jobs. Futures traded in
Kuala Lumpur have slumped 25 percent this year to 2,386 ringgit
($784) a ton, heading for their worst year since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  