-- Indonesia's J Resources Said to Bid for Kingsgate Mine
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-11-28T11:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/indonesia-s-j-resources-said-to-bid-for-kingsgate-mine.html
PT J Resources Asia Pasifik (PSAB) , an
Indonesian mining company, has offered to acquire the Chatree
gold mine in  Thailand  from a company backed by  Kingsgate
Consolidated Ltd. (KCN) , a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Gavin Thomas, chief executive officer of Kingsgate, said it
has received “numerous” offers for the gold mine over the past
24 months. The mine is run by Akara Mining Ltd., which is 49
percent owned by Sydney-based Kingsgate.  Thomas declined to confirm the bid from J Resources, or say
if it was among those that Kingsgate has rebuffed. The person
with knowledge of J Resources’s bid asked not to be identified
as the information is private.  The offers were all “highly conditional and subject to
financing,” Thomas said by telephone from Sydney. “We’ve had
several bids and they are of differing values, conditions,
ability of finance, and at this stage the board has felt that
the value of the Chatree asset has not been met by those
offers.”  A plan to sell 51 percent of Akara Mining via a public
offering, which would help raise funds for Kingsgate’s projects
in Chile and  Australia , has been put on hold until June next
year, Thomas said. The fundraising plan depends on Akara
receiving approvals for some exploration rights to expand the
Thai mine.  J Resources, based in Jakarta, owns silver and gold mines
in Indonesia and Malaysia, according to information on its
 website . It acquired assets from  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  for $200
million in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  