-- Ingredion Seeks Deals in Asia, Eastern Europe, CEO Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-28T21:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ingredion-seeks-deals-in-asia-eastern-europe-ceo-says.html
Ingredion Inc. (INGR) ,  North America ’s
fourth-largest maker of high-fructose corn syrup, is seeking
deals to tap into increasing Asian consumption of packaged foods
and demand for specialty starches in Eastern Europe.  The company is targeting deals in the $50 million to $500
million range to expand geographically and boost its range of
products that add texture and sweetness to food, said Ingredion
Chief Executive Officer Ilene Gordon. The company completed its
biggest deal two years ago with the $1.3 billion purchase of
National Starch.  “You can grow organically and build a facility, but it’s a
lot faster to buy somebody if you can find the right value
proposition,” Gordon said todayin an interview at a company
event in  New York .  The company formerly known as Corn Products International
Inc. has spent 54 percent of its investments on acquisitions
since 2008, according to a presentation to analysts today. The
five-year target of growing adjusted earnings per share by 10 to
12 percent annually from an estimated $5.47 to $5.57 in 2012 may
include acquisitions and share repurchases, the Westchester,
Illinois-based company said today.  Ingredion wants to increase sales to $8 billion in five
years from $6.5 billion excluding acquisitions, Claire Regan, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  Ingredion turns corn into products used in foods such as
carbonated drinks, soups and yogurt and consumer goods such as
corrugated boxes and detergents. Its customers include General
Mills Inc., Coca-Cola Co. and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   The largest North American high-fructose corn syrup makers
are Cargill Inc.,  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and Tate & Lyle
Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  