-- Tinkler Creditors Said to Consider Seeking Whitehaven Stake
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-11-28T05:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/tinkler-creditors-said-to-consider-seeking-whitehaven-stake.html
Nathan Tinkler ’s creditors may seek
to take control of his A$560 million ($585 million) stake in
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  if he fails to make payments on a loan,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Tinkler owes as much as $700 million to lenders including
U.S. investment company Farallon  Capital Partners , Credit Suisse
Group AG and Kuok Group and a $200 million payment is due, said
the people, who asked not to be identified as the details are
private.  Losing the stake in the Australian coal producer would
upend a rags-to-riches tale for the 36-year-old electrician
turned miner, who sold his house in 2006 to buy into a  coal
mine . His A$5.3 billion bid for Whitehaven collapsed three
months ago as coal prices declined, and two of his closely held
companies were last week placed in liquidation.  Tim Allerton, of City Public Relations, a spokesman for
Tinkler Group, declined to comment on Tinkler’s financial
position. A message left with Tinkler Group in Brisbane
requesting comment wasn’t immediately answered. Michael Fisch,
an official at Farallon in  Singapore , declined to comment.  Tinkler Group, also closely held, is the largest
shareholder in Whitehaven, with 19.4 percent, according to an
October statement. The stake was gained after Whitehaven took
over Aston Resources Ltd. and other Tinkler assets in a A$2.7
billion deal last year. Tinkler made a A$5.20-a-share bid for
Whitehaven, which owns seven mines in  Australia , in July.  Bid Failure  The bid failed after coal prices fell and lenders withdrew
support. Whitehaven’s shares dropped 1.8 percent to A$2.81 at
the close in Sydney, taking this year’s decline to 47 percent.
Farallon has 5.7 percent of Sydney-based Whitehaven according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Farallon owned 9.5 percent in Aston Resources prior to the
Whitehaven takeover, while Kuok Group owned a 5.5 percent stake,
according to an Aston Resources presentation in December last
year.  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house to
help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in Australia’s
Queensland state before selling it a year later to Macarthur
Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares.  In May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur stake to
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, at a profit of
about A$445 million. He then bought the Maules Creek mine from
Rio Tinto Group for A$480 million in August 2010. Seeking funds
to develop the project, Tinkler made an initial public offering
of Aston Resources, containing Maules Creek, in August 2010,
raising A$400 million.  Lost Control  Farallon, Credit Suisse and other investors also helped
fund Aston Resources’ acquisition of Maules Creek, providing
total loans of $588 million, according to Aston’s IPO
prospectus.  Tinkler last week lost control of Mulsanne Resources Pty.
after an Australian court ordered its liquidation over a A$28.4
million unpaid debt to coal developer Blackwood Corp. Patinack
Farm Administration Pty, another of his companies, was ordered
to liquidate the following day. His Ocean Street Holdings Pty
and Buildev Group Pty last month settled a dispute with  Mirvac
Group (MGR)  out of court by agreeing to pay the developer A$16.6
million in a failed property deal.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metal mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  