-- Lion Air Considers Airbus Jets as It Looks to Expand Its Fleet
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-11-28T11:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lion-air-considers-airbus-jets-as-it-looks-to-expand-its-fleet.html
PT Lion Mentari Airlines said it is
talking to Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  about a purchase of
additional single-aisle planes beyond its order for 230 Boeing
737s last year.  “We are studying every possibility to fulfill our target
for the planes from every manufacturer, including with Airbus,”
PT Lion Air Commercial Director Edward Sirait said in a
telephone interview. “So far we haven’t concluded which
manufacturer, types and number of planes to buy. But all are
possible.”  The Indonesian carrier needs more aircraft as it adds
flights in a region where  air travel  is expected to grow more
than 6.4 percent annually through 2031. Lion Air already flies
to more than 36 destinations within  Indonesia  and overseas, and
announced plans to establish a low-cost carrier in  Malaysia  to
challenge  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  in its home market.  Airbus spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  said the Toulouse-based
manufacturer doesn’t comment on talks with customers or
potential customers.  The low-cost carrier, called Malindo Airways, will begin
flights in May and may have about 100 planes within a decade,
one of its shareholders said in September. Malindo Air will draw
its fleet from planes Lion Air has ordered.  The record order for 230 additional 737s in February was
worth $22.4 billion at list prices. The deal, which also
included 150 options, was Boeing’s biggest in dollar value and
plane numbers.  Lion Air didn’t say if it’s considering the Airbus A320neo,
which will have more-efficient engines than the existing A320
and enter into service from late 2015. Airbus is still seeking
customers to fill A320 delivery slots in 2015.  Airbus has generally lagged behind Boeing in Indonesia, one
of the more promising markets for air traffic growth in coming
decades. Lion Air itself has forecast passenger growth rates of
15 percent a year. The airline said last year that the parent
company fleet may expand to 470 planes by 2025 from about 100.  Airbus is also looking to sell A380 superjumbos to flagship
airline  Garuda Indonesia. (GIAA)  The airline said Nov. 21 it had
received proposals from Airbus as well as from Boeing for its
747 Intercontinental. President Director Emirsyah Satar said the
review of proposals was still at an early stage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  