-- Lions’ Suh Is Fined $30,000 by NFL for Foot to Schaub’s Groin
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-28T21:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lions-suh-is-fined-30-000-by-nfl-for-foot-to-schaub-s-groin.html
Ndamukong Suh of the  Detroit Lions 
was fined $30,000 by the  National Football League  for striking
Houston Texans quarterback  Matt Schaub  in the groin with his
foot during a Nov. 22 game.  The NFL said two days ago that while Suh wouldn’t be
suspended, the play would be reviewed for a potential fine. NFL
spokesman Randall Liu confirmed today that Suh was disciplined
for “unnecessary roughness.”  Suh, a defensive lineman, didn’t initially receive a
penalty on the play, in which he fell to the ground and rolled
over a Houston offensive lineman before his foot extended and
struck Schaub. Suh told reporters today that the contact, which
NFL Executive Vice President of Football Operations  Ray Anderson 
described last week as an “unnatural football motion,” was
unintentional.  “It’s a crazy play, one that unfortunately happened,” Suh
was quoted as saying by the  Detroit News . “I didn’t even
realize it until the end of the game. I was being dragged to the
ground and my foot inadvertently hit the man. It’s over with and
I am moving forward.”  The play came one year after Suh stomped on the arm of a
Green Bay Packers’ player in another Thanksgiving Day holiday
game. He was suspended for two games for that infraction and
offered a public apology. Suh said he didn’t see the need to
apologize to Schaub.  “I was dragged to the ground,” Suh said, according to the
News. “A lot of things happened to me. It’s part of the game.”  Suh was fined three times by the NFL prior to last year’s
suspension and met with Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in New York
afterward to discuss how to better play within the rules.  The Lions (4-7) host the Indianapolis Colts this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  