-- Iranian Man Convicted for Conspiring to Import Heroin
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-29T00:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/iranian-man-convicted-for-conspiring-to-import-heroin.html
An Iranian man faces a sentence of
life in prison after he was convicted in federal court in New
York of conspiring to import heroin into the U.S. in a scheme to
help finance the Hezbollah terror group, prosecutors said.  A jury yesterday took about two hours to convict Siavosh
Henareh, 58, after a two-week trial before U.S. District Judge
Jed S. Rakoff in Manhattan, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in
a statement. Henareh is scheduled for sentencing by Rakoff on
Feb. 27.  The conviction “underscores the unflagging commitment of
this office to put a stranglehold on narco-traffickers and to
cut off sources of terrorist funding,” Bharara said in the
statement.  Henareh and two other men, Cetin Asku and Bachar Wehbe,
were charged in July last year with conspiring to sell heroin
and buy weapons for Hezbollah, a militant organization based in
Lebanon that’s designated a terrorist group by the U.S. and
 Israel .  Aksu pleaded guilty in August to conspiring to provide
material support to Hezbollah, conspiring to acquire anti-
aircraft missiles, conspiring to import heroin into the U.S. and
making false declarations before a federal court, prosecutors
said. Wehbe pleaded guilty in November 2011 to conspiring to
provide material support to Hezbollah, conspiring to acquire
anti-aircraft missiles and obstruction of justice.  Wehbe is scheduled to be sentenced on Nov. 4, 2013, and
Aksu on Aug. 22, 2014, prosecutors said. Both face a mandatory
minimum sentence of 25 years in prison and a maximum term of
life.  Innocence Maintained  Henareh continues to maintain his innocence and intends to
appeal the conviction after sentencing, said Robert William Ray,
a court-appointed attorney with Pryor Cashman LLP who
represented Henareh during the trial.  “Mr. Henareh was never charged, extradited or prosecuted
on any terrorism or weapons-related charges,” Ray said in a
telephone interview. “This was a single count prosecution of
conspiracy to import heroin in the United States. So unlike his
two co-defendants, he never faced terrorism or weapons
charges.”  Prosecutors said Henareh had more than 30 meetings with
confidential Drug Enforcement Agency sources and potential
heroin suppliers in  Greece ,  Romania ,  Turkey  and other countries
starting in June 2010.  Import Agreement  Henareh agreed during the meetings to import hundreds of
kilograms of heroin into the U.S., and was told by the
confidential sources that profits from the sales would be used
to purchase weapons for Hezbollah, prosecutors said.  A co-conspirator of Henareh gave the confidential sources a
one-kilogram sample of the heroin in April 2011 in Bucharest to
allow them to inspect its quality in advance of a larger
delivery of hundreds of kilograms worth of the drug, prosecutors
said.  Henareh volunteered his home as a location for the delivery
of about 3 million euros to pay for 189 kilograms and helped his
co-conspirators count the money before he was arrested by
Romanian National Police in July 2011, prosecutors said.  Aksu and Wehbe also began to negotiate an arms deal while
the heroin deal was being worked out, and agreed to buy
military-grade weapons from the confidential sources on behalf
of Hezbollah, prosecutors said.  In June 2011, Aksu and Wehbe signed a written contract to
buy $9.5 million of weapons from the confidential sources for
Hezbollah, including American-made Stinger surface-to-air
missiles, AK-47 assault rifles and Glock handguns, prosecutors
said.  The case is USA v. Henareh, 1:11-cr-00093-JSR-1, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  