-- Irish Loan Losses May Rise on Insolvency Laws, Central Bank Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-11-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/irish-loan-losses-may-rise-on-insolvency-laws-central-bank-says.html
Irish banks’ loan losses may
increase “in the short term” following the implementation of
planned personal insolvency laws, which will pave the way for
write-offs of some home loans, the central bank said.  Still, the legislation “is an important part of the
solution for managing private-sector indebtedness and promoting
long-term growth,” the Dublin-based  central bank  said in a
report today. The laws may also aid the recovery of household
finances if implemented effectively, it said.  Irish  household debt  stands at more than 200 percent of
disposable income, twice the euro-area average, according to the
Irish central bank. Under the planned laws going through
parliament next month and scheduled to be enacted by year-end,
troubled borrowers will be able to seek writedowns of as much as
3 million euros ($3.9 million) on secured debt, including home
loans, in out-of-court settlements.  Almost 15 percent of Irish banks’ owner-occupier loan books
and 29 percent of their buy-to-let portfolios were more than
three months in arrears at the end of June, according to the
Irish central bank. The  European Central Bank   said  on Sept. 14
that the move could “significantly increase default rates” and
impact lenders’ capital and liquidity positions.  Bank Risks  Irish taxpayers have committed 64 billion euros to shore up
the nation’s banks against soaring bad loan losses, following
the implosion of a domestic real-estate bubble in 2008.  “Loan impairments, low interest margins and lack of access
to longer-term market funding continue to pose risks for Irish
banks,” the central bank said in today’s report.  On Nov. 13,  Bank of Ireland Plc  became the first domestic
bank to issue a public bond in two years, selling 1 billion
euros of residential mortgage-covered bonds.  Still, Irish lenders “have not yet returned to senior
unsecured or short-term securities issuance, with their current
credit ratings at or below investment grade,” the central bank
said.  Having sustained a 61 percent slump in operating income
since 2008, the nation’s banks remain under pressure from low
growth, high funding costs and the fact that they can’t
independently raise rates on more than half their home loans,
which are linked to the ECB’s benchmark rate, it said. They’re
also facing “significant costs” upgrading computer systems to
meet regulatory requirements, according to the report.  The central bank highlighted the “recent operational
failure” in an overseas-owned bank in pressing the need for
information-technology improvements in some banks.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ’s  Ulster Bank  unit set aside  82 million
pounds  ($131 million) to compensate customers hit by a computer
failure, the Edinburgh-based lender said on Nov. 2.  The failure left some of Ulster Bank’s 1.9 million
customers without access to their accounts for more than three
weeks in June and July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  