-- Israel Yield Plunges to Record Low on U.S. Fiscal, Growth Woes
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-11-28T14:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/israel-yield-plunges-to-record-low-on-u-s-fiscal-growth-woes.html
Israel ’s government bonds rose for a
fifth day, pushing the yield to a record low, on concern the
lack of progress among U.S. lawmakers on budget negotiations
will affect the country’s export-driven economy as growth slows.  The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due in
January 2022 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 3.84 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the lowest
since they started trading in April 2011. The Tel Aviv Bond 40
Index, which measures inflation-linked and fixed-rate corporate
bonds, fell for the first time this week, retreating 0.1 percent
to 279.74.  Treasury yields dropped for a third day as corporate
leaders and President  Barack Obama  prepared to meet after Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid yesterday lamented the lack of
progress toward averting a so-called fiscal cliff of tax
increases and spending reductions. Exports account for about 40
percent of Israel’s gross domestic product, with the U.S. and
 Europe  its largest markets.  “Local yields are tracking their U.S. counterpart amid
little progress on budget negotiations which may negatively
affect growth in Israel’s export economy and decelerate
inflation,” said Effi Cohen, a bond trader at  Leader Capital
Markets (LDRC)  Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “As a result, we expect the  Bank of
Israel  to further cut borrowing costs to support the economy.”  Slower Growth  The  unemployment rate  for October rose to a seasonally
adjusted 7 percent from a revised 6.9 percent in the previous
month, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said today. Labor
participation fell to 63.8 percent from 64.1 percent, it said.
The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
yesterday lowered Israel’s 2012 economic growth forecast to 3.1
percent from its May estimate of 3.2 percent, and cut its
projection for next year to 2.9 percent from 3.6 percent.  The Bank of Israel this week kept the key  interest rate  at
2 percent after a surprise cut last month.  One-year interest-
rate swaps , an indicator of investor expectations for rates over
the period, gained one basis point to 1.8 percent. The swaps
have declined 14 basis points this month.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
the inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government debt of
similar maturity, was little changed at 215, implying an average
annual inflation rate of 2.15 percent.  Annual inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in October from 2.1
percent the previous month, and below the 2.2 percent median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the statistics
bureau said Nov. 15. The government’s target range is 1 percent
to 3 percent.  The shekel strengthened 0.1 percent to 3.8569 a dollar,
boosting this month’s gain to 0.7 percent, the best performer
among an expanded list 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  