-- Mississippi Abortion Clinic Seeks Block on Hospital Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-11-28T20:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/mississippi-abortion-clinic-seeks-block-on-hospital-law.html
Mississippi ’s only abortion clinic
told a federal court that it can’t comply with a state law
requiring its doctors to have hospital admitting privileges
because local facilities won’t grant its requests.  Making a renewed bid for an order blocking the law, the
clinic said its physicians had been summarily rejected from
having a relationship with any hospitals in the area. The law,
initially set to take effect July 1, requires physicians
associated with an abortion facility also to be certified or
eligible in obstetrics and gynecology.  “All of the applications submitted by the clinic’s two
doctors have been denied without even reaching the merits of the
doctors’ qualifications, and all other efforts have proved
fruitless,” the clinic told U.S. District Judge Daniel P. Jordan III in a filing today.  Jackson Women’s Health Organization filed suit on June 27,
arguing the regulations would violate a woman’s constitutionally
protected right to be able to obtain an abortion. The state
would be the first in the U.S. without a dedicated abortion
clinic if the facility is forced to close.  Preliminary Injunction  Jordan issued a preliminary injunction on July 13 allowing
the law to take effect while declaring that doctors at the
clinic couldn’t be subjected to civil or criminal penalties
while seeking the required hospital privileges.  Jan Schaefer, a spokeswoman for Mississippi Attorney
General Jim Hood, said the office declined to comment on today’s
filing. Liz Sharlot, a spokeswoman for the state’s Health
Department, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment.  The state is scheduled to resume enforcement of the law on
Jan. 11. The clinic’s inability to comply with the law and
retain its license is “a foregone conclusion,” according to
today’s filing.  The case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier,
12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Mississippi
(Jackson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  