-- Liverpool Still Aiming for Sturridge, Telegraph Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-28T10:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/liverpool-still-aiming-for-sturridge-telegraph-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Liverpool Hunt  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  has made Chelsea striker
 Daniel Sturridge  his main target and hopes that the west London
club’s change of manager doesn’t block the move,  the Daily
Telegraph said.   The clubs have been in talks and it may be too late for
manager Rafa Benitez to prevent the player from leaving, the
newspaper said. Rodgers is also trying to sign Arsenal winger
Theo Walcott and Blackpool’s Thomas Ince in the January window,
the Telegraph said.  Arsenal Klass  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will have to pay more than
the planned 6 million pounds ($9.6 million) for Schalke striker
Klass-Jan Huntelaar,  the Sun said.   The Dutch player’s contract expires at the end of the
season, but Schalke general manager Horst Heldt said the north
London squad can’t afford the fee to bring him to England, the
newspaper said.  Staying in Southampton  Southampton left back Luke Shaw has dismissed interest from
 Manchester United , Manchester City, Chelsea and Arsenal, saying
he plans to stay at St. Mary’s,  the Daily Star said.   The 17-year-old has started three league matches, and
Southampton will offer him a five-year contract after the
season, the newspaper said. He’s been with the club since he was
seven, the Star said.  Moyes Plans  Everton manager  David Moyes  said he’ll start negotiating a
new contract next year, the  Daily Mail  said.  He has seven months left on his contract and wants to get
through the January transfer window before starting talks on his
deal, the newspaper said. He’s been at the Liverpool club for 10
years.  Manchester Battle  Manchester United is trying to beat Manchester City to the
signature of Kurt Zouma, an 18-year-old defender at St. Etienne,
the Sun said.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has invited the player to see
a match at Old Trafford, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  