-- TiVo Posts Third-Quarter Profit From Settling Patent Case
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-29T21:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/tivo-posts-third-quarter-profit-on-patent-litigation.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the developer of digital-
video recorders, posted a third-quarter profit after settling
patent litigation with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , signing more
subscribers and boosting pay-TV revenue.  Third-quarter net income totaled $59 million, or 44 cents a
share, in the period ended Oct. 31, compared with a loss of
$24.5 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier, Alviso, California-
based TiVo said yesterday in a statement. Results included $78.4
million in proceeds from the litigation.  The digital-recording pioneer has widened margins by
selling advanced set-top boxes with more storage and the ability
to record several shows at once. Revenue grew 27 percent to $82
million from $64.8 million a year earlier. That exceeded
analysts’ projections of $72.4 million, the average of 12
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Subscribers increased 44
percent to 2.94 million, TiVo said.  “We have more and more differentiated features that are
driving our growth,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers said in
an interview.  TiVo rose 6.4 percent to $11.54 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain since January, and has advanced 29 percent this
year. It was the second straight day with an increase in excess
of 6 percent.   This quarter, TiVo forecasts service and technology revenue
of $63 million to $65 million and a net loss of $15 million to
$17 million. Excluding litigation costs, the company forecasts a
profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to the statement.  The company has service agreements with nine of the top 21
U.S. pay-TV companies and is expanding with Comcast Corp. and
operators overseas, Rogers said.  TiVo is pursuing patent infringement litigation against
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  over use
of recording technology in the set-top boxes they make.  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is a defendant in both cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  