-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise on Boehner’s U.S. Budget Remarks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-28T23:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/japanese-stock-futures-rise-on-boehner-s-u-s-budget-remarks.html
Japanese stock futures rose as U.S.
lawmakers said they are optimistic a budget agreement can be
reached to avoid automatic spending cuts and tax increases.
Australian shares were little changed.  American Depositary Receipts of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , which gets
about a quarter of its sales in the U.S., gained 0.9 percent.
 Sky Network Television Ltd. (SKT) , New Zealand’s largest pay TV
operator, jumped the most in more than two years in Wellington
after the company announced payment of a special dividend.
Starpharma Holdings Ltd. tumbled 38 percent in Sydney as the
biotechnology company said it won’t file a drug application in
the U.S. following a disappointing clinical trial for a new
treatment.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,345 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,300 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,330 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  was
little changed and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.2 percent
in Wellington.  “Market expectations are that the U.S. cutbacks will be
watered down and spread over several years,” said Matthew Sherwood, Perpetual Investment’s head of markets research in
Sydney. Perpetual manages about $25 billion. “If the cliff is
successfully flattened out over several years, the U.S.
recession feared by markets is unlikely to occur.”  Budget Optimism  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The S&P 500 rose 0.8 percent yesterday,  reversing earlier
declines , as Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  told
reporters he is optimistic that budget talks can avert a so-
called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that will kick in next year if an
agreement is not reached. President  Barack Obama  is sending
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to meet congressional
leaders today to discuss the issue.  “I’m optimistic that we can continue to work together to
avert this crisis, and sooner rather than later,” Boehner told
reporters in Washington yesterday before meeting with a group of
executives, some of whom were heading to the White House later
for a discussion with Obama.  Obama said more Republicans are agreeing on a “balanced
approach” to cut the deficit, and he hopes a deal can be
reached before Christmas.  “If we get this wrong, the economy’s going to go south,”
the president said in an appearance on the White House grounds
with a group of people who responded to a White House e-mail
solicitation to describe how a tax increase would affect them.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy expanded at a “measured pace” in recent
weeks as gains in consumer demand and housing were tempered by a
slowdown in manufacturing and the impact of superstorm Sandy,
the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday.  The comments indicate the Fed is unlikely to curtail
monthly purchases of $40 billion in housing debt and bolsters
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that an agreement on reducing
long-term  federal budget  deficits without abrupt tax increases
and spending cuts would remove a barrier to growth.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rose 13 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur growth and data showed a slowdown in China may
be ending. The gauge traded at 13.9 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  and 12.4 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 0.6 percent yesterday in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  