-- Japan’s Export Slump to Drag Down Yen, Ruskin Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-28T18:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/japan-s-export-slump-to-drag-down-yen-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
The deterioration of  Japan ’s  exports 
will be the driving force behind weakness in the yen, according
to  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York .  “There is a structural story that’s going on, and I think
that’s more important than anything -- the loss of export
competitiveness in Japan,” Ruskin said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen.
“Japan has some very serious problems and they need to dig
themselves out of this.”  The nation is suffering its worst year for exports since
2009, with shipments totaling 53.5 trillion yen ($653 billion)
for January through October, down 2.3 percent from the same
period in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
Finance Ministry figures released in  Tokyo  Nov. 21.  The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil because Japan’s historical trade
surplus means the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas
lenders. The trade deficit for 2012 so far is a record 5.3
trillion yen.  Japan’s currency has fallen 8.8 percent this year, the most
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro is the second-worst
performer, losing 2.4 percent, followed by the dollar’s 1.9
percent decline.  The yen rose 0.4 percent to 81.86 per dollar at 1:07 p.m.
in New York.  Bad Timing  The currency’s losses have accelerated since the nation’s
parliament was dissolved Nov. 16. Investors are anticipating a
victory for the opposition party, which favors more monetary
easing, in next month’s election.  Targeting a weaker yen may be difficult for the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  because other major central banks, including the  Federal
Reserve , are also purchasing bonds in a bid to stimulate their
domestic economies, according to Ruskin.  “The problem for Japan is the timing is wrong,” he said.
“They would have the U.S. on their side normally, but the Fed
is in there buying bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  