-- Japan Should Adopt U.K.-Style Targets for BOJ, Abe Adviser Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-11-28T04:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/japan-should-adopt-u-k-style-targets-for-boj-abe-adviser-says.html
Japan ’s government should set the
nation’s inflation target and hold the central bank governor
accountable if the goal is missed, according to a former aide
and economic adviser to Japan opposition leader Shinzo Abe.  “The governor should be made to appear in parliament or
write an open letter to explain why a target hasn’t been met, as
is the case in Britain,” Yoichi Takahashi, a ex-Finance
Ministry official and aide to Abe during his 2006-2007
premiership, said in an interview yesterday. “There’s no need
to go as far as having a provision to fire the governor.”  The views of Takahashi, who is now a professor at Tokyo’s
Kaetsu University, will take on greater significance if Abe and
his Liberal Democratic Party win Dec. 16 elections. Abe, who
leads in opinion polls, advocates unlimited monetary easing to
achieve a price target of as much as 3 percent to boost growth
in a  contracting  economy.  Abe may adopt a less aggressive tone on the BOJ should he
become prime minister for a second time, Takahashi said.  “What he says now as the head of an opposition party is
irrelevant,” said Takahashi, who says he still speaks to Abe
regularly and that he has advised him on monetary policy for
about 12 years. “I don’t think he will say these things if he
becomes prime minister.”  Since setting an inflation target of 1 percent on Feb. 14,
BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has attended the Diet at least 24
times, according to the central bank’s website. Japan’s  consumer
prices  fell 0.1 percent in September, a fifth monthly decline,
and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a further
decline in October.  Monetary Base  The BOJ should expand the monetary base by as much as 60
trillion yen ($733 billion), which would weaken the yen to
around 100 against the dollar within a year, Takahashi said.
Such a move could produce an inflation rate of 1 percent to 2
percent, he said.  Monetary easing should be carried out with the “simplest
method” of buying Japanese government bonds, Takahashi said.
Takahashi said he has discussed the idea of buying foreign bonds
with Abe, without providing further details.  The nation’s monetary base, defined as banknotes and coins
in circulation and current account deposits at the  Bank of
Japan (8301) , was 12.8 billion yen as of Oct. 31, according to BOJ
 data . The yen, which dropped to the weakest since April 4 last
week, strengthened 0.4 percent to 81.85 per dollar as of 1:25
p.m. in Tokyo.  The government taking office after next month’s election
will pick candidates for the central bank’s top three posts.
Shirakawa, who politicians have criticized for failing to end
more than a decade of deflation, finishes his five-year term on
April 8. Shirakawa’s deputies Hirohide Yamaguchi and Kiyohiko Nishimura leave the central bank in March.  “It doesn’t matter who becomes governor if the Bank of
Japan Law is changed to force the bank to keep to targets set by
the government,” Takahashi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  