-- Kenya Shilling Gains 1st Day in 6 on Inflows From Coffee Sales
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-11-28T10:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/kenya-shilling-gains-1st-day-in-6-on-inflows-from-coffee-sales.html
Kenya ’s shilling gained for the
first time in six trading sessions, supported by dollar inflows
from the sale of coffee.  The currency of East  Africa ’s biggest economy gained as
much as 0.3 percent to 85.75 a dollar and was trading 0.1
percent stronger at 85.90 by 1:04 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenya’s benchmark coffee grade climbed for a second
successive sale to an average $323.97 a bag from $320.91 at the
previous auction, the Nairobi Coffee Exchange said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Kenya was Africa’s sixth-biggest
exporter of the beans from June 2010 through May last year,
according to the London-based International Coffee Organization.
The exchange has been conducting fortnightly sales instead of
weekly auctions since Oct. 16 because of low stockpiles.  “The shilling has received support from dollar inflows
form the coffee sale,” John Muli, a dealer at Nairobi-based
African Banking Corp., said by phone today. “This gain may not
last for long due to month-end obligations by businesses and a
pick-up in imports ahead of the festive season.”  Businesses usually import more products as they prepare for
increased sales during the Christmas and year-end period.
Christians account for 87 percent of the 38 million population,
according to the CIA World Factbook.  The  Central Bank  of Kenya offered for sale 10 billion
shillings ($117 million) of seven-day  repurchase agreements  and
term-auction deposits, a central bank official who declined to
be identified in line with the bank policy, said on phone.  Uganda Shilling  The Ugandan shilling weakened for the eighth day, the
longest losing streak in more than three years, on “panic
buying” as businesses accumulate dollars on concerns that a
freeze on donors’ aid may weaken it further.  The currency of  East Africa ’s second-largest economy
weakened as much as 0.3 percent to 2,703 a dollar and was last
trading less than 0.1 percent down at 2,695 a dollar, the worst
set of losses since March 2009.  “The depreciation of the shilling is due to panic buying
of dollars in the market on anticipation of a further weakening
of the Ugandan shilling following reports of possible aid cuts
to  Uganda ,” Faisal Bukenya head of  currency trading  at Barclays
Bank Uganda Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  The  World Bank  said on Nov. 14 it was reviewing its
assistance to Uganda after allegations of misuse of public
funds. Donors including the U.K., Ireland and  Denmark  have cut
aid after reports of embezzlement of funds intended for
development projects.  The Tanzanian shilling strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,600 a
dollar, poised for the biggest gain since March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  