-- Knight Surges on Takeover Bids From Getco, Virtu
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-11-29T14:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/knight-surges-after-getting-takeover-proposals-from-getco-virtu.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  capped its
biggest rally in nine years after getting takeover offers from
Getco LLC and Virtu Financial LLC, setting up a bidding war that
may end its 17-year history as an independent company.  Getco’s cash and stock offer values Knight at $3.50 a
share, an 18 percent premium from the Nov. 27 close, and retains
its public listing, according to a filing yesterday from the
Chicago-based high-frequency trader. Virtu submitted a bid to
buy Knight for about $3 a share, a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said. Another person familiar said the company’s
offer was made yesterday. Knight was bailed out by six financial
companies in August after losing more than $450 million in a
trading malfunction.  The offers represent divergent  structures  for the surviving
company and will force Knight’s board to choose between
immediate cash and a value ascribed in part by the stock
market’s view of Getco. Shares of the  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based market maker rose 15 percent to $3.42 yesterday, bringing
its three-day rally to 37 percent, the most since July 2003.  “If you’re involved in a share deal, then you’re betting
that their market is going to continue to grow and there is an
upside after the deal, whereas in a cash-only deal the upside is
you’re taking cash, and cash now,” said Sang Lee, managing
partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC, in a phone interview.
“It really depends on how the shareholders look at the market
that all these firms are in.”  Market Makers  Virtu, Getco and Knight are automated market makers. While
Getco and Virtu operate across asset classes mainly on exchanges
and similar platforms around the world, Knight focuses on U.S.
equities. It’s also a wholesale market maker that services
hundreds of retail brokers including  Fidelity Investments  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  by executing buy and sell orders for
individuals. Neither Getco nor New York-based Virtu is in that
business.  Knight slipped 3.8 percent to $3.29 as of 9:42 a.m. in  New
York . Volume for the company was 47.3 million shares yesterday,
more than 18 times its three-month daily average of 2.58 million
shares through Nov. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Knight declined to comment on Getco’s proposal, citing a
policy to not discuss shareholder activities, according to a
statement from the company. Doug Cifu, president and chief
operating officer of New York-based Virtu, declined to comment.  Getco Proposal  Under Getco’s proposal, its chief executive officer,  Daniel Coleman , would head the new company and Knight CEO Thomas Joyce
would be non-executive chairman. The offer is a 41 percent
premium to the stock’s closing price on Nov. 23, the filing
said.  Getco is proposing a two-step reverse merger in which
Knight would be reorganized as a holding company with Getco
receiving 242 million newly issued shares and warrants to buy 69
million more. The company would make a tender offer for up to
154 million Knight shares -- about half those outstanding,
excluding Getco’s current stake -- at $3.50, or about $539
million. Getco’s existing stake in Knight, about 57 million
shares, would be retired.  “They think there’s long-term value in the company because
they’re making a bid and because of how the warrants are
structured,” Keith Ross, CEO of PDQ enterprises LLC, a Chicago-
based dark pool operator, said in a phone interview. He was head
of Getco from 2002 to 2005. “The warrants give them an
incentive to help the company be profitable. This is an
additional carrot.”  More Attractive  Two people said automated market-maker Virtu plans to
assert in talks with Knight that the offer is more attractive
than the bid announced yesterday by Getco because it is for all
of Knight’s shares and is more likely to be completed, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The proposal would be financed by capital contributed by
Silver Lake Management LLC, which owns a stake in Virtu, other
private equity firms and individuals, and a loan commitment of
at least $1 billion led by Credit Suisse Group AG, another
person said. All three spoke on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private.  “An all-cash offer is going to trump mixed consideration,
but we still don’t know where Virtu’s offer is going to be
exactly above $3, while we know that Getco is at $3.50,”  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. in Jersey City, said in a phone
interview. “The board will have to evaluate the merits of each
offer and it may be looking for more from a white knight or from
these two bidders.”  Trading Malfunction  Knight shares were above $10 prior to the trading
malfunction and bailout, which diluted existing owners by more
than 70 percent. The company dodged bankruptcy almost four
months ago when six financial firms, including Getco, provided
$400 million to restore the company’s capital after the trading
malfunction, when incorrectly installed software caused it to
bombard U.S. exchanges with unintended orders.  “What happened with Knight made them more of a takeover
target than other firms,”  Adam Sussman , partner and director of
research and Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a phone
interview. “It makes sense for the industry and the company.
There’s an oversupply of capacity whether it’s on the market-
making, execution or research side.”  Getco’s offer would result in no  shareholder  owning more
than 20 percent of the combined company and most large
shareholders would be under 10 percent, according to the filing
today. The board of the combined company would include four
directors nominated by former Getco shareholders and three
directors currently on Knight’s board. Getco said it has lined
up $950 million in financing for the deal.  Ultimate Value  The ultimate value in combining Knight and Getco will
depend in part on whether the shares trade at a discount or
premium to their book value, which Getco estimated at $3.50,
 Christopher Allen , an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New
York, said in a phone interview.  “What it would trade at post-bid is hard to say because we
don’t know what Getco’s financials look like,” Allen said.
“You’d have to know more about Getco’s profitability, risk
profile, volatility of earnings and balance sheet before you
could say whether they’d trade at a premium or discount.”  Knight has transformed over the last decade from mainly
handling orders from individuals sent by brokers into a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading and businesses in fixed income and currency.
It owns the Hotspot FX and BondPoint platforms, provides
research and asset management and got into the reverse mortgage
business in 2010. Knight had more than 1,545 employees at the
end of September, it said in a regulatory filing.  ‘Better World’  In an Aug. 6 interview, Getco’s Coleman said Knight’s
disappearance wouldn’t have yielded a “better world” for
Getco. Without Knight’s ability to provide liquidity, “it would
be more expensive for everyone to trade,” he said in a phone
interview.  “In some ways Knight’s a competitor, in some ways they’re
a client, in some ways we’re their client,” Coleman said. “But
at the end of the day the liquidity they provide and I think the
liquidity we provide probably makes both of us better. This is
in our strategic interest to make sure Knight stays viable.”  Along with Getco, founded in 1999, the firms that provided
capital to Knight in August included Blackstone Group LP,
brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and Ameritrade and investment
banks Stephens Inc. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  Virtu does not have
a stake in the company.  Jefferies profit from its stake in Knight may be pushed to
$160 million based on the valuation Getco is proposing and $120
million for Virtu’s $3 a share bid. The firm acquired
convertible preferred securities that were swapped for about 81
million common shares of Knight for $1.50 each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  