-- Nestle Forms Botanical-Medicine Venture With Li’s Chi-Med
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-11-28T17:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/nestle-forms-botanical-medicine-venture-with-li-s-chi-med.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Hutchison China
Meditech Ltd. (HCM) , the drugmaker controlled by Hong Kong billionaire
 Li Ka-shing , agreed to form an alliance to develop gastro-
intestinal treatments based on traditional Chinese medicines.  Nestle Health Science and Chi-Med will each own half of the
Nutrition Science Partners Ltd. venture, the companies said in a
statement today. NSP will also take on an experimental medicine
known as HMPL-004 and oversee late-stage clinical trials on
treatments for ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease.  The collaboration gives Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
exclusive access to Chi-Med’s botanical library of more than
1,500 purified natural products and 50,000 extracts from
medicinal plants. Chi-Med entered an agreement with  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  in December to develop an experimental cancer drug.  “We believe traditional Chinese medicine has a real
potential to become part of innovative solutions,” Luis Cantarell, CEO of Nestle Health Science, said on a conference
call.  Nestle shares rose 1.2 percent to 60.60 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, for a gain this year of 12 percent. Chi-Med
advanced 5.8 percent in  London , the most in almost four months,
for a gain this year of 43 percent.  Brain Health  The partnership may extend into metabolic diseases and
brain health, the companies said. The venture will also tap the
capabilities of Prometheus Laboratories Inc., which Nestle
bought last year. Prometheus focuses on tests and treatments for
cancer and gastroenterology.  “As an old Nescafe ad used to say: ‘One thing leads to
another,’” Cantarell said.  The joint venture’s initial focus will be on the U.S., and
Chi-Med has already been discussing late-stage testing of
HMPL-004 with regulators. The third and final phase of testing
is expected to begin “early next year.” The companies didn’t
disclose the amount of investment in the collaboration.  “Nestle seems to us to be a perfect partner for
HMPL-004,” given its investment potential in research and
development, Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure Gordon,
wrote in a research note.  “Although the deal structure revolves originally around
gastrointestinal assets, it should be noted that a broader
collaboration on the entire botanicals portfolio could
materialize in coming years,” he wrote.  Nestle established the health science business early last
year to develop personalized nutrition treatments for conditions
such as diabetes, obesity and  heart disease .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  