-- Netanyahu Holds Poll Lead After Livni Entry, Survey Says
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-11-28T08:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/netanyahu-holds-poll-lead-after-livni-entry-survey-says.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s lead heading toward elections on Jan. 22 has been
little affected by the entry into the race of former Foreign
Minister  Tzipi Livni , according to a  poll  published today.  Livni’s new party, dubbed “The Movement,” would win just
seven seats in Israel’s 120-seat parliament, according to a
voter survey commissioned by the Haaretz daily. Netanyahu’s
combined list with Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, Likud-
Beitenu, would garner 39 seats according to the survey, more
than double the 18 seats gained by its nearest contender, the
 Labor Party .  Other Netanyahu allies in the current ruling coalition
would provide the prime minister with more than the 60 seats
needed to form a new government, the poll showed. Livni’s former
Kadima party, now headed by former Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz
would gain just two seats, the survey showed.  Livni founded The Movement after declining offers to join
Labor and the newly founded Yesh Atid party. “I have come to
fight for peace, a sober peace and I will not let the word peace
become an obscenity,” Livni said at a Tel Aviv press conference
yesterday announcing her entry into the race.  Under  Israel ’s political system, prime ministers have to
cobble together several parties to attain a majority in the
Knesset. In 2009, the Livni-led Kadima won more seats than Likud
while failing to build a ruling coalition, allowing Netanyahu to
assume power.  The Haaretz poll, conducted by Camil Fuchs of the
Statistics and Operations Research Department at Tel Aviv
University, was based on a representative sample of 514 Israelis
and has a 4.2 percent margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  