-- New York MTA Says Riders Won’t Pay for $5 Billion Sandy Cleanup
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-11-28T20:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/new-york-mta-says-riders-won-t-pay-for-5-billion-sandy-cleanup.html
The New York Metropolitan
Transportation, operator of the biggest U.S mass-transit system,
said passengers won’t be responsible for paying for damage from
superstorm Sandy.  The MTA, which runs the New York City region’s subways,
buses, commuter railroads and some bridges and tunnels, may
borrow as much as $4.8 billion in short-term notes beginning
next year to rebuild infrastructure damaged by the Oct. 29
storm, officials said today after a board meeting in  Manhattan .
The agency would pay down the debt with reimbursements from
insurance companies and the  Federal Emergency Management Agency .  “The burden of Sandy will not be upon our riders,”
Chairman Joseph Lhota said at a news briefing. “I have an
enormous amount of confidence in the federal government that we
will receive a substantial amount of money to cover what’s
necessary to get us back to the condition of functionality the
day before the storm.”  Even though they have restored most transit service, MTA
officials are still surveying Sandy’s damage, the worst the New
York subway system has seen in its 108-year history. Floodwaters
from a tidal surge inundated rail stations and tunnels, coating
electrical and communications equipment with corrosive
saltwater. One subway station, South Ferry in Manhattan’s southern
tip, was totally submerged and may alone cost $600 million to
rebuild.  FEMA Funds  Officials said Sandy’s almost $5 billion estimated price
tag doesn’t include improvements that would protect against
damage from future storms. They declined to estimate how much
such an undertaking might cost.  FEMA should reimburse at least 75 percent of the agency’s
losses, though the funds may take years to arrive, Chief
Financial Officer Robert Foran said. He pegged the
infrastructure damage at $4.75 billion and operating losses
incurred while the system was shut down, including lost revenue
and increased operating costs, at $268 million.  Insurance payments may cover as much as $1.1 billion in
damage costs, he said. Should FEMA cover only 75 percent of the
remaining bill, the agency could be on the hook for as much as
$950 million, according to the MTA.  Debt service on as much as $4.8 billion in short-term
anticipation notes may reach $125 million through 2015, and will
be paid for with savings from internal cost cutting, Lhota said.
The agency won’t reduce service, boost planned fare and toll
increases, or implement them sooner, he said.  The strategy for how to pay for Sandy was unveiled as part
of an updated four-year financial plan, which board members are
set to approve next month. It projects the agency to finish 2012
with a $26 million cash balance and estimates deficits of $333
million through 2016, down from its $347 million estimate
presented in July.  The MTA has about $31 billion in long-term debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  