-- New England Compounding Meningitis Suits Can Proceed
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-11-28T23:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/new-england-compounding-meningitis-suits-can-proceed.html
Lawsuits against New England
Compounding Pharmacy Inc. over cases of fungal meningitis linked
to the company’s injectable steroids can move forward and
evidence must be preserved, a federal judge said.  The company had asked U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor in
 Boston  to delay a dozen lawsuits filed in federal court in
Massachusetts pending a decision next year by the Judicial Panel
on Multidistrict Litigation on which court should hear the
hundreds of cases pending nationwide.  “I’m going to do the best I can to make sure evidence is
preserved,” Saylor said at a hearing today. He also said he
will consolidate the Massachusetts cases, a measure backed by
both the plaintiffs and New England Compounding.  More than 30 people died and 490 were injured after the
company shipped fungus-tainted drugs to customers throughout the
U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  Saylor said he will issue a ruling on the preservation of
evidence “so there’s teeth in a judicial order and it can be
enforced.”  A magistrate judge is to hold hearings in the coming weeks
on what procedures experts can use when they inspect New England
Compounding’s facilities in Framingham,  Massachusetts , to gather
evidence.  ‘Isn’t Compromised’  “We need an order in place so evidence isn’t
compromised,” said Kimberly Dougherty of Janet, Jenner & Suggs,
an attorney for the plaintiffs.  New England Compounding attorneys have said the MDL panel
should take the lead in adjudicating the cases.  “We’re satisfied with the ruling to coordinate these
cases,” Frederick H. Fern, a lawyer for New England Compounding
with Harris Beach PLLC, said in an e-mail. “The MDL decision is
not expected until sometime after January 2013. In the meantime,
the parties can proceed with the preparation and service of
initial disclosures.”  The case is Cole v. New England Compounding Pharmacy, 12-
12066, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  