-- N.Y. Nanny Murder Suspect Pleads Not Guilty at Hospital
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-28T21:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/new-york-nanny-murder-suspect-pleads-not-guilty-from-hospital.html
A  New York  City woman who worked as
a nanny for a  Manhattan  couple pleaded not guilty today from her
hospital bed to charges that she murdered two of their children.  Yoselyn Ortega, 50, was indicted on two counts of first-
degree murder and two counts of second-degree murder in
connection with the Oct. 25 deaths of Lucia and Leo Krim,
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said today in a
statement.  Ortega made the plea during a bedside arraignment at New
York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan,
according to a pool report provided by the  Associated Press .
Ortega has been held at the hospital since the killings while
recovering from what police say are self-inflicted wounds.  “Yoselyn Ortega is charged with taking the lives of two
innocent children who were incapable of defending themselves,”
Vance said in a statement. “This crime shocked and horrified
parents around the city, many of whom entrust their children to
the care of others both by necessity and by choice.”  Ortega faces life in prison if she is convicted of killing
the Krim children, who were found in the bathroom of their
family’s apartment on West 75th Street, according to the  New
York City Police Department .  Frail, Alert  Ortega, wearing a neck brace, was under a white blanket,
handcuffed to her hospital bed and wearing a blue hairnet,
according to the pool report. She appeared frail yet alert and
didn’t speak during the 10-minute proceeding. Her right hand
trembled, and while she appeared to have a tracheotomy tube, she
was breathing on her own. A translator was present and spoke to
her in Spanish.  Ortega’s attorney, Valerie Van Leer-Greenberg, entered the
plea on her behalf, and later told Justice Lewis Bart Stone that
her client is “profoundly medically impaired” and in need of
medical attention. Stone ordered her held without bail while she
undergoes a psychiatric exam. Her next court date is scheduled
for Jan. 16.  Leer-Greenberg declined to comment outside the hospital,
according to the pool report.  A naturalized U.S. citizen from the  Dominican Republic ,
Ortega had been in the U.S. for 10 years and worked for the
Krims for two years, according to New York Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly. She lived in Upper Manhattan with her son, her
sister and her sister’s daughter.  Swimming Lessons  On the day of the killings, the children’s mother, Marina
Krim, had gone to a neighborhood Jewish Community Center for
swimming lessons with her 3-year-old daughter, police said. She
was supposed to meet the nanny and the two other children at a
dance studio later in the evening, according to Kelly.  When the nanny didn’t appear, the mother went to the
apartment and found her son, Leo, 2, and daughter, Lucia, 6, in
the bathroom with stab wounds to their bodies, said Browne. When
the mother entered the bathroom, the nanny started to stab
herself, Browne said. Police said they found Ortega on the
bathroom floor with a knife next to her.  The two children were taken to St. Luke’s Hospital, where
they were pronounced dead. The nanny was taken to New York
Presbyterian, where she had been intubated and unable to speak
until Nov. 3, when she agreed to discuss the matter with
detectives and was subsequently charged with murder, police
said.  The children’s father, Kevin Krim, served as global head of
Web properties for Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News , until last year. He joined CNBC as general manager for
digital in March.  The case is New York v. Ortega, 05112/2012, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  