-- Nigeria’s Naira Strengthens as Sanusi Pledges Price Stability
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-11-28T14:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/nigeria-s-naira-strengthens-as-sanusi-pledges-price-stability.html
Nigeria ’s naira strengthened the
most in more than a week after Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi said the regulator won’t abandon its mandate of
 price stability .  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
0.4 percent to 157.45 a dollar as of 3:09 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, reversing yesterday’s decline. The naira has
strengthened 3.1 percent this year, the second-best performing
currency tracked by Bloomberg in Africa.  “The central bank is responsible for stability,” Sanusi
said at a conference yesterday. “If we abandon that function
because we’re pursuing somebody else’s job, we will lose it.”  The central bank boosted borrowing costs to bolster the
naira and “anchor” price expectations, Sanusi said. The
Monetary Policy Committee has left its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at a record high 12 percent this year.  Consumer prices 
rose 11.7 percent in October, staying above the central bank’s
goal of less than 10 percent.  “The central bank is pleased with the results of its
tightening and with the real  interest rates  for investors,”
Gregory Kronsten, head of economic research at FBN Capital Ltd.
in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. “The
bank will meet again in January although we do not see easing
until later in the year.”  The Abuja-based central bank sold $200 million at an
auction today, it said in an e-mailed statement, bringing sales
this week to $400 million, unchanged from last week, according
to data on its website. The regulator sells dollars at twice-
weekly auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays to keep the naira
within a 3 percent band around 155 per dollar.  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell one basis point to 12.37
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021 fell
nine basis points to 4.27 percent.  Ghana ’s cedi depreciated for the seventh day, slipping 0.4
percent to 1.9080 a dollar in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  