-- Nigeria Asset Sales Seen Uncertain After Official Fired
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-11-28T16:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/nigeria-asset-sales-seen-uncertain-after-official-fired.html
Nigeria’s privatization of state-
owned companies faced uncertainty after the head of the Bureau
of Public Enterprises was fired with key sales yet to be
concluded, analysts from Financial Derivatives Co. and Standard
Bank Group Ltd. said.  Bolanle Onagoruwa was asked to quit “with immediate
effect” yesterday and hand over to her deputy, according to a
statement released by Vice President  Namadi Sambo ’s office in
Abuja, the capital. No reason was given for the decision.
Chukwuma Nwoko, a spokesman for the agency, also known as BPE,
said today it was a presidential directive that had to be obeyed
and declined to comment further.  “It’s a curious development in terms of the timing and
very disturbing from an investor perspective,”  Bismarck Rewane ,
chief executive officer of Financial Derivatives, a Lagos-based
business advisory group, said today by phone from the commercial
capital. “It is a major setback and would make international
investors more wary.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in power plants and letting private investors buy as much
as 60 percent of 11 distribution companies spun out of the
former state-owned utility as it seeks private investment to
curb power shortages. Blackouts are a daily occurrence in
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country with more than 160
million people. Demand for electricity in Nigeria is almost
double the supply of about 4,000 megawatts and the government
plans to boost output to 14,019 megawatts by 2013.  Bids from companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Korea Electric
Power Corp. (015760)  for 10 state-owned power distribution companies were
approved by the National Council on Privatization headed by the
vice president on Oct. 29. Buyers are required to provide bank
guarantees for 15 percent of the price within 15 days and
complete payment within six months.  The privatization agency is also yet to resolve conflicting
claims to the ownership of Aluminum Smelter Co. of Nigeria it
sold to  United Co Rusal (486) , with the Abuja-based Supreme Court
ruling in July that another company, Bancorp Financial
Investment Group, had “a valid contract” for the smelter in
2004.  “What investors would like to see is a sustainable and
entrenched privatization process that is not episodically
reversed in specific cases and subject to political
influences,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based  emerging markets 
strategist at Standard Bank, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Reuben Abati, a spokesman for President Goodluck Jonathan,
declined to comment on Onagoruwa’s removal at a news conference
today in Abuja.  Nigeria’s Senate last year asked the government to cancel
the sale of 12 state-owned companies, including the smelter
bought by Rusal and a steel company bought by Global Steel
Holdings Ltd. of  India , saying stipulated procedure wasn’t
followed. The lawmakers also recommended that Onagoruwa be
fired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  