-- Nokia Sues Research In Motion to Enforce Arbitration
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-11-28T17:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/nokia-sues-research-in-motion-to-enforce-arbitration.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  sued BlackBerry maker
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  in California to enforce an
international arbitration award governing the sale of WLAN-
compliant phones.  A Swedish arbitration court ruled Nov. 6 that RIM isn’t
entitled to make or sell products compatible with the WLAN
standard without first agreeing with Nokia on royalties. Mobile
phones with the technology allow users to switch to wireless
local area networks where available.  “Nokia and RIM have not agreed on the royalty to be
paid,” Nokia said in a complaint filed Nov. 26 in federal court
in  San Jose . “RIM and its U.S. subsidiary RIM Corp.
nevertheless continue to violate the award and breach the
underlying agreement.”  Crystal Roberts, a RIM spokeswoman, said the company will
respond to Nokia’s petitions “in due course.”  “Research In Motion has worked hard to develop its
leading-edge BlackBerry technology and has built an industry-
leading intellectual property portfolio of its own,” Roberts
said in an e-mailed statement.  Enforcement of the award is governed by the  New York 
Convention signed by the U.S., Finland, Canada and Sweden, Nokia
said. Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, seeks a court order
confirming the award and forcing Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM to
pay its court costs and attorneys’ fees.  Patent Suits  RIM filed the arbitration request in March 2011 after Nokia
lodged patent-infringement suits against the company in Germany
and a firm that now owns some Nokia patents sued RIM in federal
court in  Texas . RIM sought a decision that its 2008 licensing
agreement covered all Nokia patents.  The arbitration panel ruled earlier this month that the
agreement only covered patents deemed essential to three
industry standards and Nokia acted within its legal rights when
it transferred patents to a third party, knowing that company
would sue RIM, according to the arbitration order.  The case is Nokia Corp. v.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
12-5992, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  