-- Obama Administration Contempt Ruling in Drill Ban Overturned
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-28T21:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/obama-administration-contempt-ruling-in-drill-ban-overturned-1-.html
A contempt citation against the
Obama administration for instituting a second deep-water
drilling ban after a lower-court judge rejected an initial
moratorium was thrown out by a U.S. appeals court.  U.S. offshore regulators temporarily suspended drilling in
Gulf of Mexico waters deeper than 500 feet in May 2010, in
reaction to a massive oil spill caused by the explosion of an
offshore well owned by  BP Plc. (BP/)   U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman of New Orleans sided
with oilfield companies and regional business leaders who
opposed the ban, which they said crippled the industry and the
Gulf Coast economy. The day after Feldman ordered regulators not
to enforce the ban, U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar 
called for a second, almost identical ban in what Feldman later
declared was “determined disregard” of his order.  In a two-to-one opinion, a panel of the U.S. Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled that regulators could
legally impose the second drilling ban because Feldman’s
narrowly worded injunction didn’t specifically prevent them from
doing so. The panel said it was also swayed by the fact the case
involved a controversial policy decision made by U.S. President
 Barack Obama  during a national emergency.  ‘End-Run’  “A more broadly worded injunction that explicitly
prohibited the end-run taken by Interior would have set up
issues more clearly supportive of contempt,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Leslie Southwick wrote for the majority, in an opinion handed
down yesterday. “The national importance of this case weakens,
not strengthens, the propriety of the court’s contempt
finding.”  U.S. Circuit Judge Jennifer Walker Elrod, in a dissent,
said the majority opinion sets a “troubling” precedent because
it undermines the independence of the judiciary and “renders it
a subordinate branch of government.”  “The court’s power to enforce its orders must remain
intact even in the midst of the most critical emergencies of the
state,” Southwick said. “The judiciary’s inherent contempt
power is essential to preserve judicial independence and to
ensure that judicial decrees are not impotent.”  Judges Disagreed  The appellate judges disagreed on whether regulators
violated the spirit of Feldman’s order rather than the letter of
his injunction blocking the drilling ban. The majority ruling
overturned the contempt finding and reversed Feldman’s order for
the government to pay $530,000 in legal fees and costs to
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. (HOS) , one of the companies that led
the legal challenges against the two drilling moratoriums.  “We thought that the dissent got this right, but the Fifth
Circuit has ruled and obviously we respect that ruling,” Sam Giberga, Hornbeck’s general counsel, said today in a telephone
interview. He said the company is evaluating the ruling for
possible further appeal.  “We’re pleased with the court’s decision,”  Wyn
Hornbuckle , a Justice Department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans). The appeal case is 11-30225, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 