-- Ohio State’s Championship Season
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-11-28T23:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ohio-state-s-championship-season.html
It’s a college-football miracle!  The game’s holiest program -- the undefeated and
unimpeachable Notre Dame -- is sitting atop the Bowl
Championship Series standings. Even more miraculous: For once,
the endlessly maligned BCS system seems to have worked. This
weekend, Alabama and  Georgia , both 11-1, will play for the
Southeastern Conference championship, with the winner advancing
to take on the Fighting Irish in the BCS title game.  There’s just one problem with this narrative: Ohio State.  Last weekend, the Buckeyes defeated their archrivals, the
Michigan Wolverines, to cap a perfect 12-0 season. “Ohio State
can go and play with anybody in America,” coach Urban Meyer said
after the game.  Maybe, but we’ll never know. The Buckeyes aren’t allowed to
play in any postseason bowl games because of some violations of
National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. This
inconvenient fact may leave an asterisk next to the Buckeyes’
unblemished 2012 season. But it’s going to leave a much bigger
one next to the entire college football season itself.  Nothing Counted  Think about it. An undefeated team from a major conference
isn’t even in the running for the national championship. That
the Buckeyes weren’t eligible for bowl games from the first snap
of the year doesn’t change the reality that they played out
their schedule and never lost. Basically, the team’s 12-0 season
counts for nothing.  Why hasn’t this generated more outrage? After all, college
football fans love to vent about the BCS system and  its reliance 
on unaccountable outsiders -- Harris pollsters, coaches and the
BCS mainframe -- to determine who gets to play in the national
championship game. The only difference here is that the
unaccountable outsider is the NCAA.  The easy answer is that the Buckeyes had it coming. They
broke the rules, and the organization charged with enforcement
punished them accordingly. The team’s one-year suspension from
bowl games  was issued  a year ago after five players were
discovered to have been trading Ohio State gear for cash and
discounted tattoos from 2008 to 2010.  For the sake of argument, let’s agree that this sort of
behavior shouldn’t be tolerated, that college athletes -- who
aren’t paid and aren’t guaranteed anything, including their
athletic scholarships, which they can lose if they underperform
or get hurt -- shouldn’t be permitted to make a few thousand
dollars here and there selling some of their own possessions.  OK, but not a single one of those athletes was a member of
this year’s team. For that matter, Jim Tressel, the coach who
presided over the Buckeyes during that period, is gone, too.  What’s more, the punishment itself was unprecedented for
this type of infraction, which the  NCAA’s rulebook  -- a 400-page
document that makes the Federal Register seem like light reading
-- classifies as a “Failure to Monitor.” Before Ohio State, the
last big-time program to be slapped with the “Failure to
Monitor” charge, in February 2011, was the University of
 Connecticut  basketball program. It wasn’t excluded from the
postseason tournament.  Timing is everything, though. Ohio State’s penalty came
down in the midst of the Penn State child sex-abuse scandal,
when the NCAA was eager to show that its rules were very, very
important and it was very, very serious about enforcing them.
Or, as Ohio State President Gordon Gee put it to me more
diplomatically: “We were caught in a changing environment.”  Upside Down  So maybe the Buckeyes didn’t necessarily have it coming.
Maybe a better explanation for the lack of outrage over the
unceremonious conclusion to Ohio State’s perfect season is that
we’ve gotten so used to living in the upside-down world of the
NCAA that we’ve stopped noticing that it’s upside down.  Not even Gee seemed the least bit bothered by his school’s
predicament. Come January, he said, he will be sitting on a
couch somewhere, cheering on fellow members of the Big Ten
Conference.  “In the end, it’s about getting an education. We are not
professionals,” he said. “I would shut down our football program
before we professionalized intercollegiate sports.”  The amateur football program Gee was referring to generated
 about $50 million  in revenue last year. Its current head coach,
Meyer,  earns  an annual salary and bonus totaling $4 million. Gee
might like to think of his football players as students first,
but it’s not clear they would agree. As one player, Cardale
Jones,  tweeted  in October (and was suspended for a game for
doing so): “Why should we have to go to class if we came here to
play FOOTBALL, we ain’t come to play SCHOOL classes are
pointless.”  The irony is that for Gee and others who cling stubbornly
to  the myth  of the student-athlete, this year’s Ohio State team
is a model not just for its perfect record. With no hope of a
national championship, the Buckeyes saw excellence as its own
reward -- and achieved it. What better example of pure
sportsmanship could there be?  Next year, Ohio State will once again be jockeying for a
high-profile bowl berth and all the cash that flows from it.
This year’s team, by contrast, will stand forever as the one
that played not for money but for pride.  “If the season can be measured by character, then we have
already won the national championship,” Gee told me. In other
words, only when banished from the system was Ohio State able to
stand for the principles the system claims to uphold.  That’s the upside-down world of the NCAA for you.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  FAA’s wasteful staffing 
at little-used airports and on why  global imbalances will return 
if governments can’t reform; Caroline Baum wonders why we’re not
 talking about entitlement reform ; Margaret Carlson on the  plot
to stop Susan Rice ; Ezra Klein on  using the fiscal cliff as an
opportunity ; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada’s immigration quotas
would work in the U.S.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 