-- Oil Rises First Time in 4 Days on Crude, U.S. Budget Talk
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-29T13:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/oil-snaps-three-day-drop-on-falling-supplies-u-s-budget-talks.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days in  New York  after U.S. stockpiles declined unexpectedly and
political leaders in the world’s biggest crude consumer
expressed optimism about agreeing on a  federal budget .  Futures advanced as much as 1.8 percent after sliding 0.8
percent yesterday to a two-week low. Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner  believes talks on tax increases and spending cuts
known collectively as the fiscal cliff can “avert this crisis
sooner rather than later,” he told reporters. President  Barack Obama  said he hopes to reach a deal before Christmas. U.S. crude
supplies slid  347,000 barrels  last week, an Energy Department
report showed. They were forecast to climb 350,000 barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “The oil market is still reasonably tight,” said  Tobias Merath , head of commodity research at Credit Suisse AG in
Zurich, who predicts crude will rise about $5 a barrel in the
next three months. “There could be a year-end rally for crude
as global supply growth seems to be peaking, and economic growth
has surprised a bit to the upside.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery climbed
as much as $1.54 to $88.03 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $87.81 at 1:28 p.m.
London time. The contract pared a $1.82 decline yesterday to
close down 69 cents at $86.49, the lowest since Nov. 15. Prices
have fallen 11 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement rose $1.16 to $110.67 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $22.93 to West Texas
Intermediate futures, compared with $23.02 yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  More than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts will kick in next year if an agreement on the U.S.
budget isn’t reached. Obama, a Democrat, said at the White House
that more Republicans are agreeing on a “balanced approach” to
cut the deficit.  “The fiscal cliff is a very significant thing for world
economies and therefore oil demand,” said Ric Spooner, chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The consensus view is
that a reasonable compromise will be reached.”  U.S. gasoline supplies gained 3.87 million barrels last
week, the Energy Department figures showed. They were forecast
to rise 900,000 barrels, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts in the survey. Distillate inventories, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, fell  800,000 barrels , compared
with a projected increase of 500,000 in the survey.  OPEC Satisfied  Most ministers and officials in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries who have commented publicly say
the oil market is balanced, signaling little desire to alter
output targets when they meet next month in Vienna.  The market is adequately supplied,  Angola ’s national
representative to OPEC, Luis Neves, said in an interview in  Cape
Town  on Nov. 27. Ecuador doesn’t see any need to change current
production levels at the Vienna meeting, Non-Renewable Natural
Resources Minister Wilson Pastor told reporters yesterday in
 Quito , the Ecuadoran capital.  Japan ’s crude imports from  Iran  fell 48 percent in October
from September to 469,024 kiloliters, or about 95,000 barrels a
day, according to data today from the Ministry of Finance.
That’s the second-lowest level since the U.S. exempted the Asian
nation from sanctions targeting the Middle Eastern country’s
nuclear program. Imports declined 63 percent from a year
earlier.  U.S. and European Union officials say Iran’s nuclear
development is aimed at producing atomic weapons, while the
government in Tehran says the project is for civilian purposes.
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  granted Japan a waiver
in March that allows the country to import Iranian crude in
return for having “significantly reduced” its intake. The
exemption was renewed for six months on Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  