-- Olam Refutes Muddy Waters Claims Citing S$10 Billion Liquidity
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-28T14:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/olam-refutes-muddy-waters-claims-citing-s-10-billion-liquidity.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese dismissed claims from  Muddy
Waters  LLC of potential insolvency by pointing to the commodity
trader’s more than S$10 billion ($8.2 billion) of liquidity.  “This whole bogey of trying to say that we have some kind
of liquidity crisis can not be corroborated,” Verghese said
today at a Singapore press briefing. “I just can’t understand”
how Muddy Waters could suggest the company may fail, he said.  Olam, one of the world’s top three coffee traders, has
dropped 14 percent since Muddy Waters founder  Carson Block  first
questioned the company’s finances and accounting practices at a
London conference on Nov. 19, wiping S$574 million off its
market value through today. The U.S. short seller rated Olam a
strong sell in a 133-page report released on its website
yesterday in which it likened the trader to Enron Corp.  Muddy Waters values Olam on a “liquidation basis, because
our opinion is that it is likely to fail,” it said. Olam uses
non-cash accounting gains to boost earnings, has been “burning
 cash ” and will need to raise or refinance as much as S$4.6
billion of debt over the next year to remain solvent, the
research firm said.  Olam is getting support from shareholders, including
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte, as well as customers, Verghese
said.  ‘Biggest Support’  “I am grateful that they have stood by us,” he said of
Temasek, owner of a 16 percent stake in Olam, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “The fact the they have stayed invested
and kept the faith is the biggest support I can ask for.”  Olam has the capacity to meet its debt obligations of S$1.5
billion in the next 12 months, in addition to its planned
spending, the Singapore-based company said today in an earlier
statement. The company supplies 21 products from cocoa to rubber
from 65 countries to 12,300 customers. It’s one of the world’s
top six cotton traders.  “We’ve reached out to all” our counterparties and
customers, Verghese said in an interview after speaking to
reporters, adding that none had pared back commitments with the
company. “They are showing a lot of support.”  Verghese confirmed a claim from Muddy Waters that Olam had
frozen a $200 million sugar-refinery venture in Nigeria that was
announced in December 2010. The company is seeking clarity on a
new  government regulation  that may require it to start sugar
farming and milling operations as a condition of building a
refinery, he said.  ‘Permanently Abandon’  “If the government insists that this new structure will
prevail and you have to get into farming and milling, then we
don’t have the investment appetite to make that enlarged capital
commitment,” he said. “In which case we will permanently
abandon the project.”  The stalling of the venture may present a “serious
problem” for Olam, Muddy Waters said in yesterday’s report.  While Olam has said its  capital projects  will have “high”
returns on investment as they mature, Muddy Waters has found
many are performing “very poorly,” Block said yesterday in an
interview with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  Block said he had “shorted” Olam, seeking to profit by
selling borrowed shares now and buying them back later at a
lower price.  While Muddy Waters has in the past targeted New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc., Fushi Copperweld Inc. and
Focus Media Holding Ltd., Block said yesterday he’d lost
interest in betting against Chinese stocks.  Sino-Forest  Block, 36, research director of Los Angeles-based Muddy
Waters, had successfully bet against Chinese companies that
trade in  North America  after raising doubts about their
accounts. One target, tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest
Corp., slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for
 bankruptcy protection  in March.  Muddy Waters is yet to make direct contact with Olam,
according to Verghese, who said the research firm has had
representatives visit its Singapore office in disguise. Offices
in  Nigeria , Gabon,  Ghana  and other locations have also been
visited, he said.  “Every time taking on a different persona and hiding
behind some facade or the other,” he said. “They’ve never had
the courage or the decency or the integrity to talk to us, ask
us questions.”  Olam sued Muddy Waters and Block in the Singapore High
Court on Nov. 21, calling Block’s remarks in London malicious
falsehoods. The company is seeking unspecified damages, costs
and an injunction against republication of the comments.  Muddy Waters was “following a strategy of shouting fire in
a crowded room and hoping it will devastate us,” Verghese said
today. “But we will stand up to this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  