-- Oneok Shares Fall After Bakken Pipeline Canceled
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-11-28T21:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/oneok-shares-fall-after-bakken-pipeline-canceled.html
Oneok Inc. (OKE) , the company spending as
much as $4.8 billion to expand its network, fell after a
subsidiary canceled plans for a $1.8 billion pipeline connecting
the Bakken shale formation to crude oil terminals in Oklahoma.  Oneok, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, declined 1.5 percent to
$44.88 at the close in New York. Earlier, it fell 3 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since Aug. 1.  Oneok Partners LP (OKS) , which is controlled by Oneok Inc.,
wasn’t able to sign up enough oil producers to justify building
the Bakken Crude Express pipeline, President Terry Spencer said
in a statement yesterday. The 1,300-mile (2,100-kilometer)
pipeline would have given Oneok a toehold in the lucrative oil
transportation business in  Montana  and  North Dakota . The company
already is one of the region’s largest natural gas processors.  An “abundance of rail,” which allows producers to ship
oil to higher-priced markets on the East Coast, probably made
the project unviable, according to a research note from Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co.  The Bakken, part of the Williston Basin that stretches from
 Canada  into North Dakota and Montana, holds an estimated 3.6
billion barrels of crude, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Production is expected to hit 1 million barrels a
day in five years. A lack of pipelines to bring the oil to
refiners has caused crude in North Dakota to trade at a discount
to West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark.  The Oneok pipeline would have carried as much as 200,000
barrels a day to the oil storage hub at Cushing, Oklahoma. The
company is already building a pipeline to ship natural gas
liquids such as propane and butane, which are produced in the
Bakken.  “While we are disappointed with the results of the open
season, we remain committed to serving Williston Basin producers
for their natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude-oil
infrastructure needs,” Spencer said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  