-- Money Transfers, EU Credit Reports, SEC Post: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-28T13:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/money-transfers-eu-credit-reports-sec-post-compliance.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau said it will revise rules for international
money transfers after banks complained that the agency’s current
plan could push some of them out of the business.  The bureau, which had said final regulations governing so-
called remittances would take effect on Feb. 7, now plans to
issue a revision in December for a comment period, according to
a statement released yesterday. The changes will address what
should happen if a consumer provides an incorrect account number
for a transfer and how remittance providers must disclose third-
party fees and foreign taxes, the bureau said.  Bureau Director Richard Cordray had rebuffed bank
lobbyists’ request for a delay in the effective date during an
Aug. 10 meeting to discuss the rule. Industry groups then
outlined what they saw as problems with the rule in an Oct. 17
letter.  The change announced yesterday may have been prompted by
the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York saying it would stop
processing international wire transfers for members as a result
of the rule, according to Robert Rowe, vice president and chief
counsel of the Washington-based  American Bankers Association .  The question is whether the changes come in time to keep
other banks from exiting the business, Rowe said.  The remittance rule, required under the Dodd-Frank Act, is
designed to improve consumer understanding of costs. The bureau
issued a revision on Aug. 7, to exempt companies that handle 100
or fewer remittances per year.  The new effective date will be some time in the spring of
2013, according to the bureau’s statement.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Government Starts Public Consultation on Libor Rules  The U.K. government began a public consultation on its
plans to overhaul Libor, the benchmark used to set rates for
more than $300 trillion of securities, the Treasury said.  The exercise seeks the views of industry and the public on
legislation to implement Financial Services Authority Managing
Director Martin Wheatley’s recommendations, the Treasury said in
a statement in  London  today.  Under the  proposals , which are expected to become law early
next year, the Treasury will give legal force to the way the
London interbank offered rate is set, create a criminal offense
for those who misreport it and give regulators the power to
oversee the setting of the rate and other financial-industry
benchmarks. The British Bankers’ Association, the industry lobby
group that compiles Libor, will give way to a new rate-setting
panel.  Wheatley began the review after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid a record
290 million-pound ($464 million) fine in June for manipulating
Libor. At least a dozen banks are being probed worldwide over
allegations they colluded to manipulate the benchmark to profit
from bets on derivatives.  The public consultation ends on Dec. 24, the Treasury said.  Credit-Rating Companies in EU to Face Sovereign-Debt Curbs  Credit ratings companies face curbs on when they can assess
government debt and restrictions on their ownership under draft
plans agreed on by European Union officials and legislators.  Lawmakers from the  European Parliament  and Cyprus, which
holds the rotating presidency of the EU, also agreed yesterday
to allow investors to sue ratings companies if they lose money
because of malpractice or gross negligence.  Michel Barnier proposed the tougher ratings rules after
warnings from nations including France and Germany that
downgrades of sovereign debt had deepened the bloc’s fiscal
crisis. He said last year that ratings companies were guilty of
“serious mistakes” and shouldn’t be allowed to “increase
market volatility” through ill-timed or unjustified downgrades.  The European Commission has said that tougher regulation is
needed to boost competition for the so-called big three ratings
companies of Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service Inc.
and Standard & Poor’s. The draft deal brokered yesterday must be
formally approved by governments and by the full parliament
before they can be implemented.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  First Foreign Bank Junior Islamic Bonds Sold in Malaysia  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  completed  Malaysia ’s first
sale of sukuk by a foreign lender that rank below other
securities in terms of claims on assets, taking advantage of the
Asian nation’s more-advanced rules.  The government-owned  entity  sold 500 million ringgit ($164
million) of 15-year subordinated Islamic bonds at 4.75 percent
last week, according to a Nov. 23 statement. That’s less than
the 4.9 percent it paid Malaysian investors in December 2010 for
sukuk due in 2020 that has a higher priority in the event of
liquidation, and 183 basis points more than average rates on
global Shariah-compliant debt in the  Gulf Cooperation Council .  The Southeast Asian nation has the regulatory framework in
place and legal recourse in the event of a default that may
encourage more of these types of products, according to  CIMB
Islamic Bank Bhd . in Kuala Lumpur. Sales of bonds that comply
with religious tenets by Gulf Investment Corp. GSC and Abu Dhabi
National Energy Co. helped propel issuance to a record 90
billion ringgit this year.  Malaysia, which pioneered  Islamic finance  30 years ago, is
also seeing interest from international names to sell debt in
the world’s biggest sukuk market. Ireland’s Electricity Supply
Board and National Australia Bank Ltd. are planning to tap the
market, while Singapore’s Noble Group Ltd. and Bahrain’s
Mumtalakat Holdings Co. have already issued ringgit-denominated
notes this year.  For more, click here.  Libor Lending Rates Were Probably Fixed, German Regulator Says  Banks probably fixed the London Interbank Offered Rate, or
Libor, said Raimund Roeseler, chief of banking supervision at
German financial regulator BaFin.  Probes are continuing into the alleged manipulation,
Roeseler said before a parliamentary hearing in Berlin today.  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Barclays Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  were
colluding to rig Libor, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities, or hiding their true cost of borrowing.
Barclays Chief Executive Officer Bob Diamond resigned in July
after the bank admitted to manipulating the rate.  Separately, Deutsche Bank co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu
Jain is facing criticism from politicians and his own
predecessor for a decision not to attend the German hearing on
rate rigging. Josef Ackermann, Jain’s predecessor as CEO,
criticized him, saying two days ago that he should have accepted
parliament’s invitation.  For more, click here.  Big Banks More Apt to Impose Arbitration on Checking Accounts  Large banks are more likely to force checking-account
customers to forgo their right to sue over a dispute, according
to a new  study  by the Pew Charitable Trusts released yesterday.  More than half -- 56 percent -- of the 50 largest banks by
domestic deposits, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , require checking account holders to submit
disagreements to arbitration. Of the next group of 50 banks, 30
percent do so.  The study found that the top five U.S. banks -- JPMorgan,
Wells Fargo,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  U.S.
Bancorp (USB)  -- all include arbitration clauses in their checking
account agreements, according to Cora Hume, one of the
researchers. Bank of America uses a process known as “judicial
reference,” which functions in a similar manner, Hume said.  Consumer advocates argue that mandatory arbitration limits
redress of customer grievances. The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is conducting a study on the use of
arbitration.  Interviews/Hearings  Barofsky Says Party Split May Slow SEC’s ‘Glacial Pace’  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about the selection of
Elisse Walter to head the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Barofsky, speaking with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance,” also discussed U.S.
banking regulations. Stephen Roach, a professor at Yale
University, also spoke.  For the video, click here. For audio, click here.  Pitt Says U.S. SEC Still ‘Absolutely Essential’  Harvey Pitt, former Securities and Exchange Commission
chairman, said there is a real need for the SEC to find new ways
to “achieve its ever-increasing workload. It is absolutely
essential for American investors and for our economy.” Pitt
spoke with Bloomberg’s  Carol Massar  on “Bloomberg On the
Economy.”  For the audio, click here.  Block Giving Up on China Shorts, Says State Protects Frauds  Carson Block , founder of Muddy Waters LLC, said he’s lost
interest in betting against Chinese stocks and speculates the
government is protecting fraudulent companies.  “ China  has gotten harder in the sense that the government
has really taken the side of the fraud,” Block said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program
yesterday. “The government is working with a number of these
companies to try to conceal records that are public. When you
are up against that sort of strength of the ability to revise
history, it becomes difficult. That is one of the reasons we’re
not that interested in China anymore.”  A phone call to the  State Administration for Industrial and
Commerce , which compiles corporate records in China, wasn’t
answered after business hours in Beijing. An official at China’s
consulate in New York, who asked not to be identified because
it’s against their policy, said that she’s not in a position to
respond to Block’s comments.  China began limiting access to corporate filings this year
after short sellers used them to highlight accounting
discrepancies in companies listed abroad.  For more, click here.  HSBC Compliance Would Now Catch Improper Sales, U.K. Head Says  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s updated compliance procedures would
weed out products such as wrongly sold loan insurance because
they would be identified as too profitable, said Antonio Simoes,
head of the bank’s U.K. unit.  A reputational risk committee scrutinizes very profitable
trades and products, Simoes said. He made the remarks before a
panel of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards
yesterday.  Payment protection insurance “would have been picked up
currently through our product approval procedures,” Simoes
said. “One of the key issues we looked at was the profitability
of the product and a product which is disproportionately
profitable in our current processes would not have been
approved.”  HSBC has set aside $2.1 billion after regulators ordered
banks to compensate clients who were forced to buy, or didn’t
know they had bought insurance to cover their repayments on
mortgages, credit cards and other loans. British banks have made
provisions of about 11 billion pounds ($17.6 billion) to redress
consumers.  Bonuses in London to Trail New York Amid Tougher Rules  Bankers in London, the hub for securities firms in  Europe ,
are bracing for lower bonuses compared with New York
counterparts as earnings from the region plummet and pressure to
tighten compensation rises. Bloomberg’s Ben Priechenfried
reports.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Elisse Walter Steps Out of Schapiro Shadow Into SEC Chairmanship  Elisse Walter, who has spent the past four years as
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro’s
closest confidant and behind-the-scenes adviser, will soon step
into the spotlight that she has mostly shunned in trying to help
her close friend succeed.  Designated to become SEC chief by President  Barack Obama 
when Schapiro leaves in December, Walter, 62, is little known
outside of  Washington . She was already confirmed by the Senate
as a commissioner, which allows her to become chairman without
going through a second confirmation. Walters can stay in the job
as long as the end of next year.  Still, by not immediately naming a replacement for
Schapiro’s commission seat, the administration will leave the
panel evenly split with two Democrats and two Republicans --
making it harder to enact controversial policies, including the
Volcker proprietary trading ban from the 2010 Dodd-Frank law and
new strictures for money-market funds.  An administration official said Nov. 26 that Obama will
nominate a new commissioner in the near future. The official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deliberations
were private, didn’t say how soon a nomination might come, and
whether the nominee would also be designated for the chairman
position.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Boerse’s Rainer Riess to Leave Exchange After 24 Years  Rainer Riess, managing director of Deutsche Boerse AG and
deputy chairman of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, will leave
after 24 years at the company.  Riess, 46, will hand over responsibility for the firm’s
equity-markets business on Dec. 31, the Frankfurt-based company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Andreas Preuss , deputy
chief executive officer of Deutsche Boerse, will oversee the
unit in addition to derivatives.  The executive, who ran the equities business on a day-to-
day basis, represented Deutsche Boerse at international
conferences and at the Federation of European Securities
Exchanges, the industry’s trade group. Riess’s departure follows
the announced retirement of Frank Gerstenschlaeger, an executive
board member who will leave on March 31.  Riess will formally depart on June 30 next year, the
exchange said, adding he “leaves the company in best mutual
consent in order to devote more time to pursue his personal
interests.”  Libor Scuppers Tucker BOE Bid as Carney Takes Governor Job  Paul Tucker, whose three-decade career at the Bank of
England marked him out as the leading candidate to become the
next governor, failed to secure the top post after the Libor
scandal undermined his bid.  His chances were tainted after he was forced to deny
accusations from lawmakers that he pressed Barclays Plc to lower
Libor submissions, and defend himself against criticism he
ignored warnings from other regulators on flaws in the rate.
Tucker, the BOE deputy governor for financial stability, said he
“warmly” congratulated Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney,
who was chosen by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
yesterday. Osborne said he hopes Tucker will continue at the
central bank.  Barclays Plc lost its three most senior executives and
incurred a record 290 million-pound fine in June for
manipulating the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark
for more than $300 trillion of securities. The probe into Libor
practices has spread among more than a dozen banks worldwide.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  