-- Hong Kong Stocks Decline on Fiscal Cliff, Growth Concern
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-11-28T08:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/hong-kong-stocks-decline-on-fiscal-cliff-growth-concern.html
Hong Kong   stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index dropping the most in two weeks, as the
Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development said failure
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S. would increase
the risk of global recession.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , a maker of power tools that
counts  North America  as its biggest market, slid 1.3 percent.
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s largest offshore energy explorer, dropped
1.7 percent after  oil prices  declined for a second day
yesterday. Guangzhou R&F Properties Ltd., a developer in the
southern Chinese city, rose 6 percent after Deutsche Bank AG
said the stock was among its top picks.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 0.6 percent to 21,708.98 at the
close, its biggest drop since Nov. 15. The shares slid a third
day, the longest losing streak since Oct. 30. More than four
stocks declined for each that rose on the measure, with volume
about 12 percent below the 30-day intraday average. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies sank 1.2
percent to 10,399.16.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff is still in discussions, creating
some uncertainties for the market, and the situation of the
 European debt crisis  is still very volatile,” said Lewis Wan,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Pride Investments
Group Ltd. “For China, growth is quite healthy, even though
there will be some reduction of consumption in Europe.”  The city’s benchmark index advanced 19 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 as reports from the U.S. and China signaled
the world’s two largest economies are recovering, and as central
banks around the globe took action to spur growth. Shares on the
measure  traded  at 11.4 times average estimated earnings,
compared with 13.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fiscal Cliff  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  slid 0.1 percent today. The
gauge sank 0.5 percent yesterday, a second day of declines, as
concern about progress in Washington budget negotiations
outweighed a European agreement on aid to indebted Greece and
better-than-forecast U.S. durable goods data.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday Democrats
and Republicans have made little headway in negotiations over
how to avoid the fiscal cliff, $607 billion in tax increases and
spending reductions set to begin in January. Reid said that
following a Nov. 16 White House meeting, Republicans backed away
from earlier openness to considering new  tax revenue  as part of
a year-end deal.  Techtronic dropped 1.3 percent to HK$15.56. Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp., a chip-services provider that
gets more than half its revenue from North America, declined 2.6
percent to 37 Hong Kong cents.  Growth Forecast  The OECD cut its growth forecast for the U.S. and euro
area, warned that the fiscal cliff added to risks of a “major”
global recession, and urged the  European Central Bank  and the
People’s Bank of China to ease monetary policy.  “After five years of crisis, the global economy is
weakening again,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said
yesterday in the Paris-based organization’s semi-annual economic
outlook. “The risk of a major contraction cannot be ruled
out.”  Cnooc dropped 1.7 percent to HK$16.14 and PetroChina Co.
retreated 1 percent to HK$10.18 after crude oil for January
delivery fell 0.6 percent to $87.18 a barrel in New York
yesterday, its second day of declines. Oil traded near the
lowest price in a week today.  Wind Farm  Guangzhou R&F rose 6 percent to HK$11.64 after Deutsche
Bank said investors should rotate from Hong Kong property
companies to Chinese developers as mainland supply falls next
years.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916)  gained 7.5 percent to
HK$5.19 after saying it started operating China’s largest sea-
based wind farm off the eastern province of Jiangsu.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 0.5 percent to 21,704.
The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  gained 3 percent to 16.09. The level
indicates traders expect a swing of 4.6 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  