-- Top Emerging-Market Dividends Hurt by Rousseff: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-11-28T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/top-emerging-market-dividends-hurt-by-rousseff-corporate-brazil.html
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s plan to
reduce electricity and phone service costs is fueling
speculation that Brazilian utilities will cut dividends as
projected yields are the highest in  emerging markets .  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , the state-run power
company known as Eletrobras, is forecast to pay a dividend of
1.2 reais per share in 2013, equal to 14.3 percent of the
current share price, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
highest projected yield among the 818 members of the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index after phone carrier  Oi SA (OIBR4) ’s 14.6 percent.  While power and phone companies haven’t changed dividend
policies to reflect revenue they’ll lose from regulation changes
and increased competition, investors have already driven down
stock prices as much as 61 percent, distorting dividend yield
projections, said Marcio Cardoso, a partner at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage Titulo Corretora de Valores.  “All these forecasts about Eletrobras’ dividends are just
unreal, because it is impossible to know how much the utility’s
profit will be after the changes in rules about power rates,”
said Marcel Kussaba, the head of equity research at Quantitas
Asset Management, which oversees 12 billion reais ($5.7
billion), in a phone interview from  Porto Alegre , Brazil.  Shares of power companies plummeted after the government
ordered a cut in electricity rates for utilities applying for
license renewals. Phone companies Oi and Telefonica Brasil SA
sank after Brazil’s regulator Anatel acted to increase
competition and improve mobile-phone service.  Utility Valuations  Three Brazilian utilities are among the four companies
forecast to post the highest dividend yields for members of the
MSCI Emerging Markets  index , with  AES Tiete SA (GETI3)  projected to post
12.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those
figures compare with an estimate of 12.7 percent for Budapest-
based Magyar Telekom Telecommunications Plc.  Eletrobras has fallen 55 percent since Rousseff unveiled
her plan to reduce energy rates on Sept. 11, part of a 19
percent slide in the  MSCI Brazil (MXBR) /Utilities index, the biggest
slump among 10  industry groups . The stock is down 69 percent
this year, the most on the benchmark Bovespa index, which
slipped 0.4 percent.  Eletrobras is expected to cut its dividend per share by 13
percent from last year, according to the average  estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Its preferred shares trade at
5.8 times its estimated 2013 earnings, compared with the average
ratio of 10.4 among 68 members of the  Bovespa (IBOV)  index.  “Given the uncertainties that persist, we’re not willing
to add to our holdings even at current levels,” Will Landers,
who manages about $6 billion in Latin American equities at New
York-based BlackRock Inc., said in a written response to
questions, referring to Brazilian power utilities.  Mobile-Phone Fees  Rio de Janeiro-based Oi, whose shares have tumbled 26
percent this year, is forecast to reduce per-share dividends by
36 percent to 1.2 real in 2013. The company’s preferred stock
trades at 18.7 times its estimated earnings.  In an attempt to boost competition, the telecommunications
regulator on Nov. 1 approved rules for mobile-phone fees that
will help smaller carriers and reduce the per-minute charges
that companies pay each other for calls between their networks.
The measure followed a temporary ban on new subscriptions by
carriers including Oi and Tim Participacoes SA in some states
because of network failures.  Oi’s press office declined to comment on its dividend
payout plans. Eletrobras didn’t respond to phone calls and e-
mails seeking comment. A representative for AES Tiete wasn’t
available yesterday.  Compensation Rules  Power utilities may offset the impact the government’s
measures will have on earnings by not seeking renewals for some
licenses, said Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee 650 million
reais at Curitiba, Brazil-based J Malucelli Investimentos.  “That would help to shield profitability from the
government’s interference,” Sauerman said.  Brazil  may also raise the amount of compensation offered to
electricity companies that accept lower rates, according to a
government official who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Given that shares have plunged since
Rousseff’s plan was unveiled, there may be a positive reaction
if companies manage to get more compensation from the
government, Sauerman said.  For the new rules to be enforced, Rousseff’s decree must be
approved by Brazil’s Congress, which can also propose changes to
the plan designed by the government. Since Congress can still
change the proposal, it’s difficult to forecast accurately what
will happen with electric utilities, said Otavio Vieira, who
helps manage 270 million reais as a partner at hedge fund Fides
Asset Management.  “It’s hard to see these stocks as a buy opportunity now,
even with ratios that at a glance may look appealing, because we
don’t even know what exactly the new rules are going to be,”
Vieira said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  