-- More Fire Protection for Cargo Planes Urged by U.S. NTSB
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-28T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/more-fire-protection-for-cargo-planes-to-be-urged-by-ntsb.html
U.S. regulations may exacerbate the
severity of fires on cargo planes operated by carriers including
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and should be changed
after two fatal blazes, accident investigators  recommended
today.  The  National Transportation Safety Board , which
investigates accidents and has no regulatory authority, called
for mandatory fire-suppression systems in cargo planes, fire-
resistant cargo containers and improved fire detection.  Current U.S. regulations allow airlines to use flammable
cargo compartments that boost fires rather than suppress them,
the safety board said in a recommendation letter to the  Federal
Aviation Administration .  “Literally, the current requirements allow a situation
that feeds the fire,” Mark Rosekind, a safety board member,
said in an interview.  The board’s action was prompted by investigations into
three accidents since 2007 involving cargo planes carrying large
quantities of lithium-based batteries used in  laptop computers ,
digital cameras and other electronic devices. Those batteries
can ignite spontaneously.  The accidents included a crash on Sept. 3, 2010, in which a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  747-400 operated by UPS crashed near Dubai after a
fire made the jet uncontrollable, killing both pilots, according
to the NTSB, which is assisting the investigation. An  Asiana
Airlines Inc. (020560)  747-400 went down into the China Sea on July 28,
2011, after pilots reported a cargo fire. Both pilots died.  Fire Tests  Another UPS plane, a Boeing DC-8, was destroyed by fire on
Feb. 7, 2006, after making an emergency landing in Philadelphia,
according to the NTSB. The three crew members escaped.  “We’ve had three accidents in six years,” Rosekind said.
“What’s significant is that they are catastrophic when they
happen.”  In tests it conducted with the FAA, the NTSB found that
cargo containers, which hold goods and are rolled in and out of
aircraft, reduce the amount of time pilots have to save a plane
after reacting to a fire.  The containers hold in smoke if an item inside is burning,
delaying alerts from cargo-plane smoke detectors, according to
test results on the NTSB’s website.  U.S. regulations require that smoke detectors sound an
alarm within one minute. A fire within a container can burn for
far longer than that before detectors sense the smoke, the NTSB
found.  ’Highly Combustible’  In one test, a fire smoldered for more than 18 minutes
before it was detected.  “The growth rate of container fires after they become
detectable by the aircraft’s smoke detection system can be
extremely fast, precluding any mitigating action and resulting
in an overwhelming fire,” the safety board said in the  letter .  In addition, the containers, made of materials such as
polypropylene, are “highly combustible,” the agency said.  FAA regulations forbid using flammable materials in
aircraft cabins, including cargo compartments. Those standards
don’t apply to cargo containers, which must meet less strict
requirements, the NTSB said in the letter.  New Measures  The NTSB in its letter renewed calls for fire suppression
systems in all cargo compartments or in the individual
containers. The FAA rejected as too costly a similar
recommendation made by the safety board after the 2007 accident.  A United Nations panel earlier this year called for
stricter inspections and labeling of lithium air shipments.  After manufacturers including Samsung Electronics Co. and
Apple Inc. objected, Congress blocked the Department of
Transportation from adopting standards stricter than those
imposed by the  United Nations  on non-U.S. carriers.  Rosekind said the tests showed that the origin of the fire
doesn’t matter if pilots don’t have enough time to land safely.  “What’s been learned is you need early detection,” he
said. “The key is to have time for crews to react to what is
going on and to have options.”  FedEx and UPS are developing systems that extinguish a fire
or limit its spread.  UPS has built cargo containers that can stifle a fire for
several hours, according to a video by the company.  “We applaud the NTSB’s goal to improve cargo fire
safety,” Mike Mangeot, a UPS spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Robert Travis, president of the Independent Pilots
Association, which represents UPS air crews, thanked the NTSB in
an e-mailed statement.  FedEx System  FedEx has equipped its 64 Boeing MD-11s with an automated
system that pumps fire-suppressing foam into containers if it
senses too much heat, Maury Donahue, a company spokeswoman, said
in an interview.  The company plans to put the equipment on all long-range
aircraft that fly over oceans. Donahue called it “the right
solution for the right aircraft on the right routes.”  That falls short of the NTSB’s goal of adding fire
protections to all cargo aircraft.  The FAA, which must write any new cargo-fire regulations,
will evaluate the recommendations, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The FAA has long supported improved fire protection on
all-cargo airplanes,” the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  