-- HP Board, Auditors Sued by Investors Over Autonomy Deal
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-28T18:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/hp-directors-sued-over-claims-stemming-from-autonomy-purchase.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s directors and
auditors, along with Autonomy Corp. founder Mike Lynch, were
sued by investors over alleged misstatements related to last
year’s purchase of the British software maker.  The lawsuit was filed Nov. 27 in federal court in San Jose,
California, on behalf of the company. Deloitte LLP, KPMG LLP,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Perella Weinberg Partners UK LLP were named as
defendants, along with Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman and
former Hewlett-Packard officers and directors including ex-CEO
Leo Apotheker.  Hewlett-Packard said Nov. 20 that $5 billion of an $8.8
billion writedown was due to falsified accounting practices at
Autonomy, which were disclosed by a senior Autonomy executive.
Hewlett-Packard said it referred the matter to U.S. and U.K.
securities regulators and will also pursue civil litigation.  “Simply stated, HP grossly overpaid for Autonomy,”
according to the complaint. During and after the  acquisition ,
the defendants “consistently misled the public with improper
statements” concerning the due diligence performed to value
Autonomy, and the benefits and assets of the purchase, according
to the complaint.  ‘Consciously Disregarded’  Deloitte and KPMG, as auditors and accountants during the
acquisition, and Barclays and Perella Weinberg as financial
advisers on the deal all “consciously disregarded numerous red
flags” that alerted them to Autonomy’s potential accounting
improprieties and the resulting overvaluation, according to the
complaint.  The defendants’ misleading statements about the acquisition
artificially inflated Hewlett-Packard’s stock price, and led to
wasteful spending of billions of dollars when they directed the
company to overpay for its own stock through “massive”
repurchases, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages and corporate
governance reforms based on claims of financial misstatements,
breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust
enrichment and negligence.  Michael Kuczkowski, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-
based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment yesterday on the
lawsuit.  Manuel Goncalves, a spokesman for  KPMG , said the company
acted responsibly and with integrity “within the narrow scope
of non-audit tasks” it performed.  `Incorrect Understanding'  “The claims made against KPMG are based on incorrect
understandings about the firm’s role in this matter and are
without merit,” he said today in an e-mail. “KPMG was not
engaged by HP to perform any audit work on this matter. The
firm’s only role was to provide a limited set of non-audit
related services.”  Kara Findlay of Perella Weinberg didn’t immediately return
a phone call after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the complaint. A Barclays representative couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment after regular business hours.
Jonathan Gandal of Deloitte referred calls to its member firm in
the U.K.  Deloitte has said that it didn’t find any evidence of
improper accounting methods or misrepresentations when it last
looked at Autonomy’s finances before Hewlett-Packard bought the
software company. Deloitte, which said it wasn’t employed to do
due diligence on the deal, last audited Autonomy’s finances for
the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.  Lynch's Challenge  Lynch challenged Hewlett-Packard’s board to explain
allegations that Autonomy falsified financial statements,
leading to the $8.8 billion writedown.  Hewlett-Packard rejected the request, saying it has
uncovered extensive evidence of improper accounting at Autonomy
as part of an “intense” internal investigation and that the
matter is now in the hands of authorities.  “Autonomy’s finances, during its years as a public company
and including the time period in question, were handled in
accordance with applicable regulations and accounting
practices,” Lynch wrote. “I utterly reject all allegations of
impropriety.”  Whitman ousted Lynch in May, citing a “significant decline
in license revenue” at Autonomy. The division’s
underperformance adds to challenges facing the Palo Alto,
California-based company, which is already buffeted by
management turmoil and slowdowns in its personal-computer,
printer and technology-services businesses.  The case is Ricciardi v. Lynch, 12-cv-06003, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  