-- Pandora CEO Pushes Congress for Lower Music Royalties
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-11-28T19:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/pandora-ceo-pushes-congress-for-lower-music-royalties.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
online radio service, is subject to an “astonishingly high
royalty burden” that Congress should fix, Chief Executive
Officer  Joseph Kennedy  told U.S. lawmakers today.  “The current rate-setting structure is a clear case of
discrimination against the Internet and innovative services,”
Kennedy said in testimony submitted to a House Judiciary
subcommittee hearing today on music licensing. “This lack of a
level playing field is fundamentally unfair and indefensible.”  Pandora, based in Oakland, California, is pressing
lawmakers to pass a bill that would bring Internet radio
services such as Pandora under the same standard for paying
performers that applies to satellite and cable radio services
such as  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)   SoundExchange Inc., an organization that collects royalties
for artists, says Internet radio services are charged fair
royalties and that, if anything, Sirius XM and traditional
broadcast radio stations should pay more.  “The claims that the current rates are ‘too high’ are
wrong, overblown, and based on an incomplete and premature
record,” Michael Huppe, president of Washington-based
SoundExchange, said in written testimony for the committee.  Pandora chose “to focus on building its audience -- and
thus its usage -- while keeping its advertising load and
subscription fees low,” Huppe said. Musicians shouldn’t be
asked to accept lower royalties to subsidize Pandora’s business
decision to sell fewer ads, Huppe said.  ‘Major Catalyst’  This year, Pandora will pay SoundExchange almost $250
million, more than half of its revenue, while satellite radio
services will pay 7.5 percent of their revenue and cable radio
will pay 15 percent, Kennedy said.  The legislation backed by Pandora could cut its content
costs by as much as half and be a “major catalyst” for the
company’s earnings, Rich Tullo, an analyst at Albert Fried & Co.
in  New York , said in a Sept. 24 research note.  The Pandora-backed bill was introduced Sept. 21 in the
House by Representatives  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican, and
 Jared Polis , a Colorado Democrat.  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat,
introduced the bill in the Senate.  “Internet radio should be a boon to the entire audio
market,” Chaffetz said at today’s hearing. “But instead it’s
barely hanging on.”  Rihanna Protest  Rihanna, Maroon 5 and Katy Perry were among 125 artists who
signed a letter this month protesting the measure, saying it
would “gut” royalties for thousands of musicians. MusicFIRST,
a group representing the  Recording Industry Association of
America  and musician groups, opposes the legislation, along with
the NAACP and AFL-CIO.  Pandora, a publicly traded company, is urging a measure
“that would cut royalties and deprive artists of the fair-
market value of their work,” Representative  John Conyers  of
 Michigan , the senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee,
said at the hearing. For some musicians, “this is their only
compensation,” he said. “They depend on royalties and their
careers aren’t always that long either.”  Pandora has urged its users to contact members of Congress
in support of the legislation and formed a coalition with  CC
Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) ’s Clear Channel Media and Entertainment to
lobby for the bill.  Royalty Board  Under the current system of performance royalties, Internet
radio services pay a fraction of a cent for every song they play
while satellite and cable radio pay a percentage of revenue.
Rates are set by a three-person Copyright Royalty Board,
appointed by the Librarian of Congress. Traditional radio pays
no performance royalties for over-the-air broadcasts.  Webcasters’ royalty rates expire at the end of 2015, and
they want Congress to change the framework under which the rates
are set before the royalty board’s next rate hearing,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim Securities,
said in a note yesterday. The royalty board will start its next
proceeding in 2014 on rates for the years 2016 to 2020,
according to Gayle Osterberg, a spokeswoman for the  Library of
Congress .  Closing ‘Loophole’  While  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  pays about 70 cents to rights holders
and creators for every 99-cent download in its mp3 store,
Pandora pays about a 10th of a penny to SoundExchange when a
song is streamed, Jimmy Jam, a producer who has worked with
Usher and  Mariah Carey , said in testimony to the committee.  The Pandora-backed bill would “lower these already small
payments by as much as 85 percent,” he said.  Before tackling
rates, Congress should close the “loophole” that allows
broadcast radio to avoid performance royalties, he said.  SoundExchange and musicFIRST support a draft bill from
Representative  Jerrold Nadler , a New York Democrat, which would
bring digital radio from terrestrial, satellite, cable and
Internet under the current royalty standard applied to Pandora.  The Internet Radio Fairness Act is H.R. 6480 in the House
and S. 3609 in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  