-- Penn State Paid $3.3 Million to Fired President Facing Charges
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-11-28T21:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/penn-state-paid-3-3-million-to-fired-president-facing-charges.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
President  Graham Spanier , who faces criminal charges related to
a cover-up of a child sex-abuse scandal, received $3.26 million
in compensation last year.  Spanier’s 2011 pay includes severance of $1.23 million,
deferred compensation of $1.25 million earned over 16 years as
president, $700,000 in salary and $83,000 in benefits, the
university said on its  website  today.  Spanier, 64, was “terminated without cause” and the
university was “legally bound” to make the payments under his
contract, David La Torre, a  Penn State  spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  “Spanier was president for more than 16 years and this
severance is on par with other leaders in higher education,” La
Torre said.  Penn State fired Spanier last year after the arrest of
Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant football coach who was
sentenced in October to a minimum of 30 years in prison for
sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period.  Earlier this month, Spanier was charged with endangering
the welfare of a child, perjury and conspiring to hide critical
facts related to Sandusky’s abuse.  A July report commissioned by the university and prepared
by  Louis Freeh , the former director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , placed Spanier at the center of a cover-up of
Sandusky’s actions.  Spanier has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Timothy K.
Lewis, his attorney, declined to comment on his compensation.  In the past, the university released executive pay
information in May through an annual filing, La Torre said.  “It was released today as part of the university’s ongoing
commitment to be more open and transparent,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  