-- Philippines 7.1% Growth Surprise May Herald End of Rate Cuts
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-11-28T03:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/philippine-economy-grew-faster-than-estimated-in-third-quarter.html
Philippine growth unexpectedly
accelerated last quarter to the fastest pace since 2010 as
government spending and investment increased, easing pressure on
the central bank to cut  interest rates  further. Stocks rose.  Gross domestic product  increased 7.1 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, compared with a 6
percent gain in the previous quarter, the National Statistical
Coordination Board said in  Manila  today. The pace exceeded all
22 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey , whose median was 5.4 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking more than $17 billion of investment in
roads and airports. The Southeast Asian nation is forecast to be
among the 10 fastest growing economies in 2012, according to a
Bloomberg survey, making it less likely that Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas will cut its  benchmark interest rate  again in December.  “The  Philippines  is going to rock,” said  Trinh Nguyen , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The central
bank and the government have made timely policy adjustments that
are boosting trend growth. With momentum so strong, we think BSP
will hold rates and mark the end of the easing cycle.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  erased earlier losses
and rose 0.7 percent as of 11:44 a.m. in Manila trading. The
Philippine peso was little changed at 40.86 per dollar. It has
risen more than 7 percent this year, the best performer among
Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Preserving Firepower  Some Asian officials have restrained their stimulus efforts
as global expansion slowed, with others refraining from
interest-rate cuts to preserve firepower should  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsen.  Thailand  may hold borrowing costs today,
economists said, after a  manufacturing production  index rose in
October for the first time in five months. Meanwhile,  India  may
report on Nov. 30 that GDP rose 5.3 percent last quarter.  Bangko Sentral “will be careful to calibrate the use of
its enhanced policy tool kit to help ensure” domestic demand
price pressures and risks from capital flows are managed,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  “In the near-term, our policy stance appears to remain
appropriate,” he said. Full-year growth may be 6 percent to 7
percent, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the country’s credit
rating to one step below investment grade in October, luring
more pledges from companies including Alliance Global Group Inc.
and First Gen Corp. The government signed a peace deal with
Muslim guerrillas in the mineral-rich south last month, and said
it expects about $1 billion of commitments in Mindanao.  Philippine  exports  rose 22.8 percent in September from a
year earlier, as data signaling a recovery in the U.S. and  China 
boosted the outlook for Asian goods. Inflation eased to a four-
month low of 3.1 percent in October, while remittances, which
make up the equivalent of about 10 percent of GDP, surged to a
 record  $1.8 billion in September.  The Philippine economy expanded 6.5 percent in the January-
September period, today’s report showed. Public construction in
the third quarter climbed 23.7 percent from a year earlier,
while  government spending  gained 12 percent and household
spending advanced 6.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  