-- Pictet Attracts Net Inflows From U.S. Persons Amid Probes
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-11-28T16:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/pictet-draws-net-inflows-from-u-s-offshore-clients-amid-probes.html
Pictet & Cie., Switzerland’s largest
closely held bank, said it received net inflows from U.S.
persons even amid a Department of Justice probe of the Swiss
private-banking industry.  “In the last few years it’s been one of the most important
growth segments of our wealth-management business,” Jacques de Saussure, Pictet’s senior partner, told reporters in  London 
yesterday. “It had very strong inflows of net new money this
year. We’re committed.”  Switzerland built the world’s biggest cross-border wealth
center during an era of “black money” that started to crumble
when the Justice Department sued Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , the
nation’s largest bank, three years ago. The U.S. has used
information from whistle-blowers and clients to investigate 11
other firms in the Alpine country, including  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)   North Americans account for about $55 billion of
Switzerland’s $2.1 trillion of assets managed for non-residents,
according to an October report by WealthInsight. The nation’s
banks and money managers oversee a total $2.8 trillion of
private wealth, including for Swiss residents, according to the
London-based research company.  Pictet opted to register a Geneva-based company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 to serve American
taxpayers based in the U.S. and abroad. The unit oversaw $3.3
billion at the end of 2011, of which $1.9 billion was under
discretionary mandates, an  SEC filing  shows.  U.S. Inquiry  Those customers don’t have the protection of Swiss secrecy
laws that make it a crime for money managers to disclose the
names of clients without their consent. The unit is nonetheless
the subject of a Justice Department “general inquiry,” the
bank said in a statement on Nov. 25, adding that it plans to
cooperate “as fully as possible” with U.S. authorities.  De Saussure declined to answer questions on the U.S.
inquiry into Pictet. Charles Miller, a spokesman on tax affairs
at the Justice Department, declined to comment by phone
yesterday on whether Pictet or any other wealth manager in
Switzerland was under investigation.  “There are different banks in different states of
examination, and it’s difficult to compare them,” said Mario Tuor, a spokesman for Switzerland’s State Secretariat for
International Financial Matters in Bern, without mentioning a
specific company.  Pictet North America Advisors SA continues to attract
American private clients seeking to invest abroad, said
Alexandre Tavazzi, Pictet’s head of advisory.  “U.S. banks tend not to have a very well-diversified
portfolio offering,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  