-- Polish Yields Drop to Record as Moody’s Sees Foreign Buying
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-11-28T16:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/polish-yields-drop-to-record-as-moody-s-sees-foreign-buying.html
Poland ’s 10-year bond yields fell to
a record after Moody’s Investors Service said “strong” demand
from foreign investors will continue to push borrowing costs
lower.  The yield on October 2023 notes slid four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.10 percent as of 5:48 p.m. in
Warsaw, extending this week’s drop to 14 basis points. The zloty
weakened 0.2 percent to 4.1033 per euro, the fourth-steepest
decline among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government has harnessed
foreign demand for its bonds to raise 20 percent of next year’s
borrowing needs. International buyers with a record 35 percent
holding of zloty-denominated  government bonds  have been lured by
economic growth and a pledge to reduce  budget deficit .  Poland’s “prudent approach to increasing its liquidity
buffer decreases rollover risk, and the lower funding costs
reflect its status as a regional safe haven in Central and
Eastern Europe,” Jaime Reusche, an analyst at Moody’s in  New
York , said in an e-mailed report late yesterday.  The rating company expects “further improvements in
Poland’s credit profile” because of its “prudent” debt
management and “credible” fiscal policy, according to the
note. Moody’s rates Poland A2, the sixth-highest investment
grade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds also continue to benefit from expectations for
interest-rate cuts as the economy slows. Growth may be weaker
than the 2.2 percent envisaged in the 2013 draft budget, Tusk
said at a news conference yesterday.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives expect 100 basis
points in cuts over the next 12 months after the central bank
reduced rates for the first time since 2009 on Nov. 7, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  