-- Pressure for Entitlement Cuts Is on Medicare, Medicaid
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-11-28T17:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/pressure-for-entitlement-cuts-is-on-medicare-medicaid.html
Democrats say Social Security is off
the table. So if Republicans are successful in pushing for
changes to entitlement programs in U.S. budget talks, the
pressure for cuts will be on Medicare and Medicaid.  Republicans propose raising the Medicare eligibility age.
Other options for squeezing money out of the health care program
for the elderly include additional co-payments and an increase
in premiums paid by high-income recipients. In February,
President  Barack Obama  proposed saving about $70 billion over 10
years by revising the formula for federal matching of state
Medicaid expenditures, along with other changes.  “There are things that we can do with entitlements that
don’t hurt beneficiaries,” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, told reporters in Washington yesterday without
giving specifics.  Democrats, buoyed by victories in the Nov. 6 election, say
they won’t touch Social Security during talks over averting the
so-called fiscal cliff. Their willingness to make changes to
Medicare and Medicaid -- which together cost $720 billion a
year, about one-fifth of the U.S. budget -- may determine how
far Republicans will go to meet Obama’s demand for $1.6 trillion
in new revenue over the next decade.  Financial Structure  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said he
wants “real changes to the financial structure” of
entitlements before he’ll agree to more tax revenue.  Lawmakers are trying to avert $607 billion in tax increases
and automatic spending cuts scheduled to begin in January. They
are also aiming for a longer-term plan to reduce the U.S. budget
deficit, which has topped $1 trillion for four consecutive
years.  Today, Boehner said he was “optimistic” all sides will
continue to work toward an agreement. A day earlier, Reid said
the parties had made “little progress” in budget talks since a
Nov. 16 meeting at the White House.  Stocks were little changed today. The  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500
Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,399.03 at 11:27 a.m. in
New York, erasing a decline of as much as 1 percent. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average added 28.15 points, or 0.2 percent, to
12,906.28.  One alternative sought by Republicans is increasing the
eligibility age for Medicare, now 65. Gradually raising that to
67 for future recipients would save $148 billion through 2021,
the Congressional Budget Office has estimated.  Starting Point  The Democrats’ starting point for Medicare and Medicaid
cuts is what Obama proposed to trim from the programs in his
2013 budget. CBO estimated those cuts would total $351 billion
over 10 years.  Republican Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma  dismissed
Obama’s proposals for entitlement cuts as “mostly nips and
tucks around the edges.” To curb the projected long-term growth
of entitlement spending “you’ve got to go deeper,” he told
reporters. “I haven’t seen anything that suggests” that Obama
“is willing to do real structural reform.”  Obama and his advisers “surely look at the same numbers we
do and they know they can’t” cut deficits without dealing with
entitlements, Cole said. After endorsing a plan to partially
privatize Medicare, House Republicans survived the “fire of an
election,” he said. “That tells me the American people are
willing to accept some honest talk and some tough decisions.”  Drug Rebates  The biggest savings in Obama’s budget proposal would be
$137 billion from requiring drugmakers to give Medicare the same
rebates for medicines for low-income recipients that are allowed
for Medicaid’s purchase of prescription drugs, according to the
CBO estimate.  More than $45 billion in savings would come from cutting
reimbursements for providers of some post-acute care, such as
rehabilitation services and home-health care. Almost $24 billion
would be saved by reducing the government’s coverage of bad
debts that hospitals incur from patients who don’t pay their
bills.  For Medicaid, the health-care system for low-income
Americans, Obama’s budget would revise the formula for payments
to states and make other changes for a 10-year savings of about
$70 billion, according to CBO. Republicans have proposed making
Medicaid a block grant-style program and turning it over to the
states.  Some Democrats say they favor an increase in the payroll
withholding tax for Medicare. It would hit lower-income wage
earners harder because it’s based on a percentage of income.  ‘Tiny Fraction’  Still, an increase of just “a tiny fraction would generate
a fair amount of money,” said Democratic Representative Earl Blumenauer of  Oregon .  These sorts of changes probably won’t provide enough
savings for Republicans to accept in return for increasing taxes
for high earners, said G. William Hoagland, a former Republican
staff director for the Senate Budget Committee. He’s now a vice
president at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, which
studies ways to cut the deficit.  Even if Democrats are willing to make fundamental changes
to Medicare they “don’t generate savings very quickly,”
Hoagland said. Republicans want to “see spending savings
quickly,” he said.  The election effectively killed the Republican proposal to
offer future Medicare recipients a chance to buy private health
insurance with money provided by the government, Hoagland said.  A Democratic proposal to raise premiums paid by higher-
income Medicare beneficiaries is potentially “the big one for
real savings quickly,” Hoagland said.  Higher Premiums  Individuals with annual incomes of more than $85,000 and
married couples with incomes of more than $170,000 already pay
higher premiums. That amounts to 5 percent of all Medicare
recipients.  As an alternative to raising taxes, “this is a back-door
way, particularly for the elderly rich,” Hoagland said. Higher
premiums for individuals with incomes of more than $200,000 or
married couples with incomes of more than $250,000 would be
“fair game” for “soaking the rich,” he said.  Obama’s plan would freeze the income thresholds until 25
percent of Medicare recipients pay premiums based on income
testing. That provision would save $30 billion over the next
decade, according to the CBO.  Means-testing is “much more controversial” among
Democrats who don’t want Medicare and Social Security to be
equated with welfare programs, said Paul Van de Water, a health-
care economist at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a
Democratic-aligned budget policy research group.  ‘A Stake’  “It’s important that everyone feel they have a stake,”
Van de Water said. “Income-tested premiums represent a breach
in that principle.”  With sluggish progress in budget negotiations, Democratic-
aligned interest groups are starting a media and grassroots
campaign to urge Obama not to accept benefit cuts. Congressional
Republicans are seeking to rally public support for their
positions on taxes and entitlements.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein is among executives scheduled to meet today with
Obama, and later with Boehner, to press for a solution to the
fiscal-cliff standoff.  About 200 local labor union members led by the AFL-CIO and
the Service Employees International Union plan to visit
Washington today to lobby lawmakers.  The disagreement over entitlements may be a bigger hurdle
to a budget deal than Republicans’ opposition to higher taxes,
said Steve Bell, a former Republican Senate Budget Committee
aide.  “I do not believe that taxes will be the main stumbling
block to these negotiations,” Bell said. “Any fundamental
change in Medicare and Medicaid will be the stumbling block.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  