-- Qantas Drops Funds for Tourism Agency Citing Conflict
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-28T05:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/qantas-drops-funding-for-tourism-agency-citing-conflict.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  cut off funding
for  Australia ’s top tourism body, saying its Chairman Geoff Dixon, the carrier’s former chief executive officer, is part of
a group trying to change a planned alliance with Emirates.  Dixon “is very much out there briefing against the
company” and pushing for a change of direction for Qantas, his
successor Alan Joyce said at an event in Sydney today. That’s a
“clear conflict” with his role as head of  Tourism Australia , a
government-backed travel promotion agency, Joyce said.  Australia’s largest carrier has been dogged by takeover
speculation this year as the  stock  sank to a record low in June,
when Joyce said Qantas would post its first annual loss since
listing in 1995. Dixon and venture capitalist Mark Carnegie are
part of an investment group that’s targeted Qantas and backs a
change of direction, Peter Gregg, a former chief financial
officer of the carrier, said last week.  “Why should Qantas be supporting an organization where its
primary officer” is seeking a change to the carrier’s strategy,
Neil Hansford, chairman of consultants Strategic Aviation
Solutions Pty., said by phone from Salamander Bay, Australia.  ‘Fundamental Changes’  The investor syndicate is “committed to unraveling
Qantas’s structure and direction,” and “actively canvassing
fundamental changes to the Qantas Group strategy, including the
proposed partnership with Emirates,” Qantas said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Qantas  shares  fell 2.2 percent to A$1.31 in Sydney trading,
compared with a 0.2 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  The carrier’s financial support to Tourism Australia is
worth about A$50 million ($52 million) over three years, Qantas
said in the statement.  Tourism Australia’s board will consider Qantas’s move later
today, Managing Director Andrew McEvoy said in an e-mailed
statement.  Martin Ferguson , Australia’s tourism minister, said
in an e-mailed statement that he’d referred the issues to the
agency and they’d report back to him.  Dixon will push for the sale of the carrier’s Frequent
Flyer loyalty program and the partial float of budget airline
Jetstar, the Australian Financial Review newspaper reported last
week without saying where it got the information.  Different Opinion  Gregg said in a telephone interview last week that he had a
different opinion on Qantas’s strategy and expressed his views
of the company in phone conversations on the matter, without
giving more detail or specifying who he spoke to.  Joyce, who replaced Dixon, worked closely with his
predecessor both before and after he was picked for the role in
July 2008. Gregg announced he was quitting the CFO job a month
later.  During his final shareholder meeting in November 2008,
Dixon described Joyce as a “great aviation executive” who
would keep Qantas “in very safe hands”. The pair, who met
regularly after Dixon’s departure, last “got together” about
eight months ago, Joyce said today.  “It’s more than a falling out” between Dixon and Joyce,
Tony Webber, managing director of Webber Quantitative Consulting
and a former Qantas chief economist, said by phone from Sydney.
“I’m surprised by how bitter it got so quickly.”  Divesting Jetstar or Qantas’s Frequent Flyer program
wouldn’t be in the interests of shareholders, Joyce said today.  ‘Critical’ Relationship  Tourism Australia, a government travel promotion agency,
has been a partner of Qantas for more than 40 years and a joint
marketing agreement between the two bodies is worth A$44 million
over three years, according to the agency’s latest  annual
report .  The relationship is “critical to future tourism growth”,
McEvoy said in the report. In addition to the marketing
agreement, direct funding from industry came to A$10 million
last year, about 6.6 percent of the agency’s costs, according to
the report.  Mark Carnegie didn’t respond to a call left at his office
and a mobile-phone message.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which bought a 10 percent stake in
Qantas’s main domestic rival  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  this
month, has increased the value of its joint-marketing agreement
with Tourism Australia. It also signed new agreements with
state-based tourism promotion agencies, the company said in an
e-mailed  statement  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  