-- QPR Ties Sunderland in Redknapp’s Debut; Villa Beats Reading 1-0
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-28T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/qpr-ties-sunderland-in-redknapp-s-debut-villa-beats-reading-1-0.html
Queens Park Rangers tied 0-0 at
Sunderland in Harry Redknapp’s first game as manager of the
Premier League club, while Aston Villa beat Reading 1-0 to move
out of the relegation zone.  QPR remains the league’s only winless team after earning
just its second away point of the season. Former Tottenham boss
Redknapp was named the west  London  club’s manager Nov. 25, a day
after the firing of Mark Hughes, who picked up just four points
from 13 matches.  “I thought we deserved the point tonight,” Redknapp said
in an interview with Sky Sports. “I was really pleased.”  Christian Benteke’s goal in the 80th minute gave Aston
Villa the win over Reading. The victory moved Villa out of the
three relegation spots at the bottom of the standings and kept
Reading right above last-place QPR.  “It was a scrappy game but we’ll take the three points and
move on,” Villa’s Gabriel Agbonlahor told Sky Sports.  At the Stadium of Light in Sunderland, backup goalkeeper
Robert Green helped Redknapp avoid an opening-game loss.  Green replaced Julio Cesar to start the second half when
the Brazilian hurt his groin, and kept the game scoreless by
making a one-handed block of Steven Fletcher’s header in the
64th minute.  The draw extends QPR’s winless away run in the league to 21
games over the past two seasons. Even though QPR is the only
team in  England ’s top four divisions without a victory, the new
manager was happy with what he saw from his new squad. He saw
QPR lose 3-1 at Manchester United last weekend.  “I thought there were some good points to come out of
it,” Redknapp said. “I feel more optimistic tonight than I did
on Saturday.”  Sunderland has won just once in eight games and remains
16th in the 20-team league with 13 points.  At Villa Park, Benteke rose to head Ashley Woodward’s
corner kick past Adam Federici with 10 minutes to give his team
just its second home win in the past 11 league games. The
victory allows Villa to leap over Southampton out of the drop
zone.  “We need to win games and it’s a big relief for us,”
Villa midfielder Barry Bannon said. “There’s been a lot of
people talking about us being in the bottom three and it’s hard
to take.  Reading, which had a four-match unbeaten run ended by a
loss to Wigan over the weekend, remains next-to-last with nine
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 