-- Better Governments, Freer Trade
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/trade-imbalances-will-return-if-governments-can-t-reform.html
One of the biggest worries of the
21st century -- the vast imbalances in global trade and capital
flows that helped cause the financial cataclysm of 2008 -- has
largely fallen off the radar of the world’s economic policy
makers.  Unless they take the measures needed to get trade flows
under control, it will be back.  The issue has gone quiet because global imbalances have
eased, as Bloomberg Markets reports in its latest issue. The
vast  U.S. trade deficit , and the foreign borrowing required to
finance it, have shrunk. The  International Monetary Fund  expects
the U.S.  current-account deficit  -- a measure of trade and
financial flows -- to hold at 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product next year, about half its peak in 2006.  On the other side of the globe,  China ’s role as exporter to
the world has also diminished. The country’s  current-account
surplus  is set to drop to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2013, from a
high of 10.1 percent in 2007. As a result, China has fewer
dollars that it needs to park in  U.S. Treasuries  and other
investments, curbing the destabilizing flows of capital that
contributed to the financial crisis.  The trouble is, the improvement is driven as much by
temporary factors as by structural changes and lasting reforms.
Slumping demand has squeezed imports in deficit countries  such
as the U.S.,  naturally reducing their trading partners’ exports.
Eventually demand and global trade will recover. When they do,
the imbalances are likely to return.  Balancing Trade  Economic models suggest that exchange rates need to rise
further in surplus countries, and fall further in deficit
countries, to keep trade imbalances in check. Currency
adjustment still has an especially big part to play in China,
despite that country’s efforts to allow a gradual strengthening
of the  renminbi .  The most useful changes, though, have to begin at home,
wherever that happens to be. Over the medium term, deficit
countries need to curb public borrowing and labor costs, and
surplus countries need to boost domestic demand. There’s a self-
interested case to be made for such reforms. If deficit
countries balance their budgets, they become less vulnerable to
financial malaise. Lower labor costs raise employment as well as
export competitiveness. Boosting domestic demand -- in China’s
case, by developing a more generous social safety net -- can
directly raise  living standards .  So far, the U.S. and China have made little progress. The
first faces significant resistance to higher taxes and lower
 government spending . The second fears the dislocation that
relying less on exports would involve.  The test is political. If governments fail it, you haven’t
heard the last of global imbalances.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  FAA’s wasteful staffing 
at little-used airports; Caroline Baum wonders why we’re not
 talking about entitlement reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  plot
to stop Susan Rice ; Ezra Klein on  using the fiscal cliff as an
opportunity ; Jonathan Mahler on  Ohio State’s perfect season  that
doesn’t count; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada’s immigration quotas
would work in the U.S.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 