-- Rand Snaps Four-Day Winning Streak as Marcus Warns on Growth
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-28T14:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rand-snaps-four-day-winning-streak-as-marcus-warns-on-growth.html
The rand declined for the first time
in five days after South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said economic growth is likely to remain low. Bond prices
dropped for the first time in three days.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated 0.4
percent to 8.8677 per dollar at 4:08 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent rand bonds due December 2026
rose two basis points to 7.58 percent.  Fourth-quarter growth is “likely to be very low,” Marcus
told delegates of the National Union of Metalworkers of South
Africa in Johannesburg today. The central bank has room to cut
borrowing costs, though it would be inappropriate to adjust
rates at the moment, she said. The economy expanded 1.2 percent
in the third quarter from the previous three months, Statistics
South Africa said yesterday, missing the 1.5 percent  median
estimate  of 17 economists polled by Bloomberg.  “You can see she’s clearly worried about the fiscal side
of things, bearing in mind she can only control the monetary
side,” Warrick Butler, head of rand trading at Johannesburg-
based Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by telephone. “It’s also
month-end so there’s decent demand from the oil companies and
other importers that’s keeping the rand under pressure.”  Fiscal Cliff  The rand also retreated after U.S. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid said he was disappointed with the progress made in
congressional budget talks over $607 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts set to begin in January.  “Continued fears over the fiscal cliff have more than
offset any positives from the Greek news or from continued good
U.S. data,” John Cairns and Josina Solomons, strategists at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“Commodity prices are searching for direction amid heightened
worries over the U.S. fiscal cliff and renewed fears about the
global economic outlook.”  The 34-member Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development countries combined will grow 1.4 percent this year
and next, less than the 1.6 percent and 2.2 percent predicted in
June, according to the OECD’s semi-annual Economic Outlook.
Euro-area finance chiefs agreed to a deal for Greek aid
yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of commodities fell as much as
1.3 percent, a third day of declines. Commodities accounted for
45 percent of South Africa’s exports last year, according to
government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  