-- Treasuries Rise 3rd Day on Fiscal-Cliff Talks Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-11-28T16:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/treasuries-volatility-falls-to-five-year-low.html
Treasuries advanced for a third day
on speculation talks to avert the U.S. fiscal cliff of tax
increases and spending reductions are making little headway,
underpinning demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year  yields  dropped to the lowest level in a week as
 Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010
fiscal commission, estimated there is a one-third probability of
a budget deal by the end of this year. The U.S. is scheduled to
sell $35 billion of five-year notes today after demand at a two-
year auction yesterday matched a record high. The  Federal
Reserve  is acquiring as much as $18.76 billion in six Treasury
purchases this week, including two purchase operations today.  “There’s a bid for Treasuries, given the uncertainty
surrounding the fiscal cliff,” said Thomas di Galoma, a
managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a brokerage for
institutional investors in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The 10-year  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.62 percent at 11:56 a.m. in  New York  after touching
the least since Nov. 20, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 1.625 percent note due in November 2022 gained 5/32,
or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  Debt Returns  Treasuries have returned 2.5 percent this year, after
gaining 9.8 percent in 2011, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The securities returned 0.4 percent this
month, according to the indexes.  The difference between the yields on two and 10-year notes,
the so-called yield curve, narrowed to 1.34 percentage points,
the lowest in almost two weeks.  A yield curve plots the rates of bonds of the same quality,
but different maturities. It steepens when yields on shorter-
maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated bonds rise, or both
happen simultaneously. The gap typically narrows when investors
anticipate a slower recovery as they demand less compensation in
anticipation of limited inflation.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  is among executives scheduled to make their case at
the White House regarding a solution to the fiscal cliff.
Congress and the President are negotiating on ways to avoid the
$607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to
begin in January.  Budget Watch  Bowles a former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton ,
spoke today at a breakfast in  Washington  sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
lamented the lack of progress toward a deal yesterday.  “There’s been little progress with the Republicans, which
is a disappointment to me,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday in Washington.  Volatility in Treasuries dropped yesterday to the least in
five years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which
measures price swings based on options, declined to 51.7, the
lowest level since May 2007.  The U.S. five-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded
0.65 percent in pre-auction trading. The offering is the second
of three this week totaling $99 billion.  At yesterday’s $35 billion sale of two-year notes,
investors  bid  for 4.07 times the amount allotted, matching the
record high set in November 2011. The U.S. will sell $29 billion
of seven-year securities tomorrow.  Auction Demand  Today’s sale should “see reasonably strong demand,”  Marc Ostwald , a rates strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in
London, wrote in a note to clients. “Particularly as the latest
news on the fiscal-cliff negotiations shows no signs of the two
sides getting any closer.”  Purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in
October, showing limited progress in the housing market
recovery.  Sales dropped 0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace
following a revised 369,000 rate in September that was weaker
than initially reported, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 390,000 sales pace.  The Fed is scheduled to issue its Beige Book economic
report at 2 p.m. in New York.  The Commerce Department will increase its estimate of
third-quarter economic growth to 2.8 percent from 2 percent when
it issues the data tomorrow, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Fed Buys  The Fed plans to purchase as much as $2.25 billion of
Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to November 2042 today,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website . It is also
scheduled to buy as much as $5.25 billion of securities due from
November 2018 to November 2020, the website shows.  The next release of the tentative outright Treasury
operation schedule will be at 2 p.m. on Nov. 30. The Fed is also
selling shorter-term Treasuries from its holdings and buying
those due in six to 30 years, under a program scheduled to end
next month.  The central bank is seeking to put downward pressure on
yields, after buying $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-
related bonds since 2008 in two rounds of quantitative easing,
or QE. It said Oct. 24 it would extend its stimulus by
purchasing $40 billion of home-loan securities a month until the
labor market improves “substantially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  