-- Three BP Managers Plead Not Guilty to Gulf Spill Charges
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-11-29T00:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/three-bp-managers-appear-in-court-to-answer-spill-charges-1-.html
Two  BP Plc (BP/)  well-site managers and a
former executive pleaded not guilty today to criminal charges
growing out of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The site managers, Robert Kaluza and Donald Vidrine, who
supervised testing on the Macondo oil well were charged Nov. 15
with involuntary manslaughter, seaman’s manslaughter and Clean
Water Act Violations. The U.S. alleges that Kaluza and Vidrine
ignored multiple indications that the well wasn’t secure before
the explosion that killed 11 aboard the drilling rig.  David Rainey , the company’s former vice president of
exploration for the Gulf of Mexico, was charged with obstruction
of Congress and false statements related to the size of the
spill. The U.S. claims Rainey cherry-picked information from
flow-rate reports to make the oil spill seem less catastrophic
than it was.  “Mr. Kaluza pleads not guilty to all counts, your honor,”
his attorney, Shaun Clarke, said in federal court today before
U.S. District Judge Ivan L.R. Lemelle in  New Orleans . Lawyers
for Vidrine and Rainey entered not guilty pleas immediately
after.  Lemelle set a  jury trial  for Kaluza and Vidrine for Feb. 4
and a jury trial for Rainey Jan. 28. He set bond at $250,000 for
each defendant. Rainey, whose lawyer said he had to travel
overseas on business, would have to raise the bond to $400,000
if he leaves the country, Lemelle said.  ‘Absolutely Innocent’  “ Donald Vidrine  is absolutely innocent of these charges,”
his lawyer Robert Habans said in a press conference after the
hearing. “He didn’t make the critical decisions in this case.
Those were made by engineers and others,” he said.  “The problem with this case is that Congress and others
have demanded human flesh,” to respond to the incident, Habans
said. “They needed someone to blame.”  BP agreed to plead guilty to 14 counts and pay $4 billion
to resolve all criminal claims against the company arising from
the 2010 incident. The company has also agreed to pay an
additional $525 million to resolve claims by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that the London-based company underestimated
the size of the spill to bolster stock prices.  The 14 criminal counts include 11 for felony manslaughter,
one felony count of obstruction of Congress, one misdemeanor
count under the  Clean Water Act  and one misdemeanor count under
the  Migratory Bird Treaty Act , according to the  Justice
Department .  Thirteen of the 14 criminal charges against BP are related
to the accident itself and are based on negligent
misinterpretation of the negative pressure test conducted on
board the Deepwater Horizon, BP said in a Nov. 15 press release.  Obstruction Charge  The obstruction count involves BP’s communications on flow
rate estimates to a congressional subcommittee, the Justice
Department said in a court filing.  The allegations against Vidrine and Kaluza are connected to
a process called negative testing which monitors the well for
any increase in pressure or flow of oil or gas up the well. Any
pressure increase or fluid flow is an indication that the well
isn’t secure and that oil and natural gas may be entering the
well, the U.S. said in court papers.  During the negative testing on April 20, pressure on a
drill pipe being monitored “quickly built up significantly
above expected values,” the U.S. said.  ‘Built Unexpectedly’  “Each time the pressure was bled off of the valve
connected to the drill pipe, the pressure again built
unexpectedly. Abnormal fluid flow also occurred,” the
government said.  These were “significant indications that the well was not
secure,” the U.S. said. Kaluza and Vidrine “failed to phone
engineers onshore at that time to alert them to the problems,”
according to prosecutors. They later allegedly decided to begin
monitoring negative testing on an additional pipe, called a kill
line, which also showed “continued, abnormal, high pressure.”  The defendants “deemed the negative testing a success
based on observations of the kill line,” the U.S. said. “As a
result the rig crew began to remove thousands of feet of heavy
drilling mud in the river and to replace it with lighter-weight
seawater, inviting natural gas and oil to migrate up through the
riser and onto the rig floor.”  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  Later that evening, “natural gas, oil and mud blew out of
the Macondo well at tremendous pressure,” according to the
government. The gas ignited and caused the explosion that killed
the 11 men on board the rig.  The allegations against Rainey involve public estimates
that BP made of the size of the spill in the first weeks after
the rig exploded.  The Unified Command, the joint BP and government response
to the incident, initially estimated oil was spilling into the
gulf at a rate of 1,000 barrels per day.  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
prepared a written flow-rate estimate days later saying that
about 5,000 barrels of oil a day was being released.  NOAA  said
the estimate was preliminary, based on oil that had started to
float to the surface of the Gulf, and “the actual flow amount
could exceed 5,000 BOPD by ten times,” the U.S. said.  BP officials told Congress in May 2010 that the company’s
“best guess” estimate of the spill flow rate was about 5,000
barrels a day, even though some of its own scientists had
suggested much more oil was flowing into the Gulf, according to
the Justice Department.  ‘Primary Source’  “Rainey was the primary source of flow-rate information”
for BP’s May 24, 2010, response to Congress seeking a current
estimate, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors allege that Rainey, who worked on preparing
BP’s spill volume projections, used NOAA’s “preliminary and
heavily qualified” estimate to support the company’s “best
guess” figure.  “Rainey performed and caused to be performed his own daily
estimates, purportedly using” the American Society for Testing
and Materials and the European, or Bonn, methods, the U.S. said.  Rainey’s Bonn calculations resulted in figures higher than
5,000 barrels per day, with a high end rate estimate up to
92,000 BOPD, the U.S. said in the indictment. “Rainey withheld
his Bonn estimates from individuals working on flow rate within
the Unified Command and, later, also withheld them from
Congress.”  ‘Best Guess’  His ASTM estimates didn’t conform with standards “but were
instead manipulated to consistently arrive at or near a ‘best
guess’ of between 5,000 and 6,000 BOPD,” the U.S. said.  “BP did not rely internally on defendant Rainey’s
contrived and inaccurate flow-rate numbers,” the U.S. said in
the indictment. Within days of the explosion, Rainey had
received estimates from BP subsurface engineers that that
estimated flow rates ranging from 64,000 to 146,000 barrels of
oil per day, the U.S. said.  In August 2010, the Flow Rate Technical Group of the
Unified Command announced that the rate after the blowout had
initially been 62,000 barrels a day, the U.S. said. It was about
53,000 by mid July 2010 when the well was shut in, the U.S.
said. By then, about 4.9 million barrels of oil had been
released into the  Gulf of Mexico , the U.S. said, citing the
technical group figures.  The blowout and  explosion  aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and started
millions of barrels of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident
prompted hundreds of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  U.S. Lawsuit  The Justice Department sued BP in December 2010, alleging
the company failed to prevent or contain the spill and seeking
fines for each barrel of oil discharged.  The department’s lawsuit hasn’t been settled and BP remains
at risk for as much as $17.6 billion in potential fines from
alleged violations of the Clean Water Act and demands by the
U.S. and Gulf states for enough money to restore the region’s
coastline and waters to their condition before the spill.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has set Feb. 25 for a
nonjury trial to apportion fault and decide whether BP is liable
for gross negligence.  Settlement Reached  BP reached a settlement with most non-government plaintiffs
in March, agreeing to pay an estimated $7.8 billion. That
settlement postponed the first trial date to determine liability
for the disaster. Barbier is considering whether to approve the
settlement.  The criminal cases against the individuals are U.S. v.
Kaluza, 12-cr-00265; and U.S. v. Rainey, 12-cr-00291, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  The criminal case against BP is U.S. v. BP Exploration and
Production Inc., 12-00292, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Louisiana (New Orleans).  The government civil case is U.S. v. BP Exploration &
Production Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans). The lawsuit is part of In
Re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of
Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans,
At  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 