-- Republican Senator Raises New Questions About Susan Rice
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-11-29T19:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/republican-senator-raises-new-questions-about-susan-rice.html
Republican Senator Susan Collins
said after meeting with Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the
United Nations, that she couldn’t support Rice if she’s
nominated to be secretary of state without more information
about her comments on the deadly Sept. 11 attack in Libya.  The objections put Collins -- often called a moderate --
with a group of conservative lawmakers challenging Rice and
opened a new line of questions about the fitness of one of
President  Barack Obama ’s closest associates to serve as
the nation’s top diplomat.  Collins said yesterday she’s troubled by what she considers
parallels between the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya, and the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania. U.S. ambassadors in those countries “begged” for added
security before the attacks when Rice was assistant secretary of
state for African affairs, Collins said.  “What troubles me so much is the Benghazi attack, in many
ways, echoed the attack on both embassies in 1998,” Collins of
 Maine  told reporters after a meeting that lasted about 90
minutes. Chris Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya who was
killed in the attack on the American mission in Benghazi, also
requested added security.  Subsequent investigations concluded that the Aug. 7, 1998
bombings in Kenya and  Tanzania  were extensively planned by Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda operative Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, who
was killed last year in Somalia. The attacks killed 257 people
and wounded more than 5,000, according to the  State Department .
The attack on a residential compound in Benghazi was hastily
organized and opportunistic, according to U.S. intelligence
officials, and killed 12 people, four of them Americans.  Security Requests  Security requests from American embassies are reviewed by
the State Department’s Diplomatic Security division, not by
regional assistant secretaries of state, and many of them are
rejected on budget grounds, according to State Department
officials in Republican as well as Democratic administrations.  Also, Rice has been praised for her handling of the 1998
bombings. After those attacks, she took over the State
Department operations center and sent in Marines, closed other
U.S. embassies in  Africa  and mobilized aircraft to ferry out the
injured, Richard A. Clarke, the national counterterrorism
coordinator in the administrations of Presidents Bill Clinton
and George W. Bush, said in an interview this month.  “When she actually has responsibility for security, she
does a spectacular job,” said Clarke, now the chairman of Good
Harbor Consulting in Arlington, Virginia.  Closed Briefing  Today, the Senate Homeland and Government Affairs Committee
turned to other questions about the Benghazi attack in a closed
session with administration officials.  Recommendations in a 2009 report by the State Department’s
inspector general to construct physical barriers to defend U.S.
facilities in violence-prone areas weren’t implemented at the
Benghazi compound, senators said after the four-hour briefing.  “It was really disconcerting, upsetting to see how easily
the terrorists broke through the gates and basically just walked
in and set the facility on fire,” said Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who is the panel’s
chairman.  Slowing Attack  The barriers might have helped, said Collins, the panel’s
senior Republican.  “We can’t be certain they would have protected the
compound completely, but they certainly would have slowed the
ability of the compound to be overrun,” she said.  One focus of the panel’s investigation is on whether the
Defense Department had enough people and equipment near enough
to aid the embassy officials, Lieberman said.  “There has been a significant reduction in our military
presence in the Mediterranean despite the fact we’re seeing
growing instability and violence and increased presence of al-
Qaeda and affiliated groups in northern Africa,” Collins said.  Yesterday’s criticism of Rice from Collins, who votes with
Democrats more often than most Republicans, threatens to
complicate Obama’s decision about a successor to departing
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.  Obama has defended Rice, a confidante since his first run
for president in 2008, when she was his foreign policy adviser.
At a Nov. 14 news conference, the president said his UN envoy
had done “exemplary work” and for senators including  Arizona 
Republican John McCain “to besmirch her reputation is
outrageous.” Yesterday, Obama praised her as “extraordinary”
in remarks to reporters.  Senator Kerry  Having come to Rice’s defense, Obama risks looking weak if
he nominates someone else, such as Massachusetts Democrat John Kerry, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
While Kerry would probably win Senate confirmation, as Collins
said yesterday, his move could give just-defeated Republican
Senator Scott Brown a shot at retaking a Bay State Senate seat.  If Obama nominates Rice and is blocked, he would have
expended considerable political capital for no gain and perhaps
weakened his second-term presidency from the start.  After meeting with Rice on Nov. 27, McCain and two other
Republican senators said their concerns about her flawed account
of the attack in Benghazi had increased. The other two senators
-- Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Kelly Ayotte of New
Hampshire -- said they probably would place a “hold” on a vote
on her nomination if Obama chose her.  Talk Shows  Republicans led by McCain have said Rice misled the public
by saying on five Sunday television talk shows on Sept. 16 that
the Benghazi attack began as a “spontaneous” protest against
an anti-Islamic video that was “hijacked” by militants.  Rice was in  Washington  yesterday and Nov. 27 to try to
assuage their concerns, meeting with six senators with acting
Central Intelligence Agency Director Michael Morell at her side
to answer their questions.  Lieberman, who often sides with McCain on foreign policy,
has defended Rice, saying “it wouldn’t be fair to disqualify
her based on what she said on those Sunday morning shows.”  An administration official who was briefed on the Nov. 27
meetings between Rice and senators said that while the outcome
of the meeting with McCain was disappointing, it wasn’t
unexpected given the senator’s stance against her.  Lieberman breaking ranks with McCain was significant, and
the aim of isolating die-hard opponents was achieved while
showing Rice acted in good faith with the information at her
disposal, said the official, who spoke about the private talks
on condition of anonymity.  Rice’s Statement  Rice issued a statement Nov. 27 saying she didn’t
intentionally provide misleading information during her
television appearances.  “We stressed that neither I nor anyone else in the
administration intended to mislead the American people at any
stage in this process, and the administration updated Congress
and the American people as our assessments evolved,” she said
in the statement.  Intelligence officials have acknowledged that there was no
spontaneous protest. Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper, said Sept. 28 that the
intelligence community had revised its assessment “to reflect
new information indicating that it was a deliberate and
organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists.”  The “talking points” used by Rice in her television
appearances were written after members of Congress requested
unclassified information about the attacks, according to a U.S.
intelligence official who spoke on condition of anonymity. While
never meant to be definitive, the account reflected early
indications of extremist involvement, the official said.  Intelligence officials have said they dropped references to
possible al-Qaeda connections to the attack from that initial
account to protect intelligence sources, not the president’s re-
election campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  