-- Rio Tinto Targets $5 Billion Spending Cuts, Output Lift
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-11-29T07:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rio-tinto-targets-5-billion-in-spending-cuts-production-boost.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-
largest mining company, said it’s targeting savings of $5
billion by the end of 2014, while simultaneously boosting
production at its iron ore, copper and alumina units.  “We are taking further tough action to roll back the
unsustainable cost increases of the past few years,” Tom Albanese, chief executive officer of the London-based company,
said today in a statement. “Our two most challenged businesses
are aluminum and coal, and in particular Australian coal,” he
later told reporters in Sydney.  Rio Tinto plans to cut the $5 billion in operating and
support costs compared with expected costs this year, joining
mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in seeking cost
savings as well as curbing investment on new projects as metal
demand wanes. Rio last month said it’s delaying investment
decisions in commodities such as coal while continuing spending
on its Australian  iron ore  expansion.  “Those two businesses are potentially loss-making where
commodity prices currently are, which is clearly not
sustainable,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1.1
billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset Management Ltd., said by
phone. “Banking on a sharp recovery would be foolish at this
stage so the only thing managements can do is to aggressively
take costs out.”  Rio rose 0.9 percent to A$57.18 at the close of trading in
Sydney as the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index gained 0.7 percent.  Phasing Projects  Australian coal mines are grappling with the dual pressures
of falling prices and a high Australian dollar, rendering their
product less competitive for export. The price of thermal coal,
used to generate electricity, fell to a three-year low this
month, Newcastle coal futures show.  While Rio isn’t ruling out shutting down businesses with
poor  cash flow , the $5 billion cost savings program will likely
focus on continuing operations, Albanese said separately in a
briefing with investors in Sydney. Phasing projects is an option
to achieve the the cost cutting target, he added.  Rio is continuing its review on the Gove bauxite and
alumina operations in  Australia ’s Northern Territory and may
decide to halt the project should it fail to ensure the supply
of cheaper natural gas to power the refinery, Albanese said.  “Ten, 11 years of high commodity prices and focus
exclusively on getting the product out irrespective of what the
cost was, means that there should be plenty of opportunity to
tighten the belt,” said Patkar. “Mine closures would
absolutely be on the agenda. BHP has already done it with a
couple of their coal mines.”  Asset Sales  Rio in October last year said it planned to sell 13
aluminum assets to improve the group’s financial performance.
Aluminum was Rio’s second-biggest unit by sales last year,
generating 18 percent of revenue, while it accounted for 2.7
percent of profit, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Production capacity at iron ore mines, Rio’s most
 profitable unit , in Australia’s Pilbara has increased by 7
million metric tons to 237 million tons, Rio said in the
statement. Planned expansion has been increased 7 million tons
to 360 million tons by 2015. Output of copper and alumina will
also rise as the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine in Mongolia starts
production in the first half of next year and the Yarwun 2
alumina refinery ramps up, Rio said in the statement.  Work at the $10 billion Simandou iron ore project in  Guinea 
is continuing, Albanese told reporters. Simandou, scheduled to
start production in 2015, is a high-grade project that would
benefit the company because grades at ore-rich mines in  South
America  are expected to start falling in coming years, he said.  Profit Drop  Rio, which last year got 44 percent of sales from iron ore,
posted a 22 percent drop in first-half net income after prices
for the material fell along with copper and aluminum. The  price 
of iron ore, the biggest revenue generating unit for both Rio
and BHP, so far this year is about 23 percent lower on average
compared with a year earlier.  The commodity will fetch an average of $125 a metric ton in
the first quarter next year before rising to $132 a ton in the
quarter after that, according to the average of nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. It closed yesterday at $117.90 a ton,
according to data from the Steel Index Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  