-- Rod Stewart Forgets Lovers, Pete Townshend Fumes in Bios
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-11-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rod-stewart-forgets-women-pete-townshend-fumes-in-bios.html
Rod Stewart  has lost track of the
women he’s slept with, but he can recall every car he’s ever
owned.  There’s been a Marcos, a Porsche and many Lamborghinis, he
writes proudly in “ Rod: The Autobiography ” (Crown Archetype,
$27).  Stewart gets credit for being candid, but many of these
stories don’t make him look very good.  The singer, who’s fathered eight children and been married
three times, put his first daughter up for adoption when he was
18. He explains that he didn’t have any money or a regular job.  Eighteen years later, she turned up at his home, along with
a tabloid reporter. Stewart was shocked but agreed to see her --
without the reporter in tow -- and they are now close, he says.  Revelations on the day job are few and far between. Stewart
discloses that he first had an idea of doing an album of
standards way back in 1983 and was advised to put it on ice for
a while. Now his “Great American Songbook” series has made
this past decade his most commercially successful.  Stewart includes photos of his toy train set, saying “a
man should always have a hobby to be well rounded. Don’t
snigger.”  He’s in good company:  Neil Young  also has a mini railroad,
which we learn about in his memoir, “ Waging Heavy Peace ” (Blue
Rider, $30). Young spends a lot of time chronicling his green
obsessions, such as an electric car which caught fire when it
was left plugged in too long while it was still in development.  There is some music here. Young says he has to write when
he’s moved by events, such as the Kent State University
shootings in 1970. He wrote “Ohio” when he heard the news,
recorded it the next day and it was on the radio within a week.  Pete Townshend  The Who’s  Pete Townshend  spends a lot of time in “ Who I
Am ” (Harper, $32.50) trying to explain some Internet browsing
that attracted police attention. He acknowledges registering on
a site that advertised child pornography, but says he was doing
research, pointing out that he was publicly campaigning against
such images in reaction to his unhappy childhood.  He’s an articulate author who doesn’t need a ghost, though
his book took about 16 years to write. For the first time we
learn that his musical inspiration came on a boat trip on the
 River Thames  when he was 11.  He heard “extraordinary music” in his head, with violins,
cellos, horns, harps and voices. It became his “personal
musical ambition” to recreate that “sublime experience.”  Willie Nelson  In “ Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die ” (Morrow, $22.99),
 Willie Nelson  writes of his four marriages and seven children,
including a daughter he had with “an old and dear friend” whom
he didn’t learn about until much later. He even finds space for
a few musical musings: “With me, writing songs is not a choice.
It’s like labor pains, and they have to get out.”  For true musical insights, look to  David Byrne ’s “ How
Music Works ” (McSweeney’s, $32). He draws on his work with
Talking Heads and  Brian Eno , then broadens out to music as heard
anywhere: opera houses, African villages.  Byrne says the way we’re listening to recordings is
changing: “There have never been more opportunities for a
musician to reach an audience.”  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 