-- Rutgers Sells Out Final Home Game With Major Bowl Bid at Stake
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-28T20:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rutgers-sells-out-final-home-game-with-major-bowl-bid-at-stake.html
Rutgers University  sold out tomorrow
night’s final home game of the season against the  University of
Louisville , where the Scarlet Knights can capture the outright
Big East title and their first Bowl Championship Series bid.  It’s the first sellout in Piscataway,  New Jersey , since a
2009 game against  West Virginia University , spokesman Jason Baum
said today in an e-mail.  New York City ’s Empire State Building
will be colored red tomorrow night in honor of the team, which
last week clinched at least a share of its first Big East title.  Kickoff is set for 7:30 p.m. local time at 52,454-seat High
Point Solutions Stadium and will be televised on Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPN. Rutgers coach Kyle Flood called the timeslot “the
‘Monday Night Football’” of the college game.  “Thursday night, you’re the only game in town and
everybody is watching,” Flood told reporters this week. “The
No. 1 TV crew is here, the cameras are there. So it is a little
bit of a different experience for the players when they come
out.”  The Scarlet Knights (9-2 overall, 5-1  Big East ) are a
three-point favorite according to online sports book Bovava.lv,
and would clinch sole possession of the conference title and the
Big East’s automatic BCS bid with a victory. A win for the
Cardinals (9-2, 4-2) would ensure at least a three-way tie for
the league title and position Louisville for a probable BCS bid,
its first since 2007.  Secondary market tickets for the game range from $36 to
$224 on Stubhub.com. Face value was $45 and $55, according to
Baum.  It is the second time the Empire State Building has been
lit for Rutgers football, according to the school’s athletics
page. The tallest completed building in the New York City
skyline was lit for Rutgers’ 28-25 victory over Louisville in
2006, a showdown of two undefeated teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  