-- Rutte Sees Possible Extra Steps to Keep Greece on Track
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-11-29T08:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rutte-sees-possible-extra-steps-to-keep-greece-on-track.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said
Greece may need more financial help to stay in the euro,
retreating from a hard line that included a willingness to
consider the country’s exit from the currency bloc.  Echoing his German allies, Rutte declined to speculate on
Greece leaving the 17-nation euro. “ Wolfgang Schaeuble , the
German finance minister, is entirely right that you have to take
a view on the situation of Greece every couple of years again,
whether we are on track and whether extra steps have to be
taken,” Rutte said in an interview yesterday in The Hague.  Rutte said he opposed granting concessions to Ireland and
Portugal that euro-area finance ministers this week agreed to
give the government in Athens to keep it solvent. He declined to
comment on a potential aid request by  Spain  and ruled out
writing off European taxpayers’ loans to Greece.  “I absolutely believe that investors understand that
Greece is a particularly difficult case,” said Rutte, who spoke
in English. “I understand Ireland and  Portugal  are looking with
keen interest at the Greek package and what that might mean for
their countries.”  Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said Portugal and
Ireland, which are receiving rescue loans, can benefit from the
eased terms on the emergency aid for Greece.  Holding Fast  “I am of the opinion when you make your arrangements and
come to a deal, so you made a deal with Portugal, you made a
deal with Ireland,” said Rutte, who presides over one of the
bloc’s four AAA rated governments. “I am from the  Netherlands 
so that means we like to stick to the rules, and we like to
stick to the deal and we like countries to do what they have
promised.”  Greek bonds rose today, with 10-year yields falling 8 basis
points to 16.32 percent at 10:20 a.m. in  Athens .  Rutte, 45, elected in 2010, won re-election Sept. 12,
avoiding the electoral fate of one-time counterparts such as
 Nicolas Sarkozy ,  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  and  Brian Cowen ,
amid the debt crisis. He has drawn criticism from the opposition
for helping Greece while cutting pensions and health-care
spending. Rutte said in the campaign he would not agree to more
aid for Greece if it cost Dutch taxpayers more money.  On Sept. 4, Rutte said he would block a third package for
Greece and disagreed with the proposition that everything needed
to be done to keep the euro zone from breaking up. “Countries
themselves need to do everything possible to remain in the euro
zone,” Rutte said at the time.  Since then, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has visited
Athens and European policy makers have praised Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras for meeting creditors’ demands.  Greek Aid  In the latest bid to keep the euro intact, euro finance
ministers agreed Nov. 27 to cut the rates on bailout loans,
suspend interest payments for a decade, give Greece more time to
repay and also engineered a Greek bond buyback.  Schaeuble yesterday signaled to German lawmakers that
Greece may need additional help through the European Union
structural fund and further interest-payment reductions as long
as it meets all its obligations under the agreement. The lower
house in Berlin votes on the new deal tomorrow.  Even with those measures, Greece’s debt load, which will
peak at almost twice the size of its economy in 2014, remains
unsustainable, Moody’s Investors Service said today. The chance
of a default is “high,” Moody’s analysts wrote.  Moody’s Call  “Given that around 70 percent of the total debt stock is
held by official creditors, only a reduction in principal on
outstanding official debt would lead to a semblance of
sustainability in Greece’s debt,” the report said.  Euro nations are starting to tally the cost of this week’s
tweaks to the rescue, partly from the  European Central Bank ’s
steering of profit from its Greek bond holdings back to Greece.  Germany ’s forgone profit from future ECB Greek holdings
will total about 2.74 billion euros ($3.5 billion), according to
Schaeuble. The plan may cost the Netherlands approximately 70
million euros a year during the next 14 years, according to
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  “We are losing some of our profit we would have been
making,” Rutte said in the interview. “This was never
intended. We did it to try to help Greece, it was a side
effect.”  Rutte said the finance ministers’ agreement set the stage
for a recovery. “I am a bit more optimistic than you are,” he
said in the interview. “We now have a menu, an approach which
brings the debt of  Greece  back into the realm of what we
anticipated when the second package was installed in February.
So, close to the 120 percent in 2020 and we now have even agreed
to bring it under 110 percent in 2022.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in The Hague at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in The Hague at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  