-- RWE, EON Offshore Wind Projects May Be Unlocked by German Accord
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-11-28T16:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/rwe-eon-offshore-wind-projects-may-be-unlocked-by-german-accord.html
RWE AG (RWE)  and EON SE’s stalled offshore
wind projects may be unlocked by a deal between Germany’s ruling
coalition parties that seeks to spur investment in links to the
electricity grid by reducing risks for network operators.  The agreement to lower a cap on damages grid companies must
pay for delays in connecting offshore turbines will help network
operators raise funds needed to build the links, said Sophia von Waldow, analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. It’s part of an
energy bill that would compensate developers for the delays,
with utilities able to pass on costs exceeding the caps to
consumers through higher power bills.  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , Germany’s third-biggest
utility, this month delayed a decision to invest at least 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion) in a North Sea wind farm because it
wasn’t clear when the project could be connected. Dong Energy
A/S suspended work on Borkum Riffgrund II after failing to get a
date for a connection. EON and RWE have also suffered delays.  “This is great news for the investment security and the
future of offshore wind in  Germany ,” Von Waldow said by phone
from  London . “If this is passed, I expect large developers
including RWE, EnBW and Dong to restart their projects.”  Damages Cap  The coalition agreed to reduce by 82.5 percent a ceiling on
damages after grid operators said insurers wouldn’t cover them
for the risk of delays, halting investment. EON and RWE wouldn’t
invest in future offshore wind until the issue was resolved. The
parliament’s economy committee today endorsed the revised bill
even after the country’s three main opposition parties voted
against it, according to the official HIB newsletter.  “Germany is now much more interesting for large investors
from  Asia  that have already been open to invest,” Von Waldow
said. “It’s bad news for the consumer, who will probably have
to shoulder a greater share of the burden.”  Multibillion-dollar projects have been stalled since TenneT
TSO GmbH, responsible for connections in the  North Sea , said it
was suffering delays of several months in linking to wind farms.  “Legal certainty is needed to make sure that offshore  wind
energy  can move forward,” Ulrike Hoerchens, a spokeswoman for
the company owned by the Dutch state, said today by telephone,
adding the company wants to see the law passed before Christmas.  A group of German municipal utilities known as Trianel GmbH
filed a suit against Tennet last month after their installation
of a transformer station and 40 Areva SA-made turbines was held
up until next year at a planned 200-megawatt North Sea project.  Biggest Utility  For EON, Germany’s biggest utility, the damages issue “is
one of many factors, but definitely not the decisive one, for if
and when we take an  investment decision ,” spokesman Christian Drepper said. RWE officials weren’t immediately able to comment.  “We are certain that the German government will establish
the necessary certainty to the German offshore market,” said
Christoph Mertens, head of engineering at Dong’s German unit.  The company can’t comment on the details of the new draft
until it has seen a copy, Mertens said today by e-mail.  Friederike Eggstein, an EnBW spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment
before the coalition deal becomes law. RWE wasn’t immediately
able to comment on the accord when contacted today by phone.  The coalition agreed yesterday to lower the cap on damages
when grid companies are found negligent to 17.5 million euros
from 100 million euros in an earlier draft energy bill, said
Joachim Pfeiffer, a lawmaker with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
 Christian Democratic Union . Damages may still be as high as 110
million euros should operators act with “gross negligence.”  Germany added 45 megawatts of offshore  wind turbines  in the
first half, less than expected, mainly because of the delays. It
plans 25 gigawatts of sea-based turbines by 2030 as part of the
country’s plans to shift away from nuclear generation.  The draft bill will be debated in the Bundestag, the lower
house of parliament, on Nov. 30, Pfeiffer said. Environment
Minister  Peter Altmaier  said Nov. 23 he sought to pass the bill
by the year-end to send a “signal of optimism” to industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  