-- SAC’s Villhauer Said to Be Head Trader Cited in U.S. Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-11-29T17:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/sac-s-villhauer-said-to-be-head-trader-cited-in-u-s-case.html
Phillipp Villhauer was the head
trader at SAC Capital Advisors LP who allegedly helped the firm
founded by Steven A. Cohen make $276 million on trades that led
to the arrest of an ex-hedge fund manager for insider-trading,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Villhauer is referred to only as the “Head Trader” in a
Securities and Exchange Commission complaint filed Nov. 20 in
 Manhattan  federal court against Mathew Martoma, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.
He is referred to in an FBI complaint filed that same day as the
“Senior Trader.” Martoma denies wrongdoing. Villhauer hasn’t
been charged or sued.  “If this trader is not a cooperator, he is or soon will be
in the government’s crosshairs,” said Andrew Frisch, a New York
attorney and former federal prosecutor who isn’t involved in the
case. “The government will see him as either a potential
cooperator against others or as a worthy target by himself.”  Villhauer didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC, the $14 billion hedge fund founded by Cohen;  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York; and
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, all declined to comment.  The day the SEC sued Martoma, the agency told SAC it may
sue the firm for fraud over the trades, according to three
people familiar with the matter. The SEC’s so-called Wells
notice cited fraud and control-person liability over SAC’s
management of CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, the unit where Martoma
worked, according to one of the people.  Illegal Tips  Martoma, 38, is accused of using illegal tips in 2008 he
gleaned from a University of Michigan neurologist about a
clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s disease drug developed by
Dublin-based  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and  Wyeth LLC (PFE) , now owned by  New York- 
based Pfizer Inc. The doctor, Sidney Gilman, leaked data on the
trial to Martoma, who advised Cohen on whether SAC should buy or
sell Elan and Wyeth shares, the SEC said. Gilman is cooperating
with the probe.  SAC had built a $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth by
July 2008, when Gilman told Martoma that the drug didn’t perform
well in the clinical trial, according to the regulator. On
Sunday, July 20, Martoma and Cohen spoke for 20 minutes,
according to the government.  ‘Begin Selling’  On Monday, July 21, Cohen and Martoma instructed SAC’s
senior trader to “begin selling the Elan position, and to do so
in a way so as to not alert anyone else, inside or outside of
the hedge fund,” according to the FBI complaint filed against
Martoma. Cohen isn’t named in the filing, which refers to him as
the “Hedge Fund Owner,” or the SEC complaint, which calls him
“Investment Advisor A.”  By day’s end, the head trader e-mailed Martoma to say he
sold 1.5 million shares of Elan and “obviously no one knows
except you me and” Cohen, the government said. The head trader
used algorithms, or programs that disguise orders and keep them
from being exploited by faster traders. He also used dark pools,
or exchanges that hide the identity of the buyers and sellers to
execute the trades, according to the SEC.  The next weekend, Cohen received an e-mail from the head
trader saying the firm sold 10.5 million shares of Elan at an
average price of $34.21.  ‘Executed Quietly’  “This was executed quietly and effectively over a 4 day
period through algos and darkpools and booked into two firm
accounts that have very limited viewing access,” according to
the e-mail, the FBI said. “This process clearly stopped leakage
of info from either in [or] outside the firm and in my viewpoint
saved us some slippage.”  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at the Tobin School of
Business at St. John’s University in New York, said Villhauer
may be able to argue he was “completely ignorant of the reasons
behind the trade” and was simply instructed to sell the shares.  Still, that’s “a hard sell to a jury,” if Villhauer is
ever sued by regulators or charged, Sabino said. Jurors may
believe Villhauer asked for the reason behind the trade, Sabino
said.  On Monday, July 28, after selling all of its Elan shares,
SAC shorted about 4.5 million more shares over the next two
days, authorities said. The firm, having sold all of its Wyeth
shares, also shorted about 3.25 million shares of that stock.  Over the preceding week, the firm’s trading of securities
represented 20 percent of the reported Elan trading volume, and
11 percent of the reported trading volume in Wyeth stock.  Trial Results  After the market closed, Elan and Wyeth released the drug
trial results to investors and analysts. By the next day, Elan
shares fell 42 percent and Wyeth shares fell 12 percent.
Analysts cited the fact that patients didn’t improve on the
drug.  As a result, SAC gained profit and averted losses of $220
million on Elan and $56 million on Wyeth, the SEC said.  The following January, Martoma was awarded a bonus of $9.38
million for his work over the previous year, based largely on
the results for Elan and Wyeth, the government said. He received
no bonus for his work in 2009.  By May 5, 2010, the U.S. said an SAC employee recommended
that Martoma be fired after losing money, saying he appeared to
be a “one trick pony with Elan.” He was fired.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-mj-02985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 