-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Fell 0.3% in October
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-28T23:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/sales-of-new-homes-in-u-s-fell-0-3-in-october.html
Builders in the U.S. sold fewer new
homes than forecast in October and purchases were revised down
for the prior month, highlighting the hurdles facing a rebound
in the industry at the heart of the financial crisis.  Sales dropped 0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace
following a 369,000 rate in September that was 20,000 lower than
initially reported, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 390,000 pace.  The report runs counter to recent data showing gains in
residential construction, builder confidence and mortgage
applications that indicate housing is on the verge of
contributing more to economic growth. Easier access to credit
and more employment are still needed to ensure the real-estate
rebound is sustained -- one reason why Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to maintain record stimulus.  “Better job growth is the key factor,” said  Scott Brown ,
chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , who projected a 365,000 rate of sales. “We
really have a lot of ground to make up from the recession.”  Stocks rose, erasing early losses, as lawmakers said they
are optimistic a budget agreement can be reached to avoid
automatic spending cuts and tax increases in 2013. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.8 percent to 1,409.93 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note decreased to 1.63 percent from 1.64 percent late
yesterday.  Survey Results  Home sales  estimates  in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
365,000 to 418,000. September’s reading was revised down by 5.1
percent, almost matching what the Commerce Department says is
the 5 percent average change following the first estimate.  “The new-home sales data are volatile and revision-prone
and we are not changing our view that a modest recovery in home
sales, construction activity, and prices is well under way,”
economists  John Ryding  and Conrad DeQuadros of RDQ Economics in
New York said in a research note.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment  index  has climbed for seven consecutive months to
reach the highest level since May 2006, the group reported last
week. Housing starts rose in October to a four-year high,
according to Commerce Department data issued Nov. 20.  While the Commerce Department said superstorm Sandy had
“minimal” impact on sales last month, the breakdown did show
differences among regions. Purchases surged 62.2 percent in the
Midwest, to the highest level in almost three years, and jumped
8.8 percent in the West to the fastest pace since July 2008.  Northeast Plunges  Home purchases dropped 32.3 percent in the Northeast, the
area most affected by the storm.  “We will continue to use the policy tools that we have to
help support economic recovery,” Bernanke said in a Nov. 15
speech in Atlanta.  While tighter credit rules following the collapse of the
subprime mortgage market were appropriate, “it seems likely at
this point that the pendulum has swung too far the other way,
and that overly tight lending standards may now be preventing
creditworthy borrowers from buying homes, thereby slowing the
revival in housing and impeding the economic recovery,” he
said.  Concern with the pace of economic growth is being echoed by
policy makers overseas. Bank of England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said in an interview yesterday that business confidence
remains vulnerable and officials should keep open the option to
expand stimulus even if its potency is currently diminished.  Jobs Needed  The U.S. housing market would benefit from a bigger pickup
in employment, according to homebuilder  D.R. Horton  Inc. The
 Fort Worth , Texas-based company, which is the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, this month reported fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  “What we’re seeing is improvement off of an extremely low
bottom in the housing market,” William Wheat, chief financial
officer at D.R. Horton, said at a Nov. 15 conference. “We’re
seeing small amounts of job growth right now. We’re going to
need to see more over the long term. Jobs is the No. 1 driver
for housing demand.”  Sales of new homes, tabulated when contracts are signed,
are considered a timelier barometer than purchases of previously
owned dwellings, which are calculated when a contract closes.
Newly constructed houses accounted for 6.7 percent of the
residential market in 2011, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade.  Previously Owned  Previously owned homes  sold at a 4.79 million rate in
October, close to the two-year high 4.83 million pace reached in
August, according to data released last week by the National
Association of Realtors.  With fewer distressed properties on the market, prices have
started to stabilize. Home foreclosures dropped 19.2 percent in
October from a year earlier, according to the RealtyTrac
Foreclosure report. In September, they declined to the lowest
level since July 2007.  Home prices  rose in the year ended in September by the most
since July 2010, a report yesterday showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities climbed 3 percent from
September 2011, after advancing 2 percent in the year to August,
the group said today in New York. Values from July through
September, compared with the same period last year, climbed the
most since the second quarter of 2010.  Residential construction added 0.33 percentage point to a 2
percent increase in third-quarter gross domestic product,
Commerce Department data showed last month. Revised GDP figures
will be released tomorrow.  Mortgage Rates  Cheaper borrowing costs are at the heart of the pickup in
housing demand. The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage was 3.31
percent in the week ended Nov. 21, the lowest on record,
according to data from  Freddie Mac  that dates back to 1971.  The lower rates are helping propel demand with the number
of mortgage applications to purchase a house climbing last week
to the highest level of this year, figures from the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  also showed today.  “We continue to believe the housing market remains on the
path to recovery, and this should provide a meaningful tailwind
to economic activity next year,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said in
a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  