-- Samsung Says IPhones Use Patented Technology in U.K. Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/samsung-says-iphones-use-patented-technology-in-u-k-trial-2-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will argue
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  smartphones use its protected technology without
authorization in a London trial starting today.  Samsung claims Apple infringed patents key to how phones
send and receive information on third-generation mobile
networks. Apple argues the patents aren’t valid and, regardless,
Samsung must license the technology’s use under fair terms if
it’s vital for connecting to modern networks, according to the
iPhone maker’s court filings.  The two companies continue to clash over the intellectual
property behind the $219 billion smartphone market, even after
Apple settled all its lawsuits with  HTC Corp. (2498)  earlier this
month. Samsung is trying to hit back after a California court
ruled in August it had to pay $1.05 billion for copying Apple
products.  The Samsung-Apple patent war is “becoming wider and deeper
than ever before,” Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analyst  Mark Newman  said in a report this month.  The London trial, which deals only with the validity of
Samsung’s patents and whether Apple infringed them, will last
three weeks. Damages or royalties Apple may owe to Samsung won’t
be decided until later.  “We have at all times met our obligations to the fair and
reasonable licensing of our standards patents,” Samsung said in
an e-mailed statement. “However, Apple has refused to negotiate
in good faith, and continues to use our patented technologies
without any license. We will continue to take all appropriate
measures to put an end to Apple’s free-riding.”  Industry Standards  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which makes computer chips for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, has been licensed to use the Samsung
patents, Apple said in its court documents. Apple hasn’t shown
any interest in buying a license to use the technology, Samsung
countered in its court filings.  The trial starts the day after Ericsson AB sued Samsung in
 Texas , claiming the Suwon, South Korea-based company refused to
pay a fair and reasonable rate for using its essential patents.  Under phone industry standards, companies owning the rights
to essential technology must license it to competitors on fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, known as FRAND.  “Determining whether license fees are FRAND is a thorny
issue,” said Andrew Hockley, a London competition lawyer not
involved in the case. “It’s very much on the radar” of
regulators around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  