-- Sany Wind-Farm Company Asks Judge to Consider Obama Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-28T18:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/sany-wind-farm-company-asks-judge-to-consider-obama-suit.html
An affiliate of  Sany Group Co. ,
 China ’s biggest machinery maker, urged a U.S. judge to consider
its lawsuit challenging President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
block a corporate transaction on national security grounds.  Lawyers for Ralls Corp. told U.S. District Judge Amy Berman
Jackson during a hearing today that Obama violated the company’s
constitutional rights by shutting down a planned Oregon wind-
farm project without explanation or any opportunity to seek to
change the president’s mind.  “Out of the blue we get an order saying ‘national
security’,”  Viet Dinh , a lawyer for Ralls, said during today’s
two hour argument in Washington. “We do not know whether it’s
locational or whether it’s equipment related or the height of
the tower. We’ve been asked to disprove a negative in an entire
universe of negatives.”  The  Justice Department  said the lawsuit must be dismissed,
arguing the Defense Production Act bars judicial review of
presidential orders suspending or prohibiting an acquisition of
a U.S. business by a foreign person.  The statute “clearly states that findings and actions are
precluded from judicial review,” Joel McElvain, a Justice
Department lawyer, told Jackson, who didn’t rule on the
government’s request.  Sany Executives  Ralls, based in  Delaware , is “actually controlled” by
Sany, even though the listed legal owners are two of the group’s
executives, Zhou Qing, Sany’s in-house lawyer, said in an Oct. 3
telephone interview.  Obama’s Sept. 28 order requiring Ralls to divest the wind-
farm assets was the first time in 22 years a president has
blocked a transaction on national security grounds. Obama was
added as a defendant to a lawsuit filed Sept. 12 that challenged
an earlier ruling by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the
U.S., known as CFIUS, blocking the project.  Ralls was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, three
of which are near, and one is within, restricted Navy airspace,
the Treasury Department, which heads CFIUS, said Sept. 28.  Ralls said Obama’s decision could cost the company
$20 million in lost design and construction costs. It will also
miss out on $25 million in federal investment tax incentives if
the wind farms aren’t in service by Dec. 31, according to a
court filing.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 