-- Cheaper, Better Air Traffic Control
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-28T22:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/save-air-traffic-control-by-closing-underused-faa-towers.html
As U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
lawmakers scavenge for mutually acceptable spending cuts in
order to strike a budget deal by Jan. 1, here’s an easy one: The
$10 million a year wasted on overstaffed and unneeded Federal
Aviation Administration facilities.  A Bloomberg News investigation this month found that one-
third of FAA-staffed airport towers and radar rooms don’t handle
enough traffic to justify  round-the-clock operations . They
should be closed at night.  FAA guidelines allow a tower or radar room to be closed if
flight volume is less than four landings or takeoffs an hour for
five straight hours. At such low-traffic airports -- think
Ypsilanti,  Michigan , or Huntington,  West Virginia  -- pilots can
land safely without tower assistance. In an  internal FAA survey 
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the agency
identified 102 towers and local radar rooms -- out of 294 total
-- that meet the criterion for partial closings yet operate
round-the-clock regardless.  The wasteful staffing has been compounded by an order last
year from Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood requiring each
tower to have at least two controllers on overnight duty.
LaHood’s order was a knee-jerk response to reports of sleeping
air-traffic controllers. The Bloomberg investigation concluded
that 23 of 27 facilities ordered to add a second overnight
controller didn’t have enough traffic to justify nighttime
operations at all.  Congressional Protection  Why such waste? After all, $10 million is still real money,
and frittering it away hardly breeds confidence in the FAA.
Lawmakers of both parties, defending local interests, jobs and
unions, have systematically blocked the FAA’s requests to close
towers or merge radar rooms. At least 50 U.S. airports each
handled more than 2,000 airline flights in 2010 without any
tower at all.  Worse, the zombie towers divert resources from the FAA’s
plans for a $42 billion overhaul of U.S. air-traffic control
that would switch from the current radar-based system to a
satellite-controlled one known as  NextGen . That spending is
already imperiled by last year’s sequestration agreement -- the
spending cut component of the so-called fiscal cliff -- under
which the FAA’s $15.9 billion budget would be cut by $1 billion
next year unless Congress and the Obama administration reach a
deal to avoid it.  Legislation  passed in February creates the air-traffic
equivalent of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment
Commission, a process for designating which facilities should be
closed, merged or relocated without political interference. But
the legislation, which requires the assent of both industry and
labor, shows no sign of achieving its goal anytime soon.  In the long term, lawmakers should consider broader
changes. One good place to look for ideas is the successful
private-public air-traffic systems in  Australia ,  Canada  and the
U.K.  NATS Holdings Ltd. , which operates at 15 airports in the
U.K. and at Gibraltar, is 49 percent government-owned, with
stakes held by a consortium of U.K. airlines, employees and a
private airport operator. Over the past decade, it has
consolidated resources based on need and efficiency. By setting
local politics aside, the system has even managed to post
profits. That may be too much to expect for the vastly larger
FAA. But the agency can certainly do better than to throw money
away.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  global imbalances will
return  if governments can’t reform; Caroline Baum wonders why
we’re not  talking about entitlement reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on
the  plot to stop Susan Rice ; Ezra Klein on  using the fiscal
cliff as an opportunity ; Jonathan Mahler on  Ohio State’s perfect
season  that doesn’t count; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada’s
immigration quotas would work in the U.S.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 