-- Schaeuble Signals Greece May Need More as Bild Slams Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-28T16:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/schaeuble-signals-greece-may-need-more-help-as-bild-slams-deal.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signaled that Greece may need additional help as the
country’s most-read newspaper slammed a rescue accord as a
“never-ending story” financed by German taxpayers.  Euro-area governments may provide additional funding
through the European Union structural fund and further interest-
payment reduction as long as Greece meets all its obligations
under the agreement, Schaeuble wrote in a letter to German
lawmakers obtained by  Bloomberg News . Legislators in the lower
house, or Bundestag, will vote on the measure on Nov. 30.  They may confront increased public resistance as Bild-
Zeitung, a tabloid that’s called in the past for Greece’s exit
from the currency union, pilloried yesterday’s agreement in
Brussels to ease terms on emergency aid for Greece.  “The Greek patient is beyond help,”  Bild said  in a
commentary, adding that the ever-rising costs were falling on
German taxpayers. “One hardly needs to imagine the worst
scenario: the patient dies, the paramedic goes bust.”  German lawmakers are set to approve the new terms of aid
for Greece, where the  European debt crisis  originated over three
years ago. Euro-area finance ministers also agreed to scale back
debt by engineering a Greek bond buyback.  Cut Debt  The yet-to-be-approved additional measures are to slice off
2.7 percentage points of Greece’s debt as measured against gross
domestic product by 2020, according to a table provided in
Schaeuble’s letter. That will go toward scaling back the
country’s debt load to 124 percent of GDP in eight years from
the 144 percent projected if policy makers don’t act.  That’s a smaller portion than the buyback, which accounts
for 11 percentage points -- more than half -- of the drop, the
letter shows. Having failed to agree on debt relief, a move that
would have fallen on contributing nations’ taxpayers, euro
ministers will rely on the more complicated and risky buyback.  “We’re relatively confident that it can work,” Schaeuble
told reporters yesterday in Berlin. If the buyback fails, “the
troika will have to take other measures and tackle the issue in
another way,” he said.  Meanwhile,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she was “very
optimistic” that European leaders will resolve the crisis, if
it stumbles amid setbacks and progress is slow.  ‘Upward Trajectory’  “I think we have good chances to get beyond the phase
where you wake up every morning and ask how is this going to go
on,” Merkel told a regional-development conference in
Regensburg. “Now I think we’re more on the upward trajectory.”  She spoke as euro nations began to tally the cost of the
rescue, partly from the  European Central Bank ’s steering of
profit from its Greek bond holdings back to Greece.  Germany ’s forgone profit from future ECB Greek holdings
will total about 2.74 billion euros ($3.5 billion), according to
Schaeuble.  Spain  will have an impact of 1.7 billion euros
through 2020, the newspaper ABC reported, citing Economy
Ministry officials. The newspaper L’Echo reported that forgone
profit and reduced interest rates will cost Belgium 90 million
euros next year.  The plan may cost the  Netherlands  approximately 70 million
euros each year during the next 14 years, Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem said yesterday.  Reduced Fear  National central banks could deliver a 3.7 billion-euro
reduction in Greece’s financing needs through 2014 by rolling
over the Greek bonds in their investment portfolios, Schaeuble’s
letter said. Such a decision would rest with central bankers.  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters in
 Athens  today that the debt buyback is a significant part of the
accord and the reduced fear of his country exiting the euro is
leading to a return of deposits to  Greece . Stournaras said a
Greek debt buyback announcement will be made next week and that
it will be voluntary and open to everyone.  Lawmakers from Merkel’s coalition and two of three
opposition parties voiced approval of the deal as the Bundestag
prepared to vote by the end of the week, helping Greece past one
of  Europe ’s biggest political hurdles.  “We’ve always gotten a majority in the past and I don’t
think that will change,” Christian Democratic Union
parliamentarian Michael Grosse-Broemer, who’s responsible for
gathering his party’s votes, told reporters in Berlin yesterday.
“It’s good that there was an agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  