-- Selling U.S. Treasuries Leads Standard Life to Australia
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-28T11:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/selling-u-s-treasuries-leads-standard-life-to-australian-bonds.html
Edinburgh’s largest fund company
sold Treasuries because it’s confident that politicians will
find a budget compromise and avert another recession while the
Federal Reserve stokes U.S. economic growth.  Standard Life Investments instead is favoring  Australia ’s
AAA-rated bonds due to the country’s tightening fiscal policy,
prospects for lower interest rates and “decent credit
worthiness,” said Sebastian Mackay, an investment director for
fixed income. The firm also bought German bonds as  Europe  faces
a “prolonged” period of low growth and interest rates.  U.S. Treasuries have beaten both German bunds and
Australian bonds since President  Barack Obama  won re-election on
Nov. 6 as investors opted for a safer home for their money on
concern about the so-called fiscal cliff, or $607 billion of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts starting in January.
Obama, a Democrat, proposed cutting the deficit by reducing
spending and allowing predecessor George W. Bush’s tax cuts for
high-income earners to lapse. Republicans oppose tax increases.  “We’re at the more relaxed end of the spectrum on the
fiscal negotiations, given the Democrats overriding motive to
avoid the cliff and the Republicans’ motive to maintain the Bush
tax cuts,” Mackay said in an interview. “We are not positive
on Treasuries at this juncture.”  Shifting Returns  The U.S. economy will advance by 2 percent in 2013,
compared with an average 1.26 percent for the Group of 10
nations, according to Bloomberg surveys of economies. Over the
course of 2014, the U.S. will exceed the G-10 average by 0.82
percent points, the surveys show.  Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent, while German
government debt has lost 0.1 percent since Nov. 6 and Australian
government bonds handed investors a 0.3 percent loss, according
to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  U.S. government bonds may underperform as monetary stimulus
succeeds in restoring economic growth in the U.S., Mackay said
in the interview on Nov. 21.  Within the Treasury market, Standard Life is switching from
30-year bonds to those maturing in 10 years because the so-
called yield curve will steepen as the impact of the Fed’s
Operation Twist diminishes, according to Mackay.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York started undertaking
the $667 billion Operation Twist in October 2011, selling short-
term securities and swapping them for longer-term debt in an
attempt to keep borrowing costs low and support growth.  Managing Bonds  The program is scheduled for completion by year-end. The
policy helped push the 10-year Treasury yield down to 1.62
percent at 6:44 a.m. New York time, from 1.92 percent on Sept.
30, 2011, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
Standard Life Investments managed 163.4 billion pounds ($261
billion) in assets at the end of the third quarter.  Mackay is part of a team that oversees about $100 billion
of global fixed income. The 1.1 billion-pound Standard Life
 Global Index-Linked Bond Fund  gained 3.35 percent this year
compared with an average return of 6.96 percent for its peer
group, ranking it 78th out of 102 funds, according to data
compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The 98 million-pound  U.K. Gilt Fund  managed by Mackay since
Feb. 1 returned 1.14 percent this year, ranking it 26th of 31
similar funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. The average return was
1.63 percent, data compiled by the research firm show.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net  