-- Sembcorp Mulls Acquisitions in Migration to City: Southeast Asia
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-11-29T10:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/sembcorp-mulls-acquisitions-in-migration-to-city-southeast-asia.html
Sembcorp Industries Ltd. (SCI) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest utilities company, plans to acquire and develop
new plants as Asia’s population increasingly migrates to cities,
driving demand for resources.  The Singapore-based company is considering the acquisition
of distressed assets in  India  and has dispatched a team to seek
investments in Myanmar, Chief Executive Officer Tang Kin Fei
said in a Nov. 27 interview at its headquarters. Sembcorp also
is seeking opportunities in  Indonesia , he said.  “We’re still very bullish,” said Tang, 61. “Over a
longer period of time, we still see increasing demand for
development in the Asian region. With this growth and population
moving from rural areas to new urbanization there is demand for
power and water.”  The projects will help Sembcorp take advantage of faster
growth in  emerging markets  as it faces more competition in
Singapore, where it gets 68 percent of its profit from utilities.
It aims to boost its energy output by 72 percent in the next
three to four years, and water production by 37 percent in four
to six years, Tang said.  The  shares  climbed 3.6 percent to S$5.15 at the close in
Singapore, the highest since Nov. 5. The stock has risen 28
percent this year, outpacing the 15 percent gain in the
Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   The company has moved into Oman through a venture and
expanded into renewable energy with the acquisition of a stake
in a wind farm in  China .  Sembcorp is developing a coal-fired power plant in India
under a partnership, and may expand its utilities business in
the country by adding more capacity or acquire distressed assets,
Tang said, declining to give further details.  Myanmar Townships  In Myanmar, Tang said he’s keen on developing so-called
townships, where Sembcorp could build industrial parks and
apartments, before branching out to the supply of power and
water. “Although there’s a lot of demand there, there are not a
lot of elements in place,” he said.  In Singapore, Sembcorp is building its second  combined-
cycle gas turbine cogeneration plant  to increase its power
capacity to 1,215 megawatts from 815 megawatts. The facility,
which could produce 400 tons per hour of steam, will start
operations at the end of 2013, the company said.  Sembcorp also started operations on its biggest industrial
wastewater treatment plant in  Singapore  to treat as much as
9,600 cubic meters of water a day, it said.  Emerging Markets  “For utilities, you have to look at the long-term
horizon,” said Yeak Chee Keong, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng
Research Pte in Singapore, who rates the stock a buy.
“Contribution to earnings can be 20 to 30 years. There will be
demand in the emerging markets and this could be a good time to
invest.”  Net income  from the utilities business rose by 36 percent
to S$293.5 million ($240 million) in the first nine months of
this year, accounting for 53 percent of the company’s profit,
the company said Nov. 9. The gains helped pare a decline in the
group’s profit to 2 percent for the period, after lower
contributions from its  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  unit, which operates
the world’s second-biggest oil-rig builder.  The subsidiary said in an e-mailed statement today it won
an order from Sete Brasil Participacoes SA to build a drill ship
for $806.4 million.  The company also expects margins from its utilities
business in Singapore to face pressure next year with new power
suppliers in the market, Tang said, adding that he still
predicts “decent spreads” as his competitors have a higher
debt burden with newer plants.  New Competitors  Singapore’s power supply is expected to grow as much as 30
percent next year as new projects start operations, which may
narrow margins for companies such as Sembcorp, according to DBS
Vickers Securities in Singapore.  Tuas Power Ltd. ,  Keppel Corp. (KEP) 
and GMR Infrastructure Ltd. are expected add capacity next year,
the brokerage said earlier this month.  Sembcorp also supports the liberalization of power supply
to homes in Singapore, Tang said, as it’s in a “good position”
with a ready customer base through its waste-collection
operation in the city state.  “Our focus for utilities business is still predominantly
in the areas we are in,” Tang said. “As long as there’s global
growth and demand, I have growth opportunities for us. We are
good hunters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  