-- Shuster Won’t Rule Out Raising Gasoline Tax for Roads
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-11-28T23:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/shuster-won-t-rule-out-raising-gasoline-tax-for-roads.html
Increasing the U.S. gasoline tax and
instituting a levy based on miles driven should be options to
pay for highway spending as cars become more fuel efficient,
said Representative Bill Shuster, who will be the top House
member overseeing federal transportation policy.  “I’m not wedded to any options,” Shuster, a Pennsylvania
Republican, told reporters today in  Washington . “We need to
explore them all.”  Republican leadership chose Shuster today to be the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee chairman in the next
session of Congress, which begins in January.  The surface transportation bill passed by Congress in June
kept the U.S. gasoline tax at 18.4 cents a gallon, where it’s
been since 1993, after Republican leaders and President  Barack Obama  ruled out an increase. The bill called for spending $18.8
billion over two years above the amount raised by the gasoline
tax, with the rest coming from general revenue.  Shuster said a vehicle-miles tax, raising the gasoline tax,
tolling and public-private partnerships should be among options
Congress considers to close the gap between the amount it needs
for highway and transit spending and the money available.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, a former
Republican House member from  Illinois , suggested in 2009 after
he assumed his post that a vehicle-miles tax should be an
option. Then-White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs , refuting
LaHood’s suggestion, said such a system “will not be the policy
of the Obama administration.”  A transportation appropriations amendment adopted by the
Republican-controlled House in June forbid the department from
even studying a vehicle-miles tax.  VMT Hurdles  Such a tax system may be a “long-term” solution, Shuster
said today, without defining his time frame. The concept has
logistical hurdles such as how information about miles driven
would be collected and how payment would be made, he said.  Oregon has tested a VMT, and another test is under way at
the  University of Iowa  paid for with U.S. dollars. A VMT, in
addition to not declining as fuel economy improves, would give
the government a way to tax driving of electric vehicles that
don’t have gasoline engines, according to a 2011 Bloomberg
Government study.  The gasoline tax was last raised in 1993 as part of a
deficit-reduction deal. Because it isn’t indexed for inflation,
the amount collected has decreased relative to costs for the
highway and transit projects it funds. Congress has bailed out
the highway  trust fund  with general fund money so it can meet
its obligations.  The trust fund hasn’t covered expenses since 2009,
according to the Bloomberg Government study.  The trust fund collected $36.9 billion in taxes and
interest in 2011, while it sent out $44.3 billion in payments,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . Of the outlays,
$36.7 billion went to highways and $7.6 billion to mass transit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  