-- Singapore’s Lee Says Population, Property Among Challenges Faced
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-28T11:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/singapore-s-lee-says-population-property-among-challenges-faced.html
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong comments on the country’s birth rate, property market,
monetary policy and economy. He also spoke on the rising
political opposition and his leadership in a Nov. 26 interview
in his office in Singapore.  On 2013 agenda and challenges:  “The immediate issue which we are focused on is the
question of demographics,  population growth , connected to that
immigration, connected to that economic growth. And we’ve been
having a discussion over the last few months, nationally. We put
up a series of papers, we’ve set out the issues, and we’re going
to have a debate in parliament, to bring it all together in
January.  “It’s a big issue. It’s not something which we are going
to be able to solve one-off, but we’ll be dealing with it over
the next ten years, and longer. Because we’re not producing
enough babies, we need to top up with immigration. We must
strike the right balance.  “We must maintain economic growth. So that’s a complicated
set of trade-offs.”  On raising the birth rate:  “Well, it’s an issue which many countries are dealing with.
None of them have come to any very satisfactory solution because
the trade-offs are difficult ones. All the developed countries
have a problem of not having enough babies. The Scandinavians
and Northern Europeans have done better than most in persuading
people to have more kids and creating the conditions where
people want to have more kids. Some lessons to learn from them,
but our society is quite different from them.  “Then there’s a question of how you manage inflows and
integrate them into your society. And there we’re looking at
cities which have got very diverse populations like  New York .
But then they are cities, they are not countries, and we are a
country and you need not just economic vitality but also a
certain sense of cohesion and nationhood and that’s a big
challenge.  “We have extended maternity leave. The government has
taken on the burden so it’s not on the employers. The government
pays for part of it. The question is how to persuade our men to
carry more of the responsibility of bringing up young children.
One of the ideas being tossed around is to have not just
maternity leave but parenthood leave, and some of it can be
taken by the father. We have put it off for a long time because
we felt that this was an Asian society and attitudes haven’t
shifted that far, but attitudes are shifting, norms are shifting,
women are working and men have to do more of the burden,
including changing nappies.”  On the  property market :  “It is certainly something on Singaporeans’ minds. We have
had a property boom, almost a bubble. It’s because liquidity is
sloshing around worldwide and real  interest rates  are negative.
People are looking for opportunities to invest their money and
there aren’t a lot of exciting opportunities where you see
growth and possible new breakthroughs right now. So that’s a
difficult problem for us on the overall property market. In the
public housing market with new flats, we have control and we can
build more and we can make them available and affordable. It
takes a while but it can be done.”  On interest rates and currency regime:  “We do not control our own interest rates because we are
such an open economy, we have no exchange controls, and our
monetary policy is centered on the  exchange rate . We cannot
control everything.  “I don’t think we would be able” to move to an interest-
rate regime from using the currency as the main policy tool, Lee
said.  “It would be very difficult. Our economy is so open, we
are a financial center. For us to sustain high interest rates at
a time where interest rates worldwide are at almost zero, I
think is very hard. We’d be flooded with money.”  On political opposition gaining support:  “It’s what you would expect to happen as we have a change
of generations amongst the population. You are in a new age,
much more open and inter-connected, and social media have had an
impact here as in many other countries. And we have to be
prepared to contest and win in that environment. It’s less
orderly, less predictable but I think generally speaking,
Singaporeans are sensible and they will do the right thing.  “The question is in that environment, can we still get
governments which take a long-term perspective beyond the
immediate election, and do things which you need to do even
though it might cost you over a three, five-year period? That is
the challenge we face.  “The new generation is different. They’ve grown up in
quite a different environment, you see that happening everywhere.
We have to have people who are of that generation and in sync
with that generation. We all try to do that, but it helps if you
also have young people on the team who are of that generation.
The identification is easier and the effort is more natural.”  On what the most important thing for the nation is as it moves
beyond former Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew’s guiding voice:  “You have to be able to institutionalize what we have
achieved, to remain exceptional, to aim for excellence and to be
able to act in our collective interest over a long period of
time. That’s a very demanding set of requirements. You are
talking about a new generation of leaders, a new generation of
Singaporeans, a new world and a very educated English-speaking
population for whom options are available everywhere,
particularly for the most talented. And to keep a place which is
outstanding in that environment is not easy.”  On  Singapore ’s casinos:  “Economically, it’s been a great success. We were lucky
with their timing. They started early enough so that when the
financial crisis came they didn’t stop it and when it was
completed, the financial crisis had gone and they were ready to
catch the wind. They made very good business over the last
couple of years. This year a bit slower but they will still do
well. It makes a contribution of 1.5 to 2 percent of GDP and
provides more than 20,000 jobs directly, plus 40,000 jobs
indirectly. And a lot of those are Singaporean jobs. So
economically, it’s been a good thing.  “Socially, the impact has been about what we expected it
to be. There has not been a drastic change in habits, people who
have gambled now gamble in the casino, they gamble a bit less in
other ways, in horse racing, jackpot machines or on  cruise ships .
But we have to wait and see because the social impact is not
something which happens quickly, it accumulates over time. We
will not know yet.  “But I think we did the right thing. I don’t think the
people who were against it have fundamentally changed their
minds because their objections are in principle, they think
gambling is no good and they would rather it not happen. But our
view is it is going to happen, so let it happen in a controlled
and productive way.  “Gambling is not just a reality in the world, it’s a
reality in Singapore. Singaporeans do gamble, we do have other
legitimate avenues in Singapore. There’s also some underground
gambling. There are avenues in our neighboring countries. There
are avenues on the high seas which are very close by. So better
have it onshore, where we can keep an eye on what’s happening,
and where we can derive some revenue and do some good work with
it.  “I acknowledge that from a moral point of view, if you
don’t keep it under control, you’re going to have a big problem,
not just for the individual but for the families and the
children. So we’ve put more resources into dealing with problem
gambling. You can have exclusion orders, your family can get an
exclusion order on you if you don’t put one on yourself. We’ve
now put in more safeguards so that if it looks like you’re there
too many times a month -- then some firebreaks have to trigger
and you have to be counseled and maybe there’ll be an exclusion
order on you. So we can impose safeguards but I think it is not
realistic to say we will just say no.”  On his contribution as a leader:  “I don’t think we should give ourselves report cards. We
try our best to keep Singapore working because that is in itself
a considerable achievement and to do better than we used to do.
There will be places where you will have to make discontinuous
changes. We try and do that in a way which people can accept and
which eventually they will feel, yes we did the right thing. You
cannot come to a verdict yet because these are long term issues
-- talking about population, talking about immigration, whether
it works or not. You will only know after a generation, but you
have to think about them now.”  On what gives him satisfaction as a leader:  “First of all, we’ve been able to keep the economy growing
and lives improving for most Singaporeans at a time of
considerable uncertainty. We came through the financial crisis
with some people perhaps not even noticing that there was a
crisis because we took the right measures and our timing was
lucky and we got through mostly unscathed. It’s good luck but I
think it’s also a good team.  “We have been working in a very focused way on education
to make sure that the next generation has better opportunities
than the present generation. I think we can say that we probably
have one of the best systems around in  Asia  although many
parents and pupils think there is too much pressure. But the
system works, they come out and find jobs, and they have choices.  “I don’t know whether we should consider this an
achievement or not, but the people who graduate feel that they
have made it through their own effort and not because of the
government. That sense of self-reliance is a good thing but at
the same time, it’s also a challenge because if they feel
they’ve done it all by themselves, they may not feel they owe
the society as much as they should.  “In politics, you don’t look for gratitude. You are trying
to create a sense of responsibility, of obligation, that we
belong to this system, it nurtured us and we owe it something
back.”  On what he would do differently:  “I think we would have started earlier registering with
people how quickly the world is going to change on them and what
a big problem we are going to have with population. It’s always
been sort of there in the public discourse but not something
which we have succeeded in bringing to the forefront of people’s
attention, to say: look, if we don’t do something in 20 years’
time, the population is going to have an average age 60, say,
and this is going to be a retirement home and not a vibrant city.
And that’s going to be a very different Singapore. We have to
keep this a vibrant city, even when you’re old, we want young
people around so that you can grow old happily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  