-- Sirius XM Subscribers Seek to Overturn ‘Unfair’ Settlement
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-28T17:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/sirius-xm-subscribers-seek-to-overturn-unfair-settlement-1-.html
Some satellite radio subscribers
asked an appeals court to overturn a class-action settlement
between  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  and its customers, claiming that
the class won too little while lawyers were awarded too much.  Attorneys for dissenting members of the class argued before
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan today, seeking the
rejection of a lower court’s approval of the settlement valued
at $180 million. The judges said they would rule later.  “This settlement has no meaningful value,” Paul
Rothstein, a lawyer for the dissenting members, told the three
appeals judges.  Subscribers sued Sirius XM Radio in 2009, claiming that it
violated antitrust law when it raised prices after Sirius
Satellite Radio acquired its only competitor, XM Satellite
Radio, in 2008. They said Sirius broke promises it made in order
to win merger approval from the Federal Communications
Commission.  Sirius XM argued that the price increases were justified to
cover higher costs.  In August 2011 Sirius XM won approval of the settlement
from U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan  before a trial
was to take place. The settlement provided that the subscription
price remained unchanged for a five-month period ended Dec. 31,
2011, and subscribers who canceled their plans could reconnect
without a fee. The deal was valued at $180 million, although no
subscriber received money.  Lawyers’ Fees  The lawyers who represented the class received $13 million
in fees in a “flagrantly unfair settlement,” opposing class
members said in a brief. “The award of attorneys’ fees should
be reversed,” they added.  The $180 million figure was “pulled out of the air” and
that $13 million should be distributed to class members,
Rothstein told the judges today.  Dissenting class members, which include the investment
adviser Asset Strategies Inc., also said that “the $180 million
figure put forth and accepted by the district court as the
settlement value is grossly inflated.”  James Sabella, a lawyer for the class, said the
$180 million was based on what subscribers would have paid
during the five-month price freeze.  “They really just don’t want the lawyers to be paid,”
Sabella said to the judge today about the dissenting class
members.  ‘Expensive’ Trial  Those who accepted the settlement argued in their brief
that there were only 85 objectors out of a class of
15.7 million members.  “A long and expensive trial would have been necessary,”
class members said in a brief, and winning the case would have
been difficult because the U.S. Justice Department had concluded
that the merger wasn’t likely to harm competition.  “Judge Baer was thinking a little something was better
than nothing,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin today told a
lawyer for the objectors, noting that two federal agencies had
agreed the merger was fair. “If it had gone to trial, the most
likely result at the end would be zero. How was there an abuse
of discretion when there was a likelihood, a significant chance,
of a recovery of zero?”  Sirius XM, based in  New York , argued in its brief that the
objectors hadn’t sought to put the settlement on hold pending
the outcome of the appeal and the price freeze went into effect.  In January 2012 Sirius XM raised its basic monthly
subscription price to $14.49 from $12.95. The company said it
had 23.4 million subscribers at the end of September. Sirius XM
broadcasts music and sporting events and talk shows, including
one hosted by  Howard Stern .  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 11-3696, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-
court case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 09-10035, U.S.
District Court, District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 