-- Slovenia Proposes Tighter Rules for Banks to Ease Plight
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-28T15:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/slovenia-proposes-tighter-rules-for-banks-to-ease-plight.html
Slovenia may tighten supervision of
banks to improve management and ease their capital plight.  The government will send lawmakers proposals for revised
regulations that give the central bank greater oversight over
banks, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic told reporters in
Ljubljana today.  “The new legislation will create a new system to solve
problems in the banking industry due to their limited access to
funding and especially to meet  capital requirements  from the
central bank and the European Banking Authority,” Sustersic
said.  The proposed changes would allow  Banka Slovenije , led by
Governor Marko Kranjec, to block lenders from selling assets or
acquiring additional ones, demand organizational restructurings,
remove board members and order measures to improve the banks’
stability, Sustersic said.  Investor concern has increased over Slovenia’s ailing
state-owned banks amid speculation the Adriatic nation may ask
for an international rescue package to prop up the financial
industry.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d. and Abanka Vipa, the three biggest banks by assets, are
seeking fresh funding to bolster their capital after it was
eroded by a surge in bad loans as Slovenia enters its second
recession in three years.  The new legislation will also enable the government to
manage its holdings in banks without being forced to announce a
takeover, Sustersic said.  Voting Rights  “Now we have the situation that the state’s voting rights
have been suspended at  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor even though
the lender needs fresh capital,” Sustersic said. “New
legislation will give us more time to sort out the ownership
structure.”  The markets securities agency in Ljubljana suspended the
state and its agencies’ voting rights in Nova Kreditna in
September because their holding surpassed the 33 percent
threshold. According to legislation, the company or the state
that crosses that mark must announce a takeover bid for the
remaining shares of a company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  