-- SNB’s Jordan Says High Swiss Franc Burdens Many Companies
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/snb-s-jordan-says-high-swiss-franc-burdens-many-companies.html
Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said the franc remains high and weighs on companies in
 Switzerland .  “The franc at its current level still has a high value,”
Jordan said in Bern late yesterday. “This burdens a lot of
companies -- especially in a phase of moderate global economic
growth.”  The SNB, which introduced a minimum exchange rate of 1.20
francs per euro in September 2011, has piled up foreign-currency
reserves worth 424 billion francs ($454 billion) defending that
ceiling. The SNB has enforced this franc cap “with
determination and is prepared to buy foreign currency in
unlimited quantities,” Jordan said yesterday.  “The franc is seen as a safe harbor in the storm,” he
said, adding that the minimum exchange rate has shielded
Switzerland from “major damage” and remains the right and
necessary measure for the SNB to fulfill its mandate of  price
stability .  The franc appreciated 0.1 percent yesterday to 1.20302 per
euro, the strongest level since Sept. 5.  Still, “the minimum rate is a response to exceptional
circumstances and is not a remedy for problems of any kind or an
instrument to fine-tune the economy,” Jordan said.  ‘Substantial Risks’  The expansion of the SNB’s balance sheet, which is five
times the size it was in June 2007, has created “substantial
risks,” he said. “We have to expect that because of the new
size and structure of the balance sheet, fluctuations in value
may be much greater in the future than they have been in the
past.”  At the same time, the idea of creating a sovereign wealth
fund for managing the SNB’s currency reserves isn’t ideal as it
“would not facilitate monetary policy with regard to the
enforcement of the minimum  exchange rate ,” he said.  “The current size and composition of the central bank
balance sheet are a direct reflection of monetary policy,”
Jordan said. “If limitations were placed on the SNB balance
sheet, its room for maneuver in the monetary-policy domain would
be restricted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  