-- SNC-Lavalin Ex-CEO Duhaime Arrested on Fraud Charge
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-28T22:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/snc-lavalin-ex-ceo-duhaime-arrested-on-fraud-charge.html
Former  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Duhaime was arrested today, eight
months after retiring amid a corruption scandal at  Canada ’s
largest construction and engineering company.  Charges include fraud, fraud conspiracy and forgery, Anne-
Frederick Laurence, a spokeswoman for the Quebec anti-corruption
unit, said in a telephone interview today. SNC-Lavalin’s former
executive vice president, Riadh Ben Aissa, is facing the same
accusations, police said.  SNC-Lavalin dropped 2.3 percent to C$39.99 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. About  17 percent  of the stock’s value has been erased
since Feb. 27, the day before the company disclosed a probe of
inaccurate documentation of payments by its construction unit.  “The market has to digest this new information,” Trevor Johnson, a Toronto-based analyst at National Bank Financial,
said of Duhaime’s arrest. “It’s hard to quantify the
overhang.”  A company spokeswoman, Leslie Quinton, said SNC-Lavalin has
voluntarily turned information over to local and other
authorities and will continue to cooperate.  “We are unequivocal that no unethical behavior or illegal
acts must ever be tolerated,” Quinton said in an e-mailed
statement. “Anyone found to have committed any wrongdoing in
connection should be brought to justice.”  Payment Bookings  SNC-Lavalin said March 26 -- the day Duhaime’s departure
was announced -- that the probe had found $56 million in
expenses, apparently related to the hiring of agents,
incorrectly booked in the two years through 2011. The CEO failed
to comply with the company’s code of ethics in approving some
payments, the company said then.  Ben Aissa, who oversaw SNC-Lavalin’s business in  Libya , was
one of two senior managers who left in February. The other was
Stephane Roy, a vice president controller. Ben Aissa was
subsequently arrested by Swiss authorities.  Jeannette Balmer, a spokeswoman for the Swiss Attorney
General’s office, said Nov. 26 that Ben Aissa was still in
provisional detention amid investigations regarding alleged acts
of corruption, fraud and  money laundering  related to business in
North Africa.  Quebec’s anti-corruption unit said today it would seek
international assistance in the Ben Aissa case.  ‘Very Disturbed’  David McAusland, a  Montreal  lawyer who is representing
Duhaime, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
matter today. A woman who answered the phone at Duhaime’s
residence in suburban Montreal declined to comment.  Elie Chahwan, a lawyer for the Ben Aissa family in
Montreal, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the case. Ben
Aissa’s brother, Rafik, said in a Nov. 17 statement that he was
“very disturbed” by the Swiss attorney general’s decision to
detain the former SNC-Lavalin executive vice president “without
charges and without a clear deadline in his detention.”  Ben Aissa’s imprisonment is “outrageous,” his brother
said.  Quebec  set up the police unit, known by the French-language
acronym UPAC, last year after corruption allegations surfaced
involving the awarding of public works contracts in the
province.  A warrant obtained by the unit accuses Duhaime and Ben
Aissa of defrauding the McGill University Health Centre -- whose
campus SNC-Lavalin won a C$1.6 billion contract to build and
maintain two years ago -- of more than C$5,000. The fraud took
place between April 2009 and August 2011, according to the
warrant.  McGill Contract  Montreal’s  La Presse  newspaper reported Oct. 1 that police
are investigating “questionable payments” of about C$22
million made by SNC-Lavalin to win the McGill hospital contract.
La Presse didn’t identify the source of its information. On
Sept. 18, investigators of the unit searched the offices of the
hospital as part of the inquiry.  “McGill is a massive contract and it’s very important for
them,” National Bank Financial’s Johnson said. “If there are
any problems there that would be a massive challenge from a
reputational standpoint for SNC.”  A day after the Quebec raid, an Ontario judge certified a
C$1 billion lawsuit on behalf of investors who bought company
securities from November 2009 to February 2012. It accuses SNC-
Lavalin and executives including Duhaime of
“misrepresentations” regarding internal controls, 2010 net
income and compliance with the company’s code of ethics.  ‘Social License’  Robert Card, who took over as SNC-Lavalin’s new CEO Oct. 1,
told analysts on a conference call that day he was “committed
to ensuring the company’s social license to operate remains our
top priority.” SNC-Lavalin had a backlog of C$9.9 billion as of
Sept. 30, compared with C$10.1 billion at the end of last year.  Card didn’t answer questions about the scandal on the Oct.
1 call, and wasn’t asked about it by financial analysts on the
third-quarter earnings call Nov. 2.  His predecessor, Duhaime, was paid C$4.97 million in
connection with his departure, SNC-Lavalin said in an April 2
filing. Duhaime’s “departure arrangement components” include
C$1.9 million in “salary continuance,” pension contributions,
incentive payments and C$55,000 in “professional development
and transition assistance,” SNC-Lavalin said in the filing.  Stephen Jarislowsky , chairman of Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd.,
SNC’s largest shareholder, criticized the company’s board
earlier this year for approving the payment to Duhaime.  “I think he should have been fired on the spot,”
Jarislowsky said at the time. He was out of the office today and
not available to comment.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frederic Tomesco at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net  