-- Spain’s Bad Bank May Send House Prices Lower, IMF Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-28T15:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/spain-s-bad-bank-may-send-house-prices-lower-imf-says-1-.html
Spain’s bad bank set up to take on
60 billion euros ($77 billion) of toxic real estate assets is
likely to set a benchmark for the rest of the market and send
 house prices  lower, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The scale of the purchases by the bad bank, which was today
approved by the European Commission, may overwhelm government
efforts to protect home values in the rest of the market, the
Washington-based IMF said in a report published today.  The bad bank, known as Sareb, will buy foreclosed real
estate assets from troubled lenders at an average discount of 63
percent, Fernando Restoy, chairman of the bank-bailout fund,
said last month. Restoy, seeking to head off further writedowns
for the financial system, said those prices shouldn’t be seen as
a “reference” for the rest of the housing market, which is
down 30 percent from its peak.  “Operationalizing this objective may not be
straightforward,” the IMF said in the report. “Further
significant declines are possible” in real estate.  BFA-Bankia, the biggest Spanish bank set to receive
European bailout funds, will cut about 6,000 jobs, or more than
a quarter of its workforce, and lose about 19 billion euros this
year, the lender said today.  ‘Large’ Risks  The number of monthly housing transactions has fallen about
70 percent since 2007 as the volume of mortgage lending dropped
87 percent to 3.9 billion euros in September.  The prices at which the bad bank buys and sells assets
“could also become reference prices for the market, given low
turnover in the housing market,” the IMF said.  The European Commission should make it easier for  Spain  to
tap another 30 billion-euro portion of funding for its banks to
bolster the system against “large” risks in case the economy
fails to show a projected slow recovery in 2014, the IMF said.
Spain sealed an agreement in July to take as much as 100 billion
euros of aid from  Europe  to bolster banks.  Spain’s economy could tumble into a deeper contraction
should officials push through the deleveraging of the banking
system too quickly, sucking credit out of the economy, or if the
European Union forces the government to meet its budget deficit
targets, crimping domestic demand, according to the IMF.  “The various headwinds noted above could prove stronger
than envisaged, leading to a vicious circle of lower growth,
fiscal overruns, damaged confidence, higher  interest rates , and
tighter credit,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Barcelona at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  