-- Spain Backs Palestinian UN Bid, U.K. Sets Conditions
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-28T15:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/spain-intends-to-back-palestinian-bid-for-statehood-at-un.html
Spain said it will back the
Palestinians’ bid to win recognition as a state at the  United
Nations  while the U.K. set conditions for its vote and Germany
ruled out support.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said Britain will
abstain unless the Palestinians commit to talks without
preconditions and agree not to sign up to the International
Criminal Court.  He was speaking after Spanish Foreign Minister
Jose-Manuel Garcia-Margallo told the national parliament in
Madrid that Spain will vote in favor. Germany won’t vote for the
resolution and will work “closely” with European Union allies
on the UN Security Council, government spokesman Steffen Seibert
said today.  “Up until the time of the vote itself we will remain open
to voting in favor if we see public assurances from the
Palestinians,” Hague told lawmakers in the House of Commons in
London today. “In the absence of assurances we will abstain on
the vote.”  Delegates are set to vote tomorrow on a resolution
circulated Nov. 8 by the  Palestinian Authority  that would put
the  Palestine Liberation Organization  on par with the Holy See
as a non-member state at the UN. Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz told  Army Radio  today that “surprises” are in store
for the Palestinians if they proceed with the move.  France and Russia have already said they will support the
proposal. No country has veto power in the General Assembly, so
the U.S., which opposes the initiative, can’t block it.  Conditions  Hague said Britain’s support is contingent on Palestinian
statements and redrafting of the resolution to guarantee the
restart of talks without preconditions, that the International
Criminal Court will not be called in to adjudicate on activities
in the occupied territories and that nothing in the resolution
prejudges deliberations by the UN’s Security Council.  “It’s important that we use our vote to try to say to both
sides in this conflict we need talks without preconditions,”
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers today. “The only
way we’re going to see a  peace process  that works is if Israelis
and Palestinians come to the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Barcelona at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  