-- Spansion Said to Set Rate on $219 Million Loan to Refinance Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-11-28T16:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/spansion-said-to-set-rate-on-219-million-loan-to-refinance-debt.html
Spansion Inc. (CODE) , a provider of flash-
memory products, set the  interest rate  it will pay on a $219
million covenant-lite term loan it’s seeking to refinance debt,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The six-year debt will pay interest at 3.75 percentage
points to 4 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Libor, a rate banks say they
can borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor.  Spansion is proposing to sell the debt at 99.5 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year,
according to the person.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 2.8 times total, the
person said. The debt is rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley are arranging the financing
for Sunnyvale, California-based company, which also includes a
$50 million five-year revolving line of credit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Commitments are due Dec. 4 at 5 p.m.
in  New York , the person said.  Spansion’s existing  term loan  due in 2015 pays interest at
3.5 percentage points more than Libor with a 1.25 percent floor,
the data show.  Michele Landry, a spokeswoman for Spansion, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Covenant-lite
debt doesn’t carry typical lend protection such as financial-
maintenance requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  