-- Spring Air Mulls Hong Kong Hub in Cathay Pacific Challenge
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-11-29T04:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/spring-air-considers-hong-kong-hub-in-cathay-pacific-challenge.html
Spring Airlines Co., China’s biggest
privately-owned carrier, is considering a venture in Hong Kong
as it joins operators trying to break  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. (293) ’s grip on the city’s aviation market.  The carrier has drawn up a plan as part of an overseas push
that may also include operations in  Japan ,  South Korea  and
 Taiwan , Chairman Wang Zhenghua said in an interview yesterday in
Hong Kong. He didn’t give a timeframe for when a Hong Kong
carrier may start flying.  “We want to go out and tap international markets,” Wang
said in an interview at a conference organized by CAPA - Centre
for Aviation. “A road for expanding overseas starting from Hong
Kong will be the shortest one for us.”  Spring Air , based in Shanghai, will add four new routes to
Hong Kong from mainland  China  next month, as Hong Kong Airlines
expands and budget carrier Jetstar prepares to open a hub in the
city next year. Cathay, which accounts for about half of seats
in Hong Kong, is adding premium-economy cabins and boosting
services to China to safeguard its hold on business travelers.  “The marketplace can accommodate more airlines with
different business models,” said  Nawal Taneja , professor
emeritus at  Ohio State University , who has advised airlines and
written seven books on the industry. New carriers may also boost
travel rather than just luring passengers from Cathay and its
Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. unit, he said.  New Routes  Spring Air’s new Hong Kong routes linking Chongqing,
Hangzhou, Nanjing and Xiamen will add to its thrice-daily
service from  Shanghai . The expansion means the carrier will
serve four of the 10 busiest routes between Hong Kong and the
mainland, according to  CAPA , a research company. All four of the
new destinations are popular tourist markets, it said.  The airline, which has moved away from its traditional low-
cost operations by adding some business-class seats, was also
working on plans for a venture in Japan. This has been delayed
amid a territorial dispute between the two countries, Wang said.  Spring Air will have to meet regulatory requirements to set
up operations in Hong Kong, including local-ownership rules, as
well as contending with a looming shortage of slots at the
city’s airport.  “Everybody would like to have a base everywhere he could,
but it doesn’t really work that way,” said Cathay Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar. “Maybe it will in the future,
but it doesn’t yet.  Shanghai IPO  Spring Air, which flies 33 Airbus SAS A320s, is also
working on holding a Shanghai initial public offering that may
raise more than 1 billion  yuan  ($160 million) to help fund
expansion. The airline has filed its listing application with
the securities regulator and may win approval for it early next
year, Wang said. The company has been predicting an IPO date
since at least 2011.  The carrier’s parent Shanghai Spring International Travel
Service Co. is expected to post a 30 percent growth in profit
this year to 700 million yuan, Wang said.  “This is pretty satisfactory, given the tough macro-
economic situation,” he said. He declined to give a profit
figure from Spring Air.  Jetstar Hong Kong is also confident of winning approval
from the city’s government to begin operations, Jetstar Group
Executive Officer Jayne Hrdlicka said yesterday. The carrier is
a venture between Jetstar, Qantas Airways Ltd.’s budget arm, and
 China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  The partners said in March that
they will invest as much as $198 million in the airline.  Cathay Cuts  The new competition for Cathay comes as it looks to
regional travel to help offset waning demand on intercontinental
routes. The airline yesterday said it will reduce capacity 1.6
percent next year, predominately through long-haul cuts caused
by the introduction of smaller planes. The carrier is adding
premium-economy seats in its main unit to help boost fares.  Regional unit Dragonair is boosting China flights,
including starting services to  Wenzhou  and Zhengzhou in January.
It has added or resumed a total of eight destinations this year.  “We’ve still got good Asia expansion,” Slosar said. “We
have a big long-haul network and are becoming much more fuel
efficient,” he said, referring to the introduction of new
planes.  Cathay has previously seen off competition from new
entrants on long-haul routes. Oasis  Hong Kong  Airlines, which
offered budget flights to London and  Vancouver , collapsed in
2008 after less than 18 months in the skies.  The carrier doesn’t provide a guide for what may happen to
budget airlines flying short-haul routes from Hong Kong because
of its different business model, Taneja said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  