-- It’s Not a Fiscal Cliff, It’s an Austerity Crisis
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-11-28T22:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/stop-mistaking-austerity-crisis-for-fiscal-cliff.html
Washington  is not known for the
stunning clarity with which it frames and addresses tough
issues. But has there ever been a debate so mired in confusion
as the one around the so-called fiscal cliff?  The trouble starts with the term “fiscal cliff,” which
misstates the nature of the problem and provides no hint of how
to solve it. I prefer the term “ austerity crisis ,” which at
least describes the real issue -- too much austerity, imposed
too quickly. (This has the added advantage of sidestepping an
increasingly inane discussion over whether the problem is really
a “cliff,” “curb,” “slope” or perhaps a “bomb.”)  Here is the crux of it: Depending on what you throw into
the pot, the sum of the expiring Bush tax cuts along with
currently mandated spending cuts would equal somewhere between
$500 billion and $700 billion in  deficit reduction  in 2013.
That’s more than enough fiscal contraction to throw the U.S.
into recession. The tax increases alone would reduce the average
family’s  take-home pay  by more than 6 percent. Because everyone
agrees that’s a bad thing, Congress could pass a law, tomorrow,
preventing it. Done.  But Congress won’t pass that law. Although the problem may
be too much austerity too quickly, most everyone in Washington
is insisting that the solution should encompass much, much more.
In theory, this crisis should be easily resolved: If you have
too much austerity, lighten the load. The reason the austerity
crisis has become so messy is that the connection between the
problem and its solution has been severed.  Wrong Solutions  In fact, proposed solutions inevitably include four or even
five distinct categories of policy. There are proposals to
address the crisis itself -- to reduce the dangerous size and
speed of the scheduled  deficit reduction  in 2013. There are
proposals to replace the scheduled deficit reduction with a
different set of deficit-reducing tax increases and spending
cuts, to be phased in over a longer term. There are policies to
redesign the  tax code  or reform certain entitlements. There’s
the need to raise the debt limit, as the Treasury is expected to
run out of borrowing authority in February. Finally, there are
policies to increase the amount of short-term stimulus and boost
infrastructure investment.  So while the proximate problem is too much austerity, too
quickly, the solutions being offered address an array of other
concerns. Meanwhile, amid these wide-ranging proposals, the
conversation in Washington tends to focus exclusively on
achieving deficit reduction -- even though the economic threat
we face in January is too much deficit reduction.  A more sensible approach would deal directly with the
problem at hand: the austerity crisis. And that could be defused
fairly simply, without doing overly much to harm the deficit.
The path would involve identifying policies that pack a big
stimulus punch without significantly increasing the deficit.
Such “mismatched” policies abound.  The liberal  Economic Policy Institute   estimates  that
continuing the payroll-tax cut would create 1 million jobs in
2013 at a cost of about $115 billion. By contrast, maintaining
the Bush tax cuts  -- yes, all of them, including those on
income less than $250,000 -- would create only 600,000 jobs
while costing $202 billion. Adding to the appeal of the payroll-
tax cut is that it’s designed to expire once the economy has
strengthened. The Bush tax cuts, once renewed, will probably
continue costing the Treasury year after year.  Maximum Stimulus  A sensible approach to the austerity crisis would identify
mismatched policies --  unemployment insurance  or disarming the
sequestration cuts -- that deliver maximum stimulus at minimal
cost and then extend, or perhaps even expand, them. With the
austerity crisis resolved, and the economy bolstered, we could
move onto crafting a long-term budget plan that includes tax and
entitlement reform. There’s no real reason that preventing an
austerity crisis should be linked to reforming the tax code.
There’s no reason at all that raising the debt ceiling should
even be a question.  But we’re not taking a sensible approach, and so we’re not
getting sensible policy priorities. Instead, many of the least
stimulative, most costly, policies are widely considered
untouchable: the Bush tax cuts for income less than $250,000,
for instance. And many of the most stimulative, least costly,
policies appear likely to lapse at the end of this year. Some
members of Congress, such as Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
 Maryland , the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee,
seem to realize this is insane.  Van Hollen  is the exception
right now rather than the rule.  This kind of confusion is what happens when you miscast a
crisis of austerity as a crisis of deficits. It’s also a measure
of how poorly Washington works. Legislators from both parties
have concluded that crises are the only impetus to get anything
-- and thus the opportunity to get everything -- done.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  FAA’s wasteful staffing 
at little-used airports and on why  global imbalances will return 
if governments can’t reform; Caroline Baum wonders why we’re not
 talking about entitlement reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  plot
to stop Susan Rice ; Jonathan Mahler on  Ohio State’s perfect
season  that doesn’t count; Shikha Dalmia on why  Canada’s
immigration quotas would work in the U.S.   To contact the writer on this article:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 