-- Stratton Street Seeks Asian Money With Bond Hedge-Fund Return
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-11-28T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/stratton-street-seeks-asian-money-with-bond-hedge-fund-return.html
Stratton Street Capital LLP , a U.K.
manager with $1.6 billion in assets, is seeking to raise money
from Asian investors with a  yuan  bond hedge fund that has
returned 23 percent this year.  Its $215 million Renminbi Bond Fund, which invests in
dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds and uses non-
deliverable currency forwards to hedge investments into the
Chinese currency, has returned 86 percent since inception in
November 2007, said managing partner Andrew Main. The London-
based manager doubled the fund’s assets from $96 million at the
end of 2011 and expects to grow similarly over a year, he said.  Stratton Street is among managers tapping appetite in  Asia 
by offering strategies other than equity-focused ones that
dominate in the region. Demand for higher-yielding assets such
as bonds is rising as central banks in the U.S. and  Japan  use
near-zero benchmark  interest rates  to sustain economic growth.  “We are beginning to raise our profile in Asia,” Main
said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “We’re seeing a
lot of interest at the moment. We’re the only  renminbi  fund with
a five-year track record with positive returns every year and we
have demonstrated outperformance against other funds in Asia.”  The majority of the fund’s investors, including private
banks and family offices, are from  Europe , while Asian investors
account for about 10 percent, Main said.  Stratton Street’s fund return compares with the 4.5 percent
gain this year through October by the Eurekahedge Asian Hedge
Fund Index. Yuan bond funds produced an average 6.1 percent
return this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based
on the performance of 253 onshore vehicles.          Equity-
focused  hedge funds  accounted for 77 percent of investment
strategies in Asia in the third quarter, compared with 46
percent globally, according to Chicago-based researcher Hedge
Fund Research Inc.  Still Deleveraging  Stratton Street scores countries’ net foreign assets, or
the difference between a nation’s value of assets abroad and its
debt to foreigners, Main said. The manager excludes countries
with negative net foreign assets of more than 50 percent.  Among the biggest contributors to the fund’s performance
this year were investments in the  Middle East , such as Qatar and
 Abu Dhabi , amid renewed interests from investors for nations
with strong balance sheets, Main said.  “Unlike others, we don’t think the world is going to
change very much next year,” he said. “Our view of the world
is that we’re still deleveraging and because we’re deleveraging
we don’t want to be in weak credits.”  To control investment risks, the assets in Stratton
Street’s portfolio now have an average rating of A- from BBB in
the past three to six months, Main said.  Yuan Demand  Stratton Street expects demand for the Chinese currency
will increase as economic growth rebounds. The world’s second-
largest economy is showing signs of improvement following a
seven-quarter slowdown. Gross domestic product will increase 7.7
percent from a year earlier this quarter after climbing 7.4
percent in the three months ended September, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “There are concerns that  China’s economy  may slow as we
approach year-end,” according to Stratton Street’s October
newsletter to investors. “However, with further easing measures
on the agenda as well as stepping up of investment projects and
infrastructure spending, we feel  China  is still heading for a
soft landing as the country finds a compromise between keeping
inflation low and increasing growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  