-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Nov. 14.  Boston: “Reports from business contacts in the First
District reflect a growing economy, although the pace of growth
appears to be somewhat slower than in the last round. Retailers
cite mixed sales results, manufacturers note slow growth, and
software and IT services firms report disappointing results. By
contrast, staffing firms are seeing a pick-up in growth.
Commercial real estate contacts indicate that fundamentals
remain flat, and sentiment has soured somewhat in recent weeks;
residential real estate respondents say growth in home sales has
slowed but home prices are rising modestly in some areas.
 Hurricane Sandy  reportedly had very modest effects on economic
activity in New England. Prices are said to be level in general,
with minimal inflationary pressures. While some firms cite
shortages of specialized workers, few are hiring, none
extensively, and no one mentions upward wage pressures.”  New York: “ Economic activity in the Second District has
weakened since the last report, largely reflecting widespread
disruptions from Sandy. Prices of finished goods and services
have generally been stable. The labor market is difficult to
gauge at this point -- while hiring activity tapered off
noticeably due to the storm, relatively few business contacts
indicate that they plan to reduce headcounts in the months
ahead. Retailers report fairly strong sales for October but
indicate that business in the last two weeks has been severely
hampered by storm disruptions; auto dealers in upstate New York
report some softening in auto sales in October. Tourism activity
in New York City was fairly strong prior to the storm; hotel
business tapered off only modestly in early November, as the
adverse effects of travel cancellations were partly offset by
increased demand from local residents without power or access to
their homes. Residential real estate markets were generally firm
through the latter part of October, though the storm has caused
a substantial slowing in sales activity in and around New York
City. Finally, bankers report some weakening in loan demand and
increased delinquency rates in the consumer and commercial &
industrial loan segments; for residential and commercial
mortgages, both loan demand and delinquency rates are little
changed.”  Philadelphia: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District continued to grow modestly -- comparable to the
previous Beige Book -- until the end of October. Most individual
sectors, abetted by Hurricane Sandy, declined a little further
or slowed their pace slightly. Manufacturing activity declined a
bit. Retail sales slowed to a slight pace of growth, while auto
sales slowed to a modest pace. The overall outlook appears less
optimistic relative to the views expressed in the last Beige
Book. Recovery from Hurricane Sandy and a renewed focus on the
looming fiscal cliff contribute to greater uncertainty than
before. Expectations over the next six months among
manufacturers declined for overall activity as well as for
capital spending and hiring.”  Cleveland :  “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
modest pace since our last report. On balance, manufacturing
orders and production rose. Residential and nonresidential
construction activity increased, with particular strength noted
in the multifamily segment. Realtors reported a rise in
purchases of existing homes. Retailers and auto dealers saw
higher sales during October relative to year-ago levels.
Conventional oil and gas well output held steady, while coal
production trended lower. Freight transport volume slowed. And
the demand for business credit moved slightly higher. Hiring was
sluggish across industry sectors. Exceptions were found in the
auto industry, where hiring continued at a more robust pace, and
construction, where payrolls began to grow. Staffing-firm
representatives said that the number of job openings has picked
up slightly during the past six weeks. Vacancies were found
primarily in manufacturing, information technology, and
healthcare.”  Richmond: “Fifth District economic activity strengthened
at a tempered pace since our last report. Manufacturing activity
improved, retail sales increased moderately, and customer demand
rose modestly at non-retail services firms. Reports on banking
conditions were mixed, and mortgage refinancing bolstered
consumer lending. Real estate markets also strengthened, with
both residential and commercial contacts reporting an uptick in
activity. In contrast, labor market activity slowed since our
last report. Also, tourism contacts noted a seasonal decline in
reservations. Agricultural conditions were favorable before
Hurricane Sandy arrived, although some farmers in the District
were affected by the storm. Manufacturers’ input prices and
finished goods prices rose at a slower rate, while wages rose
more quickly. The pace of service providers’ price increases
edged up and non-retail wage growth slowed.”  Atlanta: “ Most businesses across the Sixth District
described economic activity as increasing marginally in October,
and most contacts expect little change in the near term.
Retailers cited mild sales growth, while automobile dealers
continued to experience strong results. Overall, tourism
activity remained robust. Residential brokers indicated an
increase in existing home sales and prices, while homebuilders
signaled sales were flat to slightly up. Multifamily development
continued to dominate the commercial real estate market.
Manufacturing activity softened as new orders, production, and
employment levels decelerated. Bankers noted that overall loan
demand had picked up slightly. On net, payrolls continued to
expand at a modest pace, and price pressures remained in check
for most businesses in the region.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand at a slow pace in October and early
November. Contacts noted heightened uncertainty over the near-
term economic outlook as the deadline for the fiscal cliff
approaches, but remained cautiously optimistic that growth would
pick up to a moderate pace in 2013. By sector, gains in consumer
spending were up slightly from the previous reporting period,
while growth in business spending moderated further.
Manufacturing production decelerated, while construction
increased at a slow but steady pace. Credit conditions continued
to improve gradually. Cost pressures were little changed,
although food prices eased. Corn and soybean production in the
District did not suffer as much from the drought as previously
had been expected.”  St. Louis: “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to expand at a moderate pace since our previous
survey. Retail and auto sales in October and early November
increased over year-earlier levels. Recent reports of planned
activity from manufacturing firms have been positive. In
contrast, reports from services contacts have been negative on
net. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to
improve, while commercial and industrial real estate conditions
have remained mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sample of
large District banks indicated little change during the third
quarter of 2012. Prices wages, and employment levels have
remained generally stable.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy experienced
moderate growth since the last report. Increased activity was
noted in consumer spending, tourism and professional services.
Some significant parts of construction and real estate are
growing at a double-digit clip. Activity in the energy and
mining sectors continued at a rapid pace. District crop
producers remained in mostly good shape, despite this year’s
drought. Meanwhile, activity slowed slightly in the
manufacturing sector. While labor markets continued to show
signs of tightening in several areas, some layoff notices were
reported. Overall wage increases were moderate, although
stronger increases were reported in some areas. Price increases
were generally modest.”  Kansas City: “The Tenth District economy expanded modestly
in October. Stronger retail sales underpinned a rebound in
consumer spending that was expected to continue during the
upcoming holidays. Commercial and residential construction
remained solid, and real estate agents expected real estate
prices to rise further with stronger sales. Bankers reported
stronger commercial lending activity and additional demand for
residential real estate loans. District manufacturing activity
slowed, but factory managers expected a moderate rebound in
orders, production, and shipments. High feed and fuel costs
drove agricultural loan demand higher, and dry conditions
hindered winter crop development. District contacts expected
natural gas drilling activity to strengthen seasonally with
prices during the winter heating months. The prices of raw
materials for manufacturing and construction rose, and some
finished goods prices edged higher. Wage pressures were subdued
except for specialized positions at transportation, high-tech
and energy firms. Several business contacts commented that
uncertainty regarding political, economic, and tax policies was
inhibiting growth, limiting business investment, and delaying
hiring plans.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
modest pace over the past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing
and transportation services activity were mixed. Demand for
staffing services declined, while that for other business
services held steady or increased slightly. Retailers’ reports
on demand were mixed, while automobiles sales were flat.
Residential sales and construction increased, and energy
activity remained steady at high levels. Financial firms
reported mixed demand. Agricultural conditions remained mostly
dry. Most respondents said prices held steady, and employment
levels were steady to up. Many firms’ outlooks remain uncertain,
given regulatory and fiscal concerns and short-term disruptions
caused by Hurricane Sandy.”  San Francisco: “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of October
through mid-November. Price inflation for final goods and
services was subdued overall, and upward wage pressures were
quite limited. Sales of retail items and most business and
consumer services rose further on net, and contacts noted
expectations for sales growth during the holiday retail season.
District manufacturing activity was uneven but appeared to
expand on balance. Agricultural output and sales increased, and
extraction activity rose for providers of energy resources.
Housing demand continued to firm, and conditions were largely
stable for commercial real estate. Contacts from financial
institutions reported that overall loan demand was largely
unchanged, while credit quality improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  