-- Swiss Life Sees 2012 Profit Hurt by Writedown of AWD Unit
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-11-28T17:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/swiss-life-sees-double-digit-million-profit-on-awd-writedown.html
Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s
biggest life insurer, said it will write down the value of its
German brokerage AWD Holding AG by 576 million Swiss francs
($618 million), hurting full-year profit.  The Zurich-based insurer said it expects “reduced net
profit in the double-digit millions” in 2012 and cut its
targeted return on equity to between 8 percent and 10 percent
over the next three years from between 10 percent and 12
percent. In 2011, it posted a profit of 605 million francs.  The insurer, which was hurt by a drop of 13 percent in
revenue at the German broker unit in the first nine months, will
rebrand AWD to “Swiss Life Select,” cut costs by as much as
160 million francs and eliminate up to 400 jobs. The savings
come on top of Swiss Life’s so-called Milestone program, with
cost cuts of about 400 million francs and some 520 job
reductions in  Switzerland . Chief Executive Officer Bruno Pfister
said today the writedown will “weigh on the 2012 result.”  “The writedown will be done in the fourth quarter so that
only a modest profit can be expected” in the full year, said
Georg Marti, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich. He
has an outperform rating on the shares.  Swiss Life declined 1 percent to 124 francs at the close in
Zurich, valuing the company at 3.98 billion francs. The stock
has increased about 43 percent this year, compared with a 25
percent increase in the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  New Targets  Under the new program, presented at the company’s investor
day, Swiss Life said it expects a full-year operating profit
before one-time items of more than 850 million francs. In 2011,
it had an operating profit of 793 million francs.  Swiss Life aims for cost savings of between 130 million
francs and 160 million francs, as well as “further
diversification of profit sources over the next three years.”
It will keep its dividend at 4.50 francs a share for 2012.  By comparison,  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s
largest insurer, paid a dividend of 17 francs in 2011.  “All in all, we see little that changes the fundamental
view on the stock with the key issue of cashflow not really
changing in the near term,” Richard Burden, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich with an underperform rating on
the stock, said in an e-mailed note today. That’s “making Swiss
Life unattractive when Zurich and others continue to offer
materially higher and more secure payouts.”  AWD Writedown  The rebranding of AWD could result in the reduction of 300
positions in  Germany  and 90 in Switzerland, Swiss Life said.
Part of them will be conducted through “natural fluctuation,
retirement regulations and in-house job opportunities,”
according to the statement.  The writedown of the German brokerage unit, valued at 1.34
billion francs, exceeded the 463 million-franc average estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We could not keep the profitability of AWD on course,”
Pfister told journalists in Zurich.  The insurer also plans to “significantly expand” its
asset-management business for private and institutional
investors under a new brand called Swiss Life Asset Managers
with the goal of increasing its contribution to earnings by more
than 20 percent by 2015.  Swiss Life will propose Frank Keuper, former CEO of  AXA
SA (CS) ’s German unit, Ueli Dietiker, chief financial officer of
 Swisscom AG (SCMN) , and Klaus Tschuetscher, prime minister of the
principality of Liechtenstein, to join its board. Volker Bremkamp will step down for “reasons of age,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  