-- Swiss Stocks Rise on Boehner’s U.S Budget Remark
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-11-28T17:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/swiss-stocks-advance-as-nestle-climbs-swiss-life-drops.html
Swiss stocks  rose, led by  Nestle (NESN)  SA,
as U.S. Speaker of the House  John Boehner  said he is optimistic
budget talks with President  Barack Obama  will continue.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  dropped 1 percent after writing down
the value of its German brokerage by more than analysts had
estimated. Gategroup Holding AG fell 2.2 percent as Helvea AG
cut its rating on the stock. Nestle, which accounts for 24
percent of the  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  by weight, rose 1.2 percent.  The benchmark SMI advanced 0.7 percent to 6,756.48 at the
close in Zurich, the highest since Oct. 18. The gauge has
 rallied 18 percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-buying
plan and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing. The Swiss Performance Index gained 0.6
percent today.  “It seems the overhang still remains the fiscal cliff,”
said Serge Berger, a Zurich-based trader at Blue Oak Advisors
LLC. “One day someone says something negative and markets tank;
today Boehner whistles something positive and markets climb.
Lots of people are expecting an agreement at the last minute,
but traders will remain nervous.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the SMI was 15
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fiscal Cliff  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in the U.S. slid 0.5
percent yesterday after Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
Democrats and Republicans have made little progress in
negotiations over how to avoid a package of deficit-cutting
measures from coming into force at the beginning of 2013.  Reid, speaking to reporters in Washington, said that
following a Nov. 16 White House meeting, Republicans backed away
from their openness to considering new  tax revenue  as part of a
deal to prevent $607 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending reductions taking effect in January.  Equities extended gains as Republican Representative
Boehner told reporters he’s optimistic talks will continue.
Obama will meet with business leaders today and have lunch with
election opponent  Mitt Romney  tomorrow as lawmakers debate ways
to avert $607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that
will kick in next year if a deal isn’t reached.  A report at 10 a.m. in  Washington  may show that  sales of
new houses  in the U.S. rose to a 390,000 annual pace in October,
up from 389,000 in September, according to the  median forecast 
of 74 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swiss Life declined 1 percent to 124 Swiss francs, paring
its rally this year to  44 percent . Switzerland’s biggest life
insurer wrote down the value of its German brokerage AWD Holding
AG by 576 million francs ($617 million), exceeding the 463
million-franc average analyst estimate.  Swiss Life  The company lowered its targeted return on equity to
between 8 percent and 10 percent over the next three years. It
had forecast a range of 10 percent to 12 percent. The Zurich-
based insurer predicted “reduced net profit in the double-digit
millions” for 2012. Swiss Life projected it will make cost
savings of 130 million francs to 160 million francs over the
next three years.  “We suspect the cost savings will disappoint some of the
bulls of the stock,” Richard Burden, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  London , wrote in a note to investors.  Gategroup (GATE)  retreated 2.2 percent to 22.65 francs as Helvea
downgraded the airline-catering company to neutral from
accumulate, meaning that investors should not add to their
holdings. The brokerage cited weakening “quality” of earnings
and a “more difficult environment ahead.”  Orascom Slides  Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)  slumped 5.1 percent to 13.05
francs, the lowest in 11 months, after the hotel builder said it
will report a third-quarter loss of as much 35 million francs.  Orascom Development said late yesterday that it will report
a loss because of extraordinary non-cash items such as
provisions for investments and transaction losses.  The company 
announced on Nov. 23 that it would delay its Nov. 29 results
presentation by one week until Dec. 6 as management needed to
review numbers and data.  Nestle increased 1.2 percent to 60.60 francs. The world’s
biggest food company and Hutchison  China  MediTech Ltd., the
drugmaker controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
agreed to form an alliance to develop gastro-intestinal
treatments based on traditional Chinese medicines.  Nestle Health Science and Chi-Med will each own half of
Nutrition Science Partners Ltd., the companies said.  Sika AG (SIK)  climbed 1.7 percent to 2,011 francs after MainFirst
Bank AG raised the world’s largest maker of chemicals used in
construction to outperform from neutral, meaning that investors
should buy the stock.  “We are expecting Sika’s growth momentum to again improve,
helped by both a reviving infrastructure market in China and an
increasing penetration in the developing markets,” Bernd Pomrehn, an analyst at MainFirst, wrote. “At the same time,
margins are at an upward trend, driven by price increases,
stagnating raw-material costs, cost synergies with acquired
businesses and an improving business mix.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  