-- U.K. Should Open Up a Third More Land for Houses, Minister Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-28T12:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-k-should-open-up-a-third-more-land-for-houses-minister-says.html
The U.K. will need to increase the
amount of land given over to housing by a third if people are to
claim their “basic moral right” to live in a house with a
garden, Planning Minister Nick Boles said.  Britain’s housing shortage would be solved if people
dropped their objections to building on greenfield sites, Boles
said in an interview with  BBC  Television’s “Newsnight” show to
be broadcast tonight.  “We’re going to protect the greenbelt but if people want
to have housing for their kids they have to accept we need to
build more on some open land,” Boles said, according to
 extracts  of the interview posted on the BBC’s website. “In the
U.K. and  England  at the moment we’ve got about 9 percent of land
developed. All we need to do is build on another 2-3 percent of
land and we’ll have solved a housing problem.”  Objectors need to be convinced that developers will build
beautiful homes rather than the “ugly rubbish” typically built
in new housing estates, Boles said. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans for building 150,000 affordable homes over four
years are  less than a third  of what is needed, said Shelter, a
housing charity, citing government data showing that 654,000
households in England and  Wales  were overcrowded in 2009.  The Campaign to Protect Rural England said there are enough
brownfield sites, where there has been previous development, for
 1.5 million new homes  and Boles’s call to build on green fields
is “provocative and unnecessary.” Business groups welcomed
Boles’s encouragement for development.  “It is encouraging for the construction sector and for
business as a whole to have a planning minister who recognizes
the importance of new development,” Corin Taylor, economic
adviser at the Institute of Directors, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The U.K. population is rising, so it is utterly
unrealistic to simply hope people will disappear or cram
themselves into ever smaller divisions of the existing housing
stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  