-- U.K. Government Starts Public Consultation on Libor Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-28T11:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-k-government-starts-public-consultation-on-libor-rules-1-.html
The U.K. government began a public
consultation on its plans to overhaul Libor, the benchmark used
to set rates for more than $300 trillion of securities, the
Treasury said.  The exercise seeks the views of industry and the public on
legislation to implement Financial Services Authority Managing
Director Martin Wheatley’s recommendations, the Treasury said in
a statement in  London  today.  Under the  proposals , which are expected to become law early
next year, the Treasury will give legal force to the way the
London interbank offered rate is set, create a criminal offense
for those who misreport it and give regulators the power to
oversee the setting of the rate and other financial-industry
benchmarks. The British Bankers’ Association, the industry lobby
group that compiles Libor, will give way to a new rate-setting
panel.  “The government has acted swiftly and is implementing
Martin Wheatley’s recommendations as quickly as possible,
introducing legislation that brings Libor within the scope of
regulation and creating new criminal sanctions for attempted
manipulation of Libor,” Financial Secretary to the Treasury
Greg Clark said. “Recent events have illustrated that Libor
might not be the only benchmark subject to attempted
manipulation. We are consulting on whether further benchmarks
should be brought with the scope of regulation.”  Wheatley began the review after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid a record
290 million-pound ($464 million) fine in June for manipulating
Libor. At least a dozen banks are being probed worldwide over
allegations they colluded to manipulate the benchmark to profit
from bets on derivatives.  The public consultation ends on Dec. 24, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  