-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Most businesses across the Sixth District described
economic activity as increasing marginally in October, and most
contacts expect little change in the near term.  Retailers cited mild sales growth, while automobile dealers
continued to experience strong results. Overall, tourism
activity remained robust. Residential brokers indicated an
increase in existing home sales and prices, while homebuilders
signaled sales were flat to slightly up. Multifamily development
continued to dominate the commercial real estate market.
Manufacturing activity softened as new orders, production, and
employment levels decelerated. Bankers noted that overall loan
demand had picked up slightly. On net, payrolls continued to
expand at a modest pace, and price pressures remained in check
for most businesses in the region.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District contacts indicated
demand and sales were up slightly in October compared with
September. Most retailers felt that  consumer confidence  is
improving as they head into the holiday season, which led to
expectations that sales would improve over last year’s results.
Retailers anticipate a healthy holiday season and most shared
plans to hire the same amount of seasonal staff compared with
last year, although there were some contacts that anticipate
hiring a bit more help over the holidays than they did in 2011.
Automobile dealers continued to report strong sales growth,
albeit a bit less robust than earlier in the year. Low  interest
rates , aging vehicles, available credit, and the popularity of
new fuel-efficient models were factors cited as driving growth.  Travel and tourism activity remained strong for all sectors
except cruise lines, which continued to underperform against
projections made earlier in the year. Hotel occupancy and room
rates were up in most areas, resulting in increased revenue per
available room. International visitors continued to bolster
activity in  Florida . Convention bookings were also up over year-
ago levels in most major District cities. The general consensus
among hospitality contacts is that the sector is performing
well, and that trend is expected to continue into 2013.  Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers
indicated that recent existing home sales were up slightly
compared with year-earlier levels. Brokers reported that current
home owners accounted for the largest share of home buyers in
the District, while investors and first-time home buyers both
were about a quarter of the market, respectively. Reports cited
that investors were more active in Florida compared with other
parts of the District. Most brokers again noted declining
inventories and rising home prices. The outlook for sales among
brokers remained positive. Most expect sales growth to be flat
to slightly positive on a year-over-year basis in the short
term.  Reports from District homebuilders remained positive as well.
While recent new home sales were only flat to slightly up from a
year earlier, the majority of builders reported that new home
inventories were below the year-earlier level and prices were
slightly up compared with a year earlier. In addition, contacts
reported robust buyer traffic in October. In spite of reports of
challenges to obtaining development and construction financing,
the outlook for construction activity remained strong and most
builders were looking forward to additional increases in new
home sales in 2013.  Apartment development continued to dominate the District’s
commercial real estate market. Multifamily rent growth remained
positive but had slowed somewhat in recent months in many parts
of the region. Contacts indicated that most office, industrial,
and retail markets in the District experienced modest positive
absorption of space during the third quarter. Contractors
continued to expect modest gains in commercial construction
activity in 2013.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing activity in the
Southeast softened in October. Contacts in the region reported
that new orders, production, and employment levels decelerated.
Finished inventory levels were flat. Auto and auto parts
producers experienced slightly softer orders, resulting in
somewhat lower output after several months of very strong
demand. Other durable goods contacts experienced modest growth,
especially those tied to the improving housing market. Energy-
related manufacturers continued to report robust activity.  Rail contacts reported that domestic coal shipments were down
because of softening global demand for metallurgical coal and
less demand for coal to fire domestic utility plants as
electricity producers shifted to natural gas. However, there
have been increased movements of crude oil via rail. Ports
experienced weaker container volumes, but slight increases in
the level of break-bulk volumes. Truck freight activity was
described as similar to year-ago levels. Increased fuel costs
remained a significant concern for ocean carriers, but most
other industries have been able to pass along increases. Reports
indicated that there appears to have been a shift in the holiday
shipping timeframe, representing a “just-in-time” approach to
ordering as retailers maintain tight inventories as the shopping
season approaches.  Banking and Finance. Small business loan demand increased
slightly in some areas, but many firms remained hesitant to
borrow, citing economic and political uncertainty as a drawback.
Competition for high quality borrowers remained fierce among
banks. Banks experienced some residential loan growth from
refinancing activity. Some contacts in the District reported an
increase in demand for construction loans and noted a slight
increase in lending levels compared with last year. Regulatory
compliance was cited as adding an additional burden by many
community bankers, which hampered their ability to originate
loans. Some contacts reported underwriting standards had become
more restrictive and burdensome for borrowers since the last
report, in terms of both credit scores and information requests.  Employment and Prices. Employment conditions across the District
continued to improve, albeit at a modest pace, in October. Auto-
and energy-related firms reported additional hiring, as did some
firms tied to residential construction. On the services side,
accounting, and healthcare firms were the most positive.
Employment agencies reported a pickup in orders for temporary
help. Along those lines, some large employers announced plans to
move towards hiring more part-time versus full-time employees.
Firms also reported that they continued to receive a large
number of applications for most newly-posted positions, causing
wages to remain flat. That said, we continued to hear reports of
some higher skilled positions going unfilled because of a lack
of qualified applicants.  Controlling costs remained a central theme for businesses in the
District as they were challenged by higher energy and crop-
related input prices along with rising healthcare costs.
However, most firms throughout the region noted that the
pressure from overall input prices had eased over the last
several months. Contacts also noted that the relative weakness
in natural gas prices had helped to keep costs in check,
particularly for more electricity-intensive firms. Results from
our October Business Inflation Expectations survey indicated
that unit costs were up 1.4 percent over the past 12 months--
with manufacturers experiencing a bit more cost pressures over
the last year than service-providing companies. Looking forward,
business expectations for unit cost increases over the next year
have been stable, varying between 1.7 and 1.9 percent over the
past six months.  Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Hurricane Sandy ’s damage to
refineries and infrastructure in the Northeast caused
southeastern regional refiners to increase production and
transportation of oil products to affected areas. Natural gas
prices and rig counts decreased switching focus to higher priced
oil commodities. Contacts noted inexpensive domestic natural gas
prompted downstream manufacturers to relocate foreign operations
to the  United States , prioritizing locations near refining
operations.  Much of  Georgia  continued to experience varying degrees of
drought conditions, while the rest of the region enjoyed normal
conditions. Some agriculture contacts reported labor shortages.
Compared with last year, prices paid to farmers for grain corn,
rice, soybeans, beef, and broilers were up while cotton prices
were down.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 