-- U.S. Mortgage-Backer Role Grows as Fiscal Talks Delay Fix
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-28T20:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-mortgage-backer-role-grows-as-fiscal-talks-delay-fix.html
The federal government’s role as the
backer of most U.S. home loans is becoming entrenched as fiscal
issues distract Congress and the White House from a housing-
finance overhaul that would shift more risk to private capital,
according to lawmakers and analysts.  At the core of such an overhaul is the future of
Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) , the so-called government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs,
that provide market liquidity by buying home loans and bundling
them into securities. As they neared collapse in 2008, the
companies were placed into federal conservatorship.  It’s time for a plan to end the conservatorship, the
companies’ overseer,  Federal Housing Finance Agency  acting
director Edward J. DeMarco, said today during a speech in
 Washington .  “It is vital to the long-term health of our country’s
housing and financial markets that our elected leaders seek to
bring the conservatorships to a conclusion, and to define the
government’s role and requirements for housing finance in the
future,” he said.  Housing-finance reform is only “number two or three” on
the agenda for Congress,  Jim Millstein , the former U.S. Treasury
Department chief restructuring officer who now runs advisory
firm Millstein & Co., said in an interview.  Market ‘Nationalized’  “The reality is that a now four-year long conservatorship
is no longer even threatening to become a nationalization of the
mortgage market,” said Millstein. “It is becoming the
nationalization of the mortgage market.”  Together, Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Housing
Administration , the government agency that insures about 15
percent of mortgages, either own or guarantee more than 90
percent of home loans in the U.S.  The Obama administration is finishing a proposal to
maintain a government safety net for housing finance while
allowing private capital to take on the up-front risk. A date
for the plan’s release hasn’t been set. Meanwhile, Republicans
and Democrats in Congress are preparing to introduce bills next
year to wind down  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac.  No Change  “Don’t get the idea that we’ll see Fannie and Freddie go
away some time next year or be reconstituted in a different
form,” said Clifford Rossi, a former risk manager and managing
director at Citigroup Inc. who’s now at the University of
 Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business. “There’s too
much groundwork to be done.”  The risk of deep government involvement in backing
mortgages was highlighted this month when the FHA said it faces
a $16.3 billion shortfall in the value of its insurance fund.
The agency is proposing to raise premiums and sell delinquent
loans to avoid taking a taxpayer subsidy for the first time in
its 78-year history.  “I hope now with this example we’ll get bipartisan support
for comprehensive reform not only for FHA but for the GSEs as
well,”  Scott Garrett , a Republican from  New Jersey  who sits on
the House Financial Services Committee, said in an interview.
“Once again we’re proved that government cannot price the risk,
government is not better at handling the mortgage market than
the private sector.”  Determining the appropriate role for FHA would be a
potential first step toward a larger overhaul of the housing
finance system, DeMarco said in his speech in Washington.  “If policymakers begin with the role FHA should play in
the future in terms of what borrowers would have access to this
program, and what structural changes might be needed, then it
should be easier to consider the government’s role in the
remainder of the mortgage market,” he said.  Financial Headwinds  Even as FHA is facing financial headwinds, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac have reduced their dependency on government support.
After taking $190 billion in Treasury aid, each has now gone two
straight quarters without needing additional cash infusions.
They’ve  paid  a combined $50 billion to Treasury in dividends,
which technically don’t count as a payoff of the government’s
stake.  No plan exists for them to emerge from government control,
and lawmakers including Garrett say they fear the companies’
improved finances could stall momentum to wind them down.  “What I’ve found unfortunately with regard to the GSEs is
that peoples’ memories are very short and already people are
saying 2008 was not that bad and the GSEs situation is being
resolved, and the taxpayer won’t be on the hook ever again,”
Garrett said.  18 Bills  In this session of Congress, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have been targeted in at least 18 Republican bills seeking to
reduce or eliminate the government role in mortgages. None of
the measures gained broad support, partly because Republicans
disagree about what to do with the two companies.  Texas Republican  Jeb Hensarling , a critic of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, is next in line to be chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, which handles housing-finance
issues. He is expected to put forward solutions of his own for
phasing out government backing for housing.  Meanwhile, staff for Democratic members of Congress say
they want White House guidance on mortgage finance reform. The
Obama administration has provided few details on its preferred
approach beyond a report suggesting three options with varying
degrees of government involvement. They were unveiled by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  almost two years ago.  Federal Assistance  A more detailed plan the administration is now completing
would be a version of one of the options in the report, allowing
federal assistance for low- and moderate-income borrowers and
providing catastrophic reinsurance for mortgages behind
significant private capital, according to three people familiar
with the document, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
it has not been finalized.  There is broad support in Washington for a continued
government role, though some Republicans may disagree, policy
analysts say.  “I think we’re seeing some broad consensus around a
government backstop of some sort,” Julia Gordon, director of
housing finance and policy at the Center for American Progress,
said in an interview. The center, which is aligned with
Democrats, has proposed that privately capitalized entities
issue mortgage securities with an explicit government guarantee.  Secondary Market  Earlier this year, the Obama administration was said to be
looking closely at bipartisan housing-finance bills for policy
guidance. One such bill, co-sponsored by California Republican
 Gary Miller  and  New York  Democrat Carolyn McCarthy, would create
a government-run “secondary market facility” for residential
mortgages to replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  A second measure drawing Treasury interest was introduced
by  John Campbell , a California Republican, and  Gary Peters , a
Michigan Democrat. It would replace the government-sponsored
enterprises with privately capitalized entities that would buy
government backing for the mortgage bonds they issued.  Whatever avenue lawmakers and the White House finally
choose, they need to make the process transparent, Rossi said.  “The time has come to put something out,” he said in an
interview. “You can’t just flip a switch and all of a sudden
you’ve got a brand new secondary market. I’d like to see a
specific timeline.”  Shrinking Footprint  Meanwhile, absent action from lawmakers, the Federal
Housing Finance Agency is proceeding with its own plans for
shrinking their footprint.  DeMarco has called for the enterprises to share the risk on
some of their portfolio with private capital, expand reliance on
private  mortgage insurance  and raise the fees they charge to
guarantee mortgage-backed securities.  As part of that process, FHFA is seeking public comment on
a plan to standardize methods for issuing bonds, overseeing
servicers, making payments to investors and tracking loan
performance. The system could be used by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac or by issuers of private-label securities, FHFA said.  Not everyone in Washington thinks it’s imperative to act
fast, especially when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are becoming
profitable.  “We all know it’s unhealthy for the federal government to
play such a dominant role in the market and it’s
unsustainable,” said Tim Rood, a partner in Washington-based
consulting firm Collingwood LLC. “While the market heals, we
can wean it off by creating market opportunities for private
capital. In the meantime, let’s try to make some money to pay
for the sins and claims of the last market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  