-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued to
grow modestly - comparable to the previous Beige Book - until
the end of October. After pummeling the Mid-Atlantic coast,
Hurricane Sandy made landfall in southern  New Jersey  as a
tropical storm on October 29, moving quickly inland and over the
Greater Philadelphia area. While the storm took a path through
the heart of the Third District, the most severe impacts were
felt along the central New Jersey shoreline and beyond our
region in northern New Jersey,  New York  City, and  Long Island 
where the wind and storm surges were greatest. Overall, the
storm left over a hundred people dead, 8.5 million customers
without power across 21 states, thousands of homes damaged or
destroyed, and tens of billions of dollars of damage and
economic disruption. Third District residents and businesses
bore a substantial share of the damage; the Third District
economy lost a couple of days’ output.  Most individual sectors, abetted by  Hurricane Sandy , declined a
little further or slowed their pace slightly. Manufacturing
activity declined a bit. Retail sales slowed to a slight pace of
growth, while auto sales slowed to a modest pace. Lending
volumes at Third District banks have continued to grow slightly,
and credit quality has continued to improve. Signed contracts
for new  home construction  have slowed, while brokers report
strong percentage growth in sales of existing homes. Commercial
real estate contacts reported slightly more leasing activity and
some initial interest for new office construction, as well as
robust construction for industrial space. Service-sector firms
reported generally slower growth with significant challenges
facing tourism. Price pressures have changed little.  The overall outlook appears less optimistic relative to the
views expressed in the last  Beige Book . Recovery from Hurricane
Sandy and a renewed focus on the looming fiscal cliff contribute
to greater uncertainty than before. Expectations over the next
six months among manufacturers declined for overall activity as
well as for capital spending and hiring. Auto dealers,
contractors, real estate firms, and financial service contacts
remain optimistic, as their ongoing positive trends are
supported further by recovery spending. Holiday sales
expectations remain strong but have diminished slightly among
general retailers. Service-sector contacts express a mix of
outlooks with a substantial cloud hanging over the  Jersey
Shore ’s tourism industry.  Manufacturing. Hurricane Sandy’s impact on Third District
manufacturers seems to have somewhat accelerated the slight
overall declines in orders and shipments reported during the
prior Beige Book period. The immediate economic impact from
Sandy is largely negative - a combination of economic
disruptions and destruction of capital. Nevertheless, makers of
food products, lumber and wood products, fabricated metal
products, and instruments reported further gains. Makers of
primary metals, industrial machinery, and electronic equipment
reported further declines. A significant global manufacturer
reported that growth in the U.S. and worldwide is weak and
continues to slow; this firm and another large exporter
specifically reported that growth in  China  is slowing further.  Expectations among Third District manufacturers that business
conditions will improve during the next six months softened in
October then held steady through mid-November despite the
election and the storm. Firms in several sectors anticipate
additional demand over the next three to six months from storm-
related rebuilding activity. However, firms also reported lower
expectations of future hiring increases and slight declines in
future  capital spending .  Retail. Prior to the storm’s advance, Third District retailers
reported a small improvement in October’s year-over-year sales
trends following a disappointing decrease in September sales.
The storm is said to have wrecked those gains temporarily. Sales
shifted to necessities then slowed overall on October’s final
weekend as the storm approached. In many areas throughout the
District, malls closed for most of two days - which are
otherwise slow days of a slow week prior to the start of the
 holiday shopping season . By opening while many local school
districts were still closed, these retailers attracted high food
sales, but general retail sales remained slow and focused on
hard goods through the weekend following the storm. One drug
store chain closed 790 locations during the storm’s peak on
October 29th; only one remained completely closed two weeks
later in a nearly inaccessible stretch of the Jersey Shore.
Chain stores, restaurants, and independent retailers remain
closed in scattered locations from  Cape May  to Point Pleasant
Beach. More severe property damage clustered along the narrowest
strips of the  barrier islands  where the ocean met the bay at the
height of the storm. While rebuilding raised sales expectations
for home repair supplies, the storm tarnished expectations for
the atypically long holiday sales season, as households are
preoccupied with recovery efforts.  Auto dealers reported that October sales had been somewhat
“flat” in New Jersey at 5.7 percent year-over-year growth and
slowed a little in  Pennsylvania  prior to the storm. Sales fell
off on the weekend prior to the storm and for the following two
weeks. A significant sales bump is expected in November, as
insurance companies begin to cut claims checks for an estimated
30,000 cars damaged in New Jersey. The stronger sales may extend
over several months. In addition, an estimated 15,000 new cars
awaiting delivery to dealerships were reported to be irreparably
damaged by  storm surge  at the Port Newark-Elizabeth Marine
Terminal in northern New Jersey. This loss will further tighten
inventories at new car dealers throughout the eastern seaboard.  Finance. Third District financial firms have reported continued
growth with a slight overall improvement since the prior Beige
Book. This growth has occurred despite contacts reporting that
many customers have been in a “wait-and-see mode” regarding
capital investment decisions with respect to the nation’s
upcoming fiscal decisions. Power outages associated with
Hurricane Sandy created widespread bank and ATM closings, but
few long-term disruptions or significant losses. While  credit
quality  continued to improve, contacts suggest that the storm
impacts may create a surge in cash flow borrowing and an
increase in delinquencies, especially for New Jersey businesses
and homeowners. Lenders maintain a positive outlook.  Real Estate and Construction. October began as a disappointing
month for some residential builders, punctuated by Hurricane
Sandy, which closed their offices and reduced their traffic.
Brokers continued to report significantly stronger sales
activity (from previously low levels) and expect to conclude
their strongest year of the recovery despite the storm impacts.
Inventory levels of real estate listings are significantly lower
than one year ago. Jersey Shore real estate has been thrown into
turmoil by an excess of displaced residents, in addition to
utility, construction, and FEMA workers competing for all
available rental units as temporary housing. Construction
activity has already begun on the easy repairs, but it is likely
to take years to repair or replace the thousands of homes
damaged and demolished. Overall, builders and brokers remain
cautiously optimistic.  Nonresidential real estate contacts reported that prospect
activity was up slightly; large blocks of Class A office space
in Philadelphia’s central business district were becoming
scarce; and growing companies have begun to talk about new
buildings. Construction activity for industrial space continued
apace with over 7 million square feet of active construction
from Chambersburg, PA, to Easton, PA, and from Pittston, PA, to
Middletown, DE. Storm impacts were generally described as
minimal away from the shore; however, some contractors noted
that extensive repair work has already begun on some critical
facilities requiring significant amounts of well-paid union jobs
on weekend and overtime schedules. Nonresidential real estate
contacts retain a positive outlook for slow, steady growth.  Services. The growth of Third District service-sector firms has
succumbed to the perils of Hurricane Sandy and has slowed, if
not declined, since the last Beige Book. Tourist areas on the
Delaware and New Jersey coasts suffered a severe blow; most of
the Delaware shore and parts of the South Jersey shore saw
limited damage and are largely open for business. However, many
areas were awash - houses demolished and businesses and their
infrastructure and/or inventories ruined. Revenue reports
suggest that  Atlantic City  casinos alone may have lost about $35
million by the end of October, despite suffering little damage.
Contacts suggest the casinos have been losing another $5 million
a day since. The storm also caused the cancellation of the
city’s largest regular, annual convention and the delay (at
best) of several others. Some of the barrier island homes well
north of Atlantic City are now inaccessible - cut off by new
channels carved by the storm from the bay to the sea. Most of
the Jersey Shore will likely be rebuilt and ready for the summer
season; however, some year-round businesses will not survive
this off off-season; others may never rebuild.  Most District staffing firms reported an ongoing slowdown in
activity, although a few business lines associated with
warehousing and distribution in advance of the pending holiday
season were the strongest in over a decade. Staffing firms
tended to suffer disproportionately greater revenue losses as
their contract workers were unable to log hours when the storm
impacts shuttered their offices. With the possibility of
sequestration looming, many firms reported taking this time as
an opportunity to restructure for efficiency (with potential
layoffs), as many defense-related firms have already done or are
in the process of doing. While attention has been focused on
Hurricane Sandy and the fiscal cliff, some firms reported strong
gains from the enormous advertising dollars during this election
year, while others reported losses from the NHL lockout.
Overall, the steady, modest growth of other service-sector firms
has slowed slightly in recent weeks, and the positive outlook
for continued growth six months out has grown a little more
uncertain.  Prices and Wages. Price levels have continued to show little
overall change since the previous Beige Book. Cost factors have
risen somewhat among manufacturing firms as have prices
received. Homebuilders and retailers indicated that modest cost
pressures continue and that strong competition restrains the
prices that they can charge. Builders and contractors were
beginning to grow concerned about labor shortages and rising
wages, as general activity increased; Hurricane Sandy has
escalated their concerns in New Jersey, as rebuilding begins to
draw labor to storm-damaged areas. With few exceptions, most
low-end home markets have stable or slightly rising prices,
while most high-end home markets are still trending lower. One
contact speculated that prices will probably fall further in
storm-damaged areas along the Jersey Shore. Commercial real
estate contacts expressed little change in leasing trends.
Similarly, wage pressures remain minimal for most positions;
medical benefits continue to trend higher.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 