-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall on Budget Optimism; Costco Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-28T22:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-increase-amid-fiscal-cliff-concern.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined after comments by Speaker of the House  John
Boehner  and President  Barack Obama  fueled optimism a compromise
can be reached to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 101 basis points at 4:31 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
reached as high as 105.1 basis points earlier today.  Signs that lawmakers will reach a compromise to avert the
$607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take
effect next year may allay investor concern that an economic
slowdown will hinder companies’ ability to repay debt. Boehner,
an  Ohio Republican , said he is optimistic lawmakers engaged in
budget talks can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later.”
Obama said separately at the White House that he hopes a deal
can be reached before Christmas.  “You can define the inflection points in the market right
now” by lawmakers’ public comments on budget negotiations, Noel Hebert, who oversees about $250 million as chief investment
officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth
Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “If they sound
positive, people react positively.”  Obama is scheduled to meet with business leaders today,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd
Blankfein .  Home Sales  Purchases of new homes  unexpectedly declined  in October,
showing limited progress in the housing market recovery. Sales
dropped 0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace following a revised
369,000 rate in September that was weaker than initially
reported, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
 Washington .  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, issued $3.5 billion of debt in three parts, its first
offering since February 2007, as the company prepares to pay a
special dividend of about $3 billion to shareholders. Costco
sold $1.2 billion of three-year securities, $1.1 billion of
five-year bonds, and $1.2 billion of debt maturing in 2019,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hewlett-Packard  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
narrowed 1 basis point to 5.86 percentage points, led by spreads
on the bonds of  utility companies , which dropped 6 basis points
to 13.28 percentage points, according to Bloomberg data.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, dropped 6.7 basis points to 509.5 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  fell after Moody’s Investors
Service reduced its credit rating. The company’s $750 million of
5.5 percent notes due March 2018 dropped 0.2 cent to 105.9 cents
on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Hewlett-Packard had its credit rating cut by Moody’s, which
cited concern about the computer maker’s ability to contend with
competition and “execution challenges.” Moody’s reduced
Hewlett-Packard’s long-term  credit rating  to Baa1, three levels
above junk, from A3, according to a statement today. Its outlook
is negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  