-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a slow pace in October and early November. Contacts
noted heightened uncertainty over the near-term economic outlook
as the deadline for the fiscal cliff approaches, but remained
cautiously optimistic that growth would pick up to a moderate
pace in 2013. By sector, gains in  consumer spending  were up
slightly from the previous reporting period, while growth in
business spending moderated further. Manufacturing production
decelerated, while construction increased at a slow but steady
pace. Credit conditions continued to improve gradually. Cost
pressures were little changed, although food prices eased. Corn
and soybean production in the District did not suffer as much
from the drought as previously had been expected.  Consumer spending. The pace of consumer spending, while still
moderate, increased slightly from the previous reporting period.
Furniture sales improved slightly, while sales of electronics
were flat from the previous reporting period. In contrast,
retail auto sales fell, in part because incentives have become
more directed towards leasing. Overall, retail sales surpassed
expectations, which contacts attributed to promotions and
generally improving  consumer confidence . Nonetheless, some
retailers noted a slower sales pace in early November, and many
lowered their expectations for the first half of 2013. In
particular, contacts expressed concern over the impact of
potential changes in federal  tax policy  on consumers’
willingness to spend.  Business spending. Growth in business spending moderated further
in October and early November. Inventory investment continued to
slow. Retail contacts reported no transportation delays stemming
from Hurricane Sandy; and inventories, although slightly
elevated, were indicated to be within typical seasonal ranges.
Steel service center inventories were also slightly elevated,
and manufacturers reported that material lead times decreased
significantly. Capital spending on equipment and structures also
slowed. A number of contacts reported that given the heightened
uncertainty surrounding the near-term economic outlook, they
were reluctant to make  capital expenditures  beyond productivity
enhancements. Labor market conditions improved slightly from the
previous reporting period. Job growth in manufacturing slowed,
but there was an increase in professional services employment.
However, a number of firms noted that they have put hiring plans
on hold and have delayed temp-to-perm conversion decisions until
next year. Those that did report ongoing plans to hire continued
to note difficulty in finding skilled workers, and many have
created internal training programs as a result.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity continued to
increase at a slow, but steady pace in October and early
November. Multi-family construction remained a source of
strength with the continued rise in residential rents and
declines in apartment vacancies. Single-family construction also
increased. For the first time in several years, homebuilders
reported new land development projects were underway, although
these remained limited to a handful of desirable locations.
Demand for nonresidential construction continued to increase at
a slow pace, with contacts noting that many of their customers
are waiting for the resolution of the fiscal cliff and
stabilization in  Europe  before moving ahead on  capital spending 
projects. Vacancy rates remained elevated for many property
types, and contacts indicated that few leasing and acquisition
deals are being made in the retail and office spaces. That said,
contacts also noted some signs of improvement in commercial real
estate conditions, pointing to moderate declines in vacancies
and space available for sublease.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production decelerated in October
and early November. Contacts expected activity to remain subdued
in the coming year, and voiced concerns about the potential
impact of the fiscal cliff and weaker global demand for their
products. Exports to Europe and  Asia  as well as many parts of
 South America  softened, but remained stronger to  North America ,
particularly to  Mexico . Capacity utilization in the  steel
industry  decreased, but an industry contact reported that orders
were anticipated to pick up some over the next two quarters.
Specialty metal manufacturers also reported weaker orders. There
was continued strength in demand from the power generation
industry, and the heavy equipment and auto industries also
remained sources of strength. However, contacts expect demand
for heavy machinery to flatten in 2013 as dealer rental fleet
growth returns to more a normal pace. In contrast, improving
housing demand continued to benefit manufacturers of
construction materials.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to gradually ease
in October and early November. Credit spreads and financial
market volatility remained low, and asset quality steadily
improved. Banking contacts reported modest growth in small
business loan demand, but also slower growth in debt
restructuring and leveraged finance deals as well as lower
utilization of credit lines. Contacts attributed the decrease in
credit demand from middle market customers to heightened
uncertainty about future tax rates on capital spending. Loan
pricing and standards remained broadly unchanged, with the
exception of commercial and industrial and auto lending, where
credit terms and availability continued to ease. Contacts noted
that community and regional banks have been particularly
aggressive in pricing and covenants to compete with larger banks
for a limited supply of new loan opportunities.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures were little changed in October and
early November. Several contacts noted that even though steel
and scrap prices were lower than they were a few months ago,
both had increased in recent weeks. A contact in the steel
industry noted that the recent rise in scrap prices may reflect
the impact of  Hurricane Sandy  as well as slightly higher global
demand. Construction contacts also reported an increase in
prices of raw materials such as lumber. Retail food prices
eased, on balance, as higher prices for meat were offset by
lower prices for produce, dairy, and some other grocery items.
More generally, retailers indicated that discounting and
promotions for non-food items also eased some over the reporting
period, but were expected to pick up again after Thanksgiving.
Wage pressures remained moderate, but nonwage costs increased as
many contacts again cited higher healthcare costs.  Agriculture. The corn harvest was completed ahead of last year’s
pace, while the soybean harvest was proceeding more quickly than
typical. Much of the District reported higher yields than had
been expected during the previous reporting period, reflecting
in part timely local rains, later planting, and irrigation.
Nonetheless, the drought still cut the District’s output of corn
and soybeans substantially relative to last year. Concerns about
crop quality due to the drought seemed to diminish, although
there were some reports of deliveries rejected for crop
diseases. Corn and soybean prices--and with them livestock
feeding costs--fell further, though they remained elevated from
the levels of a year ago. Milk, hog, and cattle prices edged up
from the prior reporting period, which also helped the cash flow
of livestock operations. Sugar beet output in  Michigan  was
higher than a year ago, and sugar prices were higher as well.
Farmland values continued to rise despite the drought. Moreover,
there seemed to be more farmland available to buy, partly due to
uncertainty about future tax rates.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 