-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since
our last report. On balance, manufacturing orders and production
rose. Residential and nonresidential construction activity
increased, with particular strength noted in the multi family
segment. Realtors reported a rise in purchases of existing
homes. Retailers and auto dealers saw higher sales during
October relative to year-ago levels. Conventional oil and gas
well output held steady, while coal production trended lower.
Freight transport volume slowed. And the demand for business
credit moved slightly higher.  Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Exceptions were
found in the auto industry, where hiring continued at a more
robust pace, and construction, where payrolls began to grow.
Staffing-firm representatives said that the number of job
openings has picked up slightly during the past six weeks.
Vacancies were found primarily in manufacturing, information
technology, and healthcare. Wage pressures are contained. Input
prices were stable, apart from increases in construction
materials.  Manufacturing. District factories reported that new orders and
production increased on net during the past six weeks. Companies
citing increases were mainly linked to the aerospace,
construction machinery, medical device, motor vehicle, and oil
and gas industries. Compared to prior-year levels, production
activity was mixed. Several producers pointed to rising
inventories but said that they are manageable. Many of our
contacts are expecting a slight weakening in business activity
during the next few months due to seasonal factors and
uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the fiscal cliff. Steel
producers and service centers reported that shipping volume was
down slightly, which they attributed in part to weaker
international demand. Inventories have been reduced relative to
sales. Steel producers expect market conditions to remain flat
through at least the end of the year. District auto production
showed a moderate decline during September on a month-over-month
and year-over year basis for domestic nameplates, while their
foreign counterparts increased production.  Little change in capacity utilization was reported; rates were
within or slightly below their normal range. Several companies,
particularly those serving the energy and transportation
sectors, reported plans to expand capacity. Capital spending was
largely on track. Raw material prices were either flat or
trended lower, while finished goods prices were mainly steady.
Manufacturers noted that they are feeling pressure from
customers to lower prices. The auto industry provided a boost to
District employment. Otherwise, manufacturing payrolls expanded
at a modest pace, even at companies experiencing a pick-up in
demand. Wage pressures are contained, and rising health
insurance premiums remain a challenge.  Real Estate. Reports from home builders indicated that the
number of single-family housing starts since mid-September
increased relative to earlier in the third quarter and on a
year-over-year basis. Sales contracts were found mainly in
higher price-point categories. Some contractors commented that
shrinking inventories of existing homes have spurred new
residential developments. Opportunities in constructing
multifamily and special-needs housing remain strong.
Nonetheless, tight lending standards are seen as restraining the
effect of low interest rates for builders and home buyers.
Builders are hopeful that the recent improvement in sales will
continue after the winter slowdown. List prices of new homes are
beginning to rise, and builders have cut back on discounting.
Sales of existing homes have picked up, with a few reports of
bidding wars.  Nonresidential contractors reported that business activity is
expanding. Although inquiries have slowed in the past few weeks,
most builders are satisfied with their backlogs going into 2013.
Project work is driven by multifamily housing and industrial
contracts. Public-sector projects have declined. Obtaining
financing remains difficult, particularly for projects that are
deemed speculative by lenders. Nonetheless, contractors are
cautiously optimistic about activity going into 2013.  Residential and nonresidential builders reported higher prices
for construction materials, especially drywall and lumber, with
rising prices being attributed in part to a cutback in output by
suppliers. Many builders have added to their payrolls during the
past couple of months, although some layoffs of seasonal workers
are expected. Wage pressure was felt among the skilled trades
due to a lack of qualified workers.  Consumer Spending. Most retailers reported a modest rise in
sales during the past six weeks relative to the same time period
a year ago. Increased volume was seen across product categories,
except for home furnishings, which declined slightly. There is
concern about potential tax increases in 2013 and the effect
they might have on household spending, especially those in
higher-income brackets. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic
about the holiday shopping season. Two retailers said that they
have expanded their inventories (after seasonal adjustments) in
anticipation of rising sales volume. Vendor pricing has been
fairly stable. Any increases were absorbed into store margins.
Capital spending remains on target. A few retailers reported
that they are considering increasing outlays during 2013,
particularly for improvements to their distribution systems. No
permanent hiring is expected other than at new stores. The
number of temporary workers being hired for the holiday season
is similar to 2011.  New-vehicle sales were stronger during October when compared
with the same time period a year ago. Dealers reported that
sales of fuel-efficient cars and compact SUVs are doing well.
Truck sales have picked up, with the onset of the winter season.
New-vehicle inventories are rising, although one dealer said
that trucks are in short supply. Dealers expect little change in
monthly sales for the remainder of this year. Purchases of used
vehicles rose slightly, though inventories are still tight.
Leasing continued to grow in popularity, which should help to
replenish the used-vehicle inventory by mid-2013. Bank credit
was more readily available as is captive financing. Hiring for
sales and service positions is slow. We heard reports about
dealers partnering with technical colleges to train people for
all facets of dealership work.  Banking. Demand for business credit moved slightly higher since
our last report. Many applications were for refinancing loans
originated by competitors. Small business owners found that
credit is available, but collateral requirements are more
stringent than prior to the recession and personal guarantees
are often required. In contrast, micro-businesses reported that
it remains very difficult for them to obtain credit. On the
consumer side, several of our contacts reported a decline in
auto lending, while demand for other consumer products held
steady. Activity was strong in the residential mortgage market.
Although a large majority of applicants are looking to
refinance, bankers noted an increase in new-purchase requests.
Delinquency rates improved across consumer and commercial loan
categories. Growth in core deposits was driven more by business
customers. Little change in banking payrolls is expected for the
remainder of this year and into 2013.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production held steady
during the past six weeks. Most of our contacts reported plans
to increase drilling in the upcoming months, which will boost
capital outlays beginning early in 2013. Wellhead prices for
natural gas are up slightly, while oil declined about $5 per
barrel. Shale gas activity continued at a robust pace. Coal
production for the year is below 2011 levels due to lower demand
from domestic utilities and offshore customers and a stricter
regulatory environment. Reports of idled mines were common.
However, an increase in thermal coal production is expected
beginning in December for the winter heating season. As a
result, one producer reported that he has rehired about 25
percent of his laid-off workers. Declining prices for
metallurgical coal have leveled off, while steam coal prices
were mixed. Production equipment and materials prices were flat
across most categories. Wage pressures are contained.  Freight Transportation. Reports on freight transport indicated
that volume has slowed since late in the third quarter, though
part of the slowing was attributed to seasonal factors. Our
contacts told us that  Hurricane Sandy  and weakness in European
markets might be contributing to the downturn. Industries
driving demand include housing, motor vehicles, and retail. Most
of our contacts believe that activity will be slow through
year’s end, with a pick-up during the first quarter of 2013.
However, rebuilding in the aftermath of Sandy could provide a
year-end volume boost. Costs associated with truck maintenance
held steady. One contact is experiencing pushback from customers
when negotiating rate increases. Reports on capital spending
were mixed. Some freight haulers said that 2012 expenditures are
on track. Others reported a postponement in purchasing
replacement equipment due to a sluggish economy and uncertainty
about the outcome of the fiscal cliff. Hiring is mainly for
replacement. Recruiting qualified personnel remains difficult,
which is contributing to wage pressures.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 