-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Fifth District economic activity strengthened at a
tempered pace since our last report. Manufacturing activity
improved, retail sales increased moderately, and customer demand
rose modestly at non-retail services firms. Reports on banking
conditions were mixed, and mortgage refinancing bolstered
 consumer lending . Real estate markets also strengthened, with
both residential and commercial contacts reporting an uptick in
activity. In contrast, labor market activity slowed since our
last report. Also, tourism contacts noted a seasonal decline in
reservations. Agricultural conditions were favorable before
Hurricane Sandy arrived, although some farmers in the District
were affected by the storm. Manufacturers’ input prices and
finished goods prices rose at a slower rate, while wages rose
more quickly. The pace of service providers’ price increases
edged up and non-retail wage growth slowed. Price increases
slowed at retailers, while wages rose at a faster pace. Several
businesses lost power during Hurricane Sandy, but most returned
quickly to normal operations. In addition, we received reports
of supplier issues and less customer traffic.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to
improve modestly. A manufacturer of dental products reported an
increase in orders and commented that his company would finish
the year slightly ahead of 2011. A manufacturer of
organizational products said that he expected shipments to
remain high; he remarked that his company was picking up market
share through consolidation in the industry. A producer of
plastic components noted a pickup in activity after several
months of reduced orders. In addition, an aerospace manufacturer
reported that the company is expanding and is completing a new
manufacturing facility. According to our latest survey, both raw
materials and finished goods prices rose at a slower pace since
our last report.  Retail. Retail contacts reported a moderate acceleration in
sales during late October and early November. Hardware and home
and garden stores noted higher demand for storm-related items
ahead of  Hurricane Sandy . Quipped one executive, “Bad weather is
good for business.” A store manager at a department store
reported that his sales were stable, although he is competing
with his suppliers for online sales. Car and light truck dealers
gave mixed reports. Dealers in Maryland and West  Virginia  saw a
drop in sales, however a  West Virginia  dealer recently completed
expansion at his location to accommodate additional inventory
for ongoing strong sales, and a  North Carolina  dealer commented
that year-over-year sales were mostly strong across the board.
The pace of retail price increases slowed since our last report.  Services. Executives at services firms generally reported a
modest rise in customer demand since our last report, especially
at professional, scientific, and technical firms. Additionally,
several architectural and engineering firms indicated that their
business strengthened somewhat. Although financial services
firms reported that activity had improved, a central Virginia
broker commented that clients “remained conservative” and were
evaluating alternative plans in case the economy worsens.
Contacts at healthcare organizations noted little change in
demand other than typical seasonal expansion. However, freight
trucking firms reported slight softening in the industry.
Service providers noted a minor pickup in the pace of price
increases.  Finance. Reports on banking conditions varied widely since our
last report. An official for a large bank stated that business
borrowing softened over the last six weeks, while mortgage
demand edged higher. A West Virginia banker said that  home
equity loans  were down, in part due to consumers rolling that
debt into their mortgage. A small commercial banker in Virginia
described demand in general as improving slightly, but added
that consumer loans were unchanged from “meager” levels and
small business loans were virtually non-existent. Several loan
officers noted that an exception to weak consumer demand was
auto loans, but one banker said that even those had weakened in
recent weeks. A credit union loan manager reported that consumer
loan applications were up and he expected modest gains to
continue. Overall loan demand strengthened, according to a
northern Virginia banker, mostly for auto loans, home mortgage
refinancing, and equipment purchases. Several officials also
expressed concern that banks were increasing their risk by
making longer termed loans in an effort to get higher yields.
Yet, most bankers stated that the quality of their loan
portfolio remained healthy, with few delinquencies in recent
months.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity improved modestly
since our last report. A Realtor in the Richmond area said that
closings were up double digits compared to a year ago. He noted
that inventory is very low and prices continued to rise. A
contact in  South Carolina  reported that the single-family
segment in the Myrtle Beach market was particularly robust,
although the area continued to work down a glut of inventory in
the condominium market. A builder in South Carolina cited
significant pent-up demand in the first time buyer segment,
because many could not get financing, although the move-up
market improved. Another builder in South Carolina stated that
inventories were moving toward balance and he believed that a
real recovery was underway. Similarly, another source reported
that there was a steady, slow improvement, and that foreclosures
were falling. A contact in  Charlotte  noticed more residential
work in the high-end home category for the first time in more
than three years.  Commercial real estate and construction improved slightly over
the last few months. While some contacts stated that activity
remained weak and little changed from the summer months, most
contacts reported modest gains in at least some segments of
their local market. A real estate representative in the
Baltimore area said that her third quarter market report showed
“grinding and gradual improvement,” with the majority of growth
in the Baltimore-DC region. A developer in the Carolinas
reported that absorption rates in the office segment were
improving, even though vacancy rates remained elevated. Other
contacts also noted tightening of available  office space ,
especially among Class A properties, but attributed some of that
gain to the lack of new construction. A Charlotte Realtor
described his market as “choppy,” with downtown office space
faring better than suburban locations. He also noted some
tightening in industrial space, due mostly to expansion of
distribution and call center demand. Several contacts,
especially in Virginia, noted slight improvements in retail
vacancy rates for restaurants and apparel stores. Most Realtors
reported modest firming in leasing rates, although concessions
on long-term leases were occasionally available. While several
contractors noted a slowdown in government and education-related
projects, private sector projects were edging forward, most
notably for strip malls in underserved areas and for
distribution centers near major retail markets. Additionally, a
contact reported expanding activity at industrial and health
care facilities.  Labor Markets. Labor markets were more negative on balance than
in our last report. Employment agencies reported somewhat
stronger demand for temporary workers, but reiterated their
difficulty finding qualified workers to fill open positions in
manufacturing, aerospace, defense, automotive, and construction.
A contact in South Carolina said that labor demand remained
fairly soft, with the exception of some IT positions, noting
that hiring came to a stop in the third quarter. A Charlotte
area temp agency executive reported that manufacturers were
unwilling to hire long-term unemployed workers because their
skills may have diminished. Manufacturers worried that taking on
talent at reduced wages might lead to more turn-over when the
economy picks up. A North Carolina contact commented that
college graduates who were unable to find full-time work were
choosing to remain on unemployment rather than take part-time
positions. According to contacts, retail wage growth picked up,
while wages at non-retail services firms rose more slowly;
manufacturing wage growth also edged up.  Tourism. Most tourism contacts reported seasonally slower autumn
bookings. Several added that, at this time of year, they focus
on attracting tourists who are located within a day’s drive.
There were scattered reports of storm-related hotel
cancellations caused by Hurricane Sandy, as tourists from
outside the District were affected by the weather at home. In
addition, a couple of contacts noted some patches of beach and
highway erosion on the Outer Banks of North Carolina and storm-
related snow in parts of West Virginia, which might affect near-
term visits. However, most planned events continued on schedule.
A few District hoteliers stated that they were able to raise
rates slightly since our last report.  Agriculture. Agricultural conditions prior to Hurricane Sandy
remained favorable. Strong income boosted farm loan repayment
rates. Lenders reported a drop in the number of loan renewals
and extensions, even as spending for agricultural equipment
rose. During October, beef prices rose as farmers struggled with
higher feed costs―some producers culled herds, including
breeding stock. More recently, Hurricane Sandy’s damage was
minimal and localized mainly in coastal areas. In  Maryland , an
analyst reported that small grain emergence may be affected by
standing water and salt water flooding. Snow and cold
temperatures in North Carolina hindered farm activity and
livestock producers were forced to begin feeding hay due to snow
covered pastures; fruit production was not affected. In
contrast, most farmers in Virginia were relieved that Hurricane
Sandy brought much needed rain without significant damage to the
corn and soybeans still in the field.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 