-- U.S. Federal Reserve Nov. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-nov-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Economic activity expanded at a measured pace in recent weeks,
according to reports from contacts in the twelve Federal Reserve
Districts.  Cleveland , Richmond, Atlanta,  Chicago ,  Kansas City ,
 Dallas , and San Francisco grew at a modest pace, while St. Louis
and  Minneapolis  indicated a somewhat stronger increase in
activity. In contrast,  Boston  reported a slower rate of growth.
Weaker conditions in  New York  were attributed to widespread
disruptions at the end of October and into November caused by
Hurricane Sandy. Philadelphia reported general weakness that was
exacerbated by the hurricane. However, in the Boston and
Richmond Districts, the storm’s effects were mostly limited.
Contacts in a number of Districts expressed concern and
uncertainty about the federal budget, especially the fiscal
cliff.  Among key sectors,  consumer spending  grew at a moderate pace in
most Districts, while manufacturing weakened, on balance. Seven
of the twelve Districts reported either slowing or outright
contraction in manufacturing, and two others gave mixed reports.
In some cases, such as high-tech equipment and steel production,
an industry slowed in one District while strengthening in
another. Several Districts reported slight gains in residential
and commercial real estate. Travel and tourism varied by
District; for example, Minneapolis contacts marked levels of
activity above a year ago, and tourism fell in the Kansas City
District. Non-financial services also differed among Districts,
with Philadelphia businesses indicating softer demand, while
firms in other Districts reported pockets of robust demand for
professional, scientific, and technical services. In
transportation, reports were, again, mixed. In addition,
hurricane disruptions slowed freight shipments in some
Districts, while simultaneously boosting demand for shipments of
emergency supplies. In banking and financial services, higher
demand for home mortgage loans and auto loans increased  consumer
lending  in some Districts, although small business loan demand
was generally described as weaker to only moderately higher.
 Credit quality  improved on net.  Reports on agricultural conditions were mixed, as drought
conditions persisted in several Districts, such as Atlanta,
Chicago, and Kansas City; other areas reported solid production
and, in some cases, increased investment. In the energy sector,
extraction expanded on balance in San Francisco and activity
remained at high levels in the Minneapolis and Dallas Districts.
However, there were fewer active oil rigs in Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco. In addition, coal production fell in
the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts. Most Districts reported
modest gains in hiring, while wage and price pressures remained
mostly subdued. Employment increased in more than half of the
twelve Districts. Wage growth was described as modest at best,
constrained in part by an abundant labor supply. However, a few
Districts reported pockets of strength in wage growth, notably
in North Dakota, where oil drilling had pushed up demand for
workers, and in the Kansas City District, where wages were
rising for specialized workers in transportation, high-tech, and
energy. San Francisco reported stronger wage growth for truck
drivers and health-care workers. Price increases, for the most
part, remained in line with the modest pace reported in our last
assessment. Examples of some exceptions were input prices for
construction in Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City,
and San Francisco. Richmond reported generally slower retail
price increases, and in Chicago, retail food prices eased,
except for meats. In contrast, Kansas City contacts indicated
that retail prices had edged up.  Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending increased at a
moderate pace in most Districts in recent weeks, with mixed
reports from Dallas. In New York, sales were ahead of plan prior
to  Hurricane Sandy , and merchants expect to recoup sales lost
during the storm as residents replace destroyed or damaged
property. Philadelphia contacts reported slower growth since the
last report. Apparel sales picked up in Boston, and Richmond
indicated that home and garden stores reported stronger sales
ahead of Hurricane Sandy. Durable goods sales varied across
Districts. For example, Boston and Chicago noted an improvement
in furniture, while sales in that category declined in
Cleveland. Chicago reported flattening in electronics sales,
whereas San Francisco contacts reported significant sales gains
for consumer technology products.  Automobile sales varied by District, with Cleveland, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco indicating strength. Sales of
both new and used vehicles in the San Francisco District were
reported as running well above year-ago levels. Car sales were
strong in Atlanta, although a bit less robust than earlier in
the year. Richmond car sales were mixed. New York contacts said
sales had flattened, and sales held steady in Kansas City. In
contrast, auto sales slowed in Philadelphia and new vehicle
sales fell at dealerships contacted by Chicago and Dallas. Sales
of used vehicles were also mixed. Used car sales remained robust
in New York and rose in Cleveland, with Cleveland District
inventories remaining tight; in  St. Louis , a majority of
dealerships noted that used car sales had decreased relative to
new car purchases, and in Minneapolis, used car sales softened.  Looking to the holiday sales season, the Districts whose
contacts gave an outlook noted mostly upbeat expectations. New
York retailers anticipated recovering lost sales during the
holiday season, and in Philadelphia, expectations remained
bright overall for holiday sales, despite somewhat less optimism
among general retailers. Boston contacts indicated that they
were positioning their businesses for increased internet sales,
and a Richmond retailer commented that he was competing with his
suppliers for online sales. While retailers anticipated a good
holiday season in Minneapolis, mall contacts reported recent
declines in traffic and sales. Contacts in Boston, Cleveland,
and Chicago remarked on their uncertain sales expectations
because of the potential for tax changes in 2013, as the
national budget outlook remained uncertain.  Tourism slowed in some Districts while strengthening in others.
New York District tourism was mixed prior to Hurricane Sandy;
hotel bookings initially dropped off following the storm, but
business bounced back the next week. In addition, late
cancellation of the New York marathon likely brought large
numbers of visitors to the city in early November. Hurricane
Sandy affected areas of the Philadelphia District along the
coastlines of Delaware and southern New Jersey, in some cases
demolishing houses and devastating businesses. New Jersey also
suffered losses in revenue from the closure of Atlantic City
casinos and the cancellation or delay of conventions there;
expectations were that most areas along the Jersey shore would
be rebuilt and ready for the summer season. Richmond reported
seasonally slower autumn bookings, along with scattered
cancellations caused by Hurricane Sandy, and in the Kansas City
District, tourism spending fell, leading to price reductions by
hoteliers. In contrast, travel and tourism remained strong in
Atlanta, with international visitors bolstering activity in
Florida and District convention bookings picking up. The
exception there was at cruise lines, for which bookings
continued to fall below expectations. Travel and tourism rose in
Minneapolis.  Nonfinancial Services. Reports from nonfinancial services
providers differed among Districts. Boston reports were
generally weaker than expected for tech services, while New York
businesses indicated that the effects of Hurricane Sandy had
negatively impacted both workers and customers. In the New York
District, prolonged power and communications outages and extreme
flooding hurt firms and residents, particularly on Long Island
and in northern New Jersey. Slowing demand for nonfinancial
services in the Philadelphia District was further hampered by
the hurricane. St. Louis reported a net decline, but with
expansion in some categories such as business support,
telecommunications, casinos, legal, and crisis management
services. Dallas noted steady demand overall, and contacts
reported robust demand for insurance, audit, and legal services.
However, Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported net
expansion, with examples of growth at engineering, technology,
and architectural firms. A number of contacts across Districts
expressed uncertainty about business conditions for the months
ahead as the firms and their customers waited for the outcome of
 federal budget  negotiations.  Transportation sector activity was generally mixed since the
last assessment. Dallas noted that intermodal cargo volumes were
down. Declines in rail cargo volumes were led by such products
as coal, metals, and forest materials. Atlanta also cited
declines in coal shipments, due to softening global demand for
metallurgical coal and less demand from domestic utility plants.
Cleveland reported fewer freight shipments, which their contacts
attributed to hurricane disruptions and weakness in Europe, even
as freight demand was boosted by housing, motor vehicles, and
retail. Kansas City also noted a pickup in trucking traffic due
to emergency food shipments in the wake of Hurricane Sandy.
Shippers in that District also reported an increase in their
 capital expenditures . According to contacts for the Dallas
District, domestic airline demand was flat to down, and in the
St. Louis District, air transportation firms announced plans to
reduce operations.  Manufacturing. Conditions in the manufacturing sector were
mixed, though on balance, most Districts reported that
conditions had weakened since the previous report. The Boston,
New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis and Kansas
City Districts reported that activity had either slowed or
declined somewhat, with most reports leaning toward the latter.
Activity was mixed in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts,
while reports from the Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis
Districts were positive. The Boston, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts noted slower growth for information technology
equipment, while business activity expanded at high-tech firms
in the Kansas City District. Car and auto parts producers in the
Atlanta District said that orders softened slightly. Similarly,
auto production in the Cleveland District declined somewhat for
domestic nameplates but increased for foreign nameplates. In
contrast, heavy equipment and auto industries remained sources
of strength in the Chicago and the Kansas City Districts. Demand
was flat to down for transportation equipment in the Dallas
District, and the Philadelphia District indicated that makers of
primary metals, industrial machinery, and electronic equipment
reported further declines.  Noteworthy gains in manufacturing related to the  aerospace
industry  were reported in the Richmond and San Francisco
Districts, while demand for aviation equipment held steady in
Dallas. Steel production was down slightly in Cleveland, while
the demand for steel in the San Francisco District improved a
bit from low levels. Manufacturing contacts from five of the
twelve Districts expressed concern about the outlook for 2013,
in part, due to the uncertainty regarding the outcome of the
fiscal cliff.  Real Estate and Construction. Overall, markets for single-family
homes continued to improve across most Districts with the
exception of Boston and Philadelphia. Residential real estate
markets in the New York District were mixed but generally firm
prior to the storm. Selling prices were steady or rising.
Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas
noted declining or tight inventories. The Cleveland District
indicated that the number of single-family housing starts had
increased since our last report and from a year ago; most sales
contracts were in higher price-point categories. Similarly,
Richmond noted more residential work in the high-end home
category for the first time in three years, and builders cited
significant pent-up demand in the first-time buyer segment.
Atlanta indicated that existing home sales were up slightly
compared to a year ago and reported that investors were more
active in Florida than in the rest of the District. In Chicago,
residential construction increased at a slow but steady pace in
October and early November, and construction increased for
single-family as well as multi-family homes. St. Louis reported
that residential real estate market conditions continued to
improve, and Minneapolis indicated that segments of construction
and real estate were growing at a double-digit clip. Kansas City
characterized residential real estate activity as brisk and
noted that a solid rise in home sales had reduced home
inventories. Dallas noted that single-family housing activity
remained strong, with both new and existing home sales activity
increasing. San Francisco reported that home demand continued to
strengthen and that home sales continued to grow on a sustained
basis in most areas, spurring new  home construction . However,
sales growth generally slowed for both the condominium and
single-family home markets in the Boston District, and the
Philadelphia District noted that October began as a
disappointing month for some Realtors, only to be punctuated by
Hurricane Sandy.  Construction and commercial real estate activity generally
improved across Districts since the last report. Gains, albeit
modest in most cases, were reported by Philadelphia, Richmond,
Chicago, and Minneapolis. The gains among Cleveland’s contacts
were tempered by reports in recent weeks of a slowdown in
inquiries and a decline in public-sector projects. Kansas City
described activity as holding firm and noted that real estate
markets remained stronger than a year ago. Demand for office and
industrial space continued to increase in Dallas, although
contacts at some businesses said they were “holding back on
expansions due to uncertainty.” Several Districts noted segments
of little change in commercial real estate activity. Boston
described market fundamentals as flat, and San Francisco
depicted market conditions as stable but with pockets of
strength for large infrastructure projects such as roads and
bridges. Commercial and industrial conditions were mixed in the
St. Louis District and throughout most of New York prior to the
hurricane. New York added that, while office markets across
upstate New York were unaffected by the storm, there were some
signs of recent softening.  Banking and Financial Services. Loan demand generally was either
mixed or slightly stronger across most Districts in recent
weeks. Among those noting mixed results, New York reported that
demand for consumer and especially commercial and industrial
loans weakened, but commercial and residential mortgage demand
was steady. Richmond said that a small commercial banker was
encountering a slight improvement in overall loan demand but
added that consumer loans were unchanged from “meager” levels
and small business loans were virtually non-existent. Chicago
noted that small business loan demand experienced modest growth,
but a decrease in credit demand occurred among middle-market
customers. According to St. Louis contacts, overall lending
activity was essentially unchanged over the period. St. Louis
added that, while credit standards for commercial and industrial
loans were largely unchanged, both the demand for these loans
and the number of inquiries ranged from moderately lower to
moderately higher. Used car loan demand was weak in the Dallas
District, although first mortgage and energy-related lending
increased. San Francisco cited weak-to-moderate business loan
demand, but consumer lending expanded further with the help of
auto loans and home mortgage refinancing; however, San Francisco
noted that lending activity as a whole was unchanged. Most
remaining Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta,
and Kansas City reported moderate increases in total loan
demand. In the Philadelphia District, banks reported widespread
bank and ATM closings due to Hurricane Sandy.  Credit standards and credit quality were somewhat improved, on
net, since the last report. Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City
noted that credit standards on most types of loans were
unchanged, and Dallas cited a loosening of credit standards,
which contributed to very competitive loan pricing. Atlanta
cited contacts who reported that underwriting standards had
become more restrictive and burdensome since its last report,
both in terms of credit scores and information requests. With
respect to loan quality, New York reported that delinquency
rates increased in the consumer and commercial and industrial
segments but held steady in the residential and commercial
mortgage segments. Philadelphia contacts cited moderate
improvement. Cleveland and Richmond noted improvements in
delinquency rates across consumer and business loan categories.
Richmond added, however, that some contacts were concerned that
banks were increasing their risk exposure by making longer-term
loans in an effort to get higher yields. Kansas City and San
Francisco also mentioned moderate improvement in loan quality.  Agriculture and Natural Resources. Assessments of agricultural
activity were mixed. Varying degrees of drought conditions
persisted in several Districts, while Hurricane Sandy’s
agricultural damage was minimal and localized mainly in coastal
areas. In the Atlanta District, much of Georgia experienced
drought conditions, while Chicago reported that corn and soybean
production in their District did not suffer as much from the
drought as previously expected. Correspondingly, Minneapolis
indicated that their District crop producers remained in mostly
good shape, despite this year’s drought. Low soil-moisture
levels in the Kansas City District hindered winter wheat
emergence, raising concerns that persistent drought could strain
U.S. crop production, keep crop and feed prices high, and force
further livestock herd liquidations. However, Richmond stated
that most farmers in  Virginia  were relieved that Hurricane Sandy
brought much needed rain without significant damage to the corn
and soybeans still in the fields. San Francisco noted that
production activity and sales of most crop and livestock
products have been growing at a solid pace, as had investment
spending on new production equipment. Moreover, the St. Louis
District reported that harvest completion rates were
considerably higher than the five-year average there.  Activity in the  energy industry  was generally mixed since the
last report. Coal production was above year-ago levels in the
St. Louis District but was lower in the Cleveland and Kansas
City Districts. More electricity was being generated from
natural gas in Kansas City. In the Atlanta District, Hurricane
Sandy’s damage to refineries and infrastructure in the Northeast
caused southeastern regional refiners to increase production and
transportation of oil products to supply affected areas.
Minneapolis reported that oil and gas production remained at
record levels but noted that exploration activity was flat to
down in some areas since our last report. Similarly, extraction
activity in the San Francisco District expanded on balance for
petroleum and natural gas, although the number of rigs used for
natural gas extraction fell as producers shifted their
activities toward higher-valued oil formations. The number of
active oil rigs also fell in the Kansas City and Dallas
Districts. Minneapolis mentioned that iron mines in northern
 Minnesota  remained busy, although production fell slightly
compared to recent months.  Employment, Wages, and Prices. Modest improvements in hiring
activity were reported by most Districts. Labor markets were
generally described as improving modestly by Boston, Atlanta,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Staffing firms, according to
Boston and Cleveland, experienced improved business conditions.
However, Richmond reported that labor markets in general were
weaker than in the last report, citing examples of soft demand
and an unwillingness of some manufacturers to hire long-term
unemployed workers. Contacts for Boston noted that demand for
office and clerical assistants and accountants remained weak,
and Cleveland reported that hiring across industries was
generally sluggish except in autos. Atlanta indicated that
employment agencies were seeing a pickup in orders for temporary
help. Some large employers, however, announced plans to move
toward hiring more part-time, rather than full-time, employees.
Chicago reported that a number of firms were putting hiring on
hold and had delayed temp-to-perm conversion decisions until
next year. With respect to the upcoming holiday season,
Cleveland reported that retailers were planning to hire the same
number of temporary workers as last year, while Boston and
Atlanta noted that some retailers were expecting to hire more
help over the holidays. Finally, contacts in a number of
Districts reported difficulties finding qualified workers in
some specialized occupations.  Wage pressures were generally characterized as “subdued” or
“contained” throughout much of the nation, according to the
latest District reports. Virtually every District described wage
growth as modest at best. Contacts in the Atlanta District
attributed flatness in wages to the large number of applicants
for newly posted positions. Richmond reported that manufacturing
and retail wage growth edged up, but wage growth slowed at non-
retail firms. In addition, non-labor costs were increasing in
the Chicago District, mostly due to health-care costs. St. Louis
cited stable wages but added that non-labor costs in
manufacturing were rising. Minneapolis noted pockets of stronger
wage growth in some geographical areas, such as North Dakota
where oil drilling was pushing up demand for workers. However,
even this pressure was easing in recent weeks. Kansas City noted
strengthening in wage growth among specialized positions in
transportation and high-tech firms. Finally, San Francisco noted
that limited hiring and abundant labor supply were holding down
wage and compensation increases. However, San Francisco added
that a few cases of wage pressures were occurring among truck
drivers, health-care workers, and entry level positions in areas
with low unemployment.  As with wages, price pressures changed little from the modest
pace that was reported in the last assessment. Almost every
District described price growth as modest, although examples of
higher price growth were occasionally cited. For example,
Atlanta noted that, even though overall input price increases
had eased, firms were being challenged by higher energy and
crop-related input prices and by rising health-care costs.
Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco
all reported increasing prices of construction-related
materials, and Chicago and Minneapolis also cited increases in
metals prices. In addition, Kansas City remarked on rising
prices in construction materials and manufacturing raw materials
in general. Richmond reported increasing raw materials prices
and slower increases in finished goods prices. Retail prices in
general eased in the Richmond District, and Chicago noted that
retail food prices eased, except for meats. According to
contacts in the Kansas City District, however, retail prices
edged higher. In the Richmond District, the pace of increases in
services prices also moved up.  1 Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and based on
information collected before November 14, 2012. This document
summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views
of Federal Reserve officials.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 