-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a modest pace over the
past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing and transportation
services activity were mixed. Demand for staffing services
declined, while that for other business services held steady or
increased slightly. Retailers’ reports on demand were mixed,
while automobiles sales were flat. Residential sales and
construction increased, and energy activity remained steady at
high levels. Financial firms reported mixed demand. Agricultural
conditions remained mostly dry. Most respondents said prices
held steady, and employment levels were steady to up. Many
firms’ outlooks remain uncertain, given regulatory and fiscal
concerns and short-term disruptions caused by Hurricane Sandy.  Prices  Most reporting firms said prices were steady, however there were
a few scattered reports of higher prices. Retailers said prices
had not changed much since the last report, but the drought is
expected to increase food costs. Some transportation services
firms noted that prices were up due to increased fuel and labor
costs. Several manufacturers of construction products said that
stronger demand was supporting higher prices. Some paper
manufacturers noted an increase in selling prices. Grain prices
declined over the reporting period and cotton prices remained
weak.  The price of WTI was volatile during the reporting period but
ended up in the mid-$80 per barrel range. Natural  gas prices ,
while still depressed, rose to $3.40 per thousand cubic feet
over the same period. On-highway diesel and gasoline prices
trended down over the reporting period, and prices of
petrochemical products were mostly flat.  Labor Market  Employment held steady or increased at most responding firms.
Accounting and legal firms reported hiring, and one staffing
firm was adding to its payrolls despite a recent slowdown in
demand for temporary workers. Shortages of truck drivers
continued to be noted by transportation service firms and there
were scattered shortages of workers at energy-related firms.
Wage pressures remained subdued.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related products was mixed.
Demand for stone, clay, cement, glass, and lumber held steady or
improved, and outlooks were more optimistic compared with the
previous report. Demand for fabricated metals products held
steady over the past month, but contacts noted that overall
demand has been steadily improving since the beginning of 2012.
Primary metals manufacturers characterized demand as poor over
the past six weeks and said that they expect continued weakness
in sales through year-end.  High-tech manufacturers said that shipments and new orders
declined since the last report. Demand for industrial and
computing products was particularly weak, and contacts noted
weakness in personal computer sales was negatively impacting
sales of other related hardware such as printers. One respondent
noted that while orders have declined recently, cancellations
have not increased, suggesting that declines in orders may be
due to thinning of inventories not due to slowing of final
demand. Continued high uncertainty about economic prospects was
restraining  capital investment , and respondents expected
sustained weakness over the next six months.  Demand for paper products was flat to up, and most contacts were
slightly more optimistic in their outlook. Food producers
reported stable demand over the past month, and noted that sales
were higher than a year ago. Overall, transportation equipment
manufacturers said demand was flat to down over the past six
weeks. Demand for aviation equipment held steady. Outlooks were
cautiously optimistic, and contacts expect demand to pick up in
the second half of 2013. A producer of recreational vehicles
noted a slight lull in sales, and an emergency vehicle
manufacturer reported stable demand.  Petrochemicals producers noted Gulf Coast chemical production
was up slightly, but uncertainty cautioned firms’ outlooks. Gulf
Coast refiners said they were operating at rates above 90
percent, and strong export demand was keeping inventories from
building.  Retail Sales  Retailers said demand was mixed over the past six weeks. Sales
in the Eleventh District continued to outperform the nation,
according to two national retailers. Contacts said the loss in
sales resulting from  Hurricane Sandy  was temporary and would not
impact holiday spending. Outlooks through year-end were mixed.  Overall automobile sales were flat, while new vehicle sales
declined slightly since the last report. One contact noted that
obtaining credit approval has not been an issue and customers
wanting to buy cars can get financing. Prices are stable, but
margins are thin. Outlooks remain positive for the fourth
quarter, but contacts expect the cost of doing business to
increase next year.  Services  Staffing firms said demand “came to a sudden stop” over the past
six weeks, as several clients delayed hiring until after the
election. Declines were reported in orders from mid-sized
manufacturing and construction firms. However, one contact noted
steady demand for professional, technical, and information
technology positions. Outlooks were mixed.  Overall, accounting firms noted steady demand for their
services. Demand for insurance and audit services was robust,
while that for tax services was flat to slightly down. Real
estate related activity remained weak. Outlooks were more
positive than earlier in the year, with contacts expecting an
increase in tax and transactional related services in the near-
term. Legal firms reported a modest pickup in activity, with
continued strength in intellectual property litigation, energy
and real estate-related services. Outlooks for next year were
upbeat among legal industry contacts.  Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Intermodal
cargo volumes declined, while container volumes increased over
the reporting period. Railroads said cargo volumes declined
slightly over the past four weeks, with declines in shipments of
coal, metals, primary forest materials, and metallic ores
outpacing increases in shipments of grain, chemicals, lumber and
wood, and motor vehicles. Airlines noted that demand was flat to
down since the last report. Demand for domestic travel declined,
while that for international travel was strong. Airline contacts
were cautious and uncertain in their outlooks.  Construction and Real Estate  Single-family housing activity remained strong. Both new and
existing home sales activity increased over the past six weeks.
Contacts noted that despite a pickup in new construction, low
inventories of both existing and new homes have led to moderate
price increases overall. Apartment construction remained robust,
but contacts said that leasing activity slowed. Outlooks are
positive through year-end.  Contacts in the commercial real estate industry said that demand
for office and industrial space continued to increase since the
last report. Contacts said that some businesses were holding
back on expansions due to uncertainty, but overall outlooks
remained positive. Investment activity remains less aggressive
than earlier in the year, although some contacts noted that
investment in apartment development remains quite strong.  Financial Services  Financial institutions reported mixed loan demand. Contacts said
used auto lending was weak, while first mortgages and energy-
related lending increased. Loan pricing continues to be very
competitive, partly due to loosening credit standards. Despite
low deposit rates, deposit levels at most institutions remain
high. Contacts expressed concern about new regulations for
community banks.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related service firms said activity
remained steady at high levels despite a decline in the rig
count that was mostly natural gas related. Although  oil prices 
remain at healthy enough levels to support current activity,
recent price declines coupled with high volatility are making
some firms nervous about drilling in higher cost fields.
Contacts expect activity to be flat through year-end, with
improvement in 2013.  Agriculture  The District remained largely in drought, although dry
conditions eased in some areas. The crop harvest generally
progressed at a good pace. Winter wheat crop conditions were
much better than last year, when the drought was more severe in
the District. Grain prices trended down over the reporting
period but were still at relatively high levels. Cotton prices
remained weak and may lead to fewer cotton acres being planted
next year. Cattle prices were still higher than normal but
contacts noted that high feed costs were keeping producers from
expanding their operations and were creating negative margins
for feedlots.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 