-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK
Economic activity in the Second District has weakened since the
last report, largely reflecting widespread disruptions from
Sandy. Prices of finished goods and services have generally been
stable. The labor market is difficult to gauge at this point--
while hiring activity tapered off noticeably due to the storm,
relatively few business contacts indicate that they plan to
reduce headcounts in the months ahead. Retailers report fairly
strong sales for October but indicate that business in the last
two weeks has been severely hampered by storm disruptions; auto
dealers in upstate New York report some softening in auto sales
in October. Tourism activity in New York City was fairly strong
prior to the storm; hotel business tapered off only modestly in
early November, as the adverse effects of travel cancellations
were partly offset by increased demand from local residents
without power or access to their homes. Residential real estate
markets were generally firm through the latter part of October,
though the storm has caused a substantial slowing in sales
activity in and around  New York City . Finally, bankers report
some weakening in loan demand and increased delinquency rates in
the consumer and commercial & industrial loan segments; for
residential and commercial mortgages, both loan demand and
delinquency rates are little changed.  Consumer Spending  Retail sales are reported to have been ahead of plan in October
but exceptionally weak in early November in the New York City
area, mainly due to widespread power outages, store closings and
accessibility problems for both customers and workers. With the
holiday sales season coming up--and with many residents in the
region needing to replace destroyed or damaged property--all the
lost sales are expected to be made up in the weeks ahead. One
major chain reports that it is hiring more holiday-season staff
than in 2011. The pricing environment is described as stable.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report some flattening out in
sales in October, though used car sales reportedly remain fairly
robust. There has also been some softening in business at
dealers’ service departments. Wholesale and retail credit
conditions remain favorable.  Tourism activity in New York City was mixed in October but
dropped off noticeably following the late-October storm. Hotels
across much of lower Manhattan lost business in late October and
early November, when they were without power for a number of
days. Overall revenue for Manhattan hotels slumped nearly 10
percent below 2011 levels during the week of the storm but
bounced back in the subsequent week. The New York City marathon,
although cancelled at the last minute, likely brought large
numbers of visitors to the city during the first weekend in
November. Attendance and revenues at Broadway theaters, which
had already weakened modestly in October, fell sharply during
the week of the storm; attendance rebounded modestly in the
second week of November but remained roughly 15 percent below
last year’s level. Finally,  consumer confidence  in the region
climbed to its highest level in well over a year in October
(prior to the storm), based on both the Conference Board’s
survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa)
and Siena College’s survey of New York State residents.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District were mixed but
generally firm prior to the storm, and its effects on the market
remain unclear at this point. Manhattan’s rental market remained
on a positive trajectory in October, with rents up roughly 5
percent from a year earlier and vacancy rates continuing to
decrease. Sales markets in both Manhattan and the outer boroughs
were fairly active in October, with prices steady and the
inventory of available homes characterized as low. On the other
hand, housing markets in the Buffalo area showed signs of
softening in October. An expert on New Jersey’s housing sector
notes that conditions were improving gradually prior to Sandy
and expects that post-storm rebuilding will boost multi-family
construction.  The storm caused a noticeable slowdown in sales activity
throughout the New York City metropolitan region, but this is
expected to be temporary. With many homes along the New York
City,  Long Island  and New Jersey shorelines severely damaged or
destroyed, the lean housing inventory is a concern, as displaced
residents seek short-term rentals. There is some concern as to
how much of the shore communities will be rebuilt and how
quickly, but one industry expert anticipates that residents in
the severely-damaged areas will be strongly motivated to return
and rebuild. Some of the biggest potential challenges are likely
to be shortages of construction equipment and materials, and
steeper prices for insurance. Commercial real estate markets
were mixed prior to the storm. A number of large office
buildings in lower Manhattan remain out of commission due to
extensive flooding; however, a major brokerage contact indicates
that displaced businesses do not seem to have had much trouble
finding temporary quarters. Overall market conditions are not
reported to have changed much, thus far, since the storm--
between the end of September and mid-November, asking rents have
risen modestly in Manhattan but declined modestly in northern
 New Jersey . Office markets across upstate New York, which was
not directly affected by the storm, have shown some signs of
softening in recent weeks.  Other Business Activity  Manufacturers across the District indicate continued weakness in
general conditions since the last report; virtually all contacts
in the New York City area report some loss in business due to
storm-related disruptions. Manufacturers in upstate New York,
which was not significantly affected by Sandy directly, reported
only scattered and indirect effects from the storm, though these
contacts also report some further weakening in business
conditions.  Business contacts throughout the southern part of the District--
in both manufacturing and other sectors--report widespread
effects of the storm, particularly in northern New Jersey and on
Long Island. In these parts of the District, many businesses
indicate that the impact has been both severe and protracted,
due to prolonged power and communications outages, as well as
transportation disruptions that have prevented both workers and
customers from accessing the business. A trucking industry
expert notes that many terminals and warehouses sustained severe
flooding, which has disrupted business; at least one firm has
gone out of business as a result. Business contacts in both
manufacturing and other sectors report steady input price
pressures and little change in selling prices.  Labor market conditions have weakened, probably temporarily, in
the aftermath of Sandy. A major New York City employment agency
specializing in office jobs reports a sharp drop-off in business
after the storm, because many firms either shut down or operated
without key personnel. Separately, a growing number of
manufacturing contacts--not only in the New York City area but
also in upstate New York--report declines in employment at their
firms. However, businesses in other sectors report little or no
change in employment. Contacts in both manufacturing and other
sectors expect headcounts to remain steady, on net, over the
next six months.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks across the District report weaker
demand for consumer and especially commercial & industrial loans
but steady demand for commercial and residential mortgages.
Bankers report increased demand for refinancing. Respondents do
not report any change in credit standards in any loan category.
Bankers indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs
of funds for all loan categories--particularly commercial
mortgages. Respondents also indicate decreases in average
deposit interest rates: nearly two in five bankers report a
decrease while none reports an increase. Bankers note increased
delinquency rates for consumer loans and commercial & industrial
loans but no change in delinquency rates for residential or
commercial mortgages.  When asked what effects Sandy had on their business, almost half
of the bankers report no noticeable effect so far; however, many
of these respondents expect that effects of the storm could
become evident in the future, especially for commercial
businesses and as damage to collateral is assessed. On the other
hand, more than 40 percent of those surveyed were affected
directly by the storm, with widespread branch closings and power
outages reported. Banks in the most severely affected areas--
largely New Jersey, as well as lower  Manhattan  and Queens--have
received a high volume of calls from customers with home damage,
and banks are physically inspecting buildings for damage before
making new loans.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 