-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest
pace during the reporting period of October through mid-
November. Price inflation for final goods and services was
subdued overall, and upward wage pressures were quite limited.
Sales of retail items and most business and consumer services
rose further on net, and contacts noted expectations for sales
growth during the holiday retail season. District manufacturing
activity was uneven but appeared to expand on balance.
Agricultural output and sales increased, and extraction activity
rose for providers of energy resources. Housing demand continued
to firm, and conditions were largely stable for commercial real
estate. Contacts from financial institutions reported that
overall loan demand was largely unchanged, while  credit quality 
improved.  Wages and Prices  Upward price pressures were very limited on balance during the
reporting period. Prices fell for some energy items, mainly
crude oil and retail gasoline; prices rose significantly for
natural gas but remained very low by historical standards.
Earlier price increases for food commodities prompted moderate
price increases by restaurants, in the range of 2 to 3 percent.
Price movements for raw materials used in the agricultural,
industrial, and construction sectors were uneven but appeared to
be slightly upward on balance. Retail prices were characterized
as largely flat.  Upward wage pressures were modest overall. In most sectors,
limited hiring activity and extensive worker availability held
down recent and planned increases in wages and overall
compensation, with reported numerical increases of 2 to 3
percent in general. Only a few cases of significant upward wage
pressures were noted, including for truck drivers, health-care
workers, and entry-level employees in a few geographic areas
where unemployment rates have declined substantially.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales expanded further. A pickup was noted for department
store sales during the reporting period, on the heels of a
slight slowdown earlier. Significant sales gains were reported
for consumer technology products such as tablet computers and
games, and retailers added to inventories of these products in
anticipation of solid sales growth during the upcoming holiday
season. Sales of new and used automobiles remained strong,
running well above levels from 12 months earlier, with further
gains expected at year-end.  Demand for business and consumer services expanded on net. Sales
continued to grow for various technology services, as consumer
demand remained high and businesses in many sectors focused
their limited  capital spending  on information technology
equipment and software. Demand for health-care services stayed
somewhat weak, due to an ongoing decline in the use of
discretionary medical services; however, health-care providers
continued to invest in new information technology products to
enhance efficiency and respond to emerging legislative
requirements. Sales expanded further for restaurants. Activity
in the travel sector was robust, with strong growth for visitor
counts and spending in Hawaii and continued sales growth and
profitability reported for U.S. airlines in recent months.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but
appeared to expand on balance during the reporting period of
October through mid-November. Production activity for commercial
aircraft and parts has been running well above levels from last
year, with further gains in production and sales expected over
the next few years. Demand continued to grow at a modest pace
for pharmaceutical manufacturers. For producers of wood
products, capacity utilization and sales have held up in recent
months and generally have been running above their levels from
last year. By contrast, the slowdown continued for makers of
information technology equipment, with further sales declines
reported for some equipment categories. Demand for scrap metal
and steel remained low by historical standards but improved a
bit, largely as a result of increased demand for use in
automobile manufacturing and infrastructure construction
projects. Production activity fell at petroleum refineries in
response to recent declines in consumer demand for gasoline.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural producers saw further sales gains, and extraction
activity of natural resources used for energy production
continued to expand. Contacts noted that the agricultural sector
appears to be immune from factors that have restrained growth in
other sectors of late: production activity and sales of most
crop and livestock products have been growing at a solid pace,
as has investment spending on new production equipment.
Extraction activity expanded on balance for petroleum and
natural gas, although the number of rigs used for natural gas
extraction has been falling as producers have shifted their
extraction activities toward higher-valued oil formations.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District continued to strengthen, while
demand for commercial real estate was largely stable. Home sales
have been growing on a sustained basis in most areas, spurring
incremental gains in home construction activity.  Home prices 
also have firmed, with significant gains reported over the past
12 months in some areas, substantially reducing foreclosure
pressures. Construction activity for multifamily rental projects
grew further in response to rising rents and tight availability
of lower-priced homes. Demand for nonresidential space was
largely stable overall, and contacts noted that the amount of
new commercial construction was limited, although significant
construction activity continued for large infrastructure
projects such as roads and bridges.  Financial Institutions  District banking contacts reported that loan demand was largely
unchanged on balance. Business loan demand was characterized as
weak to moderate. Firms in most sectors remain uncertain about
near-term prospects for their revenues and costs; hence, they
are reluctant to make new capital investments other than those
that directly enhance business efficiency and pay returns within
a short time frame. The reports continued to highlight ample
liquidity and stiff competition among lenders to provide credit
to well-qualified business loan applicants, with community banks
facing increasing competition from larger national banks for
small business lending. Consumer lending expanded further,
primarily for automobile purchases and new or refinanced home
mortgages. Contacts noted that credit quality has been showing
slow but steady improvement for business and consumer loans.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 