-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy experienced moderate growth since the
last report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism and professional services. Some significant parts of
construction and real estate are growing at a double-digit clip.
Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at a rapid
pace. District crop producers remained in mostly good shape,
despite this year’s drought. Meanwhile, activity slowed slightly
in the manufacturing sector. While labor markets continued to
show signs of tightening in several areas, some layoff notices
were reported. Overall wage increases were moderate, although
stronger increases were reported in some areas. Price increases
were generally modest.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending posted moderate gains. During the past two
months, a Minnesota auto dealer reported strong sales activity
for new vehicles and somewhat softer sales activity for used
vehicles. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar chain reported
that recent same-store sales were up over 5 percent from last
year. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer increased
over 2 percent in October compared with a year ago. However, a
mall manager in the  Minneapolis  area noted slight decreases in
traffic and sales during September and October compared with
last year. In Montana, a mall manager reported that sales were
down slightly during September after a generally flat summer.
Recent travel and tourism activity was above a year ago.
Convention and tourism business in the  Sioux Falls , S.D., area
was trending above last year’s levels with prospects for a good
2013, according to an official. A travel agency in Minnesota
noted that corporate and leisure travel sales in October were
above year-ago levels. Travel and tourism activity in the
Duluth, Minn., area was above last year, and businesses are
optimistic for 2013, according to an official.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased significantly since
the last report. The permitted value of new commercial
construction in October increased substantially from the same
period last year in Sioux Falls and nearly quadrupled in
Billings, Mont. A recent survey of  Minnesota  building
professionals conducted by a trade association noted an
improvement in market conditions. Residential construction
increased from a year ago. The value of October residential
building permits in the Sioux Falls area was up 16 percent from
last year. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of
October residential permits was up 70 percent compared with a
year ago, while it tripled in Billings.  Commercial real estate markets expanded at a slow pace. A group
of Minnesota commercial real estate investors and real estate
professionals noted a recent uptick in activity and a reduction
in vacancy rates since the last report. Residential real estate
market activity increased. Home sales in October were up 15
percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent,
and median sales prices rose 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls
area, October home sales were up 19 percent, inventory was down
13 percent and the median sales price was flat relative to a
year earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms grew since the
last report. The aforementioned survey of building professionals
revealed that 59 percent of engineers reported improving
conditions compared with 16 percent who saw declines, while 36
percent of the architect respondents reported increases and 21
percent noted declines. A marketing consulting firm noted a
large increase in demand from firms that are launching new
products or services. Demand for scientific researchers
increased for a large diversified manufacturing company. A
logistics consulting firm noted some disruptions in rail traffic
due to  Hurricane Sandy .  Manufacturing  Manufacturing slowed slightly since the last report. An October
survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) found that manufacturing activity decreased for a fourth
straight month in Minnesota and South Dakota, but continued to
increase in  North Dakota . A wood-products facility in northern
Minnesota closed. More than half of manufacturing respondents to
a late-October Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey reported that they
had cut  capital expenditures  in the past six months. In
contrast, an agricultural machinery producer announced a $20
million expansion to a facility in North Dakota, a Minnesota
vehicle manufacturer announced a $20 million expansion and a
plastic pipe producer broke ground on a new plant in South
Dakota. A maker of outdoor gear is expanding its operations in
Minnesota due to strong demand from the military.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at a rapid
clip. Oil and gas production remained at record levels, but
exploration activity since the last report was flat in North
Dakota and decreased in  Montana . An oil pipeline operator
announced capacity expansions on a pipeline in Minnesota and is
considering construction of a high-capacity line from the North
Dakota oil patch to  Wisconsin . Sand mining growth continued;
plans for a new loading facility in Minnesota were announced,
along with plans for a rail depot in North Dakota. Iron mines in
northern Minnesota remained busy, but production fell slightly
from recent months.  Agriculture  District crop producers remained in mostly good shape, despite
this year’s drought. Farm incomes were bolstered by high crop
prices, and farmers were looking at record harvests in areas
less affected by drought. However, livestock and dairy producers
continued to suffer from higher input costs. Reports of ranchers
culling herds due to low hay production and increased feed
prices continued to surface. After years of delays, a  South
Dakota  beef slaughter and processing plant began operations in
October. Prices received by farmers for wheat, corn, soybeans,
beef, dairy products and chicken increased in October from a
year earlier; hog, dry bean, turkey and egg prices decreased.  Employment, Wages and Prices  While labor markets continued to show signs of tightening in
several areas, some layoff notices were reported. According to
the aforementioned survey of building professionals, 31 percent
expect to hire more workers during the upcoming year compared
with 18 percent in last year’s survey. Demand for nurses has
picked up in western North Dakota. A representative of Montana
State University noted that job prospects for graduates have
improved. In Minnesota, a manufacturer of equipment used for
transporting and storing natural gas as a liquid broke ground on
an expansion that will add 80 jobs, and a paints and coatings
manufacturer recently announced plans for an expansion that will
create about 135 jobs. However, a dairy plant closing in
Minnesota will lead to 130 job reductions by the end of the
year, and an equipment manufacturer announced plans to close a
plant, which will affect 100 jobs. Meanwhile, the closing of a
pest control product plant in North Dakota will result in almost
150 job cuts.  Wage increases were moderate, with some exceptions noted.
Reports of solid wage increases continued from the oil-drilling
area of North Dakota, although the pace of growth has started to
ease recently.  Overall price increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices
decreased about 50 cents per gallon from early October to mid-
November. Some metals prices also decreased since the last
report. In contrast, a bank director noted that smaller cattle
herds will likely keep beef prices elevated. A wood products
industry observer noted some recent increases in prices for
oriented strand board.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 