-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  EIGHTH DISTRICT - ST. LOUIS  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a
moderate pace since our previous survey. Retail and auto sales
in October and early November increased over year-earlier
levels. Recent reports of planned activity from manufacturing
firms have been positive. In contrast, reports from services
contacts have been negative on net. Residential real estate
market conditions have continued to improve, while commercial
and industrial real estate conditions have remained mixed.
Reports of lending activity at a sample of large District banks
indicated little change during the third quarter of 2012. Prices
wages, and employment levels have remained generally stable.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in October and early
November were up, on average, over year-earlier levels. Fifty-
four percent of the retailers reported increases in sales, while
27 percent saw decreases and 19 percent saw no changes. Forty-
eight percent of the retailers noted that sales levels met their
expectations, 48 percent reported that sales were below
expectations, and 4 percent reported that sales were above
expectations. The sales outlook through the end of the year was
mostly optimistic: 66 percent of the retailers expect sales to
increase over 2011 levels, while 17 percent expect sales to
decrease and 17 percent expect sales to be similar to last
year’s levels.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in October and
early November were up, on average, compared with last year.
Fifty percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in
sales, while 21 percent saw decreases and 29 percent saw no
changes. Twenty-four percent of the car dealers noted that new
car sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 6
percent reported the opposite. The sales outlook through the end
of the year was mostly optimistic: 64 percent of the car dealers
expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while 14 percent
expect sales to decrease and 22 percent expect sales to be
similar to last year’s levels.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported
plans to hire new workers or expand operations, while fewer
manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers or reduce
operations. Firms in the plastic, poultry processing, shoe and
apparel, aerospace, paper product, and beverage manufacturing
industries announced plans to hire new employees or expand
operations. In contrast, firms in the compressor, coal,
semiconductors and related devices, auto parts, and food
manufacturing industries announced plans to lay off workers or
reduce operations.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have been negative on net since our previous report. Firms in
business support, telecommunications, casinos, legal, and crisis
management services announced plans to increase employment or
expand operations. In contrast, a greater number of service
firms, including firms in air transportation, sports,
information, health insurance, health care, and financial
services, announced plans to lay off workers or reduce
operations.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
September 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 15 percent in
Louisville, 4 percent in Little Rock, 11 percent in  Memphis , and
14 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction also
increased. Compared with the same period in 2011, September 2012
year-to-date single-family housing permits increased 40 percent
in Louisville, 25 percent in Little Rock, 36 percent in Memphis,
and 19 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed
throughout most of the District. A contact in Louisville
reported that office and industrial space leasing in the third
quarter of 2012 was less robust than in the previous quarter. A
contact in northeast  Arkansas  reported strong commercial real
estate activity in the Jonesboro-Paragould area but soft
activity in other areas in the region. Commercial and industrial
construction activity continued to improve throughout most of
the District. Contacts in  Little Rock  noted a couple of
commercial construction projects in the downtown area. A contact
in south central  Kentucky  noted that commercial construction
remains strong. A contact in Memphis noted new speculative
construction in the suburban market. Contacts in Memphis also
reported several commercial construction projects in Jonesboro
and large industrial construction projects in Shelby County.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks found little change in overall lending activity during the
third quarter of 2012. During this period, credit standards for
commercial and industrial loans remained largely unchanged,
while the demand for these loans and the number of inquiries
ranged from moderately decreased to moderately increased. Credit
standards for commercial real estate loans were unchanged, while
demand remained largely unchanged. Credit standards for prime
residential  mortgage loans  remained generally unchanged, while
demand ranged from about the same to substantially stronger.
Meanwhile, credit standards and demand for consumer loans
remained largely unchanged, although a third of the banks
reported that demand for auto loans was moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  As of early November, the rice crop in the District states was
fully harvested; similarly, over 90 percent of the corn, cotton,
sorghum, and soybean crops have also been harvested. Harvest
completion rates were 3 to 12 percentage points higher than
their 5-year averages. Planting of winter wheat across the
District states was 8 percent ahead of its 5-year average, while
over 90 percent of all winter wheat was rated in fair or better
condition. Excluding eastern Kentucky, the District’s year-to-
date coal production for the end of October was 6.4 percent
higher compared with the same period last year. Meanwhile, the
District’s coal production for October 2012 was 6.2 percent
higher than in October 2011.  Prices, Wages, and Employment  Contacts indicated that  price levels  over the past three months
have stayed the same relative to the same period last year.
Similarly, non-labor costs have generally stayed the same,
although the majority of manufacturing contacts noted increases
in costs. The majority of contacts reported that wages per
employee and benefits per employee over the past three months
have stayed the same relative to last year. Employment levels
over the past three months showed signs of improvement; 38
percent of contacts reported increases in employment compared
with the same period last year, while about half of contacts
reported that their total employment has remained the same
relative to last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 