-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in October.
Stronger retail sales underpinned a rebound in  consumer spending 
that was expected to continue during the upcoming holidays.
Commercial and residential construction remained solid, and real
estate agents expected real estate prices to rise further with
stronger sales. Bankers reported stronger commercial lending
activity and additional demand for residential real estate
loans. District manufacturing activity slowed, but factory
managers expected a moderate rebound in orders, production, and
shipments. High feed and fuel costs drove agricultural loan
demand higher, and dry conditions hindered winter crop
development. District contacts expected natural gas drilling
activity to strengthen seasonally with prices during the winter
heating months. The prices of raw materials for manufacturing
and construction rose, and some finished goods prices edged
higher. Wage pressures were subdued except for specialized
positions at transportation, high-tech and energy firms. Several
business contacts commented that uncertainty regarding
political, economic, and tax policies was inhibiting growth,
limiting business investment, and delaying hiring plans.  Consumer Spending. Consumer spending rebounded modestly in
October and retailers expected further sales gains during the
holidays. District retailers reported that sales rose above
year-ago levels, although they were generally below
expectations. Several store owners noted particularly strong
sales for major appliances and seasonal apparel, in addition to
an uptick in demand for premium and custom goods, such as fine
jewelry. Auto sales held steady after rising in the last survey
period, and sales were expected to improve by year’s end. Fuel-
efficient cars sold well, while demand for large, expensive cars
and trucks remained weak. Tourism contacts reported that visitor
counts and tourism spending fell below year-ago levels.
Furthermore, hoteliers reduced room rates and noted the fall in
hotel occupancy rates was likely to continue in coming months.
Restaurant owners reported lower sales revenue and a decline in
average check amounts. Some leisure and hospitality contacts
attributed the slowdown in sales to high  gas prices  that limited
spending and kept some customers at home.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Although
manufacturing activity slowed slightly since the last survey
period, sales at transportation and high-tech service firms
rebounded. While still above year-ago levels, District
manufacturing activity edged lower in October as production of
both durable and non-durable goods slowed, most notably at
machinery, electronics and food processing plants. In addition,
order backlogs fell further and were expected to remain low. The
volume of new orders and shipments dropped in October, but were
expected to rebound and provide a modest boost to production
during the next six months. Capital spending at District
factories generally held steady; however, fewer plant managers
were hiring and the average work week declined. Trucking traffic
picked up, due in part to emergency food shipments to areas
affected by Hurricane Sandy. Several transportation firms
reported an increase in  capital spending  and a shortage of
qualified truck drivers. After easing in the last survey period,
business activity at high-tech firms expanded and sales were
expected to strengthen in the months ahead. Several business
contacts attributed customer delays in ordering to uncertainty
regarding the current political, economic and tax environment.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity
remained brisk in October, and commercial real estate activity
held firm. A solid rise in home sales reduced home inventories
further, with real estate agents noting particular buyer
interest in foreclosed properties. Low- and mid-priced homes
continued to sell well, while the market for luxury homes and
condominiums remained weak. Residential mortgage lenders saw
loan applications for home purchases rise above year-ago levels
and saw an upswing in loan refinancing activity. Stronger sales
supported further home price increases for both existing and new
homes. Housing starts were up from the previous survey, but were
expected to level off with a seasonal slowdown in construction
over the winter months. Sales at construction supply firms
rebounded, particularly for lumber products. Commercial real
estate markets remained stronger than a year ago and District
contacts expected additional strength in coming months. New
commercial construction edged up and was expected to hold
steady. Commercial sales activity and real estate prices
remained above year-ago levels with strong expectations through
the end of the year. District contacts expected commercial real
estate rents to rise as vacancy rates trended lower. Developers,
however, were concerned about the size of down payments and
reported a slight deterioration in access to credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, some District bankers
reported stronger loan demand, improvements in loan quality and
a slight rise in deposit levels. Total loan demand rose
moderately, led by gains in demand for real estate loans for
both residential and commercial properties. In addition, more
bankers reported higher loan demand and lower  interest rates  for
commercial and industrial loans. A few bankers noted continued
weakness in consumer installment loan demand. Many bankers
reported a moderate improvement in loan quality compared with
the last survey with additional quality improvements expected
during the next six months. Otherwise, credit standards remained
largely unchanged in all major loan categories.  Agriculture. High input costs reduced farm profitability and
boosted farm loan demand since the last survey period. Demand
for farm operating loans rose as surging feed costs cut
livestock operator incomes and crop producers paid higher fuel
costs to run irrigation and harvest equipment. With reduced
incomes, especially for livestock producers, farm loan renewals
and extensions edged up and loan repayment rates eased from
recent peaks. Still, bankers reported that sufficient funds were
available to meet short-term financing needs. Low soil-moisture
levels hindered winter wheat emergence, raising concerns that
persistent drought could strain U.S. crop production, keep crop
and feed prices high, and force further livestock herd
liquidations. Farmland values, however, continued to set new
record highs in the District.  Energy. District energy activity fell in October, but was
expected to improve heading into the winter heating season. The
number of active oil rigs in the District eased from recent
highs as  oil prices  declined. After falling from summer peaks,
the number of natural gas rigs held steady since the last survey
and some District contacts expected a seasonal uptick in natural
gas prices as winter approached.  Wyoming ’s coal production
remained well below year-ago levels as more electricity was
being generated from natural gas. District ethanol production
edged up, but persistently high corn prices limited profits.  Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained subdued during the
survey period, raw materials prices rose, and some finished
goods prices edged up. Many firms were reluctant to increase
wages or hire staff amid political and economic uncertainty.
Some businesses, however, were offering higher salaries to
recruit workers with specialized skills, such as engineers,
software developers, and commercial truck drivers. The cost of
raw materials for manufacturing continued to climb, and a few
firms were raising finished goods prices. Builders and
construction supply companies expected further price increases
for construction materials due to  Hurricane Sandy . Retail prices
edged up but were expected to hold steady during the  holiday
shopping season . Restaurant owners, however, planned to increase
menu prices due to high food costs. Low occupancy rates prompted
hotel operators to reduce average room rates.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 