-- UBS Joins Morgan Stanley Saying Buy Cyclicals on Recovery
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-11-28T08:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/ubs-joins-morgan-stanley-saying-buy-cyclicals-on-recovery-1-.html
Strategists at three of the world’s
biggest banks are advising investors to buy  Asian equities  most
tied to economic growth after valuations fell and the global
economy showed signs of recovery.  Technology, industrial and materials  stocks  will climb next
year as  China ’s expansion accelerates and concern about the U.S.
fiscal cliff fades, Niall MacLeod, a strategist at UBS AG, wrote
in a report today. Valuations for cyclical shares are about 40
percent lower than defensive equities, including household-
products makers, according to a Nov. 26 note by Morgan Stanley’s
 Jonathan Garner . An improving earnings outlook will help lure
investors, Citigroup Inc.’s  Markus Rosgen  wrote on Nov. 26.  The recommendations reflect growing confidence in the
global economy as data in the past week signaled a rebound in
Chinese manufacturing and an improving U.S. housing market. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose for five straight days through
yesterday, bringing its  gain  this year to 8.7 percent. The gauge
may climb another 18 percent through the end of 2013, according
to MacLeod’s report.  “We expect cyclical conditions to improve, driven by the
removal of U.S. uncertainty, stabilizing exports to  Europe  and
the end of inventory adjustments in China,” Hong Kong-based
MacLeod wrote. “Tactically our biggest call is to be overweight
cyclical sectors over defensives.”  Earnings Outlook  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 0.6 percent to 123.01
as of 4:28 p.m. in Hong Kong amid concern U.S. lawmakers have
made little progress in talks to avert spending cuts and tax
increases.  Analysts are turning less bearish on the  earnings  outlook
for cyclical companies relative to defensive businesses, whose
profits are less reliant on an expanding economy, according to
Rosgen, a Hong Hong-based strategist at Citigroup.  “This will serve to increase the confidence of investors
to have another look at the whole cyclical and financial
space,” Rosgen wrote in his report this week.  China, the most important  economy  for cyclical companies,
may expand 8.2 percent next year, up from 7.7 percent in 2012,
wrote Garner, the chief Asia and emerging market strategist at
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The bank prefers “cheap” industries such as
energy and capital goods.  Positive Year  The  MSCI Asia Pacific index  may advance to 146 next year,
compared with 123.71 at yesterday’s close, UBS’s MacLeod said.
The gauge last traded at 146 in June 2008, before the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. helped spark the global
financial crisis.  Stocks in the Asia Pacific measure may trade at 12.2 times
2013 earnings estimates, MacLeod wrote. The index is currently
valued at 11.6 times, compared with the five-year average of 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS advised investors to hold more shares in South Korea,
China and  India  than are represented in benchmark indexes.  “We favor Korea and China for their exposure to global and
regional cyclical improvement,” MacLeod said. “We are also
overweight India, one of the few markets where we expect
monetary easing to continue next year and a structural return on
earnings improvement.”  India’s inflation unexpectedly eased to an eight-month low
in October and the government took steps in September to open up
industries such as retail and aviation to foreign investment.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  has climbed 4.8 percent this
year, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index has gained 4.7
percent and the BSE India Sensitive Index increased 22 percent.  UBS has underweight recommendations on  Australia , 
Indonesia (JCI) ,  Hong Kong  and  Malaysia , according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  