-- Lukoil Considers Iraq’s West Qurna-1 This Year as Exxon May Exit
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-11-28T12:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/lukoil-considers-iraq-s-west-qurna-1-this-year-as-exxon-may-exit.html
OAO Lukoil, Russian’s biggest non-
state oil producer, is studying documents on  Iraq ’s West Qurna-1
oil field, which  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  may exit, as it considers
expanding developments in the Middle Eastern nation.  Lukoil will make a decision on possible participation in
the project by the end of the year, billionaire Chief Executive
Officer Vagit Alekperov said. The oil company holds 75 percent
of the separate phase 2 project at the field, called a “super
giant” by the Iraqi Oil Ministry.  “We are looking at the main issue now, synergy,”
Alekperov told reporters today in Moscow. “What economic
synergies the company will get if these two projects work
together.”  Iraq is seeking international investment in its energy
industry, while warning companies against signing agreements
with authorities in the northern Kurdish region without the
approval of the central government. The nation this year asked
companies such as Exxon Mobil to abandon oil exploration in the
semi-autonomous area or exit projects in the south.  Exxon sent a letter to Iraq’s state-owned South Oil asking
for permission to share technical data about West Qurna-1 with
 BP Plc (BP/) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Lukoil, Dhia Jaafar, South Oil’s director
general, said Nov. 8. Lukoil said Nov. 9 that it received a
proposal from Exxon.  Lukoil’s Qurna  Exxon has 60 percent of the West Qurna-1 project after
signing an agreement in January 2010 to develop the field,
according to the Irving, Texas-based company’s website. Oil
Exploration Co. of Iraq holds 25 percent and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  has the remaining 15 percent, according to the statement.  Iraq informed Lukoil and China National Petroleum Corp. it
would favor their bids if they decided to buy Exxon’s stake in
the project, Reuters reported on Nov. 16, citing unidentified
oil ministry officials.  Lukoil raised its stake in West Qurna-2 to 75 percent this
year after buying about 19 percent from  Statoil ASA. (STL)  The Moscow-
based oil producer is searching for a new partner in the
project, Deputy Vice-President Andrei Gaidamaka said on a
conference call yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  