-- Hungry China Turns to Grave Robbery
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-28T18:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/hungry-china-turns-to-grave-robbery.html
Two weeks ago, Chu Jixue, an
investigator with the Propaganda Department at Beijing’s
Municipal Communist Party Committee,  received a panicked call 
from a cousin in his rural hometown. The local government, Chu
was told, had demanded that the family relocate the ancestral
burial plot, and all of its earthly remains, or the plot would
be razed.  The government would make no exceptions, offer no chance
for appeal, and provide just a small subsidy of 200  yuan  (less
than $35) for each flattened tomb and free cremation of any
extracted remains. The occasion was a practical one: Zhoukou,
one of China’s oldest cities, in the heart of Henan, one of
China’s poorest provinces, had  decided to free up  farmland by
razing the estimated 3.5 million graves that dot the
municipality’s rural landscape.  There is no underestimating what a great affront this
threat posed to the Chu family. In contemporary China, as in
ancient China,  respect for elders  is the most deeply felt moral
imperative, and veneration of dead ancestors is its purest
expression. Families carefully choose grave sites for their feng
shui and tend burial spots carefully (especially on “ Tomb
Sweeping Day ,” a  public holiday ). For some Chinese, such
veneration is spiritual; for others, it’s a secular ritual that
emphasizes the stabilizing social influence of proper obedience
to parents and ancestors.  The Chu family -- like many other families in Zhoukou --
wasn’t willing or able to relocate its ancestors in time. A few
days after the government’s tomb flatteners demolished the
family’s plot, Chu Jixue published a commentary on the
destruction in Southern Metropolitan Weekly, a highly
independent newspaper in Guangzhou, that concluded: “I am
stunned speechless, and my tears are endless!”  The commentary was subsequently deleted online, a rare
occurrence at a rebellious paper that the authorities have long
tolerated. (Chu’s high-level association with the Beijing
Communist Party’s Propaganda Department is, ironically, widely
believed to have played a role in the censorship.) However,
 screen grabs  of the story and its accompanying image of a man
swinging a sledgehammer into a brick mausoleum continue to
appear on Chinese blogs and microblogs. It’s unclear whether the
photo was taken of the Chu family plot or merely selected by a
photo editor from the  many photos of grave destruction  in
Zhoukou.  Chu may have been the most prominent individual affected
by the grave-razing program, though he is far from the only one.
The Zhoukou program began relatively quietly in late spring and
only became a national story on Nov. 4, after a  short report  --
published by Xinhua, the national newswire -- lifted the veil on
the program and revealed that the local government was providing
transport of exhumed remains to crematories, cremation services
and burial of the remains in government-established cemeteries,
all free of charge. The offer of free cremation only made
matters worse: In rural  China , traditional beliefs about the
necessity of keeping the body intact mean that cremation enjoys
limited ( though growing ) acceptance.  The issue soon gained national attention, leading 26
academics sign  a petition  calling for an end to the “brutal,
barbaric” program on Nov. 8: “We call on the ruling party and
the government to respect the people’s widespread and profound
belief in ancestor veneration, respect the national funeral rite
customs, and allow the people in accordance with their own
wishes, to bury the dead in accordance with their own chosen
customs.”  The petition signaled a rare occurrence in China: a public
debate over whether practical modern needs should take
precedence over traditional values. There’s little question that
China needs arable land: Xinhua  reports  that China lost roughly
20 million acres due to various factors, including urbanization,
from 1997 to 2009. Food self-sufficiency is a Chinese government
priority, and with that goal -- and the 20 million acre loss in
mind -- in 2006, the government set a “red line” of 300 million
acres of arable land that it won’t allow China to fall below.
That line is by and large the Zhoukou government’s justification
for its plans to level 3.5 million graves.  Even many critics of the grave-razing program -- including
Chu Jixue in his commentary -- acknowledge that China needs to
reform funeral practices (and, inevitably, encourage cremation)
to meet growing land demands. What primarily offends these
 commentators  is the brusque method used to clear away the graves
in Zhoukou. On Nov. 19, Zhong Yongheng, a native of Zhoukou and
a journalist with People’s Daily, the official, self-declared
Communist Party mouthpiece, used his account on the Twitter-like
Ten Cent microblog,  to post  his family’s experience with
Zhoukou’s program. His family, he notes, no longer lives in
Zhoukou but has relocated north to Beijing:  “You should give us notice at least before you damage our
ancestral tombs, don’t you think? My family members are all in
Beijing and didn’t get any advance notice from anyone. Then we
suddenly received news that our ancestral tombs were leveled by
an excavator. My parents turned toward the south, wailing.”  By early last week, the destruction of Zhoukou’s graves was
a trending topic on China’s microblogs and a popular subject on
newspaper editorial pages. Aside from in  Henan province , where
the papers supported Zhoukou’s local government, most of the
commentary was critical, with  several editorial pages and
bloggers  noting similarities between Zhoukou’s grave-razing and
the grave-razing practiced during the Cultural Revolution.  “During the Cultural Revolution’s campaigns to extinguish
tradition, almost all the graves in China had been leveled off,
including the tombs of Confucius and Empress Dowager Cixi, which
is a kind of equality,”  tweeted  a prominent Shenzhen-based
lawyer on Nov. 20, on Sina Weibo, China’s leading microblog.
Then, taking note of reliable rumors that prominent officials
would be allowed to maintain their family tombs, he added, “To
tell you the truth, Zhoukou is worse than the Cultural
Revolution.”  In fact, if there’s one thing that troubles Chinese
microbloggers, even more than the defilement of graves, it’s the
nagging suspicion that Zhoukou’s local officials are somehow
making money off this reprehensible program. After all, the
grave-razing is ultimately about reclaiming land, and land
 remains the top means  by which local, and sometimes corrupt,
government officials seek to enrich themselves. Thus, many of
the commentaries on the grave-razing program contain  detailed
explanations  for how, precisely, a corrupt official could cash
in on the reclaimed farmland. In this spirit, but with less
detail, Yao Bo, a popular Beijing microblogger,  tweeted :  “They dare to level off the common people’s ancestral
tombs, this mortuary where the heart of our nation is. The truth
is that they’re flattening graves and rehabilitating farm land
so that they can free other valuable land for real estate
developments.”  So far, there’s no evidence that Zhoukou’s officials -- or
its government -- will benefit financially from the grave-
clearing program. On the contrary,  the Beijing News  has reported
that some low-level government officials, under pressure to
provide good examples for the farmers, have personally dug up
their ancestors’ bones.  In one tragic case of a low-level official making an
example of his ancestors, however, the digging dislodged a large
tombstone that crashed onto two of his living family members,
killing both. Sympathy was a rare sight in the several hundred
comments left beneath the Beijing News story, many of which
suggested that supernatural forces were at play. Meanwhile,
other comments took a more vindictive approach, with one of the
most repeated comments qualifying as the most direct: “Deserved
it.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the  World
View  blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this blog post: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  