-- United Utilities Profit Rises on Higher Regulated Prices
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-28T09:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/united-utilities-says-profit-rises-on-regulated-price-increase.html
United Utilities Group Plc (UU/) , the
U.K.’s largest publicly traded water company, said first-half
profit rose 9 percent following an increase in regulated rates.  Pretax profit advanced to 135.6 million pounds ($217
million) in the six months ended Sept. 30 from 124.4 million
pounds a year earlier, the Warrington, England-based company
said today in a statement. That missed the 185.2 million-pound
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are continuing to invest in our network for the
benefit of our customers, the environment and the local
economy,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Mogford said in the
statement. “In the first half of this year, we have invested
354 million pounds and now expect to invest around 750 million
pounds for the full year.”  Sales increased 4 percent to 822.9 million pounds from
792.7 million pounds a year earlier. The company said it will
pay a dividend of 11.44 pence a share.  Ofwat, the water regulator, on Oct. 26 put forward
proposals designed to boost competition in the industry and help
it adapt to future pressures on water supply. The proposals
could expose 40 percent of a company’s wholesale revenue to
price reviews more often than the current five-year period. That
could lead to prices not being linked to inflation or a
company’s assets.  United Utilities is among water companies including Severn
Trent Plc, Thames Water Utilities Ltd. and South West Water Ltd.
that last week said they opposed the proposals.  Customer Bills  “We’re unable to accept the flexibility that they have
proposed in the license modifications because of the uncertainty
that generates and also the potential for that uncertainty
feeding into customer bills,” Mogford said today on a
conference call with journalists.  The company has been the subject of bid speculation in
press reports this year.  “As far as takeovers, we don’t comment on speculation,”
the CEO said.  United Utilities rose 1.4 percent to 678 pence as of 9:05
a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  