-- Urban Outfitters Serves Striped Bass in Bid for Shoppers
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-28T21:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/urban-outfitters-serves-striped-bass-in-bid-for-shoppers.html
Next month, Tommy Bahama is opening
a restaurant at its new flagship store in  Manhattan . Shoppers
will be able to buy one of the chain’s signature tropical print
shirts and then order the Macadamia-nut encrusted snapper.  More and more retailers are following the Tommy Bahama
model these days, using food and drink to lure customers into
stores as sales increasingly migrate online.  Urban Outfitters
Inc. (URBN) , known for selling hipster threads in college towns, has
served lamb merquez and striped bass at its Terrain home-and-
garden store in Westport,  Connecticut . J.C. Penney Co. plans to
add juice bars and coffee shops.  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Banana Republic has
served cocktails to debut new clothing collections, while Ann
Inc.’s Loft brand held Friday happy hours.  Tommy Bahama has become a model for other retailers because
its restaurant-stores generate two-and-a-half times the sales
per square foot of the apparel chain’s regular locations, Chief
Executive Officer Terry Pillow said in an interview. Fellow CEOs
often ask about the food-and-beverage business, he said.  “They’re fascinated first of all that we have it, and the
second thing they’re fascinated about is we run it ourselves and
we’ve chosen not to license it,” Pillow said.  Putting restaurants inside stores has a long history. In
the 1900s, many U.S. department stores ran restaurants and tea
rooms. Some even achieved iconic status and continue to serve
customers today, including  Chicago ’s Walnut Room at Macy’s Inc.
and the Zodiac restaurant  at  a Neiman Marcus Group Inc. store in
 Dallas . More recently, Nordstrom Inc., which has offered food
for many years, has tested a contemporary diner  concept  called
Sixth & Pine and added espresso bars. The department store has
seven restaurant concepts.  ‘Top Chef’  Retailers are looking for ways to attract customers to
their brick-and-mortar locations as the National Retail
Federation forecasts online sales may rise to 16 percent of $586
billion in holiday revenue this season. Food is an opportunity
as U.S. consumers show more interest in farmer’s markets and
amid the popularity of such cooking shows as cable network
Bravo’s “Top Chef.”  Eating is a memorable experience “and a lot of lifestyle
retailers have been exploring it,” said Aaron Spiess, co-
founder and co-head of Big Red Rooster, a brand consulting firm
based in Columbus,  Ohio . Spiess says he has spoken with three
specialty brands about incorporating food into stores.  Tommy Bahama, owned by Atlanta-based  Oxford Industries
Inc. (OXM) , is renewing the bet on its retail-restaurant “Island”
locations with the 13,000-square-foot Manhattan flagship. While
the retail part of the store debuted this month, superstorm
Sandy pushed back the restaurant opening until December.  Sugarcane Press  The bar will have a sugarcane press for cocktails and the
menu will feature such vacation-style New York dishes as
pineapple cheesecake and grouper Reubens.  The first Island store, which opened in Naples,  Florida , in
1996, generates about $2,000 per square foot, CEO Pillow said in
an interview. That’s similar to the productivity of a Coach Inc.
or Lululemon Athletica Inc. store, which are industry leaders,
according to RetailSails, a consulting firm.  Tommy Bahama says the restaurants generate about 12 percent
of its $452 million in annual  revenue .  With $18 grilled steak salads, $12.50 seared scallop
sliders and $12 cocktails, Tommy Bahama’s  restaurants  aren’t
cheap, at least compared with the fast-food at  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , and neither are the brand’s $98 polos and
$118 shorts. The food and service are in line with the brand’s
messaging and Tommy Bahama executives have made a point to
oversee it themselves, Pillow said.  Farm to Table  The two Urban Outfitters Terrain stores -- in Glen Mills,
 Pennsylvania , and Westport -- offer a trendy farm-to-table
spread. In Westport, the dinner menu in July  included  $36
striped bass, $39 ribeye and a $19 vegetable plate.  Customers typically spend 1.5 hours browsing Terrain, and
that can double to three hours if they’re visiting the café and
shopping between glasses of wine or lunch, Wendy McDevitt,
president of Terrain, said in a telephone interview. The menus
at each restaurant are different because the food is sourced
locally, said McDevitt, who is a fan of the Stonington scallops
and Brussels sprouts at the Westport location.  Decades ago, the first Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie
stores originally had a restaurant and a cafe, respectively,
McDevitt said.  “The one thing you can’t get in the cyberworld is the
tactile experience and that won’t go away,” she said. “Food is
becoming bigger and bigger in terms of entertainment value.”  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , plans to replace cash
registers with coffee and juice bars and add tables and chairs,
so “no one has to leave the store if they want to refresh,”
Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson said in an Aug. 10 earnings
call. A Caribou coffee café and a gelato shop were shown to
analysts in a September tour of the company’s prototype store.  Cocktail Shopping  Some retailers are holding shopping events featuring food
and cocktails to draw shoppers in, adding the dining component
without a dedicated café or restaurant.  Banana Republic has served hors d’oeuvres and cocktails at
loyalty shopping events and to  introduce  new collections, such
as its Anna Karenina line this month. Loft held Friday happy
hours this summer at its  New York  Rockefeller Center store.  Tommy Bahama plans to open another Island in  Tokyo  next
year and is assessing locations elsewhere.  “You have the opportunity to lose a guest with every
single meal and they’ll look at that meal as an extension of
every product you sell, so to fail is to fail big,” said Doug
Wood, the chain’s president. “It’s the difference between ‘‘I
just bought this Tommy Bahama shirt and I don’t like it as well
as the other ones I have,’ versus ‘I just had a meal and I got
sick and I’m never going to go back again and I’m not going to
buy their clothes,” he said.  “It’s challenging to operate but if you execute it right
it’s magic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  