-- Turkey Yields Rise From Record Low on U.S. Fiscal Cliff Concern
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-11-28T16:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/turkey-yields-rise-from-record-low-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff-concern.html
Turkey’s bond  yields  rose from the
lowest level on record as investors took profit from riskier
assets after global markets fell on concern U.S. budget talks
have made little progress to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt climbed three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.08 percent at the close
in Istanbul, recovering from the weakest level since at least
2005. The yield has slumped 100 basis points this month in the
biggest retreat among 20  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.
The lira strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 1.7913 per
dollar, its second day of gains.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to meet with
business leaders today after Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said yesterday he was disappointed with congressional budget
talks aimed at averting $607 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index earlier slipped
by 0.9 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Nov. 13,
before paring its loss to 0.7 percent at 989.92.  “We are seeing sales in the whole of emerging markets and
people are slightly taking profit,” Ertug Ali Aydin, a trader
at Maxis Securities, said in e-mailed comments from London
today.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Turkey to investment grade on Nov. 5
and central bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Nov. 12 he won’t
tolerate any unwarranted currency gain jeopardizing the
country’s external balances.  The Relative Strength Index on  Turkey ’s benchmark bonds
fell to 13 yesterday. The gauge shows how rapidly prices have
advanced or dropped during a specified period. Readings below 30
signal a security may be poised for a rebound. The measure
increased to 16 today, remaining in overbought territory since
Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  