-- Venezuela Bonds Raised to Buy at BofA as Chavez Seeks Care
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-11-28T20:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/venezuela-bonds-raised-to-a-buy-at-bofa-as-chavez-seeks-care-1-.html
Venezuelan  government bonds  were
raised to the equivalent of buy at Bank of America Corp. as
President  Hugo Chavez  sought more cancer treatment in Cuba,
spurring speculation that the government may change.  Bond yields were at a four-year low as Chavez arrived in
Havana four months after saying he was “totally free” of
cancer. The president’s illness raises the prospects of a new
regime that may end policies such as nationalizations and
currency controls,  Francisco Rodriguez , a Bank of America
economist, wrote in a note to clients. He also said bonds would
benefit from a  currency devaluation  and reduced issuance.  “There is the risk that government paralysis resulting
from his absence could delay the adoption of an exchange-rate
adjustment, but this is partly offset by the likely positive
reaction that the market would have if Chavez were to step down
due to a deterioration of his health,” Rodriguez wrote.  Yields on  Venezuela ’s dollar bonds maturing in 2027 dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.10 percent
at 4:22 p.m. in Caracas, the lowest level on a closing basis
since July 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields fell 34 basis points yesterday.  The government has reduced inflation-adjusted spending by
13 percent in the seven weeks since Chavez defeated opposition
challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski by more than 10 percentage
points, Rodriguez said.  “A front-loaded, significant devaluation, which we expect
in early 2013, would be very credit-positive, especially” for
the shortest-maturity bonds, he wrote. “The spending cuts
taking place now will result in little external debt issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  