-- Vitro Loses Appeals Court Bid on Mexican Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-28T21:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/vitro-loses-appeals-court-bid-on-mexican-bankruptcy-plan.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA) , the Mexican glassmaker
that has been fighting hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. and
other creditors over its restructuring, lost an appeals court
bid to enforce its bankruptcy plan in the U.S.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled against
Vitro today and upheld a bankruptcy court ruling that denied
enforcement of the reorganization, a result that Vitro had
warned would create “chaos” for the company.  “Vitro cannot propose a plan that fails to substantially
comply with our order of distribution and then defend such a
plan by arguing that it would suffer were it not enforced,” the
court said. “Vitro’s two-wrongs-make-a-right reasoning is
unpersuasive.”  Vitro was appealing a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Harlin DeWayne Hale in June that handed a victory to holders of
Vitro’s $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds. Hale refused to grant
enforcement of Vitro’s Mexican bankruptcy plan, saying it was
contrary to U.S. policy.  Vitro, which makes glass containers and car windshields,
defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt in 2009 after construction and
auto-glass sales fell. Vitro won approval for its reorganization
plan in  Mexico  and then asked Hale to enforce it in the U.S.  Vitro fell 2.6 percent to 18.15 pesos in Mexico City
trading at the market close.  ‘Brazen Manipulation’  Bondholders blasted the plan as a “testament to audacity,
brazen manipulation and greed.” They argued the plan improperly
extinguishes guaranty obligations of Vitro subsidiaries even
though the units didn’t file for bankruptcy.  Vitro said in a statement that it is disappointed in the
appeals court ruling and is considering “possible legal next
steps in order to have our restructuring plan enforced in the
U.S. as it has been in Mexico.”  “The group of highly sophisticated short-term investors
who are very familiar with, and specialize in bankruptcy
litigation, invested in Vitro’s distressed debt either after or
shortly before Vitro announced its intention to enter a judicial
restructuring process in Mexico in a calculated attempt to
maximize their profits by seeking to disrupt that process and
sidestep Mexican law,” the company said.  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the bondholders challenging
Vitro in court, declined to comment on the decision. Bondholders
include Elliott and Aurelius Capital Management.  ‘Unusual Circumstances’  In the ruling, Circuit Judge Carolyn King wrote that Vitro
failed to show that there existed “truly unusual
circumstances” that would permit releasing the subsidiaries
from debt owed to bondholders.  “We hold that Vitro has not met its burden of showing that
the relief requested under the plan -- a non-consensual
discharge of nondebtor guarantors -- is substantially in
accordance with the circumstances that would warrant such relief
in the United States,” King wrote.  The appeals is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro
SAB, 12-10542, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  