-- Why Ohio Valley Shipbuilding Dream Couldn’t Stay Afloat
-- B y   D a v i d   O .   S t e w a r t
-- 2012-11-28T16:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/why-ohio-valley-shipbuilding-dream-couldn-t-stay-afloat.html
Not every economic-development
program works out. On a late April morning in 1801, most of
Cincinnati’s thousand citizens lined the banks of the  Ohio
River , eager to watch one of the wonders of the age. A great new
sailing ship, St. Clair, was passing downriver from Marietta for
its maiden voyage on the high seas.  But something was terribly wrong: Those spectators were 600
miles from the closest salt-water port.  St. Clair, a square-rigged brig named for the Ohio
Territory’s first governor, Arthur St. Clair, was the first
seagoing vessel to rise in the Ohio River valley. Built in
Marietta with a burden of 104 tons, St. Clair required three
dozen sailors to manage her at sea.  The large ship floated downriver backward, leading with its
stern. To slow its progress, it dragged an anchor.  The launch marked an industrial burst in the Ohio
Valley. In 1770,  Benjamin Franklin  predicted that Americans
would build “schooners, sloops &c., on the Ohio, suitable for
the West-India or European markets.” The valley combined the
elements needed for a ship: great stands of oak, black walnut,
cherry, locust and yellow pine, along with nearby  iron ore  and
sources for hemp, flax and tar. When skilled workers arrived
from  New England , the remaining challenge was how to transport
the ships down the Ohio and  Mississippi  to the sea. That
challenge, however, was tremendous.  Spring Thaw  St. Clair’s descent tested the dream of tall ships on the
Ohio. At more than 70 feet in length, with towering 60-foot
masts, St. Clair was three times longer than riverboats of the
era. To ease the craft past sandbars and submerged trees and
rocks, it descended in late April, when the river swelled with
runoff from melting snows and spring rains.  When the ship reached  New Orleans  six weeks later, its 70-
year-old skipper declared the trip the greatest he had ever
completed. Then St. Clair carried a cargo of flour to  Havana ,
where it picked up a load of sugar for Philadelphia.  The boat’s success unleashed a flurry of investment and
shipbuilding. From 1802 to 1807, the Ohio Valley yards turned
out at least 30 seagoing vessels. Shipbuilders in Marietta and
Cincinnati, Pittsburgh and Wheeling, Frankfort and Eddyville,
raced to build larger and larger ships.  Soon after the success of St. Clair, the Ohio yards drew
the attention of powerful men. When President  Thomas Jefferson 
persuaded Congress to build 50 gunboats, almost half of the
contracts went to Pittsburgh, Ohio and  Kentucky . Suddenly, the
Ohio River shipyards were arming America.  Jefferson’s gunboats were open craft 60 feet long by 16
feet across. They carried only four small cannon and one 24-
pounder. With room for 26 rowing stations, they were driven by
musclepower, though some also carried sails.  Navy men derided the gunboats as too small and weakly
armed. Jefferson favored them for their low cost and valued
their inadequacy on the open sea; that way, they could only
defend American shores, never attack foreign ones.  But not even government gunboat contracts could keep the
 Ohio  Valley in the business of building tall ships for very
long, not with the treacherous Falls of the Ohio at Louisville
looming as the great obstacle between the shipyards and the sea.  In mid-April 1807, four of the largest ships built on the
Ohio loitered above those falls. Penrose, the largest, had
waited more than a year for the river to rise in the spring. The
other three -- John Atkinson, Rufus King, and Tuscarora --  were
each 300 tons or more, at least 100 feet long by 30 feet wide,
and required a draft of 9 feet. Each needed a crew of 100 to ply
the seas.  Ohio Falls  On April 20, the river dropped. The four crews had to chance
the falls immediately or waste another year inland, riding at
anchor.  John Atkinson edged into the current, its stern downstream
in the usual fashion. It bumped several rocks in the rapids,
where the current ran at 12 miles an hour, but slid past them
safely. Tuscarora came next, followed by Rufus King. Anxious
spectators were thrilled as the stately ships gained speed.  Tuscarora was first to crash, rolling from side to side and
lodging on the rocks without breaking up. The crew of Rufus King
heaved out every anchor in a desperate bid to avoid the same
fate, but then crushed its hull on the same rocks, sheering off
the helpless Tuscarora’s bow. Then John Atkinson, already below
the falls, broke free of its anchor and beached on a sandbar.  Penrose stayed where it was, its owner resigned to another
year of waiting for high water. Remarkably, no lives were lost
in the spectacular crashes.  The only fatality was the Ohio Valley shipbuilding
industry. American shipping starved when Jefferson won an
embargo of foreign trade in 1807 to strike back at British and
French limits on American traders. When trade finally revived
years later, the Ohio Valley yards could win no contracts to
build tall ships. They produced riverboats for decades to come,
but the Falls of the Ohio had shattered the dream of an inland
shipbuilding empire.  (David O. Stewart is author of three books on American
history, most recently “American Emperor: Aaron Burr’s
Challenge to Jefferson’s America.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To read more online from Echoes, Bloomberg View’s economic
history blog, click  here .  To contact the writer of this article:
David O. Stewart at  davidostewart@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  