-- Wildcatter Moffett’s Davy Jones Well Bet Tests Investors: Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   K e n   W e l l s
-- 2012-11-28T02:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/wildcatter-moffett-s-davy-jones-well-bet-tests-investors-energy.html
“People call us pioneers. Well,
that’s great, I guess, (though) some people say pioneers end up
with arrows in their back.”  The speaker, in a tone that manages to be both self-
deprecating and mildly defiant, is Jim Bob Moffett, chief
executive officer of  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  -- serial
wildcatter, incurable prospector, a man with a huge appetite for
risks and an uncanny record of extracting big paydays from
taking them.  Louisiana  born and a geologist by training, Moffett in his
salad days helped discover the Grasberg gold and copper mine in
the jungles of Indonesia, to this day the largest gold and
copper find on earth by reserves. He eventually parlayed those
riches to steer his once modest mining venture,  Freeport-McMoRan
Inc. (FCX) , into a 2007, $26 billion takeover of  Phelps Dodge Corp.
in one of the largest mining mergers ever.  His longtime Oil Patch buddy, billionaire T. Boone Pickens,
says Moffett’s oilfield exploits rank him in “the top five of
any list” of U.S. wildcatters. Others put him the same league
as George Mitchell, the  Texas  nonagenarian credited with
starting the shale-gas revolution. That’s some accolade
considering where Moffett began: lugging pipe, unclogging pumps
and digging ditches as a bottom-rung roustabout in the rough-
and-tumble Louisiana oil fields.  He does better than that now. Last year, Moffett earned
more than $35 million in total compensation through his various
corporate roles, according to company filings.  Reassuring Analysts  Moffett made his arrows-in-the-back remark in the midst of
a conference call with analysts to explain why his latest risk-
taking venture, a drill-down-to-hell well in the near-shore
waters of the Gulf of Mexico called Davy Jones, is going to be
another pioneering move that pays off. Begun in June of 2009,
Davy Jones No. 1 has plumbed virtually unchartered depths of
29,000 feet, probing for what he says is a Grasberg-scale
equivalent natural gas field amid unprecedented temperatures of
more than 400 degrees Fahrenheit and pressures that would crush
a diving bell.  Moffett believes there could be trillions of cubic feet of
gas down there. Investors and would-be production partners are
waiting “with bated breath” to see if there is validation, he
told analysts in the Oct. 19 call. “And when we do, all hell’s
going to break loose.”  Hell Begins  Hell has begun to break loose, and not in the way Moffett
had hoped. On Nov. 26, the company announced yet again that a
flow test on the well meant to confirm vast reserves proved
inconclusive, a report that carved away a third of the company’s
market value in two days as shares plunged.  It’s one thing to find the gas. It’s another altogether to
produce it with the heat and pressure generated at Davy Jones’s
depth. The problem, according to the company, seems to be
barite, a compound used to thicken drilling mud to keep pressure
on the bore hole. The barite has clogged the well, making an
accurate flow test impossible. So far, McMoRan’s efforts at
high-pressure plumbing have failed. If the company can’t resolve
the issue, the well may have to be written off.  It would be a costly failure. To date, McMoRan has poured
almost a billion dollars into developing Davy Jones on a 20,000-
acre lease about 12 miles off the Louisiana coast in 20 feet of
water. Moffett’s geological thinking, according to his friend
Pickens, borders on “profound.” He’s postulating that below
the near-shore Gulf of Mexico -- one of the most explored oil
and gas regions on earth -- that vast reserves lie untapped in
formations 25,000 to 30,000 feet deep.  New Frontier  The drilling to date has been on wells 10,000 to 12,000
feet deep. Thus, Davy Jones, in lore the ghost of a sailor
presiding over the riches of the salty deep, has the potential
to unlock a whole other frontier of Gulf shelf exploration, said
 Leo Mariani , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Austin, Texas.
A bust, however, likely puts the company in play.  As partners and investors grow restless, Moffett, who
declined to be interviewed for this story, has maintained a
buoyant public face, speaking in his Texas twang of his well as
if it were a celebrity. “Everywhere I go people want to know
about Davy Jones, people I know casually or even people I have
never met before,” Moffett said in a March letter to
shareholders. “Everyone asks, ‘How is Davy Jones?’”  His answer, even after repeated setbacks, is that Davy
Jones will come out just fine.  Throwing Papers  James Robert Moffett didn’t have the kind of start in life
that presaged a legendary rise through the world’s energy and
mining ranks. Born in 1938 in Houma, Louisiana, a drowsy Cajun
town inhabited by oyster fisherman and sugar cane farmers,
Moffett was the son of an oilfield worker and stay-at-home mom.
His parents divorced when he was a child and he moved to Houston
with his mother and sister. Money was tight.  His mother took a job as a department store credit clerk
and as soon as he could, Moffett went to work, bagging
groceries, slinging newspapers, pumping gas and selling shoes,
according to his biography on the website of the  Horatio Alger 
Association of Distinguished Americans. He also found time to
join the Boy Scouts.  As a student he showed great promise in science and math.
His high school football skills and place on the rolls of the
National Honor Society earned him a full football scholarship to
the University of Texas, where he played for two years under the
legendary Longhorn Coach Darrell Royal. Royal, who died earlier
this month, would become a longtime mentor.  Longhorn Days  In a team photo from 1959, Moffett is a rangy man with a
chiseled jaw, a lean, muscled physique, a crew cut and a look
that makes you think he could hold his own in a bar fight. Ed
Padgett, a Longhorn teammate, said he and Moffett played both
sides of the ball, as tackles on offense and guards on defense.  Playing for Royal was “kind of like being in the Army,”
he said, and he and Moffett bonded over the grueling practice
regimen. Padgett lived across the hall from Moffett in an
athletic dorm, and recalls even then how hooked Jim Bob was on
geology. “I walked by his room many a time when the door was
open,” recalls Padgett, “and he had all of his geology buddies
in there, looking at maps and core samples and stuff.”  Moffett, who married his high-school sweetheart, Louise,
graduated in 1961 with honors in geology. They lived in a garage
apartment that rented for $75 a month, utilities included. “He
wasn’t always flying high,” said Padgett. “He started out from
the bottom and worked his way up.”  Creating McMoRan  By 1969, the wildcatting bug had bitten him and he formed
an exploration company with two partners, W.K. McWilliams Jr., a
geologist who had once worked for reclusive billionaire Howard
Hughes, and B.M. Rankin Jr., who had managed oil and gas leases
for the legendary oilman H.L. Hunt. They took the first two
letters of each last named and called it the McMoRan Oil & Gas
Co.  The company, trading on Moffett’s and McWilliams’ geology
instincts and Rankin’s shrewd deal-making, quickly gained a
reputation as a lean, aggressive explorer that could find lots
of oil and gas and drill and develop the fields economically.
One partner in these projects was Freeport Minerals Co. It had
begun life as developer of a lucrative south Louisiana sulfur
mine and later branched out into oil and gas, gold, copper and
other mining efforts.  In 1981, Moffett merged McMoRan with Freeport to form
Freeport-McMoRan Inc. with himself as chairman and CEO. It was
around then that Freeport under Moffett began exploring in an
area of  Indonesia  where the old Freeport Minerals Co. had
developed a rich gold and copper mine in the 1960s.  Volcanic Gold  They struck pay dirt in 1988 with the Grasberg mine, which
Moffett once described as “a volcano that’s been decapitated by
nature, and we’re mining the esophagus, if you will.”  The smart money said Freeport could never develop the
remote property, in the highlands of the rugged Sudirman
Mountains, without bringing in a bigger mining partner -- or
being forced, when it ran out of capital, to sell out.  “Everywhere we went, people said, ‘Well, it’s just a
matter of time before somebody comes in here and takes you
over,’” Moffett told analysts recently as he was explaining why
people need to remain optimistic about McMoRan’s ability to
bring in the Davy Jones well.  To date, Grasberg has produced more than 42 million ounces
of gold and 26 billion pounds of copper. Five years ago,
McMoRan, flush with Grasberg cash, bought out Phelps Dodge in
the biggest mining industry acquisition to that time, forming
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Moffett serves as chairman.  Bre-X Bust  In some quarters, Moffett is just as famous for the mine
that didn’t work out. In early 1997, a small Canadian mining
company called Bre-X electrified the world with an announcement
that it had found a 50-million ounce Indonesian gold field with
a pedigree similar to the Grasberg. Though many big mining
companies were lining up, Freeport emerged as Bre-X’s pick for a
partner to develop the mine, with Moffett himself flying in to
close the deal.  Moffett flew to the region to oversee independent tests of
the mine. The results showed no commercially developable gold in
the field. By one account, Moffett phoned Toronto, where Bre-X
officials were being celebrated for their discovery at a mining
convention, and ordered them back to Indonesia to explain. Lead
Bre-X geologist, Michael de Guzman, jumped to his apparent death
from a helicopter over the jungle as he was heading for his
meeting with Moffett.  Moffett later recounted his reaction in an interview with
Fortune Magazine: “Man, it makes me sick every time I think
about it. I’d had it with these guys. The thing that forced this
thing out in the open was de Guzman jumping out of the goddamn
helicopter.”  Familiar Controversy  A day after Moffett blew the whistle on the bust -- Bre-X’s
ore samples, he concluded, were fraudulent -- Bre-X stock
cratered, losing $6 billion in value.  People who know Moffett well tend to like him, though
throughout most of his adult life, he and controversy have never
been strangers. He’s famous for his sharp sense of humor and,
more than once at parties, for breaking out into an Elvis
imitation.  Back in the 1980s, in between trips to Indonesia, he’d hunt
ducks with pals at a camp in Chauvin, Louisiana, south of his
hometown of Houma. There Moffett was considered “just one of
the guys,” said Marty J. Chabert, whose late father, Leonard
Chabert owned the camp that Moffett frequented.  “He’d set out the decoys and pluck the ducks like
everybody else,” recalls Chabert, who was present at a lot of
these hunts. “Of course, we knew who he was. My dad would say,
‘this man works hard, give him some space.’”  Louisiana Refuge  Moffett, a good wing shot, would hunt in the morning and
then retire upstairs in the afternoon to pore over mail special-
delivered from his New Orleans office and practice a foreign
language.  “Mostly, though, he was there for the camaraderie of the
camp. That’s really what he loved,” said Chabert, a Baton Rouge
businessman.  In New Orleans, an oil-friendly town where Moffett once
headed a local business council and gives generously to the Boy
Scouts, he is considered something of a folk hero -- and Davy
Jones really is a celebrity. “In New Orleans, I think everybody
with two nickels to rub together owns a little McMoRan” stock,
said Peter Ricchiuti, a finance professor at Tulane University
who has followed Moffett’s career. “You like the Saints and you
got a little McMoRan for your kids.”  Moffett’s Mystique  This is partly about “the mystique of Jim Bob Moffett,”
he said, and Moffett’s career-long penchant for taking big
gambles and fooling experts who “routinely thought he’d lost
his mind.” But then come the oil wells and gold mines that
prove Moffett right. “The stock has become kind of a bet on Jim
Bob,” said Ricchiuti.  Moffett understands he won’t be getting that kind of
admiration everywhere. As he told The Wall Street Journal in
1998, “Am I ever going to be anything other than a geologist
who is finding all these horrible mines, to the people who don’t
want mines to be found? No!”  Grasberg, for all that it’s enriched the company, has been
linked by the World Wildlife Fund and other green groups to
deforestation and contamination of local rivers and lakes from
mine tailings. Conflicts with indigenous people over pollution
and lack of local jobs have been a staple of Grasberg’s history
and, in fairness, a widespread criticism of the mining industry
in general. Last year, a union strike paralyzed the mine for
three months.  Economic Asset  Freeport-McMoRan says the Grasberg has been a major
economic asset to Indonesia and that it operates the mine with
appropriate environmental safeguards. Moffett, an inductee of
the Horatio Alger Association whose members are honored for
their achievements, says on the group’s website that Freeport
Copper & Gold has been generous in its support of “educational,
healthcare and social development programs worldwide.”  Even his giving has sometimes backfired. In the mid-1990s,
Moffett donated $2 million to his Texas alma mater to go toward
the building of a $28 million science center. A high-ranking
University of Texas official, who happened to sit on Freeport’s
board, convinced the school to honor Moffett and his wife. Long
before the Louise and James Robert Moffett Molecular Biology
Building opened in 1997, the naming had caused an uproar among
faculty and students critical of Freeport’s Indonesian
environmental record.  Building Clash  “There were quite a few of us pretty distressed that Jim
Bob Moffett would be honored in any way on the UT campus,” said
Karen Hadden, executive director of the Sustainable Energy and
Economic Development Coalition in Austin.  The scorn over the science building lingers, in part
because Moffett and Louise have since divorced even while their
union remains enshrined in stone. His new wife, Lauree, is a
native of Baton Rouge and they maintain a home in Austin,
according to a biography on the website of a Texas non-profit
organization for which Lauree Moffett serves as a board member.  Expensive as the Davy Jones project has been, its success
would provide a prototype that would allow McMoRan to drill
follow-up wells cheaper and faster. It already has drilled a
second well that awaits testing. Profit margins are also better
on gas produced a dozen miles from shore than on gas from deep-
water drilling rigs more than 50 miles out in the Gulf.  Even a massive gas find, though, may not be the road to
riches. Moffett’s friend Pickens, founder of investor group BP
Capital, is concerned about a gas play in a nation already awash
in the fuel, with U.S. prices about a third of what they were
four years ago.  “I hate to see him make a big find and look at a $3 (per
thousand cubic feet) gas market,” said Pickens. “He needs a
better price for the gas.”  That said, Pickens has faith that Moffett’s wildcatter
instincts are still intact.  “You judge a trapper by his pelts, and ole Jim Bob’s got a
lot of pelts,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Ken Wells in  New York  at 
 kwells8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  