-- Won Weakens, Bonds Gain on U.S. Budget Deadlock Concerns
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-11-28T06:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/won-weakens-bonds-gain-on-u-s-budget-deadlock-concerns.html
South Korea’s won weakened for the
first time in three days and government bonds rose as concern
that U.S. lawmakers are struggling to reach a budget agreement
damped investor appetite for riskier assets.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday as Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid said Democrats and Republicans have made little progress in
avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff of $607 billion of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases. South Korea had a current-
account  surplus  for a ninth straight month in October, central
bank figures showed today. The excess was $5.8 billion, compared
with $5.9 billion in September. The government yesterday
tightened limits on the amount of currency forward positions
banks are allowed to hold.  “The decline in U.S. equities as the fiscal cliff looms is
preventing further gains in the won,” said Lee Jin Ill, a
Seoul-based currency trader for Hana Bank. “The effect of
yesterday’s regulation in forward positions is over for now,
unless additional curbs are announced soon.”  The won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,086.43 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, declined 15 basis points,
or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.20 percent. The Kospi Index of
shares fell 0.7 percent.  The U.S. Treasury Department said it will “continue to
press” South Korea to limit foreign-exchange interventions to
“the exceptional circumstances of disorderly market
conditions,” according to a statement accompanying its semi-
annual currency report to Congress yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent notes due
September 2017 dropped two basis points to 2.90 percent in  Seoul ,
Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The one-year interest-rate swap
fell two basis points to 2.78 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  