-- Workday Sales Beat Estimates on Cloud-Computing Demand
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-29T15:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/workday-sales-beat-estimates-on-corporate-cloud-computing-demand.html
Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a maker of Web-based
human-resources software, reported third-quarter revenue that
beat analysts’ estimates as more companies switched to its
cloud-computing tools to manage their workforces.  In its first quarterly report since becoming a publicly
traded company, Workday had a loss excluding some items of 39
cents a share, the company said in a statement yesterday.
Analysts predicted a loss of 49 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the quarter ended Oct. 31
doubled to $72.6 million, compared with projections for $64
million.  Workday, founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executive Officers
Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, makes applications to help
corporations manage human resources and financial records. As
large companies adopt more online tools, Workday is drawing
customers away from enterprise software companies such as  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG. (SAP)  Those two, along with  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,
also make Web-based software for businesses.  “The vast majority of business software is 5 to 10 years
old, and corporate customers are making the decision to
upgrade,” Richard Davis, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc.,
said in an interview. “Oracle and SAP are not going away.
They’re just not going to have 100 percent market share between
them.”  Shares of Pleasanton, California-based Workday fell 1.4
percent to $52.45 at 10:11 a.m. in New York. Through yesterday’s
close, the stock had gained 90 percent since its initial public
offering in October.  Software Development  Workday is trading at a 14 percent  premium  to the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index on a price-to-earnings
basis. The software maker raised $637 million in its Oct. 11
IPO, after twice raising its price. Workday sold 22.8 million
shares for $28 apiece.  Mark Peek, Workday’s chief financial officer, said the
company would keep investing to develop software. Research and
development expenses were $28.1 million in the third quarter, up
71 percent from a year earlier.  “We continue to invest in our product development as we
strengthen and extend our suite of applications, particularly in
financial management,” Peek said on a conference call yesterday
with analysts.  In the latest quarter, Workday announced that it will
introduce new applications to analyze corporate data and for
recruiting, which will debut by mid-2014.  The company reported a net loss of $41.3 million, which was
smaller than the $46.6 million loss expected by analysts. The
loss a year earlier was $19.7 million.  Big Wins  Revenue for the fourth quarter is expected to be $75
million to $79 million, the company said in the statement. That
compares with $70.5 million projected, on average, by analysts.  Bhusri said clients were looking for at other software
options whenever they were faced with an upgrade to an existing
software tool.  “The number one trigger is customers facing an upgrade of
a legacy system,” Bhusri said on yesterday’s conference call
with analysts.  During the latest quarter, Workday said it won new clients
such as  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , Yale University and J.B. Hunt
Transport Services Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  