-- WPP Says Billionaires to Spur Online Ad Demand: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-28T18:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/wpp-says-billionaires-to-spur-online-ad-demand-corporate-india.html
Martin Sorrell , founder of the
world’s biggest advertising firm, said online promotions are set
to boom in India, spurred by investments in retail by
billionaires  Mukesh Ambani  and Sunil Mittal.  Digital advertising at the Indian operations of Sorrell’s
 WPP Plc (WPP)  may account for 20 percent of revenue in the next seven
to 10 years, from 10 percent, Sorrell said in an interview in
Mumbai. WPP reported $500 million of sales in the nation last
year, he said. India, in September, allowed overseas multibrand
retailers to own up to 51 percent in store operators in Asia’s
third-largest economy.  “People like Mukesh Ambani and Sunil Mittal are making big
bets in retail, big investments,” said Sorrell. “The Indian
population, particularly youngsters, are quite facile with
technology. As mobile phones become more widespread and as the
cost comes down, I think you’ll see greater use.”  Ambani’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Mittal, who has a
wholesale venture with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are increasing
spending on retail stores to tap a market that Technopak
Advisors Pvt. estimates will expand to $725 billion by 2017.
Rising use of mobile devices in the nation with the world’s
largest population under 30 will spur digital ad sales,
according to Sorrell. India has more wireless connections than
the combined inhabitants in the U.S., euro area and Japan.  Spending on ads “is going to be driven in a large part by
 consumer goods , retail companies and the mediums that they are
choosing are mobile and social media,” said Neha Gupta, an
analyst at Gartner Inc. in  New Delhi . “Their interest in
spending in these areas has drastically increased.”  Brooks, Wal-Mart  Reliance Industries, which operates the world’s largest
refining complex, in June announced a joint venture with Brooks
Brothers to sell suits, sportswear and accessories in  India .
That adds to the more than 1,300 Reliance stores offering
products from groceries to Apple Inc. iPads.  Ambani, who ranks 21st on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
with a net worth of $21.9 billion, in June pledged to boost
revenue from his retail operations at least fivefold from the
current 76 billion rupees ($1.4 billion) within four years.
Reliance Retail will have some of the company’s highest growth
rates and earnings potential, Ambani, 55, told shareholders.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is in talks with
partner Bharti Enterprises Ltd. about opening retail outlets in
India after the government eased rules for foreign ownership in
multibrand store chains.  Wal-Mart, which operates 17 wholesale outlets at its
venture in the South Asian country, will take 12-18 months to
open retail stores in the world’s second-most populous country,
 Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s Asia operations, said in a Sept.
21 interview in  Hong Kong .  ‘Access Point’  Ambani and Mittal, India’s 8th richest man with a net worth
of $7 billion, have also invested significantly in
telecommunications. Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  is India’s
biggest mobile-phone operator while Ambani is readying a 4G
network in order to tap demand for high-speed wireless Internet.  Retail and consumption will spur advertising spending and
the increased adoption of smartphones will contribute to driving
more ads online and on to mobile handsets, Sorrell said.  “Mobile is a cheap form of access to the Internet,”
Sorrell said. “In India,  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  -- these markets
will leapfrog what we saw in the mature markets, which was use
of the PC. They will skip to mobile. The smartphone, mobile
advertising -- that will be the access point.”  Internet advertising spending is projected to increase 15
percent in 2013, while total ad growth will be weaker on
concerns about  Europe , the U.S. budget and the lack of major
media events next year, according to Zenith Optimedia Group Ltd.
Global Web ad spending is expected to jump to $101.8 billion
next year from $88.4 billion, according to Zenith.  Mobile Ads  Mobile ads, which still make up a smaller part of total
spending, may grow 51 percent worldwide to $9.7 billion,
according to New York-based EMarketer Inc.  In India,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  expects  Internet users  to more than
double to 300 million by 2015, making it the world’s largest
Internet market after China. The number of Internet users in
India is growing at a rate of 38 percent a year, from 137
million users in October, according to Rajan Anandan, managing
director of Google India.  India may increase its base of active mobile-phone
subscribers to more than 872 million at the end of 2015,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. The nation of  1.2 billion
people , where only 3.1 percent of households had computers or
laptops with  Internet access  as of the 2011 census, had 699
million  active mobile subscribers  in September, according to the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.  ‘No Olympics’  Spending on online advertising in India will surge 54
percent to 43.9 billion rupees at the end of March, from 28.5
billion rupees a year earlier, according to IMRB International,
a unit of WPP, the world’s biggest advertising company.  WPP, based in Dublin, slashed its full-year sales growth
target for the second time in two months on Oct. 25, after
clients in  North America  and Europe cut spending.  “2013 has no events; it has no Olympics, it has no  World
Cup , no elections,” Sorrell said. “2014 has the Brazilian
World Cup, the Sochi winter Olympics, and of course we have
another election in America. We’re likely to see significant
spending again.”  WPP, which employs 14,000 people in China and 12,000 in
India, is upbeat about the outlook for both the markets, the 67-
year-old chief executive said.  “We are India bulls as well as China bulls,” Sorrell said
of the Asian nation that has become WPP’s third-largest market,
contributing $1.3 billion of  annual revenue . While growth in
China will be driven by urbanization, India has “big scope for
growth” in advertising and marketing, as well as retail and
distribution, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  