-- Yacktman Bets BlackBerry Can Survive Market-Share Plunge
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-28T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/yacktman-bets-blackberry-can-survive-market-share-plunge.html
Donald Yacktman , whose $19 billion
mutual-fund firm has outperformed peers by picking undervalued
stocks, is leading a rush of investors betting  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and its BlackBerry smartphone can recover.  Yacktman Asset Management bought 12.2 million RIM shares
last quarter, doubling the firm’s stake to about $252 million,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Yacktman sees value in
the BlackBerry’s 80 million users worldwide, its physical
keyboard and the promise of a new operating system, even as the
phone’s U.S. market share drops to less than 2 percent from 8.5
percent a year ago.  “People do like to use the keyboard, and there is a big
embedded base,” Yacktman said in a telephone interview from
Austin,  Texas . “This company could be worth a lot more.”  His increased investment may have made Yacktman $34 million
to $59 million as of today’s close, given he bought the stock
between the quarterly highs and lows of $6.31 and $8.29.
Yacktman doesn’t disclose the exact day on which he buys or
sells a stock. RIM has climbed 76 percent since Sept. 24, when
the most recent rally began.  Yacktman relies more than peers on picking individual
stocks rather than indexes, a strategy that helped his firm
outperform other mutual funds in the longest economic slump
since the Great Depression. The $7.1 billion  Yacktman Focused
Fund (YAFFX)  has returned 12 percent over the past five years, putting
it in the top 1 percent of comparable funds, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Market Share  The first BlackBerry 10 phones will go on sale in February,
following a delay of more than a year. The lack of new models
has made it harder for RIM to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. RIM accounted for
just 1.6 percent of U.S. smartphone sales during the 10-week
period ended Oct. 28, research firm Kantar Worldpanel ComTech
reported yesterday. That compares with 48 percent for Apple and
47 percent for Android.  RIM shares  rose 3.5 percent to $11.10 in New York today.
The stock tumbled 11 percent yesterday following the Kantar
report. Before that, RIM had climbed for eight straight days,
its longest rally in four years.  Yacktman’s firm increased its RIM stake to 4.5 percent by
the end of last quarter, making it the fifth-largest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , founded by RIM board
member  Prem Watsa , is the biggest investor. RIM co-founders Mike Lazaridis and  Jim Balsillie  are second and third, followed by
Primecap Management Co.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  Still,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst Ehud Gelblum chalks up the
stock’s run-up to “ irrational exuberance .” While that optimism
may help maintain the shares over the next two to three months,
there’s no evidence that BB10 can even become the industry’s
third-place finisher, he said this week in a report.  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone is vying for the No. 3 spot, and its
market share has already vaulted past RIM’s in the U.S.  RIM is counting on BB10 and pent-up demand from its
installed base of 80 million subscribers worldwide to break a
five-quarter streak of  declining year-over-year revenue . Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins also expects a wave of upgrades
from RIM’s government customers, he said in an interview in
 Washington  this month.  Other investors have been raising their stakes in RIM.
Renaissance Technologies Corp. bought 9.9 million shares last
quarter, increasing its stake to 3.2 percent. Viking Global
Investors LP bought 4.6 million shares, having previously held
none. And  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  raised its stake by 3.9
million shares to 3.3 percent.  Takeover Talk  Some investors may be wagering that some or all of RIM will
be acquired, providing a payday even if BB10 fails. RIM hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  in May to help
explore its strategic options, though Heins said in September
that its focus is on negotiating a software licensing deal or
other partnership.  Jefferies & Co. and  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
raised their ratings on RIM this month. Even short-selling
investors, who had previously bet on RIM shares falling, have
bought into the stock. Ironfire Capital LLC President  Eric Jackson  said he bought an undisclosed number of shares last
week.  “Most are greatly underestimating how many loyal
subscribers will upgrade to BB10 in calendar 2013,” Jackson
said in Toronto on Nov. 22.  Palm’s History  New technology may not be enough to reverse the tide for
RIM, said Morgan Stanley’s Gelblum. He cites Palm Inc.’s WebOS,
which failed to turn around the company even after being well
received in 2009. Palm was bought by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  the
following year, and the WebOS products were eventually scrapped.  “Ultimately we believe BB10 is too late,” Gelblum said in
the report.  Sixteen analysts recommend selling RIM’s stock. Twenty-
eight others have the equivalent of a hold rating, and six
recommend buying the shares.  There’s still a lot to like as a RIM investor, aside from
BlackBerry 10’s prospects, Yacktman said. The company had more
than $2 billion in cash and short-term investments last quarter,
up from the previous three months. Its intellectual property
also may be valuable to an acquirer.  “Cash, patents and embedded base -- it seemed to us
there’s a fair bit of value there,” he said. “And that’s why
we’ve done what we’ve done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  