-- Tycoons Buy Next Media’s Taiwan Assets for NT$17.5 Billion
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-11-28T08:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/tycoons-buy-next-media-s-taiwan-units-for-nt-17-5-billion.html
Next Media Ltd. (282) , controlled by Hong
Kong mogul Jimmy Lai, agreed to sell its Taiwan print and
television businesses to two consortia for NT$17.5 billion ($601
million), spokesman Mark Simon said.  Next Media will sell its Taiwan print assets to four
investors including Want Want Chinatimes Group President Tsai
Shao-Chung, William Wong of the Formosa Plastics Group,
Chinatrust Charity Foundation Chairman Jeffrey Koo Jr. and  Lung
Yen Life Service Corp. (5530)  Chairman Lee Shih-tsung, Simon said.  Lai, known for criticizing the Chinese government, is
exiting most of his Taiwan businesses after battling regulators
for licenses and distribution rights. The investment by Tsai,
son of  Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151)  Chairman Tsai Eng-meng, may
raise regulatory concerns as Lai’s Apple Daily and the Tsais’
 China  Times will have a combined newspaper market share
exceeding 45 percent, according to National Chung Cheng
University’s Kuang Chung-Hsiang.  “The deal may have to obtain approval from the fair-trade
commission,” Kuang, an assistant professor of communications,
said before the announcement. “The overhang is there.”  Taiwan’s Fair Trade Commission, which hadn’t received a
submission,  said  today it will hold a public hearing tomorrow.  Television Assets  Lee Tai-hung, chairman of  Taiwan Fire & Marine Insurance
Co. (2832) , replaces Tsai in the group buying the television assets,
Simon said. The pacts were signed yesterday, he said.  Taiwan Fire & Marine and Lung Yen said today in separate
statements to the Taiwan stock exchange that the investments
were by their chairmen and doesn’t involve the companies.  Formosa Plastics Corp. said in a filing that the investment
by an affiliate will provide diversified and fair channels for
the expression of opinions. Chinatrust Charity Foundation didn’t
respond to an emailed request for comment. Tsai Shao-Chung
didn’t answer calls to his office at Want Want Chinatimes.  An official announcement, including details of each
transaction, will be released later today, Simon said.  Apple
Daily  Taiwan, a Next Media publication, reported the agreements
earlier today, which Simon confirmed.  Television Losses  Next Media, which suffered two annual losses due in part to
its Taiwan television and multimedia unit, said on Nov. 12 it
will post a substantial loss for the six months ended September.
The Tsais’ China Times Group controls newspapers and TV
channels.  The younger Tsai is also a director of Asia Television Ltd.
and serves on the Taiwan government’s Straits Exchange
Foundation. His father was in July granted conditional approval
to buy Taiwan cable-television operator China Network Systems
Co. for $2.4 billion after regulators asked for guarantees of
independence from mainland China interests.  Taiwan has been ruled separately from China since 1949 when
members of the Kuomingtang party fled to the island after losing
a civil war with Communist forces. Relations between  Taiwan  and
China reached their warmest in more than six decades as Taiwan
President Ma Ying-jeou focused on economic ties and dropped the
pro-independence stance of his predecessor.  “The deal would be a disaster for democracy in Taiwan,”
opposition Democratic Progressive Party spokesman Lin Chun-hsien
said in a statement on Nov. 26. “The monopolization of media
and shadow of China will hurt freedom of the press and free
speech.”  Anti-Beijing  Next Media’s Apple Daily and Next Magazine are banned in
mainland China because of their anti-Beijing stance. Lai started
the Taiwan version of Next magazine in 2001, followed by Apple
Daily, known for celebrity gossip and graphic depictions of
violent crimes.  Lai said in a video clip posted on Next TV on Oct. 16 that
he had failed in Taiwan. His exit comes as business and
political ties improved between the island and China after
Taiwan President Ma took office in May 2008.  William Wong is chairman of  Formosa Plastics Group (1301) ,
Taiwan’s biggest diversified industrial conglomerate with
businesses making products ranging from semiconductors to
detergents. The group took in nearly $80 billion in sales in
2011, and its listed entities include Formosa Plastics Corp.,
Formosa Chemicals & Fibre Corp., Formosa Petrochemical Corp and
Nan Ya Plastics Corp.  Lee Tai-hung’s Taiwan Fire & Marine posted a 25 percent
decline in net income last year to NT$700.6 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lee Shih-tsung heads a funeral
business that  reported  $63 million of net income last year.  Chinatrust Charity  Chinatrust Charity chairman Jeffrey Koo Jr is the son of
Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. Chairman Jeffrey Koo. The
company is the fourth-biggest listed financial company in Taiwan
by market capitalization. His appeal against an insider trading
conviction for misusing Chinatrust Financial funds to buy a
stake in Taiwan’s Mega Financial Holding Co. is pending.  Next Media is suspended in  Hong Kong  trading today. The
stock jumped 41 percent on Oct. 18 after an initial agreement
with Koo was announced.  Lai will retain own 70 percent of Taipei-based Next Media
Animation, with Next Media holding 30 percent, Simon said. Next
Media’s Taiwan operations accounted for 42 percent of its sales
for the year ended March 2012, its second-biggest market after
Hong Kong.  Losses at its Taiwan television and multimedia unit widened
to HK$1.17 billion ($151 million) last fiscal year from HK$459
million a year earlier, according to its annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  