-- Yingli Forecast Will Make It Biggest Solar-Panel Supplier
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-11-28T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/yingli-forecast-will-make-it-biggest-solar-panel-supplier.html
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , a
Chinese solar manufacturer, expects to become the world’s
biggest panel supplier this year as domestic sales surge, its
chief executive officer said.  Panel shipments for the year will be 2.1 gigawatts to 2.2
gigawatts, up as much as 37 percent from 2011, the Baoding,
China-based company said in a statement today. Yingli also
expects gross margin to rebound to as high as 2 percent in the
current quarter after reporting its first negative margin for
the third quarter.  Sales in  China  accounted for 28 percent of Yingli’s third-
quarter revenue, twice as much as in the second quarter. That’s
boosting the company’s shipments as slowing demand in other
regions prompts competitors to revise their forecasts.  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the largest solar manufacturer last year,
expects to ship as much as 2 gigawatts of panels this year.  “In the fourth quarter, we continue to see stable demand
from  Europe  and the U.S. and rising shipments to rapidly growing
markets like China,” Chief Executive Officer Miao Liansheng
said in the statement. “Demand in China has grown rapidly.”  The company’s American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, increased 13 percent to $1.62 at the close in
 New York .  Solar manufacturers are contending with a global glut
that’s driving down prices and cutting into margins as
governments from Europe to the U.S. reduce support. Photovoltaic
panel prices have  dropped  19 percent in the past year, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Chinese Sales  Yingli expects China to represent 40 percent of its
shipments in the fourth quarter, while European sales slip to 40
percent. New solar markets will account for another 10 percent
of shipments, and sales to the U.S., where duties were imposed
against Chinese imports, will fall to less than 10 percent.  China’s installed capacity will reach 21 gigawatts by 2015
driven by new policies, Miao said during a conference call
today.  Yingli has supplied panels for the largest solar farms in
 Latin America  and  Singapore  this year and is looking at markets
such as Uruguay and  Sri Lanka .  The company’s production costs, excluding silicon, will
fall to about 45 cents a watt at the end of the year and will
decline another 5 cents next year, Miao said. Silicon costs, now
at around 17 cents a watt, may decline 5 cents to 7 cents next
year.  Yingli reported a gross margin of negative 23 percent for
the third quarter, its first negative margin for at least three
years, as prices fell and shipments slipped 17 percent from the
prior quarter. The margin was 11 percent a year earlier.  The company’s net loss widened to 959.2 million  yuan 
($152.6 million) from 180.5 million yuan a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  