-- Zhaikmunai Gains From President’s Son-in-Law as Investor
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-11-28T17:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/zhaikmunai-gains-from-president-s-son-in-law-as-investor-1-.html
Zhaikmunai LP (ZKM) , the Kazakh oil
producer planning to double output in four years, said having
the son-in-law of Kazakhstan’s President Nursultan Nazarbayev as
an investor will help the company expand.  Timur Kulibayev, who is married to Nazarbayev’s daughter
Dinara, is an investor in  KazStroyService Group , which acquired
about 26 percent of Zhaikmunai in 2010, said Frank Monstrey, who
chairs the oil company.  “They are not involved at all in the operational
management but getting introductions left, right and general
knowledge in the country,” Monstrey said in an interview in
London. Kulibayev “is one of our shareholders through
KazStroyService and for sure that helps navigating the local
landscape.”  Zhaikmunai ’s London-traded shares have risen 17 percent
this year on prospects for drilling in Kazakhstan. The Isle of
Man-based company is investing $1.2 billion to more than double
oil and gas production to about 100,000 barrels a day in 2016.
The company announced its first dividend with the aim of paying
out about 20 percent of earnings in the future.  Leading Player  Kulibayev has emerged a leading player in Kazakhstan’s $186
billion economy. He’s chairman of oil industry association
Kazenergy and the nation’s biggest business group Atameken and
was chief executive officer of sovereign wealth fund Samruk-
Kazyna.  Kazenergy didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  Steel billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  is also an investor in
construction company KazStroyService, Monstrey said.  “The backbone of our strategy is to double production and
keep the plateau production as long as possible and then start
looking into other acquisitions,” Monstrey said. “We are
focused very much on delivering what we want to do, but of
course as you grow as you get more visibility it’s quite useful
to have local partners.”  Acquired Licences  This year, it acquired licenses to explore the
Rostoshinskoye, Daryinskoye and Yuzho-Gremyachinskoye fields in
northwestern Kazakhstan about 120 kilometers (75 miles) away
from its main production base, the Chinarevskoye deposit. The
fields hold as much as 187 million barrels of oil equivalent in
resources and the company plans to drill the first wells after
2013, according to a company presentation.  Zhaikmunai is also looking at further acquisition
opportunities to the south of its fields, Monstrey said. For
now, it plans to focus on the Chinarevskoye expansion, which
holds about 1.1 billion barrels of resources.  “Before we start looking at acquisitions one of the first
areas of focus has always been our possible reserves,” he said.
“That’s the lowest hanging fruit we have and the size speaks
for itself.”  The company has already invested about $1.2 billion in the
first phase of the Chinarevskoye development and expects output
to rise to about 48,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day next
year. It processes its gas condensate at a plant separating gas
from petroleum liquids, which positions Zhaikmunai “in a unique
way,” allowing it to link nearby fields to its facility, the
chairman said.  It exports about 85 percent of crude by rail cars to
clients in  Finland , Ukraine and some other destinations. Gas is
pumped through a 17-kilometer pipeline for injection into the
 Orenburg-Novopskov  link.  “The strategy of the company has always been to try to
extract as much liquids as possible and to consider gas as a
nice by-product,” Monstrey said. “Gas represents a relatively
small portion of the company revenue.”  To fund its expansion the producer sold $560 million in
seven-year bonds this month.  “Our production sharing agreement is until 2032 and each
year that you wait to produce is a lost year,” he said. “The
terms compared to the current newly awarded terms are absolutely
quite favourable.”  The company generated $79.4 million in operating cash flow
in the third quarter, Stephane Foucaud, a London-based analyst
at FirstEnergy Capital Corp., wrote in a Nov. 22 report. He
raised his recommendation on the shares to top pick from
outperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  