-- Zucker Is Said to Be Close to Taking Top Job at CNN
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-11-28T21:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-28/zucker-is-said-to-be-close-to-taking-top-job-at-cnn.html
Jeff Zucker, former chief executive
officer of NBC Universal, is close to taking the top job at  Time
Warner Inc. (TWC) ’s Cable News Network, three people with knowledge of
the situation said.  Zucker, 47, will succeed CNN President Jim Walton, who said
in July he would depart at the end of the year. An agreement
with Zucker is imminent, according to one of the people, who
requested anonymity because the talks are private.  Zucker made his mark in the news business as a wunderkind
producer of NBC’s “Today Show” in the 1990s. After rising
through the ranks of NBC, he struggled to develop hit prime-time
programs and was replaced as CEO when Comcast Corp. took over
the business in 2011. Time Warner, meanwhile, is counting on new
management to reverse a ratings slump at the network. CNN, once
the cable-news leader, now has a third as many viewers as  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News.  Jeff Bewkes, CEO of New York-based Time Warner, and Philip Kent, chairman of the Turner Broadcasting division, are looking
to complete a deal with Zucker by the end of this week,
according to two of the people.  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for
New York-based Time Warner, declined to comment.  Bewkes, speaking today at  Business Insider’s media and
technology  conference in New York, declined to discuss the
matter, beyond saying, “We’ll have an announcement soon.”  ‘Katie Show’  Since 2011, Zucker has been executive producer of
“Katie,” the daytime talk show of Katie Couric, the former
anchor of “CBS Evening News” and “Today Show.”  Before that, Zucker spent his entire working career at NBC.
He started as a researcher in 1986 for the 1988 Seoul Olympics
and went on to become executive producer of the “Today” show
at age 26. By 2007, he ascended to the top job at NBC Universal,
overseeing the broadcast network, the Universal Pictures film
studio, theme parks and cable channels.  Zucker’s tenure was marred by falling ratings at NBC, which
failed to develop new shows as successful as its older hits like
“Friends.” His decision in 2009 to put comedian Jay Leno in
prime time backfired by cutting the 11 p.m. audience for local
news and sparking protests from NBC’s affiliate TV stations.  The  CNN  job would give Zucker a chance to prove himself
again. Even so, his high-profile career in television
potentially makes him overqualified to run the network, said
Todd Juenger, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York. CNN currently gets lower ratings than MSNBC, which once
was a small part of the conglomerate that Zucker oversaw.  Too Small?  “How does a guy who used to call all the shots across the
mighty empire of NBCU be satisfied running a network that is
struggling to compete with MSNBC, which was hardly big enough to
matter in his old role?” Juenger said.  Zucker also may not like working two management levels
below the CEO, Juenger said.  “Can Zucker really be happy, for how long, presumably
reporting to Phil Kent who reports to Jeff Bewkes?” he said.
“And who makes the most money? It will be great fun to watch.”  Zucker would replace Walton, 54, who started at CNN one
year after it was founded by billionaire Ted Turner and helped
build the nascent network into a dominant news organization. CNN
soon became a staple in many households and was the only news
outlet to broadcast live video feed of the first Gulf War from
inside  Iraq .  Fox, MSNBC  In recent years, the network struggled to find a formula
that could compete with the more partisan commentary on Fox News
and  MSNBC . In announcing his resignation, Walton said the cable
news network “needs new thinking.”  “That starts with a new leader who brings a different
perspective, different experiences and a new plan, one who will
build on our great foundation and will commit to seeing it
through,” Walton said.  CNN is still a profitable business and stands to make more
than $600 million this year, Bewkes told shareholders at the
company’s annual meeting.  Shares of Time Warner , which also owns Warner Bros. and
 HBO , rose 1.4 percent to $46.99 at the close in New York. The
stock has climbed 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  