-- ‘Little Hu’ Takes Over Party Post in China’s Guangdong Province
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-18T16:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/-little-hu-takes-over-party-post-in-china-s-guangdong-province.html
Hu Chunhua, the second-youngest
member of the Communist Party’s new Politburo, was appointed
party boss of Guangdong, the southern manufacturing hub that has
China’s biggest provincial economy.  Hu, 49, replaces Wang Yang, a fellow Politburo member whose
new post hasn’t been announced, the Xinhua News Agency said
yesterday. Wang appeared publicly earlier this month when he
hosted the party’s new general secretary, Vice President  Xi Jinping , on a tour of the region.  Formerly party secretary of Inner Mongolia province, Hu may
become a top leader in the country’s political transition a
decade from now, according to political analysts including Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow at the National University of
Singapore’s East Asia Institute. His nickname is “Little Hu”
for his close ties to Xi’s predecessor as party general
secretary, Hu Jintao.  Guangdong, home to factories assembling products including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones, had gross domestic product of 5.32 trillion
 yuan  ($853.6 billion) last year, according to China’s National
Bureau of Statistics, on par with Indonesia’s. It’s also the
most populous province in the world’s most populous country.  Guangdong is home to special economic zones such as
Shenzhen that were created during China’s economic reforms under
late paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping . Xi’s father, Xi Zhongxun,
led the province in the 1970s and 1980s.  Hu is joined by Sun Zhengcai as the youngest members of the
new Politburo. The two could succeed China’s new leaders in
2022, according to Bo and  Joseph Cheng , a political science
professor at the  City University  of Hong Kong.  Hu studied Chinese literature at Peking University, where
many students who participated in the 1989 Tiananmen Square
protests were educated. He rose through the party ranks in Tibet
before moving on to the top job in Inner Mongolia, which
supplies most of China’s raw coal.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  