-- ‘Zero’ Turns Bin Laden Hunt Into Year’s Best Film: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/-zero-turns-bin-laden-hunt-into-year-s-best-film-review.html
Not long before an explosion that
she doesn’t see coming, a CIA operative in Kathryn Bigelow’s
extraordinary “ Zero Dark Thirty ” offers a toast: “To big breaks,
and the little people who make them happen.”  With an astute, beat-perfect sense of storytelling and
character, Bigelow and screenwriter Mark Boal shape history
-- those breaks, big and small, that led to the killing of Osama bin Laden -- into one of the finest fact-based thrillers since
“ All the President’s Men .”  Culled from public sources and original reportage, “Zero”
surpasses in scope, ambition and showmanship the filmmaking
duo’s 2009 Oscar-winning “ The Hurt Locker .”  It is, by a safe margin, the best movie of the year.  And by an even larger margin, the most controversial.  The film’s explicit depiction of torture -- a comparatively
brief part of the movie -- has been interpreted by some pundits
as an endorsement.  The New York Times columnist Frank Bruni even suggested that
Dick Cheney will love “Zero Dark Thirty.”  Perhaps. But only if the former Vice-President watches with
ideological blinders.  9/11 Revisited  Opening with audiotapes of emergency calls from the World
Trade Center inferno played over a black screen, “Zero Dark
Thirty” (military speak for 12:30 a.m., or deep night) plunges
us directly into that day’s ever retrievable mindset of panic
and grief.  From there, we’re in  Pakistan , specifically a CIA black site
warehouse. A newly arrived agent named Maya (Jessica Chastain,
setting the pace for an excellent cast) is observing, up close,
the torture of a suspected al-Qaida moneyman named Ammar (Reda
Kateb).  This is graphic, ugly stuff. Chained from the ceiling, the
bruised and bloodied Ammar is beaten, sexually humiliated,
waterboarded and finally stuffed into a small box, his body
contorted and smeared with his own excrement, his stench mocked.  “In the end,” says the disarmingly guileless interrogator
Dan (Jason Clarke), “everybody breaks, bro. It’s biology.”  Tricky Reveal  Ammar does indeed spill a secret, but only during a
relatively calm lunch, and he’s tricked, not tortured, into the
revelation.  Elsewhere in the film, torture produces false information,
and a crucial breakthrough (no spoilers here) arrives after an
agent gripes to his boss about post-Obama restrictions on
detainee treatment.  “You’ll think of something,” the boss says.  After Ammar’s initial tip, Maya (reportedly based on a real
agent, possibly the same one who inspired Claire Danes’s Carrie
in “Homeland”) develops the hunch that we know will pay off:
Find bin Laden’s courier, and she’ll find bin Laden.  As her determination intensifies (particularly after losing
a colleague, winningly played by Jennifer Ehle, in the 2009
suicide bombing of a CIA base in  Afghanistan ), the country’s
political will to kill bin Laden dissipates.  Among the paternalistic, politically-minded agency heads
(portrayed by Kyle Chandler, Mark Strong and James Gandolfini as
the here-unnamed CIA director Leon Panetta), Maya is more
tolerated than encouraged.  Secret Compound  “Zero” adheres to the now familiar manhunt narrative, with
satellite images and various clues leading inexorably to bin
Laden’s compound (recreated in  Jordan  in exacting detail by
production designer Jeremy Hindle).  As good as the film has been to this point, “Zero” hits
overdrive in its final extended sequence, when Maya’s storyline
gives way to the Navy SEAL’s raid on the Abbottabad compound.  In several quick, pre-raid scenes, Bigelow and Boal
efficiently sketch out a few SEAL Team characters (actors Joel
Edgerton and Chris Pratt, in particular, make vivid
impressions).  The raid itself is first-class filmmaking, from the eerily
quiet stealth helicopters low-flying through mountain passes to
the tense room-by-room search.  Shot by cinematographer Greig Fraser in greenish night
vision and the occasional glare of explosions, flashlights and
lasers, the raid plays out in what feels like real time.  Night Shots  As perspectives shift, we see both the SEALs and what the
SEALs see. Various inhabitants of the compound, armed and
unarmed, male and female, are shot (and shot again) until bin
Laden himself is assassinated (and, in this telling, there can
be no other word for it).  “Zero Dark Thirty” gives Maya the last word, leaving both
the film and the character irrevocably wrenched by the
interrogator’s credo: In the end, everybody breaks.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” from Columbia Pictures, is playing in
New York and Los Angeles, opening nationwide January 11.
Rating: *****  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 