-- Macquarie to Shut Singapore Infrastructure Fund on Outlook
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-12-19T10:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/macquarie-to-shut-singapore-infrastructure-fund-on-share-outlook.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  plans to shut
its Singapore-listed infrastructure fund after selling assets
including a port and highway in China because it doesn’t expect
its share price to reflect the value of its holdings.  Macquarie International Infrastructure Fund (MIIF)  will distribute
excess cash as a special dividend and divest three assets
following a review by its adviser  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  The
fund has about S$60 million ($49 million) in cash, according to
Chairman Chiang Meng Heng.  “We were looking at narrowing the discount,” Heng said in
an interview in Singapore yesterday. “It will be very, very
difficult to close the gap between the share price and the net
asset value given current market circumstances, so we decided to
return money back to shareholders.”  Australia ’s biggest investment bank decided to shut the
fund, which started in 2005, after it couldn’t find good assets
in  Asia  or means to boost its share price, he said. Macquarie
tried to add new Asia-based investments to increase the fund
size and bought back shares to lift its stock value, he said.  The closed-end fund’s  shares  jumped 1.6 percent to 63.5
Singapore cents at the close in Singapore, extending yesterday’s
5.9 percent advance and the highest since Sept. 15, 2008. The
stock is still trading at an 11 percent  discount  to its net
asset value as of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The half-year  dividend  is usually paid in February and the
special payout could also be made at the same time, Heng said,
declining to give a specific date for the distribution.  ‘Positive Move’  The Macquarie fund typically buys majority or substantial
interests in infrastructure businesses that allow it to gain
influence or control over them.  “It’s a positive move as investors should now get the net
asset value or a premium to NAV,” Sandy Mehta, chief executive
officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd., said in a phone
interview yesterday. “With the regular and special dividend,
the payout should be between 6 cents and 8 cents.”  The asset sales could result in a payout of between 75
cents and 80 cents, he estimated. Mehta bought the Macquarie
fund’s  units  this year, he said.  Macquarie International Infrastructure has four assets, of
which Miaoli Wind, a Taiwanese wind farm, has no value on its
books, according to its  website . The other holdings include a 38
percent stake in Changshu Xinghua Port, a cargo port in eastern
 China , an 81 percent stake in Hua Nan Expressway and a 47.5
percent interest in Taiwan Broadband Communications, one of the
island’s largest cable-television infrastructure owners.  Orderly Sale  “We are not looking to sell the three assets at a fire-
sale price,” Heng said. “The assets are good assets, we will
divest in an orderly manner to realize maximum value and don’t
have a time line. We will sell when the price is right.”  The fund’s top  investors  include Asset Value Investors
Ltd., Macquarie Infrastructure Management Asia Ltd., LIM
Advisors Ltd. and Metage Capital Management, it said in a
response to queries.  LIM Advisors , a $1.6 billion hedge fund based in  Hong Kong ,
and London-based  Metage Capital , had been rallying support of
other stakeholders to push for changes they want to help improve
shareholder return.  Macquarie International Infrastructure traded 24 percent
lower than its published net asset value on Sept. 30, the two
managers said in a joint letter to other shareholders on Nov.
22. The two investors also appealed for the fund’s management to
hire an independent financial adviser, a proposal that was
adopted by the board.  “Since the end of 2007, the fund has continually traded at
an unacceptable discount to net asset value,” the portfolio
managers said in their letter last month. “All shareholders are
penalized for entrusting their capital to be managed in this
fund” as long as the stock value of the fund continues to trade
at a discount to its net asset value.  The fund, which has four independent directors and one
appointed by the manager, will name an additional independent
director to help with the asset sales, Heng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  