-- African Union Plans to Open Office in War-Torn Somalia Capital
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-18T14:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/african-union-plans-to-open-office-in-war-torn-somalia-capital.html
Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud said the  African Union  plans to open an office in the
capital, Mogadishu, where security has improved since Islamist
rebels were driven out by African troops last year.  The African Union’s ambassador to  Somalia , Annadif Mohamat
Salah, said his office will relocate from its base in Nairobi,
the capital of neighboring  Kenya , according to an e-mailed
statement today from Mohamoud’s office.  It’s “an important step for the development and
improvement of Somalia,” Mohamoud said. “I also urge other
international organizations to open their offices in Somalia.”  The Africa Union follows the United Nations Political
Office for Somalia, which moved top-ranking officials to
Mogadishu in January, including special envoy  Augustine Mahiga .
Turk Hava Yollari AO, the carrier known as  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) ,
began twice-weekly flights to Mogadishu in March.  African Union troops and Somali forces drove fighters from
the al-Qaeda affiliated al-Shabaab group from Mogadishu in
August 2011, though the militia still carries out sporadic
suicide bombings and grenade attacks in the city. Troops have
also advanced into south and central Somalia, capturing key
towns including Afgoye and the ports of Merka and Kismayo, even
as al-Shabaab maintains control over swathes of territory.  Somalia has had no effective central government since
rebels overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. That
triggered 21 years of civil war where warlords, regional
administrations, Islamists and pirates fought for dominance,
while a series of transitional governments failed to quell the
disorder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  