-- AIG Raises $6.45 Billion as AIA Priced in Top Half of Range
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-12-18T08:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/aig-raises-6-45-billion-as-aia-shares-priced-near-mid-range.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout, raised HK$50 billion
($6.45 billion) from the sale of its remaining stake in  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299) , pricing shares in the top half of the range. The
Asian company’s shares dropped the most in almost five months.  AIG sold 1.65 billion shares at HK$30.30 each, AIA said in
a statement today. The shares were offered at HK$29.65 to
HK$30.65 each. AIA fell 3.3 percent to close at HK$30.60 in Hong
Kong, the most since July 23. It was the biggest decliner and
 most  actively traded stock by both volume and value in the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  with HK$56.6 billion ($7.3
billion) worth of shares changing hands today.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has sold more
than $65 billion in assets, including AIA, Asian headquarters,
and a U.S. consumer lender, to raise cash to help repay the U.S.
bailout. He’s scaled back at AIG, once the world’s largest
insurer, to focus on U.S. life insurance and global property-
casualty coverage.  “This latest divestment of the remaining holding is
noteworthy in AIA’s history since it marks the end of AIG’s
shareholder interest in AIA,” AIA CEO  Mark Tucker  said in an e-
mailed statement today, adding that AIG had provided
“unwavering support” since its initial divestment.  The amount means the New York-based company has raised
about $35 billion in four offerings of the Hong Kong-based life
insurer. The sale is expected to complete on Dec. 20, according
to the statement today.  AIA shares  were sold at a 4.3 percent discount from the
last traded price of HK$31.65 before the announcement. Today’s
decline pared AIA’s share price gain this year to 26 percent
this year,  against  the 25 percent gain of  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Finance Index tracking 12 banks, insurers and the city’s
exchange operator.  No Overhang  Investors today kept AIA’s shares above the price of the
AIG sale, when trading resumed after yesterday’s suspension
pending the share sale. Almost 1.9 billion AIA shares were
traded today, 15 percent of its outstanding shares.  “The main impact of the sale is that any ‘overhang’ left
in the stock from AIG selling is now gone,” said Arjan van Veen,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  AIA’s free float will increase as a result of AIG’s exit,
giving it slightly higher index weightings going forward, van
Veen added.  AIG sold the majority of AIA in a 2010 initial public
offering as the insurer raised cash to repay a U.S. bailout that
swelled to as much as $182.3 billion. It divested another $8
billion in two earlier sales of AIA shares this year.  The U.S. ended its rescue of AIG by selling $7.6 billion of
shares last week. The government owned as much as 92 percent of
the insurer after taking over the firm to prevent its collapse
in 2008.  AIA was among AIG’s “crown jewels,” according to Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG into the world’s largest
insurer during his four-decade leadership until 2005.  AIA traces its roots to 1919 when Cornelius Vander Starr,
an American businessman, set up a fire and marine insurance
agency in  Shanghai . It was the first foreign-owned insurer to
get a license in  China , according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  