-- Air Berlin Sells Miles Program to Etihad for $150 Million
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-12-18T12:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/air-berlin-sells-miles-program-to-etihad-for-150-million.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  sold control of its
frequent-flier program to shareholder  Etihad Airways  for 184.4
million euros ($243 million) in a transaction that should help
the discount carrier post its first annual profit since 2007.  Air Berlin stock rose as much as 9.9 percent, the most in
seven months, after the German company said that Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad would buy a 70 percent stake in the Topbonus program,
with proceeds to be booked against this year’s earnings.  State-owned Etihad has a 29 percent holding in Air Berlin
as part of a policy of investing in smaller operators to help
feed long-haul flights and turn its home emirate into a hub for
intercontinental travel. The German carrier has been closing
routes and pondering job cuts after  Europe ’s economic slump
pushed other short-haul operators in the region to collapse.  “With this step Air Berlin has moved from an emergency
situation to a very stressed situation,” said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt  with a “sell” rating on
Air Berlin. The deal, flagged by the German company Dec. 5, is
at the top-end of estimates and “really rescues them,” he said.  Loss Turnaround  Air Berlin  rose  as much as 15 cents to 1.66 euros, the
biggest gain since May 11, and was trading 5.1 percent higher at
1.59 euros as of 12:08 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has declined
36 percent this year, valuing the company at 186 million euros.  While Air Berlin posted net income of 66.6 million euros in
the third quarter, it had been expected to book a loss of 145
million euros for the full year on that basis, according to the
average estimate of six analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Mehdorn said today at a
press conference in Berlin that the carrier will now record a
profit for 2012, without specifying by what measure.  The equity element of the Topbonus deal amounts to 50
million euros, of which Air Berlin is contributing 15.6 million
euros for its stake, according to Etihad. The German carrier
will also get 150 million euros in debt financing arranged by
Etihad and provided by HSBC Holdings Plc and Commerzbank AG.  Etihad, the third-biggest Gulf carrier, originally raised
its stake in Air Berlin via a $350 million deal including funds
for new planes that was agreed late in 2011. The airlines sell
seats on each other’s flights under a code-share accord, and
allow passengers to redeem air miles on their loyalty programs.  Points for Sale  Under the latest deal with Etihad, Topbonus will be spun
off as a separate company with its headquarters in the German
capital, Air Berlin said in a statement. The new entity will
continue to develop Air Berlin’s frequent-flier program on the
basis of a commercial arrangement, and the carrier has the right
to acquire 10 percent of the shares from Etihad.  James Hogan , Etihad’s CEO, said in Berlin that the
investment is a good one for the Gulf carrier because “the
loyalty-program sector is a faster growing and higher margin
business than the  airline industry .”  In addition to marketing flights, airlines make money from
loyalty programs by selling points to credit card companies,
hotels and retailers, which in turn hand them to customers who
make purchases or use services. Carriers can carry on earning
cash even after reducing their stakes as the programs expand or
are extended outside the air-travel industry.  Global Plan  Hogan said that taking control of Topbonus will be the
first step in the establishment of a “global loyalty management
platform” with a critical mass of high-spending customers. The
existing Etihad Guest program became a multicarrier setup in
June when Air Seychelles Ltd., in which the Gulf carrier has a
40 percent stake, began participating, he said.  Topbonus has about 3.1 million members, compared with 1.82
million at Etihad Guest, while the latter has 173 partners,
versus 123 for the German program, the companies said.  Hogan said in an interview on Dec. 4 that he’ll probably
halt further equity investments after a couple more deals, most
likely targeting Asian traffic. The company also has minority
stakes in  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc and Virgin Australia Holdings
Ltd., and  India ’s  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  has said it has held
talks over selling a stake. Etihad is also looking at Jet
Airways (India) Ltd., an Indian government official has said.  Hogan has also agreed to code-share with  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) , the biggest European carrier, and is looking at a cost-
and-revenue-sharing-alliance that might also include  Italy ’s
Alitalia SpA, in which the Paris-based company has a stake.  Germany ’s federal cartel office has already cleared the
Topbonus transaction, which will close before the end of this
year, Air Berlin said.  The year-old alliance between Etihad and Air Berlin has
separately delivered more than 300,000 passengers onto the
carriers’ networks, 219,000 of them to the German business, the
companies said. That’s generated 100 million euros-plus of extra
revenue, split equally, more than they had estimated.  Etihad and Air Berlin have also begun implementing a joint
procurement plan for fuel and ground services that will bring
multi-million dollar savings, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  