-- Majority in U.S. Aided by Programs That Are Threatened With Cuts
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-12-18T17:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/majority-in-u-s-aided-by-programs-that-are-threatened-with-cuts.html
More Americans who identified
themselves as conservative received government benefits than
those who said they are moderate or liberal, a  survey  shows.  The  Pew Research Center ’s Social & Demographic Trends
project said in the survey released today that 55 percent of
people have received Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food
stamp,  unemployment insurance  or cash benefit payments from
taxpayers.  The report underscores the depth and reach of government
entitlement programs, with 60 percent of Democrats and 52
percent of Republicans claiming benefits. Fifty-seven percent of
respondents getting help described themselves as conservative,
while 53 percent said they were moderate or liberal.  That shows the political minefield being navigated in
 Washington , where lawmakers must reach a deficit-reduction
agreement before more than $600 billion in automatic spending
cuts and tax increases start to kick in next year.  “It cuts pretty evenly across partisan and ideological
divides,” said  Paul Taylor , executive vice president at the
Washington-based research group and co-author of the study.
“These programs touch the lives of millions of Americans.”  The issue of government programs was at the forefront of
the November election, with Republicans calling for cuts in
programs such as Medicaid and food stamps. The Pew survey found
59 percent of voters who supported President  Barack Obama  had
received government benefits. Fifty-three percent of those who
backed Republican  Mitt Romney  gained from one of the entitlement
programs.  Jobless Aid  Unemployment benefits  were the most commonly received
benefit, with 27 percent of survey respondents saying they’ve
been helped by the program. Twenty-six percent of people said
they’ve received Social Security old-age, disability or survivor
benefits. Another 22 percent have been helped by Medicare, the
federal health-insurance program for the elderly and disabled.  Eighteen percent have been helped by food stamps, known
formally as the  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program .
Eleven percent received health care through Medicaid, the joint
federal-state insurance program for the poor. Eight percent
reported receiving cash welfare benefits through the Temporary
Assistance to Needy Families program.  Elderly Recipients  The Pew study found people 65 years and older were most
likely to have received help from one of the six entitlement
programs, because of the near-universal eligibility for  Social
Security  retirement benefits, and from Medicare.  Researchers said 97 percent of elderly Americans have
participated in one of the six programs. Fifty-nine percent of
people between the ages of 50 and 64, and 45 percent of
Americans between 30 and 49 received help from one of the six
programs. One-third of people between 18 and 29 years old got
benefits, the study said.  Blacks were most likely to participate in one of the
entitlement programs, the survey said. Sixty-four percent of
blacks, 56 percent of whites and half of Hispanics surveyed said
they’d received one of the federal benefits.  Sixty-one percent of women received help from one of the
programs, while 49 percent of men said they’d gotten benefits.
Rural residents were more likely to get help, with 62 percent
saying they’d participated in one of the programs. Fifty-four
percent of urban Americans said they got assistance.  Thirty-two percent of Americans surveyed said they had
received help from more than one of the six federal programs.  The Pew survey of 2,511 adults was conducted by telephone
from Nov. 28 to Dec. 5. The results have a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in  New York  at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ; Mark McQuillan  in Washington at 202-
   mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 