-- Alcoa May Be Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Lower Aluminum
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-12-19T00:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/alcoa-may-be-reduced-to-junk-by-moody-s-on-aluminum-headwinds-.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, may have its  credit rating  cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. after the price of the metal
slumped.  Moody’s placed Alcoa’s Baa3 senior unsecured rating, the
lowest investment-grade level, under review for downgrade, the
ratings company said today in a statement. The review applies to
all of Alcoa’s $8.3 billion of debt, according to the statement.  The review “reflects the challenging headwinds” facing
the New York-based company, Moody’s said. The recovery in the
aluminum industry is “slow and uneven” and the price of the
metal will remain at 85 to 95 cents a pound for the next several
quarters, it said.  “We do not see a material, sustainable improvement in
aluminum prices over the next several quarters and expect
Alcoa’s earnings performance and debt-protection metrics to
remain challenged,” Moody’s said.  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  has worked to
increase Alcoa’s profitability in divisions that produce
engineered aluminum products and supply aerospace customers
while cutting costs in its mining and smelting segments. Alcoa
lowered its global aluminum consumption forecast in October
because of a slowdown in demand in  China , the world’s largest
user of the metal.  Aluminum prices on the London Metal Exchange have averaged
$2,051 this year, 15 percent lower than last year and touched a
34-month low in August as global supply exceeded demand.  Shares Fall  Shares of Alcoa fell 1.8 percent to $8.75 at 5:36 p.m. in
 New York  after the close of regular trading. Alcoa’s $1.25
billion of 5.4 percent senior unsecured notes fell 0.6 cents to
trade at 105.6 cents on the dollar, yielding 4.6 percent. Its
$625 million in 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes traded down
2.2 cents to 101 cents on the dollar today, yielding 5.9
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “Alcoa is committed to its investment grade rating,” Lori
Lecker, a spokeswoman for Alcoa, said in an e-mail today. “Over
the last four years, the company has taken significant action to
defend our investment grade rating.”  The company has cut $5 billion in costs since 2008 through
productivity improvements such as increasing yields out of its
refineries and streamlining operations, Alcoa said at its Nov. 7
investor day.  Earlier this month, the company began producing metal at
its Saudi Arabian joint venture, a $10.8 billion plant that will
include Alcoa’s lowest-cost production complex.  Capacity Cuts  The company is expected to earn 26 cents a share this year,
excluding one-time items, according to the average of 19
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than a
10th of the company’s  earnings  in 2007 before the global
financial crisis.  In January, Alcoa said that it would cut production
capacity by 12 percent. Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest
producer, said in July it reduced output by 15 percent at a
plant in  New Zealand  after prices fell. Norway’s  Norsk Hydro
ASA (NHY) , the fifth-biggest producer, said in June it would shut
120,000 tons of capacity in  Australia  because of weaker demand
and oversupply.  Alcoa is organized into four  segments : alumina, which mines
bauxite and processes it into the precursor to aluminum; primary
metals, which smelts aluminum; flat-rolled products, which makes
sheets used in beverage cans as well as airplane wings and car
parts; and engineered products and solutions, which makes
aerospace fasteners, turbine blades and truck wheels, according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  