-- Google May Make EU Antitrust Offer After Almunia Meeting
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-18T18:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/almunia-says-expects-google-to-submit-proposals-in-january.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  should send an offer to
European Union regulators next month to settle its
investigation, the EU’s antitrust chief said after meeting
Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  today.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said he expects
“Google to come forward with a detailed commitment text
in January” that would allow the Brussels-based authority to
end the probe into allegations that the world’s largest search
engine operator discriminates against rivals.  “I have decided to continue with the process towards
reaching an agreement” to settle the investigation, Almunia
said in an e-mailed statement. “Since our preliminary talks
with Google started in July, we have substantially reduced our
differences.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
Google is poised to offer voluntary concessions to U.S.
authorities that would end a 20-month antitrust probe of its
business practices without any enforcement action being taken,
two people familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  Google’s offer would be sent to rivals and customers for
comments before the EU could move to drop its two-year-old probe
without imposing a fine or declaring that the company violated
antitrust rules.  Google will “continue to work cooperatively with the
commission,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels,
said in a telephone interview.  EU Probe  Almunia said the EU was concerned about the way Google’s
specialist search-services are promoted above those of rivals,
how it uses and displays other content on search services, its
exclusive agreements with websites that show search ads and
restrictions that reduce advertisers’ ability to shift ad
campaigns from Google’s AdWords platform.  Google in July outlined a proposal to end the EU antitrust
investigation. Almunia has previously said that he would send
Google a formal antitrust complaint if the company’s proposal
was unsatisfactory. He warned that settlements couldn’t go on
indefinitely.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post last year,
citing data from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 