-- Icahn’s American Railcar Offers to Buy Greenbrier
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-19T04:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/american-railcar-offers-542-million-to-buy-greenbrier.html
Carl Icahn ’s  American Railcar
Industries Inc. (ARII)  offered to buy Greenbrier Cos., reviving a
takeover bid he made four years ago to create the biggest U.S.
maker of railroad freight cars.  American Railcar had talks with Greenbrier leading to the
$20-a-share bid, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Hours later, Greenbrier said the 5.4
percent premium over yesterday’s closing price “grossly
undervalues” the  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based company. Icahn, who
owns 56 percent of American Railcar, disclosed a 9.99 percent
Greenbrier stake in November.  A tie-up would let Greenbrier eliminate high-cost capacity
and boost its undervalued leasing assets,  Peter Nesvold , a New
York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a note today.
While he said regulators may object to a deal as leaving too
little competition,  Greenbrier (GBX)  added to the hurdles by balking
at the offer and suggesting it could be a buyer.  “Greenbrier has repeatedly made clear to Mr. Icahn its
interest in acquiring American Railcar at a modest premium,
taking into account the current full valuation of American
Railcar’s stock,” the company said in a statement.  American Railcar’s offer values the Greenbrier stock Icahn
doesn’t own at $489 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
St. Charles, Missouri-based American Railcar had a market value
of $733.7 million at yesterday’s close.  Icahn disclosed his Greenbrier stake last month and sought
to discuss options with management four years after dropping a
push for an American Railcar tie-up. He resurfaced after a drop
of more than 40 percent left Greenbrier at its cheapest relative
to earnings since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greenbrier rose 7.4 percent to $20.37 at the close in  New
York , after the  shares  had declined 22 percent this year through
yesterday. American Railcar gained 6.6 percent to $34.36 and has
climbed 44 percent this year.  ‘Accretive Transaction’  The acquisition price probably will increase before a
transaction is completed,  Art Hatfield , an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in a telephone
interview. The deal would still make sense if American Railcar
paid in the mid-$20s per share, he said.  “American Railcar has a lot of room to maneuver on price
and still have a very highly accretive transaction,” Hatfield
said. He rates both companies as strong buys.  Icahn is bidding for Greenbrier as demand for railroad cars
picks up from customers such as energy companies, according to
Stephens Inc. Greenbrier shares had climbed 36 percent from Nov.
12, the day before Icahn announced his stake, through yesterday.  A combination of Greenbrier and American Railcar would
overtake  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN)  as the largest U.S. builder of
railroad freight cars, with more than a third of the market, and
would let the merged company cut expenses, according to
Susquehanna International Group LLP.  ‘Strategic Opportunities’  Greenbrier, which had  sales  of $1.8 billion in its fiscal
year that ended in August, makes railroad cars and equipment as
well as freight barges. The company also provides leasing and
other services such as repairs and maintenance. American Railcar
had 2011  revenue  of $519.4 million.  Icahn in a November regulatory filing disclosing his
Greenbrier stake called the shares “undervalued” and said he
wanted discussions with management “possibly relating to
strategic opportunities.”  Greenbrier said then that Icahn had contacted Chief
Executive Officer Bill Furman about the investment, without
suggesting any specific proposals or timetable for future talks.
The company also said it was committed to “maintaining an open
dialogue with its shareholders.”  The billionaire investor took a similar stake in Greenbrier
in February 2008, suggesting then that the company and American
Railcar, in which he held a majority stake, hold merger talks.  The discussions broke off in June that year due to
“certain unresolved issues,” Icahn said at the time, and he
later cut his stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  