-- AmEx’s Chenault Said to Be Discussed for Treasury Post
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/amex-s-chenault-said-to-be-discussed-for-treasury-post.html
White House officials have
approached  American Express Co. (AXP)  Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Chenault  about joining President  Barack Obama ’s second-term
administration, possibly as Treasury secretary, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew remains the leading
contender for the Treasury job, the people said. Still,
consideration of Chenault among Obama’s staff may indicate the
president hasn’t made a final decision on a replacement for
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who has said he plans to
leave the post.  Other potential roles for Chenault, a longtime Obama
supporter, may be as Commerce secretary or as a senior adviser
to the president, according to the people, who asked for
anonymity to discuss internal administration deliberations.
White House officials have also considered  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  CEO
 Ursula Burns  as a potential nominee for the Commerce Department
job, both of the people said.  In addition to the top jobs at Treasury and Commerce, Obama
will be filling openings at the State and Defense Departments as
he remakes his economic, national security and foreign policy
teams for the next four years.  The White House declined to comment on the potential
nominations.  Seeking to accelerate economic growth and repair a
relationship with the business community frayed by first-term
battles over taxes and regulation, Obama has said he would like
to have a high-level executive join his administration.
Administration officials have said the Commerce Department is a
natural spot for such an executive.  President’s Council  Chenault, 61, and Burns, 54, are members of the President’s
Council on Jobs and Competitiveness and have been frequently
consulted by Obama on the economy.  “From the beginning, Chenault was an important outside
voice from the business world that the President always liked
hearing from,” said  Austan Goolsbee , a former chairman of
Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. “On matters of financial
markets or consumer behavior, Chenault always seemed able to
identify trends 6-12 months ahead of time.”  Since 1989, Chenault and his wife have contributed $139,250
to Democrats and $5,700 to Republicans, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics in Washington.  Burns has donated $26,750 to Democrats, about 88 percent of
her total political giving, according to the center, which
tracks campaign finance. For Obama’s  State of the Union  address
in 2011, she sat with First Lady Michele Obama to watch the
speech.  Business Influence  Mike O’Neill, a spokesman at American Express, declined to
comment on a possible Chenault role in the administration. Karen
Arena, a Xerox spokeswoman, said Burns “has no plans to leave
her leadership position at Xerox.”  During the presidential campaign, Obama said the government
needed a “secretary of business,” to coordinate interactions
between businesses and government agencies and streamline the
federal regulatory process.  Cabinet officers are subject to Senate confirmation. In an
interview after his re-election, Obama said the hearings,
scrutiny and paperwork involved have made some executives
reluctant to enter public service.  “One of the biggest problems we’ve got in terms of
recruiting business leaders into the administration is the
confirmation process has become so miserable, so drawn out, that
for successful folks to want to put themselves through that
process, you know, a lot of folks are just shying away,” the
president said in the Bloomberg Television interview.  Cabinet Posts  For other top Cabinet posts, Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, is the
leading contender to succeed  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of
state and former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska has
emerged as a top candidate to follow  Leon Panetta  as secretary
of defense, according to administration officials and people
familiar with the deliberation.  Obama may announce the nominations of Kerry and Hagel this
week, according to the administration officials, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  Obama may also try to fill a job on his team with  Richard Levin , an economist who announced he will retire as president
of Yale University, according to one of the people. Levin
previously was considered to serve as director of the National
Economic Council, a job now held by  Gene Sperling .  Levin, reached by phone, declined to comment.  Another possibility to join the administration is Byron
Auguste, a director at McKinsey & Co. who runs their social
sector practice in Washington, said the person. Auguste did not
respond to calls for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  