-- Amgen Pleads Guilty to Misbranding Anemia Drug Aranesp
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-18T19:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/amgen-pleads-guilty-to-misbranding-anemia-drug-aranesp.html
Amgen Inc., the world’s largest
biotechnology company, pleaded guilty to misbranding its anemia
medication Aranesp and agreed to pay $762 million in criminal
penalties and civil settlements.  The company, based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , entered a
guilty plea today to one misdemeanor charge before U.S. District
Judge Sterling Johnson in  Brooklyn ,  New York . Johnson said he
will decide tomorrow whether to accept the firm’s deal with the
government.  “On behalf of the company, I offer a plea of guilty to the
misbranding charge,” Amgen General Counsel  David Scott  told the
judge.  Amgen promoted Aranesp for uses not approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration from 2001 through March 2007 in an
effort to gain market share from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s anemia
treatment Procrit, according to a criminal information filed
today in court.  Aranesp was approved for patients suffering from anemia
caused by chronic kidney failure and chemotherapy, according to
the filing. Amgen sales representatives promoted the drug for
larger, less frequent doses than indicated on the drug’s label,
and for unapproved use in patients with anemia caused by cancer,
prosecutors said in the filing.  The anemia treatments, which are administered intravenously
or by injection, can cause patients pain, making less frequent
dosing desirable, prosecutors said.  Increased Risk  The FDA declined to approve changes for dosing indications
requested by Amgen in 2005, 2007 and 2008, according to the
information. In 2007, the agency issued a statement that Aranesp
“increased the risk of death” in cancer patients not receiving
chemotherapy or radiation treatment, and required a warning
against that use on the label, according to the filing.  Amgen stopped promoting the drug for that use when the
warning was issued, according to prosecutors.  The company agreed to pay $150 million in criminal fines
and penalties. It will also pay $612 million in civil
settlements, prosecutors said during today’s hearing.  Amgen was “pursing profits at the expense of  patient
safety ,” said Marshall L. Miller, head of the criminal division
of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn, after the proceeding.
“Today’s guilty plea represents a sweeping victory for the
American public.”  ‘On the Hook’  As part of the company’s plea, it will sign on to a
corporate integrity agreement under which management will be
“on the hook” in the event of any future misbranding, Miller
said. Amgen will also have to regularly report its compliance
with drug promotion regulations to the government, he said.  No criminal charges have so far been filed against any
individuals as part of the misbranding case, Miller said. The
company’s participation in government programs, including
Medicaid or Medicare coverage of Aranesp, will not be affected,
he said.  The company also faces whistle-blower lawsuits that haven’t
been made public over its marketing practices. One of the
whistle-blowers is an oncology sales representative who worked
for Amgen from 2002 to 2005, according to a statement from her
 law firm  Sanford Heisler LLP. Amgen is accused in the lawsuit of
using illegal kickbacks to encourage the use of Aranesp in
addition to promoting off-label use of the drug, according to
the law firm.  $780 Million Charge  The company announced in October 2011 that it took a
$780 million  charge  to cover the costs of settling civil and
criminal probes into whether it engaged in improper sales of
drugs, including Aranesp. At least 15 states have sued the
company and alleged that it encouraged doctors to overbill
third-party payers, including Medicaid, for Aranesp
prescriptions.  “If the court accepts the plea and enters an agreed
sentence, Amgen expects immediately thereafter to complete the
comprehensive resolution of related civil and criminal matters
for which a $780 million charge was recorded in the third
quarter of 2011 and to enter into a corporate integrity
agreement,” Ashleigh Koss, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  Prosecutors had planned to obtain Johnson’s approval for
the plea deal in court today. Johnson refused to grant it,
saying that he wanted more time to review the terms.  “You dumped this on me,” Johnson said in court, adding
that he had only received the sentencing information that
morning.  “This is a very important case,” he said. “This is a
significant case. You have gotten together the highest levels of
government and you agreed on it.”  “I am not prepared to go forward in the blind,” Johnson
said.  The case is U.S. v.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , 1:12-cr-00760, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  