-- Taming Teachers’ Union Bolsters Pena Nieto Swaps: Mexico Credit
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/taming-teachers-union-bolsters-pena-nieto-swaps-mexico-credit.html
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s bid
to reform  Mexico ’s education system is the latest sign he has
the political clout to overhaul oil and tax policies, helping
send the country’s bond risk to a three-month low.  The cost of protecting Mexican debt against default for
five years has fallen 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point,
since Pena Nieto’s election on July 1 to 94 basis points
annually. It is now at its lowest cost since Sept. 21. Rated BBB
by Standard & Poor’s, Mexico is cheaper to insure against non-
payment than higher-rated issuers such as Ireland and Slovakia.  Signs that Pena Nieto will wrest power from the teachers’
union and secure the two-thirds congressional majority needed to
pass the education bill is adding to speculation he’ll succeed
in boosting tax collection and private investment in the state-
owned energy industry. Since taking office Dec. 1, Pena Nieto
has also presented the first balanced budget since 2009.  The education bill “reflects that there’s political will
and a real capacity by Pena Nieto to negotiate with other
parties to carry out reforms,” Alejandro Padilla, a deputy
director for fixed-income at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “Conditions are
improving step by step to give us a much more positive market
view going forward.”  Education Minister Emilio Chuayffet said yesterday that the
constitutional amendment, presented Dec. 10 by Pena Nieto and
praised by leaders of the main opposition parties, responds to a
“justified public outcry for better education, ending practices
that have diminished it.”  An official at the ministry said
Chuayffet wasn’t available to comment further.  Education Reform  The teachers’ union said Dec. 11 it agreed with many of the
proposals in Pena Nieto’s bill. Juan Diaz de la Torre, the
union’s executive secretary-general, didn’t respond to a request
seeking further comment.  Pena Nieto’s proposal would create an independent institute
to evaluate schools and foster competition for jobs and
promotions based on performance. Mexico’s education system ranks
last out of 34 countries for enrollment rates of high school-age
students, behind Chile, Argentina and  Brazil , according to a
2011 study by the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Mexico has also spent more of its public budget on
education than all 33 countries in a separate OECD tally.  The legislation is the latest in a string of early
successes for Pena Nieto that includes the Dec. 13 passage of
the revenue portion of the balanced budget and a deal among the
three parties to present tax and oil industry overhauls next
year, measures aimed at bolstering economic growth. Pena Nieto’s
Institutional Revolutionary Party and the party of predecessor
Felipe Calderon also worked together last month to pass a labor-
law reform that eases rules for hiring and firing workers.  ‘Similar Fate’  “Today, there’s more chance reforms will pass than
before,”  Alejandro Martinez, a fixed-income strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.
“The revenue budget passed very quickly and it appears the
education reform will have a similar fate. This hasn’t been seen
in Mexico in a long time.”  Martinez predicts Mexico’s credit-default swaps will drop 9
basis points to a record low in the second quarter of next year.  Mexico’s swaps fell 1.1 basis points yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt
agreements.  Enrique Alvarez, the head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal, says reforming the country’s oil
industry will prove to be difficult because of long-standing
opposition from within Pena Nieto’s own party.  ‘Honeymoon Period’  “It’s a honeymoon period,” Alvarez said in a telephone
interview from New York. “Where the real challenges remain are
more than anything in the energy sector and there it’s going to
be much more difficult to see real progress.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries increased two basis
points to 162 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Elba Esther Gordillo has led the 1.2-million strong
teachers’ union, known as the National Education Workers Union,
for more than two decades. She held top positions in Pena
Nieto’s PRI before relations soured in 2003, when she backed tax
increases presented by then-President Vicente Fox.  She was removed as party congressional leader in the lower
house and replaced byChuayffet, who this month was tapped by
Pena Nieto as education minister and is a top proponent of the
school system overhaul.  ‘Confront Directly’  Pena Nieto is going further than some investors had
expected in achieving his pledges, including taking on the
teachers’ union, according to Roberto Sanchez Dahl, who helps
manage $1.5 billion in emerging-market debt as vice president of
Federated Investment Management Co.  “A year ago I wouldn’t have imagined that the PRI” would
propose these reforms, Sanchez Dahl said in a telephone
interview from Pittsburgh. “No one was willing to confront
directly or indirectly the head of the union and even though
it’s one of the core support bases for the PRI he’s somehow
doing it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  