-- An Economics Masterpiece You Should Be Reading Now
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-12-18T22:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/an-economics-masterpiece-you-should-be-reading-now.html
The most valuable new book I’ve read
this year is Justin Yifu Lin’s “The Quest for Prosperity.”
 George Akerlof , a Nobel laureate in economics and a man not
given to reckless overstatement, calls it “a masterpiece.” I’d
say that’s right.  Lin is an interesting man. In 1979, as an officer in
Taiwan’s army on the fast track to the elite, he defected to the
People’s Republic of  China  by swimming the channel between a
Taiwanese island and Xiamen on the mainland. He continued his
studies in economics, became a leading scholar, and was an
observer and participant in China’s economic miracle. From 2008
until earlier this year, he was the World Bank’s chief
economist. Today he’s back in China, at  Peking University .  Lin’s book is intellectually ambitious. He sets out to
survey the modern history of economic development and distill a
practical formula for growing out of poverty. It’s a serious
undertaking: Lin isn’t trying to be another pop economics
sensation. But “The Quest for Prosperity” is lightly written
and accessible. It weaves in pertinent stories and observations,
drawing especially from his travels with the  World Bank . He
leavens the economics skillfully.  Two Schools  Essentially, he proposes a middle way between two
contending schools: structuralism, which emphasizes barriers to
development that government intervention is needed to overcome,
and the neoclassical approach, which stresses market forces and
frowns on industrial planning. He calls his hybrid “new
structuralism,” suggesting a closer affinity with the first.
(That branding is a bit misleading, but I can see that the
alternative -- new neoclassicism -- doesn’t roll off the
tongue.)  Under the banner of the old structuralism, governments in
developing countries made huge mistakes in the 1960s and 1970s.
The prevailing approach was import-substitution: Develop
capital-intensive industries behind tariff barriers to supply
domestic consumers. It worked in the sense that many places
industrialized quickly, sometimes on a massive scale. For
decades the  Soviet Union  was perceived both as a great success
and as a development model. In  India , Africa and  Latin America ,
economic planning led the way.  In every case, this approach ran into the ground. One
problem was technological backwardness. Isolation from global
markets slowed the accumulation of industrial knowledge, so
growth in productivity stalled. Another was fiscal stress.
Supporting industrial champions required enormous subsidies, and
governments lacked the revenue. Support had to be given in other
ways -- through overvalued exchange rates (to lower the cost of
inputs), price controls, financial repression (forced saving)
and administrative direction. These distortions obliterated
market signals not just for the favored industries but also
across the rest of the economy.  Import-substitution came to be seen as a stunning failure.
Especially after the Latin American debt crisis of the early
1980s, the neoclassical consensus and its “structural
adjustment” formula took over. Keep government intervention to
a minimum, squeeze public spending, free the exchange rate,
liberalize finance and foreign trade, and give market forces
full rein.  This didn’t work either -- at least, not as well as its
most enthusiastic advocates had predicted. Growth in many
countries stayed slow. Financial crises kept happening. In
 Africa , countries such as  Ghana , once a leader of the import-
substitution school, moved abruptly to a market-friendly
development strategy. They grew, but still too slowly. Ghana,
Lin says, “has not achieved the type of structural
transformation that the radical free-market revolution was
supposed to bring.”  China’s Success  Structural transformation, of course, is exactly what China
has achieved. Elsewhere Lin has acknowledged that China needs
further policy reforms and that all is not well. Yet the
country’s success of the past several decades is indisputable --
and this is no Soviet-style industrialization mirage. Russian
factories sold their output to captive markets. Nobody with a
choice ever bought a Soviet-made car or television. China’s
outward-looking producers are world-class. I’m typing this on a
best-of-breed Apple Inc. laptop, manufactured in China.  As I argued in my last column, China is a  capitalist
country . But how did it get that way?  Lin’s answer draws on both development paradigms. He sees a
vital role for government in overcoming barriers to development.
But interventions, he argues, must respect compelling market
realities. Of these, the most important is international
comparative advantage. Poor countries have lots of cheap labor.
For them, capital-intensive heavy industry isn’t the way to go.  For today’s  developing countries , Lin says, the global
economy is the indispensable setting, and looking outward is the
sine qua non of rapid development. On the input side, that’s
because of the opportunity it affords for technologically driven
catch-up growth. On the output side, it’s because the world is a
market for exports. On this view, “export pessimism,” the idea
that poor countries couldn’t prosper through international
trade, was one of the biggest mistakes of the import-
substitution school. Globalization is the poor’s best friend.  Even so, Lin says, rapid growth won’t happen spontaneously,
merely by letting the market work its magic.  Governments have to identify industries that are trading
internationally and doing well elsewhere -- not those based in
the most advanced economies (too big a leap) but in countries
with incomes roughly double their own. If those industries are
getting started at home, help them upgrade their technology. If
they aren’t, draw in foreign investors. If infrastructure is
poor and doing business is difficult, create special economic
zones where those problems can be fixed. Recognize that pioneer
companies are taking on larger risks and compensate them with
temporary tax incentives, co-financing of investments or
preferential access to foreign exchange. And don’t expect to
shut down nonviable producers all at once; that has to be done
gradually.  So yes, this is “industrial policy” and “picking
winners” --ideas disdained by your typical pro-market type. And
I’d say the record justifies a good deal of such skepticism. The
book’s main weakness is that it understates the political
difficulty of delivering support of the kind it advocates:
intelligent, measured, time-limited and disciplined in crucial
ways by market imperatives.  This isn’t just an issue in democracies, by the way. As
China itself proves, interests gather around patterns of
explicit and implicit subsidy, however well-judged at the
outset, and the flexibility demanded by Lin’s new structuralism
gets ever harder to maintain.  Still, it’s hard to quarrel with the results to date, in
China most of all, but also in  Taiwan ,  South Korea ,  Singapore 
and other rapidly industrializing economies that adopted similar
strategies. If you’re interested in development, you have to
read Lin’s book.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 