-- Andor Capital’s Benton Buys NYC Penthouse for $39 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-12-18T20:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/andor-capital-s-benton-buys-nyc-penthouse-for-39-million.html
Daniel Benton, who founded Andor
Capital Management LLC, once among the largest technology hedge
funds, bought a duplex penthouse in  Manhattan  for $39 million.  The deal for the co-operative apartment at 730 Park Ave.,
near 71st Street, was completed in October, according to  New
York  City property records made public yesterday. The seller was
listed as Joann B. Walker.  The property was quietly offered for sale for about $35
million through a network of luxury brokers, after a nearby
Manhattan penthouse owned by the late private-equity billionaire
 Ted Forstmann  received multiple bids, according to  Meredyth
Smith , a broker with Sotheby’s International Realty Inc. She,
along with Serena Boardman, represented Forstmann’s estate and
the seller at 730 Park.  The sale of Forstmann’s penthouse was completed in June for
$40 million, 11 percent more than its owner sought, according to
city land records. Some of those bidders were offered a chance
to consider the duplex unit at 730 Park, Smith said.  “It basically checked off every category that the high-end
buyer is looking for in a residence,” Smith said of the
apartment, which spans the top two floors of the 20-story
building.  “It had the location, it was a distinguished prewar co-op,
it was in triple-mint condition, it had beautiful terraces and
outdoor space, it had wonderful open city views and sunlight in
every room,” she said.  Benton, 53, didn’t return a voice mail seeking comment on
the deal.  Andor Capital shut down in 2008 when Benton announced his
retirement. The firm, which managed more than $2 billion, was
one of the three biggest technology  hedge funds , along with
Lawrence Bowman’s Bowman Technology Fund, which closed in 2001,
and Raj Rajaratnam’s Galleon Group.  Benton came out of retirement this year and restarted Andor
Capital, according to Marketwatch.com. It is listed at No. 193
of the top 200 hedge funds by  Hedgetracker.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  