-- Hannover Re Ready to Give Up Trade-Credit Market Share
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-12-18T11:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/hannover-re-ready-to-give-up-trade-credit-market-share.html
Hannover Re, the world’s fourth-
biggest reinsurer, said it’s prepared to give up trade-credit
and surety business next year as claims costs rise and industry
capacity increases.  “The economic outlook for  Europe  is far from good with
half of the region in trouble; that will be felt in our
market,” Jan Mueller, head of the Hanover, Germany-based
company’s trade-credit and surety reinsurance unit, said in an
interview. “If profitability requirements over the cycle are
not being met we are also ready to give up business.”  Trade-credit insurers, which protect payments to sellers
when buyers can’t meet their obligations, help cover more than
$2 trillion euros of trade receivables worldwide, according to
the  International Credit Insurance & Surety Association . They
seek protection by passing some of the business on to reinsurers
in return for a share of the premiums.  “The market for trade-credit and surety reinsurance is
seeing a massive inflow of capacity since 2011 with a number of
new entrants,” Mueller said. “We didn’t further expand our
presence in 2011 and 2012 and we don’t plan to increase our
market share in 2013.”  Hannover Re, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin ,
has expanded its credit and surety reinsurance unit over the
past four years when rivals such as  Munich Re  and Swiss Re Ltd.
were cutting down. The unit’s premium income rose to 579 million
euros ($762 million) last year from 337 million euros in 2008.  Record Bankruptcies  Primary trade-credit insurers were hurt by a record number
of bankruptcies during the economic slump in 2009, which boosted
claims at insurers including Paris-based  Euler Hermes SA (ELE) , the
world’s largest trade-credit insurer and majority owned by
 Allianz SE .  “Primary trade-credit insurers should have almost
succeeded in stopping the price erosion in 2012 and the same
should go for reinsurers,” Mueller said. “Our goal is to keep
prices more or less stable; in some areas price increases could
become necessary.”  The  Hannover Re  division, which renews about 70 percent of
its trade-credit and surety reinsurance business in January,
expects “a good result” for 2012, “despite higher loss
activity on the surety side,” which makes up about a third of
the operations, Mueller said.  Surety insurance, or surety bonds, are typically bought by
contractors such as construction companies or ship-builders to
cover their principal in case they can’t fulfill contract
obligations because of bankruptcy.  Claim Sizes  While Hannover Re hasn’t had a single claim that exceeded 5
million euros at its trade-credit and surety reinsurance unit
this year, the size of claims is increasing, Mueller said.  “Our largest single claim in history was related to the
collapse of Enron Corp. in 2001, which cost us about 15 million
euros,” he said. “The size of claims is definitely on the rise
and the credit quality of a number of large accounts has
deteriorated.”  The insolvency of German retailer Schlecker won’t be on
Hannover Re’s major claims list, meaning it will cost the
company less than 10 million euros, Mueller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  