-- Apple, Burger King, Toys ‘R’ Us: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/apple-burger-king-toys-r-us-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone
and the iPad, is seeking a patent on a technology that can help
prevent distracted driving by users of mobile devices.  According to application  20120315880 , the technology
covered by the patent can determine if the user is driving and
can then send a pre-composed message advising a caller that a
vehicle is in motion. Another aspect of the invention is that
the device could be set to determine if the user is in a
conference room and unavailable and can send an appropriate
message to the caller.  The technology can also place an incoming call on hold
until the user is no longer driving or has left the meeting
room. The user can adjust the length of the hold time by sliding
a finger on a touch panel, according to the application.  The patent application, which was published in the database
of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Dec. 13, was filed in
June.  Digital Rights CTO Seeks Copyright-Enforcement Technology Patent  The chief technology officer of a  California  company that
identifies potential online copyright infringers is seeking a
U.S. patent on a technology that would combine identification of
the infringer and compensation of the rights holder.  Application  20120310846 , published in the patent office
database Dec. 6, covers a “system, a method and a computer
program for determining multiple copyright infringement events,
identifying a particular IP address -- port number combination
associated with the multiple infringement events, and notifying
an ISP and/or a customer regarding the multiple copyright
infringement events.”  The application identified  Robert Steele  as the inventor.
He is the chief technology officer of  Digital Rights Corp.  of
 Santa Monica , California.  The application called the invention “a system for
resolving an act of copyright infringement.” The technology
also includes a “decision module” that can be configured to
perform a number of different actions, including suspending
 Internet service  for an infringer.  Steele’s application was filed May 31.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Burger King Asks Russian Court to Bar Unauthorized Use of Marks  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  filed a trademark suit in Moscow
Commercial Court against a Moscow resident over Internet Domain
names he registered, the Russian Legal Information Agency
 reported .  The suit seeks a ban on the unauthorized use of its
trademarks in the burgerking.su and burger-king.su domain names
and 500,000 rubles (16,130) in compensation, according to the
news service.  The next hearing in the case will take place in January,
the news service reported.  Sazerac’s ‘Orchata’ Accused of Infringing ‘Rumchata’ Trademark  Sazerac Co., the Louisiana distiller, was sued for
trademark infringement by an Illinois-based competitor.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
 Chicago , Sazerac is accused of infringing the “Rumchata” and
“Chata” trademarks belonging to  Agave Loco LLC  of Vernon
Hills,  Illinois .  Agave Loco said it developed a new cream-based product made
with rum that was inspired by a Spanish beverage known as
“horchata.” The company said it registered both “Rumchata”
and “Chata” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and
that customers identify Agave Loco as the single source of
products bearing the “Chata” marks.  The name of Sazerac’s “‘Orchata” is “confusingly
similar” to those marks, Agave Loco said, and the public is
likely to be confused. It accused Sazerac of trying to hitchhike
on the fame of the “Chata” products” and of deliberately
creating confusion in the marketplace.  Sazerac, based in Metairie,  Louisiana , doesn’t comment on
pending legal matters, company spokeswoman Amy Preske said in an
e-mail.  Agave Loco asked the court to bar further use of the
“Orchata” name, and for destruction or modification of all
allegedly infringing products and promotional materials.  Additionally, the Vernon Hills, Illinois-based Agave Loco
seeks awards of money damages, including profits derived from
the alleged infringement, together with attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The case is Agave Loco LLLC v. Sazerac Co, 1:12-cv-09698,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Livescribe Pulls Device From U.K. Market After BSkyB Files Suit  Livescribe Inc., a maker of digital pens that can transfer
notes to a cloud or to a device, has pulled its “ Sky Wi-Fi
Smartpen ” from U.K. stores following an infringement complaint
from BSkyB, the pay-TV broadcaster, the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported .  BSkyB filed a trademark-infringement suit against Oakland,
California’s Livescribe and Dixon’s retail, according to the
newspaper.  Livescribe said in a statement that although it didn’t
offer goods and services comparable to the pay-TV company, “out
of an abundance of caution” it has instructed distributors and
resellers to stop selling the item, the Guardian reported.  BSkyB filed the infringement complaint Dec. 6, less than
two months after Livescribe introduced the $250 device to the
U.K. market, according to the Guardian.  Toys ‘R’ Us Sued by Dish’s Blockbuster Over Video-Sale Kiosks  Dish Network (DISH) ’s Blockbuster unit has sued  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc. (TOYS) 
for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Dec. 14 in federal court in Sherman,  Texas ,
is related to what Blockbuster says are kiosks using a yellow
and blue color scheme from which videos proclaimed as
“Blockbuster Family Favorites” are sold.  The video rental company claims this infringes its
“Blockbuster” trademark, and that the yellow and blue color
scheme are “well-known to the trade and the consuming public as
signifying products and services” affiliated with Blockbuster.  Blockbuster says it is “inevitable” that the use of the
word “blockbuster” and the yellow and blue color scheme “will
result in confusion of the purchasing public.”  In addition to asking the court to bar Toys ‘R’ Us’s use of
“blockbuster” and the specific color scheme, the video company
also seeks an order for the destruction of all infringing
promotional materials, and awards of money damages, profits
realized through the alleged infringement, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Wayne, New Jersey-based Toys ‘R’ Us didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Blockbuster LLC v. Toys ‘R’ Us-Delaware Inc.,
4:12-cv-00774-RC-ALM, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Sherman).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fisher Footwear’s Ivanka Trump Sandals Accused of Infringement  Marc Fisher Footwear was sued for copyright infringement by
a  Los Angeles  shoe manufacturer.  Co-defendant with the shoe company is Ivanka Trump Marks
LLC. According to the complaint, Fisher is the licensee of the
brand “Ivanka Trump.” She is the daughter of Manhattan
businessman and one-time presidential candidate  Donald Trump .  Mystique LLC claims that sandals distributed by Fisher
under the Ivanka Trump name infringe the copyrights for two of
its sandal designs. The designs are registered with the U.S.
Copyright Office, according to court papers.  The two products compete, according to court papers, and
Mystique says the defendants were “willfully blind and acted in
reckless disregard” of the company’s copyrights.  Fisher Footwear, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Mystique is seeking a court order barring the production
and sale of the allegedly infringing sandals, as well as the
destruction of all sandals that it claims are copies of its
designs. The company also asked for money damages, profits
related to the alleged infringement and awards of litigation
costs and attorney fees.  The case is Mystique Inc., v. Ivanka Trump Marks LLC, 2:12-
cv-10217-RCK-RZ, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  German Court Says Austrian Composer Owns ‘Kufsteiner Lied’ Yodel  A 60-year-old copyright dispute over a distinctive yodel --
a type of song used by farmers to call their cattle -- has
settled, the Austrian Times  reported .  Music producer Egon Frauenberger had claimed he helped
write the tune and is entitled to a percentage of the royalties
for the yodel that is part of Karl Ganzer’s “ Kufsteiner Lied ,”
which has been recorded by dozens of artist over the years,
according to the newspaper.  The German High Court has confirmed a lower court ruling
that Frauenberger isn’t the co-author and can’t receive
additional royalties, the Times reported.  Initially the court had to determine whether yodels were
even entitled to copyright protection, according to the Times.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 