-- Apple Wins Ruling in Motorola Mobility Patent Case at ITC
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-18T22:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/apple-wins-ruling-in-motorola-mobility-patent-case-at-itc.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone didn’t violate
 patent rights  owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility for a
sensor that prevents accidental hang-ups, a U.S. International
Trade Commission judge said today.  The patent is invalid, ITC judge Thomas Pender said in a
notice posted on the agency’s docket. The judge’s findings are
subject to review by the full commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  “We’re disappointed with this outcome and are evaluating
our options,”  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Motorola
Mobility, said in an e-mail.  The commission in August ordered Pender to consider a
possible violation after it cleared Apple of Motorola Mobility
claims related to other patents for 3G technology. This is the
second time the judge has said there was no violation of the
patent, which applies to a sensor used to determine the
proximity of a person’s head to the device.  Google spent $12.5 billion to buy Motorola Mobility, in
large part to obtain its trove of more than 17,000 patents so it
had some leverage against Apple, which had been suing Google
clients. Apple contends certain phones that run on  Mountain
View , California-based Google’s Android operating system copied
unique features and the look of the iPhone.  The full determination by the judge will become public
after both sides get a chance to redact confidential
information.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, said the company had
no comment.  Apple Case  Apple lost a separate case that it had filed against
Motorola Mobility at the  Washington  agency. The Cupertino,
California-based iPhone maker is challenging that decision at
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  The two companies have fights in the U.S. and Europe over
patented inventions related to smartphones. Some district court
cases, including one in which Apple accused Motorola Mobility of
breaching obligations to license its patents on reasonable
terms, were thrown out and also are on appeal with the Federal
Circuit. Others are pending in federal court in Florida.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music Data, Processing Data
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  