-- Argentina’s Puente Hermanos Argues Against Favoring Holdouts
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-12-18T19:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/argentina-s-puente-hermanos-argues-against-favoring-holdouts.html
Puente Hermanos SA, the biggest
manager of bond sales by Argentine provinces, told a U.S.
appeals court that it shouldn’t favor holdouts from the
country’s 2005 and 2010 debt restructurings over investors who
accepted the terms, according to the firm’s president.  Puente Hermanos’s lawyers presented arguments yesterday to
the appeals court in  New York , the firm’s president, Federico
Tomasevich, told reporters today at a press conference in Buenos
Aires. The brokerage firm, which is based in the city, is the
first Argentine entity outside the government to present
arguments to the court in the case, he said.  “If the court confirms the recent ruling by Judge Griesa,
the consequences on our country can be extremely serious, unfair
and unpredictable, especially if the court requires Argentina to
default on obligations it has paid systematically to the 93
percent of holders who entered the swaps,” Tomasevich said in a
company statement.  Argentina’s risk of bond default soared to record highs
after U.S. District Court Judge Thomas Griesa said on Nov. 21
that  Argentina  must pay holders of defaulted debt including the
hedge fund NML Capital Ltd. the full $1.3 billion in principal
and interest that they claim. The appeals court delayed the
ruling and will hear oral arguments Feb. 27.  A second default would have “serious” consequences for
Argentina’s economy and would likely make gross domestic product
plummet and unemployment soar, Tomasevich said.  New York-based law firm Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP and Buenos Aires-based Cabanellas Etchebarne Kelly &
Dell’Oro Maini are representing Puente Hermanos, according to
the company.  The U.S. appeals court must accept Puente Hermanos’s
presentation for its arguments to be considered, said Marcelo
Etchebarne, a lawyer at Cabanellas Etchebarne Kelly who joined
the press conference by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  