-- Stocks, Commodities Gain on U.S. Budget; Treasuries Fall
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-12-18T21:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/asia-stocks-oil-rise-on-u-s-budget-bets-yen-near-20-month-low.html
Stocks rallied, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to a two-month high, and commodities gained
on signs of progress in U.S. budget talks. Thirty-year Treasury
yields climbed to a three-month high.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.1 percent to 1,446.79 at 4 p.m. in
New York, with trading volume 21 percent higher than the 30-day
average. Treasury  10-year yields  increased six basis points to 3
percent and reached 3.03 percent, the highest since Sept. 17.
The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials rose 0.5 percent as energy
commodities led gains before U.S. supply data tomorrow. The yen
traded near a 20-month low versus the dollar, while  Sweden ’s
krona appreciated against 15 of 16 major peers on speculation
the Riksbank is done cutting interest rates.  President Barack Obama proposed a budget plan that would
cut about $1.2 trillion in federal spending and raise a similar
amount in taxes in the next decade, according to a person
familiar with the talks. European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi yesterday said ECB policies and governance reforms in the
euro area have revived confidence that will help foster a
gradual economic recovery.  “There are signs of progress in the negotiation over the
fiscal cliff,” Brian Gendreau, a market strategist at El
Segundo, California-based Cetera Financial Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview. The firm has about $20 billion in assets
under management. “People have been very fearful to move into
stocks and this might be one of the things to get them go back
to stocks.”  Market Leaders  Among U.S. stocks, Bank of America Corp., United
Technologies Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Intel Corp. rose
more than 1.9 percent to lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average
up 115.57 points.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  added 1.6
percent after the insurer raised HK$50 billion ($6.5 billion)
from the sale of its remaining stake in AIA Group Ltd.  Gauges of energy, technology and financial shares rose at
least 1.5 percent to lead gains in all 10 of the main industry
groups in the S&P 500. An index of homebuilders rallied 2.3
percent as a report showed confidence among U.S. homebuilders
climbed in December to the highest level in more than six years.
Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable company, advanced 2.9
percent for a second straight gain.  House Speaker John Boehner said he will push a budget
“plan B” measure that would include tax increases on income of
more than $1 million, while continuing to negotiate with
President  Barack Obama .  Washington Talks  Obama’s plan would change the inflation measure used to
calculate cost-of-living increases for Social Security and raise
the income threshold for tax increases to $400,000, from an
earlier proposal of $250,000. The deal would also raise the U.S.
debt limit for two years and then change the rules to eliminate
the need for congressional approval.  Obama and Boehner met at the White House yesterday with
days left to avert more than $600 billion in automatic spending
cuts and tax increases that go into effect next year if a budget
deal isn’t reached.  The S&P 500 has climbed 15 percent this year as the Federal
Reserve vowed to safeguard the economic recovery.  Europe ’s Stoxx
600 has advanced 15 percent in 2012, set for the first annual
gain since 2010, amid increased confidence that policy makers
are taking control over the debt crisis. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index (MXAP)  has risen 12 percent this year. Asia’s benchmark rose 0.5
percent today.  Draghi, testifying yesterday to the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels, said the
central bank expects “a beginning of a recovery in the second
part of next year.”  The ECB’s commitment to preserve the euro
at any cost and the establishment of a single banking supervisor
have improved financial-market sentiment, he said.  European Markets  About three stocks rose for every two that fell on the
 Stoxx 600. (SXXP)  Trading was 37 percent higher than the 30-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Trading on Spain’s
IBEX was almost three times higher and on the Hang Seng Index of
Hong Kong shares it was 125 percent higher.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the  world’s largest mining company ,
climbed 1.2 percent after  China ’s leaders were said to set a
target for the economy to grow 7.5 percent next year. The
government also decided to keep inflation at about 3.5 percent,
according to two bank executives and a regulatory official who
were briefed on the targets.  Krona Rallies  Sweden’s krona strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro
and 0.8 percent against the dollar after the Riksbank signaled
it will not cut interest rates in 2013 after lowering its
benchmark rate to 1 percent from 1.25 percent. The euro gained
0.5 percent to $1.3226, the strongest level since May.  Spanish government bonds rose as the nation sold 3.52
billion euros of bills, meeting the maximum target of 3.5
billion euros that the Treasury set for its last debt sale of
the year. Spain’s  two-year note yields  fell four basis points to
2.86 percent, while its 10-year rate declined 13 basis points to
5.30 percent.  U.K.  10-year gilt yields  rose for an eighth day, the
longest streak of increases since February 2011, as the Office
for National Statistics said inflation held at the highest since
May last month.  The cost of insuring corporate debt dropped to the lowest
since March, with the Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-
default swaps linked to 125 investment grade companies falling
three basis points to 111 basis points.  Energy Gains  Oil rose for a third day, with futures advancing 0.8
percent to $87.93 a barrel in New York. An Energy Department
report tomorrow may show crude supplies shrank last week while
fuel stockpiles climbed, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Crude fell 11 percent in 2012.  Gasoline advanced 1.4 percent to $2.6909 a gallon. U.S.
stockpiles rose 1.9 million barrels, or 0.9 percent, to 219
million in the seven days ended Dec. 14, the highest inventory
since March 30, according to the median of seven analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Regular
 gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell to the lowest
price in a year at $3.254 a gallon, according to Energy
Department data.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1 percent today.
The gauge has climbed 10 percent in the past month on
speculation the Liberal Democratic Party, which returned to
power in last weekend’s elections, will spend more to boost the
economy and pressure for more bond purchases by the central
bank, which meets tomorrow. Shares of Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, jumped 6.4 percent today.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index rose 0.6 percent, as
benchmark indexes in the Czech Republic,  Argentina ,  Mexico  and
 Brazil  surged more than 1.1 percent. The developing-markets
gauge has gained 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  