-- Aspirin Use May Raise Risk of Age-Related Eye Disorder
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-12-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/aspirin-use-may-raise-risk-of-age-related-eye-disorder.html
Older adults who use aspirin
regularly for 10 years or more may have an increased risk of
developing an age-related eye disorder that can lead to vision
loss, a study found.  The risk of having  wet age-related macular degeneration  was
about twice as high for those who regularly took aspirin a
decade before researchers detected it in an eye exam compared
with those who didn’t take the medicine, according to research
today in the  Journal of the  American Medical Association .  About 19 percent of U.S. adults take aspirin regularly for
pain, arthritis and to prevent heart attacks, the authors wrote.
People shouldn’t stop taking the medication because its benefits
are well known, said lead author  Barbara Klein . Instead, more
studies are needed to understand how aspirin may contribute to
the eye disorder, she said.  “There are a lot of people who take aspirin now for
cardio-protective reasons,” Klein, a professor of ophthalmology
and visual sciences at the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison,
said in a Dec. 14 telephone interview. “Should this influence
their taking this medicine to save their life? No, don’t stop.”  Macular degeneration  is a leading cause of vision loss in
people older than 60, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . It affects the part of the eye that allows people to see
fine details and can lead to blindness. Treatment can slow down
vision loss but not restore it.  9.1 Million  About  9.1 million people  in the U.S. older than 40 suffer
from the condition, according to the Macular Degeneration
Association. About 90 percent have the “dry” type where vision
slowly becomes blurry. The rest have the “wet” type, where new
blood vessels grow under the retina and leak fluid or blood. The
wet type accounts for all blindness from the disease, the
Sarasota, Florida-based group said.  In today’s analysis, researchers used data from the  Beaver
Dam Eye Study , a long-term study of age-related eye diseases in
 Wisconsin . They included 4,926 people who were ages 43 to 86 at
the start of the trial. Patient exams were conducted every five
years over two decades. Patients were asked if they regularly
used aspirin at least twice a week for more than three months.  The study found that aspirin use 10 years prior to the exam
in which the researchers observed patients as having macular
degeneration was associated with a small but significant
increase in the risk of developing wet or neovascular age-
related macular degeneration, the authors wrote.  Study Findings  The study found that 30 of 1,462 people in the study, or
2.05 percent, who used aspirin for a decade prior had
neovascular age-related macular degeneration, while 31 of 4,065,
or 0.76 percent, of those who didn’t use aspirin developed the
vision eye disorder. After adjusting for age and sex, the
incidence of neovascular macular degeneration was 1.4 percent
for the aspirin users and 0.6 percent for the non-users, the
authors said.  No association was seen between aspirin use and the dry
form of the eye disorder or for shorter-term use of aspirin,
Klein said.  Barrett Katz, a neuro-ophthalmologist at Montefiore Medical
Center in Bronx,  New York , who wasn’t an author of today’s
paper, said the findings show that regular aspirin use may be
another small risk factor for age-related macular degeneration.
Other risk factors include age, race, cigarette smoking, alcohol
ingestion and genetics, he said in a Dec. 17 telephone
interview.  More studies are needed to replicate these findings and to
show what harm, if any, aspirin has on the vision of people with
the disorder or if it causes age-related macular degeneration,
 Katz  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  