-- Audi, BMW See Gangnam-Style Sales Boost in Korea
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-12-18T21:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/audi-bmw-see-gangnam-style-sales-boost-in-korea.html
Kim Ju Hee says the Korean cars
favored by her parents and winning customers around the world
aren’t bad, just rather dull. So as she looks for a new set of
wheels, she’s skipping the  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  dealerships near her  Seoul  home to scout Audi AG and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG showrooms in the city’s ritzy
Gangnam district.  “Audis are just better looking and offer something
unique,” said the 27-year-old accountant, who has her eye on an
 Audi A6 . “South Korean cars may have come a long way from where
they were a decade ago, but I still find them a bit boring.”  While the car will cost her around 58 million won
($54,000), versus 43 million for a similarly sized and equipped
 Hyundai Genesis , that’s cheaper than it would have been 18
months ago as a 2011 free trade  agreement  between South  Korea 
and the European Union cut import duties to 3.2 percent from 8
percent. A similar pact that took effect this year between Korea
and the U.S. could give a boost to American brands, the U.S.
International Trade Commission predicts.  Domestic Dominance  The two trade deals and a shift in consumer sentiment have
cut domestic sales of Hyundai, Kia and the country’s three other
automakers by 5.2 percent this year, according to the Korea
Automobile Manufacturers Association. That hurts in a country
where just a decade ago domestic brands were more dominant than
in any of the world’s 20 biggest markets. In western  Europe ,
Hyundai and Kia are headed for 2012 growth of 14 percent, and in
the U.S. they’ll likely be up 12 percent, according to company
reports.  “The recent rise of imports definitely threatens Hyundai
and Kia at home,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co.  While South Korean producers held 99 percent of the market
in 2002, their share fell to 92 percent last year, according to
the Korea Automobile Importers & Distributors Association, as
imports won over buyers. This year, imported cars have accounted
for 10 percent of the market for the first time, and Lee
predicts they could ultimately get as high as 15 percent.  “We are improving the design and quality of our
products,” Hyundai said in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg
query. “We also have a comparative advantage in terms of sales
and service networks, which we continue to upgrade.” Kia
declined to comment.  ‘Gangnam Style’  Foreign producers are attracted by the strength of South
Korea’s economy, where the benchmark Kospi Index has risen
fivefold since the 1997 Asian financial crisis, household
incomes are at a record high, and economic growth is forecast to
beat Asian peers.  Imports have seen a 24 percent sales increase this year in
the world’s 11th biggest auto market, according to the
importers’ association. German automakers account for 65 percent
of imported cars sold in South Korea. Audi sales rose 44
percent, BMW rose 21 percent and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  was up 42
percent. Sales from Japanese manufacturers have jumped 24
percent this year and U.S. brands have risen 17 percent.  While models such as the Hyundai Elantra and the Kia Soul
have helped Korean makers take share in foreign markets, many
Koreans are looking for more prestige with imports.  Buyers are flocking to Seoul’s Gangnam, a district made
famous by singer Park Jae Sang, better known as Psy, in his hit
“Gangnam Style.” The area, which locals liken to Beverly Hills
or  Tokyo ’s Shibuya, is considered Korea’s 1 percent enclave
where Hyundai Motor and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  have their
headquarters. And each of the 24 car brands imported into the
country has at least one dealership.  Red Mercedes  The video for the Psy song, the world’s most watched
YouTube clip with almost 1 billion views, doesn’t feature
locally made vehicles. Instead it uses a red Mercedes SLK 200
from Daimler AG to satirize the habits of the wealthy in
Gangnam.  “I think imported cars look good and are more reliable,
especially the German brands,” said 56-year-old Yoo Myung Sook,
a homemaker who lives in Gangnam and is looking to trade in her
Kia Opirus for a Mercedes. “You can see a lot of imported cars
on the streets these days. Everyone in Gangnam seems to be
driving one.”  Kia has accelerated overseas growth to cut its dependence
on sales at home. The Seoul-based company, 34 percent owned by
Hyundai, says it has made 20 percent of its sales in Korea this
year, versus 89 percent in 2002. Korea accounted for 42 percent
of Hyundai sales in 2002, versus 15 percent this year.  Offshore Growth  While international growth is limiting the impact of lost
market share on Korean producers, it is hitting the automakers
where profit margins are often the highest, according to
industry researcher IHS Automotive.  “Having strong domestic market share helps Hyundai and Kia
maintain their presence and network,” Christian Yang, a senior
analyst at IHS, said in an e-mail. “Profitability is high due
to low distribution cost and destination costs.”  The free trade agreement between South Korea and the U.S.
halved the tariff imposed on U.S.-built cars to 4 percent when
the accord took effect in March, and it will be eliminated by
2016. The pact may lead to a 54 percent increase in U.S. exports
of cars and auto parts to South Korea, the U.S. International
Trade Commission said in a March 2011 report.  Japanese Benefit  Under the agreement with the European Union, the EU’s 10
percent tariff on Korean cars will be phased out over three to
five years.  Though Japanese automakers don’t have the benefit of a free
trade deal between their country and South Korea,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  are taking advantage of the U.S. pact.  Toyota is now shipping Camry sedans, Sienna minivans and
Venza wagons built in the U.S. to South Korea. Honda exports its
Pilot SUV, Odyssey minivan and, since last month, Accord sedan,
from the U.S. to Korea.  “We were exporting the Pilot and the Odyssey before the
trade agreements came through,” said Akiko Itoga, a spokeswoman
for Honda. “But with the trade agreement, we’re hoping for
exports to expand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  