-- AUO Executive Found Guilty in LCD Price-Fixing Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-18T22:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/auo-executive-found-guilty-by-jury-in-lcd-price-fixing-case-1-.html
AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  executive  Steven
Leung  was found guilty by a U.S. jury in a liquid-crystal
display criminal price-fixing case.  A federal jury in San Francisco convicted Leung, an
executive at the company’s desktop-display unit, after a few
hours of deliberation today. During a three-week trial,
prosecutors said Leung was a key part of a price-fixing
conspiracy involving AU Optronics, Taiwan’s largest LCD maker,
and other display manufacturers from 2002 to 2006.  AU Optronics, its vice chairman and a senior vice president
were convicted by a jury in March, and the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company was ordered to pay $500 million, one of the largest
fines ever imposed for U.S. antitrust violations, the  Justice
Department  said today in an e-mail. The convictions are being
appealed. The jury in the earlier trial deadlocked over Leung’s
verdict, leading to a new trial.  Leung and other executives convened at Tapei hotels and
other locations in  Taiwan  at so-called “Crystal Meetings,”
where they agreed to fix prices charged to U.S. customers such
as Apple Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co., prosecutors said. AU
Optronics was the only LCD maker charged with price-fixing by
the U.S. to take its case to trial.  Guilty Pleas  Since 2008, eight companies, including LG Display Co.,
Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and Sharp
Corp., agreed to plead guilty and pay more than $1.4 billion in
fines. Twenty-two executives have been charged and 13 have
pleaded guilty or been convicted and sentenced to prison, the
Justice Department said. Seven defendants are fugitives.  “This international price-fixing conspiracy impacted
countless American consumers by raising the price of computer
monitors, notebooks and televisions containing LCD panels,”
Scott D. Hammond, deputy assistant attorney general of the
Antitrust Division’s criminal enforcement program, said in an e-
mail.  Leung faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a
$1 million fine. Dara Cashman, an attorney for Leung, declined
to comment on the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  