-- Austria Must Rein in Provinces to Stabilize Debt, Monitor Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-12-18T12:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/austria-must-rein-in-provinces-to-stabilize-debt-monitor-says.html
Austria  needs to rein in the
financial power of its provinces to ensure that off-balance-
sheet debt doesn’t damage the country’s credibility, a state-
sponsored monitoring group said.  Austria’s nine provinces need more financial oversight and
less leeway to offer debt guarantees, Bernhard Felderer, the
State Debt Commission’s president, told a news conference in
Vienna today.  “They have speculated with taxpayer funds, and that
shouldn’t be possible in the future,” Felderer said. “We
cannot rule out the possibility that there will be other
cases.”  The country of 8.5 million people has been probing how
local and regional officials handle tax revenue distributed by
the federal government. Earlier this month, the province of
Salzburg disclosed it lost as much as 340 million euros ($450
million) on more than 250 off-book derivative instruments. Other
provinces and cities in Carinthia, Lower Austria and Upper
Austria have also been stung with foreign-currency losses and
bad-loan guarantees.  “We have a long list,” Felderer said. “We need a new law
that regulates these cases.”  Austria’s government will introduce draft legislation to
limit the provinces’ ability to access low-interest funds from
the Federal Financing Agency unless oversight and transparency
is improved, Finance Minister Maria Fekter said last week.  Salzburg Losses  A civil servant in Salzburg’s finance department invested
in high-risk derivatives since 2001 and hid the losses from her
superiors, auditors and banks advising the province. The
disclosure caused the provincial finance chief, David Brenner,
to resign and resulted in a call for new elections by the
conservative People’s Party.  Austrian municipalities have as much as 20 billion euros in
off-balance-sheet debt that isn’t fully recognized in official
statistics, the debt commission warned in July. The liabilities,
owed by entities operating public transportation, utilities,
theaters, museums and hospitals, aren’t counted toward Austria’s
public debt and are not completely disclosed.  The country should establish an independent body of
financial experts that can dispense advice to its regions,
Felderer said. Transparency on community and provincial finances
must also be increased, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  