-- Australia Fund Managers Back Tax on High-Frequency Trading Firms
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-18T05:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/australia-fund-managers-back-tax-on-high-frequency-trading-firms.html
Australian fund managers want levies
to be charged on high-frequency trading firms that send an
excessive number of trade orders to equity markets.  The  Financial Services Council , which represents Australian
money managers, pension funds and life insurers that invest more
than A$1.9 trillion ($2 trillion) on behalf of 11 million
Australians, also is considering whether a minimum time limit
should be set before an order can be withdrawn from the market,
according to a  statement  today on its website.  Australia , Hong Kong and  Singapore  are looking at
tightening regulation of high-frequency trading amid concern
trades that can be executed in under 10 microseconds may
destabilize equity markets. The Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, the national regulator, has cited  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $457 million loss in August and the
American flash crash of May 2010 as examples of the need to
examine whether tougher rules are needed.  “Australia is well-positioned to introduce regulation to
avoid the adverse impacts of high-frequency and dark-pool
trading experienced in  Europe  and the U.S.,” John Brogden,
Financial Services Council chief executive officer, said in
today’s statement. “The U.S. market is an example of what
Australia can expect if action is not taken while there is a
window of opportunity.”  ASIC Chairman Greg Medcraft has expressed concern that
high-frequency trading provides “phantom liquidity” that can
be quickly removed from stock markets. A taskforce at the
regulator is studying the trading and is expected to report on
its findings next year.  “We have argued strongly that the views of end customers,
such as fund managers, need to be heard,” said Kristen Kaus, a
spokeswoman for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of Australia’s largest public
equity exchange. “They are major users of Australia’s financial
markets and offer important perspectives for decision-makers to
consider.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  