-- Australia Takes Late Wickets to Beat Sri Lanka in Cricket Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-18T08:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/australia-beats-sri-lanka-in-cricket-opener-with-late-wickets.html
Australia beat Sri Lanka by 137 runs
in their series-opening cricket Test as Mitchell Starc and  Peter Siddle  took six wickets in the last session.  Starc took four wickets for 17 runs in his final 38-ball
spell as Sri Lanka was dismissed for 255 after giving itself a
chance of drawing the match in Hobart by reaching 186-4 at tea
on day five. Starc finished with 5-63 and Peter Siddle took 4-50
to lead the Australian bowlers, who were a man down after  Ben Hilfenhaus  sustained a side strain on day three.  “Our bowlers deserve a lot of credit,” Australia captain
 Michael Clarke  said at a televised news conference. “Starcy was
outstanding.”  Starc and Siddle, who was named man of the match after
finishing with 9-104, took the eight wickets to fall on the
final day after  Sri Lanka  resumed at 65-2 needing 393 runs for
the victory. The touring team has now lost nine and drawn two of
its 11 Tests in Australia.  The second Test starts Dec. 26 at the Melbourne Cricket
Ground with the series finale beginning Jan. 3 in Sydney.  Up until the tea break, Australia had been frustrated by
Sri Lanka’s batsmen, taking two wickets in the first two
sessions. Rain showers twice delayed play in the afternoon.  Kumar Sangakkara top scored with 63 off 226 balls before
Siddle trapped him leg-before-wicket, while  Thilan Samaraweera 
offered further resistance with 49 off 140 balls until getting
dismissed in the same manner.  Keeper Bowls  Australian wicket-keeper  Matthew Wade  bowled the last over
before tea in an effort to break up a partnership between
Samaraweera and  Angelo Mathews  as batsman  Phil Hughes  took his
place behind the stumps. Wade later took catches off Siddle and
Starc to remove Mathews and Nuwan Kulasekara and reduce Sri
Lanka to 247-8.  “He’s got me out a few times in the nets,” Clarke said of
Wade. “I think you might see more of Matthew Wade bowling.”  Starc wrapped up the victory by bowling Rangana Herath and
having Shaminda Eranga caught behind.  Mahela Jayawardene  was the only wicket to fall during the
morning session when Clarke, who injured his right hamstring
yesterday, took a low catch at slip off Siddle’s bowling to
dismiss his rival captain for 19.  While Hilfenhaus will be replaced by rookie bowler Jackson
Bird in a 13-man squad for the second Test, Clarke said he’s
“really confident” of playing at the MCG. Usman Khawaja was
called up as batting cover for the Australian skipper.  International Cricket Council match referee Chris Broad,
meantime, said there was no evidence to suggest that the
condition of the ball had been changed by  Australia  during the
Test, after Sri Lanka had expressed concerns over alleged
tampering on day three.  Broad said in a statement that the umpires had reviewed
television replays and will not lay charges.  “In the opinion of the umpires, there was no evidence to
suggest that the condition of the ball was changed, or that the
video or photographic evidence would support a charge under the
code of conduct,” Broad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  