-- Axa Downgraded by S&P on Investments, European Economy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-18T22:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/axa-downgraded-by-s-p-to-a-on-investments-european-economy.html
Axa SA (CS) , France’s largest insurer,
was downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  as the economic slump in
Europe weighs on results.  The insurer’s credit rating was cut to A- from A as
“unfavorable investment market conditions and weak economic
prospects are likely to dampen AXA group’s earnings growth,”
the ratings firm said yesterday in a statement on the Paris-
based company.  European nations have been forced to impose tax increases
and spending cuts as they grapple with their debt, pressuring
economic growth. Falling yields on bonds have hurt insurers’
investment income. The long-term ratings on Axa’s core insurance
operating units were cut to A+ from AA-.  Axa, led by Chief Executive Officer Henri De Castries, has
sought to expand in Asia and other  emerging markets  in search of
higher growth than in Europe. The company has also been focusing
on less capital-intensive products, the ratings firm said.  “The continued recession in the Eurozone, protracted
period of low  interest rates , and still-high potential
volatility in investment markets might be a challenge,
however,” according to S&P.  Axa last month lowered earnings targets through 2015
because “unfavorable” financial markets are weighing on its
life insurance and asset-management businesses. The company
expects operating-earnings-per-share to climb 5 percent to 10
percent annually until 2015 compared with a previous target of
10 percent, the insurer said in a presentation on its website in
November.  Helene Caillet, a spokeswoman for Axa, said the company
doesn’t comment on actions by ratings firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  