-- Bain Joins Goldman to Urge Dismissal of Bid-Rigging Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-12-18T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bain-joins-goldman-to-urge-dismissal-of-bid-rigging-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bain
Capital  Partners LLC argued that investors are trying to “swing
for the fences” by claiming in a lawsuit that buyout firms
conspired to rig bids on takeovers.  The defendants, who also include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
 Carlyle Group , KKR & Co.,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , today urged U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington in  Boston  to dismiss the lawsuit by shareholders in
acquired companies.  Individuals and pension funds that held shares in companies
including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
and  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  sued in 2007 and 2008, claiming private-
equity firms conspired to rig bids and suppress prices for
leveraged buyouts, depriving shareholders of billions of
dollars.  Joseph Tringali, an attorney at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP who argued for the defendants, said the sprawling conspiracy
claimed in the lawsuit, covering $250 billion worth of
transactions, isn’t possible because target companies controlled
the process.  “They decided to swing for the fences and go big with the
conspiracy they’ve claimed here,” said Tringali, who cited
communications from suitors who lost out on deals or quit
bidding. “These are the words of competitors, not
conspirators,” he said.  E-Mail Disclosure  In October, an amended complaint was unsealed, disclosing
e-mails among private-equity firm executives about potential
buyouts. In an e-mail referring to Freescale, Blackstone Group
President  Tony James  told KKR co-founder  George Roberts ,
“Together we can be unstoppable but in opposition we can cost
each other a lot of money.”  The lawsuit is a “complete fabrication,” James said later
in an earnings call.  There is a “mountain of evidence” of collusion among the
firms,  Christopher Burke , an attorney for the plaintiffs at the
law firm Scott & Scott, said in court.  “This conspiracy has been so substantiated by the evidence
you can actually draw a map,” he told the judge. “We can draw
all of the defendants together.”  Firms are accused of forming bidding clubs that suppressed
prices and allocating deals among themselves.  Plaintiff Kirk Dahl said he and others in the proposed
class of investors owned shares in Freescale in 2006 when the
chipmaker announced a buyout by firms including Carlyle and
Blackstone for $17.5 billion.  HCA Purchase  HCA was bought by companies including KKR and Bain for
$32.1 billion. The plaintiffs include the police and fire
department pension funds of Detroit and Omaha,  Nebraska .  “If true, we have some pretty serious violations of the
antitrust laws,” Darren Bush, a professor of antitrust law at
the University of Houston Law Center, said in an interview. “If
this conduct is really going on and it’s really problematic, it
ought to have a trial.”  Tringali, arguing on behalf of buyout firms, defended the
practice of bidding groups.  “The mere fact you have three bidding groups as opposed to
three or six individual bidders is meaningless,” he said.
“Three bidding groups are still bidding against each other and
the price is going up.”  The deals in question occurred from 2003 to 2007. Two
lawsuits were consolidated by the judge, who denied a request by
the defendants to move the case to federal court in  New York .  Original Buyouts  The original complaint listed seven leveraged buyouts:
Freescale, Aramark,  Neiman Marcus , PanAmSat Corp., SunGard Data
Systems Inc.,  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI)  and HCA.  The judge in 2010 allowed a second phase of fact-gathering
for eight additional transactions, involving  Loews Corp. (L) ,  NXP
Semiconductor NV (NXPI) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ,  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ,
Nalco Holding Co., Cablecom Holdings, Susquehanna Media and
Warner Music Group Corp. Later that year, the judge allowed the
plaintiffs to add more deals and extended fact-gathering to
April 2012. The lawsuit now lists 19 buyouts and eight related
transactions.  The defendants also include Providence Equity Partners
Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Silver Lake Technology
Management and TPG Capital.  The judge asked why the plaintiffs claimed one large
conspiracy instead of several.  “It’s causing me an awful lot of problems as how to
intellectually grasp it,” Harrington said. “It’s just almost
overwhelming. Because it comes down to this: Is there one
overarching conspiracy, or is it less?”  The cases are Dahl v. Bain Capital, 08-10254, and Klein v.
Bain Capital, 07-12388, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 