-- Banco do Brasil Said to Hire JPMorgan for Unit’s IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-12-18T19:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/banco-do-brasil-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-for-unit-s-ipo.html
Banco do Brasil SA  hired banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to sell what would be the largest
initial public offering in  Brazil  in three years, a 5 billion
reais ($2.39 billion) deal for its pension and insurance unit,
four people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Banco do Brasil also picked  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4) , Banco Itau BBA, Grupo BTG Pactual and Brasil Plural SA Banco
Multiplo, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the decision isn’t public yet. Brasilia-based Banco do
Brasil will also be a member of the underwriting team.  Banco do Brazil, Latin America’s biggest lender by assets,
is seeking to raise about 5 billion reais by selling at least 25
percent of the pension and insurance unit, the people said. A
deal that size would be the largest IPO in Brazil since Banco
Santander Brasil SA’s $7.55 billion transaction in July 2009.
Banco do Brasil approved the creation of the new division, BB
Seguridade SA, yesterday.  BB Seguridade would be listed on  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) ’s Novo
Mercado special segment, the bank said in a regulatory filing
last month. The exchange has stricter rules for disclosure and
minority shareholders’ rights, and requires companies to have at
least 25 percent of their capital traded publicly. The offering
would include primary and secondary shares.  Joint Ventures  Banco do Brasil is seeking to consolidate its insurance
businesses into a single company to lower costs, according to
the filing. BB Seguridade would control Banco do Brasil’s two
insurance joint ventures with Madrid-based  Mapfre SA. (MAP)  The lender
said it plans to expand into dental- and health-insurance
brokerages as well.  An IPO for the insurance and pension business creates “a
lot of value” for Banco do Brasil, Itau BBA analysts wrote in a
report on Nov. 27.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  expects the deal sometime in the first
half of next year, Alexandre Abreu, vice president of the bank’s
retail business, said in a telephone interview on Nov. 26. An
IPO will show the “hidden value” of the state-run company’s
insurance business, and capitalize the unit without taking
resources from Banco do Brasil, Abreu said in the interview.  Officials at Banco do Brasil, Citigroup, JPMorgan, BTG
Pactual, Bradesco, Itau BBA and Plural declined to comment on
the underwriting assignment, and asked not to be identified, in
keeping with company policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  