-- Bangladesh Factory Fire Was Sabotage, Official Says
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-12-18T15:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bangladesh-factory-fire-was-sabotage-official-says.html
The fire that killed more than 100
people at a Bangladesh factory which made clothes for retailers
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  was an act of sabotage, according
to the government panel investigating the blaze.  There was no possibility last month’s fire at  Tazreen
Fashion Ltd. ’s factory was caused by an electrical short-circuit
and witness statements suggest sabotage, Mainuddin Khandaker,
the panel’s chief, said by phone yesterday, without saying who
could have been responsible. He blamed the factory owner for
“gross negligence” as poor safety standards made it harder for
workers to escape.  The Nov. 24 fire, the country’s deadliest at a garment
plant, renewed pressure on local companies and international
retailers sourcing cheap clothes from Bangladesh to improve
labor conditions. More than 700 garment workers have died since
2005 in Bangladesh, according to the International Labor Rights
Forum, a Washington-based advocacy group.  The government panel’s investigation believes the incident
was the result of sabotage because it did not find any
electricity connection or appliance in the area where the fire
originated, Khandaker said. “The fire originated from the
warehouse on the ground floor,” he said.  “Conflicting” Report  The findings of the report are “conflicting,” Mushrefa
Mishu, president of the Garment Workers Unity Forum union, said
in a phone interview today.  “I don’t think it was sabotage,” she said. “Calling it
an act of sabotage, the government is indicating some workers
are responsible for the fire, so that they can be harassed.”  The factory had no emergency exits, and many workers were
burned alive, as they got trapped in heavy smoke, Muhammad
Mahboob, a director at the Fire Service and Civil Defence said
after the fire. Delowar Hossain, managing director of Tazreen
Fashion owner  Tuba Group , didn’t answer two calls to his mobile
phone today.  Fifty percent of the Bangladesh’s garment factories don’t
meet required work safety standards and those that have improved
working conditions have done so under pressure from Western
apparel makers, Kalpona Akter, executive director of the
Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, a non-governmental
organization, said in an interview last month.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has said it fired a
supplier that made apparel at the factory without its
authorization. Bangladesh’s labor law requires safety measures
such as fire extinguishers and easily accessible exits at
factories.  The global garment industry would have to spend about $3
billion over five years to bring safety standards at  Bangladesh 
apparel factories to Western standards, according to an analysis
provided by the Worker Rights Consortium. The $3 billion figure,
or $600 million per year, represents about 3 percent of the $19
billion the Bangladesh Manufacturers & Exporters Association
says Western companies spend annually on manufacturing in
Bangladesh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  