-- Bank Deposits Surge $2 Trillion More Than Loans: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-18T16:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bank-deposits-surge-2-trillion-more-than-loans-credit-markets.html
Deposits at U.S. banks exceed loans
by an unprecedented $2 trillion as the threat of a slowing
economy tempers borrower demand and lenders preserve tightened
standards.  Cash deposited at firms from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Bank
of America Corp. expanded 8.7 percent this year to a record
$9.17 trillion through Dec. 5, Federal Reserve data show. That
outpaced a 3.7 percent gain in loan assets to $7.17 trillion.
The gap between what banks take in and lend out has surged since
October 2008, the month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, when loans exceeded deposits by $205 billion.  U.S. consumers paring debt loads and banks tightening
lending practices that fueled the credit bubble in 2007 are
limiting the reach of the Fed, which has sought to spur spending
by holding its benchmark interest-rate at almost zero for four
years. The low rates are limiting investment options, making
savers content to hold their cash at lenders, according to Royal
Bank of Canada’s  Gerard Cassidy .  “Borrowers are still de-leveraging, so the demand is not
at the level it would be in this part of the recovery,” Cassidy
said in a telephone interview. “That combined with the low-rate
environment has led to this unintended consequence.”  Below ‘Optimal’  The banking industry is lending 78 cents for every $1 it
holds in deposits, below the mid-90 percent range cited by
Cassidy as “optimal.”  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  told Fortune magazine last month that he
tries to run the company with $1 of deposits funding $1 of
loans. The bank was at about 80 cents for every dollar through
September, for a loan shortfall of about $200 billion, Stumpf
said.  The tepid growth in bank lending contrasts with the
unprecedented pace of borrowing in corporate bonds, where
investors are accepting both record-low rates and looser
protections to boost returns. Companies with access to  capital
markets , from medical-device maker Abbott Laboratories to brewer
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, have sold $3.9 trillion of that debt
this year, up from $3.29 trillion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined for a second
day, reaching the lowest level in two months. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 89.6 basis points
as of 11 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level on an intraday basis since
Oct. 18.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.43 basis point to 12.23 basis
points as of 11 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 49 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:01 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Cash Stockpiles  Deposits have surged 29 percent from $7.1 trillion in
September 2008, when Lehman filed for bankruptcy and sparked a
seizure in credit markets. Loans have increased by less than 2
percent in the same period, Fed data show.  “Companies are sitting on large stockpiles of cash, and
that just gets piled up and sits on bank balance sheets,” Pri de Silva, a bank analyst at New York-based CreditSights Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “They’re not investing, so the
need for bank loans has come down on the corporate side.”  That’s coincided with tighter lending standards for
consumer loans such as mortgages with banks more cautious than
before the financial crisis, de Silva said. “Loan growth has
been anemic to say the least,” he said.  Less than 10 percent of U.S. banks relaxed underwriting
conditions for large, middle-market and small companies during
the last three months, according to responses to the Fed’s
Senior Officer Loan survey released Oct. 31. In the central
bank’s  Beige Book  business survey, published Nov. 28,
homebuilders cited “tight” underwriting as a reason why they
and home buyers haven’t been able to take full advantage of low
 interest rates .  Household Debt  “Small fractions” of U.S. banks reported easing lending
rules on business loans and some categories of  consumer debt ,
the Fed said in the loan survey. Underwriting standards for
mortgage lending were mostly unchanged, according to the survey.  Household debt  dropped to 20 percent of assets as of Sept.
30, down from 21.5 percent last year and a peak of 26 percent in
2008, Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by  Matt O’Connor  wrote in a
Dec. 14 report. That deleveraging should continue through 2013
as the measure moves toward its historical average of 18
percent.  While “a ramp-up of growth” in loans is possible by late
2013, it’s “difficult to have much conviction” in an expansion
with the private sector likely continuing to trim debt loads,
the analysts wrote. “We don’t expect a meaningful pick up in
loan demand” in the near or medium term.  Falling Yields  Borrowing costs have plunged in the four years since the
Fed lowered its  benchmark lending rate  to between zero and 0.25
percent in an effort to prop up economic growth that’s forecast
to drop to 2 percent next year, from 2.2 percent in 2012,
Bloomberg data show.  Yields on investment-grade bonds reached an unprecedented
low of 2.73 percent in November, down from 3.75 percent a year
earlier and 9.3 percent in October 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Economic expansion may be imperiled by a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  began calling a “fiscal cliff” in February. Obama is
considering a possible budget concession on Social Security
cost-of-living increases after Boehner dropped his opposition to
raising tax rates for some top earners.  TAG Program  Banks may lose some deposits if a program to guarantee non-
interest bearing cash comes to an end later this month. The
expiration of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s Transaction
Account Guarantee program, introduced following the 2008 credit
crisis, may shift $250 billion from  bank deposits  into money-
market funds, Barclays Plc analysts led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha 
wrote in a Dec. 11 report.  The TAG program guarantees $1.5 trillion in non-interest
bearing accounts above the FDIC’s general limit of $250,000.
Republicans have labeled the program as a bailout-era program
that shouldn’t be extended, and last week the  U.S. Senate  failed
to advance a proposal for an extension.  While the end of the program may lead businesses to shift
deposits from smaller banks into larger lenders, it isn’t likely
to drive out deposits from the banking system, Cassidy said.  That may prompt banks to hold more Treasuries and
government-backed mortgage securities as they deploy excess
deposits. Lenders held  $1.87 trillion  of  U.S. government debt 
and so-called agency securities as of Dec. 5, a 9.7 percent
increase from last year.  “It’s not how you want to make your money if you’re a
bank,” Noel Hebert, who oversees about $250 million as chief
investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
Wealth Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “The
income stream you’re trying to displace was much more
profitable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  