-- Bank of Italy Meets to Approve Generali Stake Sale to FSI
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-12-18T11:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bank-of-italy-meets-to-approve-generali-stake-sale-to-fsi.html
The  Bank of Italy ’s council is
meeting today to approve the sale of its 4.46 percent stake in
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  to Fondo Strategico Italiano SpA, the
country’s 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) investment fund, a
central bank spokeswoman said.  The  Bank of Italy  decided to sell the stake in Trieste-
based Generali, the nation’s biggest insurer, to avoid a
possible conflict of interest when central bank Governor Ignazio Visco also becomes head of the country’s new insurance
authority, Ivass, at the beginning of 2013.  “This news was expected by investors and confirms that the
stake will remain in stable hands in the next few years,”
Intermonte SIM SpA analysts Alberto Villa and Michele Ballatore
wrote in a note to clients today.  FSI,  the strategic fund backed by state -controlled lender
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, will pay with new shares, giving
the central bank a stake of about 20 percent in the fund,
according to Italian newspapers including  Il Sole 24 Ore . An FSI
official declined to comment. Generali’s 4.46 percent holding
has a market value of about 930 million euros.  Generali rose 0.7 percent to 13.42 euros by 12:15 p.m. in
Milan trading, bringing its  gain  this year to 15 percent.  The fund will hold Generali’s shares for a temporary
period, Il Sole 24 Ore wrote today without citing anyone. The
fund won’t seek a seat on Generali’s board and will refrain from
interference in the company’s management, the newspaper said.  FSI was set up in June 2011 to make investments in
companies and industries considered of strategic interest to the
Italian government, such as energy, defense and
telecommunications. Cassa Depositi e Prestiti is 70 percent
owned by the Treasury and 30 percent by banking foundations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  