-- Baosteel Partner Plans to Sell Stake to Expand: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-12-19T10:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/baosteel-partner-plans-to-sell-stake-to-expand-corporate-india.html
Visa Steel Ltd. (VISA) , the Indian partner
of China’s  second-largest steelmaker , will sell new shares to
fund a 17 billion rupee ($310 million) expansion and cut debt,
as it tries to end six straight quarters of  losses .  The sale “at the right price” will reduce the founders’
holding to 51 percent from 74 percent, Chairman Vishambhar Saran
said in a telephone interview yesterday, without giving a
timeline. Visa, which shut its sole steel plant in the eastern
state of Odisha early this year because of an iron ore shortage,
is banking on the local government to lift curbs and resume
supplies of the raw material by January, he said.  “The next year will be a profitable year,” said Saran,
whose family controls the Kolkata-based company. “We’re
incurring costs without running the plant, which is the main
reason for the losses. Odisha’s move to ensure  iron ore  for
local steelmakers will help us restart the plant.”  Iron ore supplies to  Baosteel Resources Co. ’s local partner
were snapped after some mines failed to renew their permits,
while others were shut down on charges of illegal extraction
last year. The state government now plans to secure half the
mining output to factories located within the state, while
curbing licenses for exports.  ‘Big Boost’  “Globally, the steel sector seems to be coming out of the
woods and Odisha’s policies to promote integrated steel plants
will be a big boost for Visa,” said Sharad Avasthi, an analyst
at Kolkata-based SPA Capital Securities Ltd. “The resumption of
work at its steel plant will mean better servicing of debt,
higher income and an increased confidence in the stock.”  Visa, which also produces metallurgical coke and
ferrochrome, has  declined 18 percent  this year, compared with
the benchmark Sensitive Index’s 26 percent gain. The  shares  rose
0.3 percent to 47.50 rupees at the close in Mumbai.  With the steel plant out of commission, Visa has focused on
selling ferrochrome, used to rust-proof steel, and coke used in
blast furnaces. Visa, which consumed almost a third of its own
coke output, is now selling its entire production to rival mills,
Saran said.  “We’re ramping up ferrochrome and coke output, both of
which have a good market,” he said.  Visa Steel last month sold 49 percent of its coke business
to Lisle, Illinois-based  SunCoke Energy Inc. (SXC)  for about $67
million. Visa, which retained the controlling interest, will use
the money to repay debt, Saran said.  Doubling Capacity  Visa plans to restart its steel plant in Odisha’s
Kalinganagar town next quarter and double the annual capacity to
1 million tons, Saran said. The ferrochrome plant will be
expanded to 100,000 tons, from 50,000 tons, he said.  A separate venture with China’s Baosteel, being built to
produce 100,000 tons of ferrochrome will also start output next
year and expand in phases. Visa holds 65 percent of the venture,
with Baosteel owning the remaining stake.  Ferrochrome produced by this venture, called VISA BAO Ltd.,
will be used by Baosteel’s stainless steel mill in  China ,
according to Visa’s website.  “The cost of doubling capacity will be lower as we already
have a lot of infrastructure like water and power distribution
ready,” Saran said. “The increased capacity will also give us
economies of scale and improve efficiency.”  Having no iron ore mines of its own has placed Visa at a
disadvantage to rivals that own mines. The closing of Visa’s
plant led to debt piling to as much as 20 billion rupees, Saran
said. The company approached lenders to revamp debt and won a
two-year moratorium on principal and interest payments, he said.  Mining Curbs  Recent mining restrictions in the states of Karnataka, Goa
and Odisha, three of the biggest producers of iron ore in the
country, have created a shortage of the key steelmaking
ingredient and forced mills in those states to shut down or cut
production. The miners are struggling to get environmental
approvals after the federal government tightened rules for
renewing permits, asking them to seek fresh endorsement from
local resident groups in areas where their mines are located.  A federal government panel in September reported Goa
exported 350 billion rupees of illegally mined iron ore,
prompting the provincial government to ban mining in the coastal
state. The M.B. Shah Commission is now probing mining violations
in Odisha and will later move to five more states.  Lack of iron ore at Visa’s plant coincided with stagnating
steel demand, which hampered revenue, SPA’s Avasthi said. The
company posted five straight quarterly losses starting July 2011,
after interest costs climbed and sales fell. The quarter ending
March 31 is a favorable time for the mill to restart as steel
prices are rebounding, Avasthi said.  Steel Authority of  India  Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
producer of the alloy, cut rebates on products this month, the
first price increase in at least three months, chairman C.S. Verma said on Dec. 6.  Visa, which supplies to automobile and construction
companies, is banking on rising demand for vehicles, homes and
public works in India. The nation’s steel demand is forecast by
the government to increase 5 percent next year, compared with
the global pace of 3.2 percent predicted by  Worldsteel .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  