-- Basci Cuts Turkey Rate First Time in 16 Months to Record Low
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2012-12-18T12:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/basci-cuts-turkey-rate-first-time-in-16-months-to-record-low.html
Turkey ’s central bank lowered its
 benchmark   interest rate  today for the first time in 16 months to
a record low in a bid to spur flagging economic growth and halt
an appreciation of the lira.  The bank, led by Governor Erdem Basci, cut its  benchmark 
one-week repurchase rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, to 5.50 percent, in line with the median of  eight
estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. It kept its overnight  borrowing
rate , the bottom of its so-called rates corridor, at 5 percent
and the overnight  lending rate  at 9 percent.  The reduction in the policy rate was the first since August
2011. That move extended a boom in  consumer lending  in the $800
billion economy that drove up demand for imports and boosted the
 current-account deficit  to $77.1 billion by year-end, the
second-highest figure worldwide, behind the U.S.  “Significantly lower-than-expected third-quarter growth,
sharp deceleration in the  consumer price index  and fairly dovish
comments from Governor Basci cemented expectations” for a rate
cut,  Piotr Matys , an analyst at 4cast Ltd. in  London , said
before the rate decision.  While Basci cut the average funding rate to a record low
5.58 percent Dec. 13 from 11.93 percent in January, that’s
failed to prevent the economy from slowing. Growth in the third-
quarter was 1.6 percent and quarterly growth has averaged 2.7
percent in the first three quarters of the year, down from 8.5
percent last year.  Poland, Sweden Cuts  Concern about the outlook for Europe’s economy has spurred
other policy makers to cut borrowing costs this month.  Sweden ’s
central bank earlier today cut its  benchmark interest rate  for a
fourth time in a year as the largest Nordic economy succumbs to
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The repo rate was lowered by a quarter
point to 1 percent.  Poland ’s central bank, the only one in the 27-nation EU to
raise rates this year, cut borrowing costs on Dec. 5 and said it
will ease policy further as the European Union’s biggest eastern
economy faces the risk of its first recession in two decades.  In Turkey, “there is every reason for the central bank to
ease the policy rate and the overnight borrowing rate,” Turker Hamzaoglu, an economist at Bank of American Merrill Lynch in
London, said before today’s decision.  ‘Ready to Act’  Basci implemented a rate corridor in October of last year
that allows him to adjust interest rates on a daily basis. It
was created to balance above-target inflation, a slowing economy
and high volatility of the lira. Basci reiterated at a press
conference in Antalya on Dec. 11 that policy would focus on the
real effective  exchange rate , or REER, against a currency basket
of its main trading partners and said that recent cuts to the
top end of the corridor and the average cost of funding would
lead to a jump in growth in the fourth quarter.  “The central bank is ready to act to prevent substantial
appreciation of the domestic currency that would have slowed
ongoing rebalancing in the domestic economy,” Matys said.  Basci also said that if the REER rose to between 125 and
130, the central bank would work to reverse lira gains. The REER
stood at 119.2 in November.  “The main target of the cut is the real effective exchange
rate,” said Ozan Gaziturk, an economist at Sekerbank. He said
that the bank would “react accordingly,” if the lira did
appreciate. “We do not see a problem on the growth side --
assuming there is no global crash.”  The lira gained 0.2 percent to 1.7801 per dollar at 2:05
p.m. in Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  