-- Berlusconi Signals Italy Early Vote Should Be Delayed
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/berlusconi-signals-italy-early-vote-should-be-delayed.html
Italian elections should be pushed
back beyond the February dates being considered by the
government, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said.  “This rush to go to elections is creating unnecessary
pressure,” Berlusconi said during the recording last night of
the “Porta a Porta” television program on state-owned RAI1.  The Italian government was seeking to set elections for
Feb. 17 or Feb. 24 after Prime Minister  Mario Monti   his
intention to resign this month in the wake of Berlusconi’s party
withdrawing its support. Monti intends to step down when his
budget is passed in Parliament. Under Italian law, elections
would then be called within 45 to 70 days.  Berlusconi confirmed that his party proposed yesterday that
the elections be pushed back at least one or two weeks.  Berlusconi’s party, Popolo della Liberta (People of
Liberty), had less than 20 percent support in three opinion
polls released in the past week. The three-time premier said he
was confident his coalition could reach 40 percent by the time
the elections are held.  Passage of the  budget  has been delayed. The Senate was
initially due to vote on the plan Dec. 18 before it passed to
the Chamber of Deputies for final approval. The Senate has yet
to begin its debate on the budget, making a vote unlikely before
Dec. 20. The Chamber would then have to take up the measure,
meaning it would be difficult to secure final approval as
planned by Dec. 21.  Fabrizio Cicchitto, chief whip of Berlusconi’s PdL party in
the Chamber, said yesterda that the lower house will “take all
the time necessary to examine the budget,” according to the
Italian news agency Ansa.  Leaders of the  Democratic Party , which leads in all opinion
polls, said that Berlusconi’s party was trying to stall for
time.  “They can’t use the Parliament and the budget law to solve
their problems,” Ansa cited Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani as saying yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  