-- MBIA Declines to Disclose Information Requested by SEC
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-12-19T15:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/mbia-declined-to-give-sec-requested-gmac-valuation-information.html
(Corrects headline, first paragraph of story published
Dec. 18 to show that while information wasn’t disclosed
publicly, it was provided to the SEC.)  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , the bond insurer locked
in a three-year legal battle with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , is
refusing to disclose information requested by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including on reserves for
GMAC Mortgage LLC and Residential Capital LLC bankruptcies.  In letters released today, the commission asked for more
details about how the bond insurer ended $32.4 billion of gross
insured commercial mortgage-backed securities, how it accounts
for commutations of financial guarantee insurance contracts
versus derivatives, and the amount it calculated for loss
reserves and recoveries related to  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s GMAC
Mortgage and Residential Capital’s bankruptcies.  “Please explain to us why the increased likelihood of
these bankruptcies did not result in a reduction of the value of
your recoveries recorded from put-backs against these
companies,” Jim Rosenberg, senior assistant chief accountant at
the SEC, said in an Aug. 2 e-mail to MBIA Chief Executive
Officer  Jay Brown .  MBIA won’t release the information publicly, saying
disclosing that would impact settlements with other
counterparties.  Toxic Securities  “We would only disclose loss reserve or recovery balances,
or changes thereto, related to specific counterparties if we
deem such disclosures to be meaningful to investors, as such
disclosures may have an adverse effect on our ability to
negotiate settlements of such balances with counterparties,”
MBIA Chief Financial Officer Chuck Chaplin said in an Oct. 26
letter.  MBIA, the Armonk, New York-based bond insurer that backed
some of Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage securities, had
targeted GMAC Mortgage and ResCap, now-bankrupt units of  Ally
Financial , for misrepresenting the quality of loans that were
packaged into mortgage-backed securities, inducing it to
guarantee the debt.  The SEC said in a Nov. 19 letter it completed the review
and its comments “do not foreclose the Commission from taking
any action with respect to the company or the filings.” Such
correspondence is typically made public less than two months
after a review’s completion.  Shares of MBIA rose 1 percent to $8.07 in  New York .  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to comment.  -- Editors: Richard Bravo, Mitchell Martin  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  