-- Blair Warns Cameron Against ‘Dangerous’ Talk of EU Exit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-18T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/blair-warns-cameron-against-dangerous-talk-of-eu-exit.html
Former U.K. Labour Prime Minister
Tony Blair warned his Tory successor, David Cameron, that talk
of leaving the European Union is “dangerous” and “immensely
damaging to Britain’s long-term interest.”  Blair said today’s generation of politicians needs to know
that “the short-term best politics pulls always in the opposite
direction from the best long-term policy.” He was speaking to
journalists at a lunch in Parliament in  London  today, his second
political engagement in Britain in less than a month after
keeping his distance from domestic affairs for most of the five
years since he left office.  Cameron, under pressure from lawmakers in his Conservative
Party who want to pull out of the EU, has promised a referendum
on the issue. He told lawmakers yesterday that it was
“imaginable” that Britain could leave the bloc, though that
was not his preference.  “One of the things that has alarmed me in different parts
of the world is there’s a very large question people are asking
-- the first question actually -- ‘are you guys seriously going
to get out of  Europe ?”’ Blair said. He said going for a
referendum was “a major, major thing.”  Asked about the suggestion that other EU countries would
give Britain “a free pass” on which rules it wanted to obey
within the bloc, he said “that’s not going to happen.”  One Conservative lawmaker, Michael Fabricant, proposed an
electoral pact on Nov. 26 with the U.K. Independence Party,
based on a pledge of a full “in-out” referendum on British
membership of the EU. Cameron’s office rejected the suggestion.
UKIP, which seeks an exit from the EU, has no lawmakers in the
House of Commons, though it’s currently attracting the support
of about 8 percent of respondents in opinion polls.  Blair rejected UKIP as “a party built on scapegoating, not
solutions, on the idea that our problem is Europe or
foreigners” and warned the Conservatives against a pact with
them. “I would be very hesitant about trading policy with
UKIP,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  