-- Blame Canada’s Kyoto Snub for Keystone Trouble
-- B y   C h r i s   R .   M c D e r m o t t
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/blame-canada-s-kyoto-snub-for-keystone-trouble.html
At midnight on Dec. 14, you might
have heard the pop of champagne corks at some tables in Calgary
and Ottawa. That was the moment  Canada ’s withdrawal from the
 Kyoto Protocol  on  climate change  took effect.  It’s easy to see how the bubbly may have seemed in order.
In announcing Canada’s withdrawal a year ago, Conservative
Environment Minister Peter Kent said he was saving Canadians $14
billion in compliance costs.  In response, several commentators and members of opposition
parties raised the flip side of the same coin, that is, the
costs associated with not playing along with Kyoto’s carbon-
reduction game. These include the increased risks of future
climate-related disasters, Canada’s tarnished international
reputation and influence, and missing out on the competitive
advantages arising from a cleaner-energy economy.  But there’s another, potentially larger price that isn’t
talked about much. To find it, one must look inside the esoteric
world of the oil market.  Crude from Canada’s oil sands in  Alberta  is sold under the
Western Canadian Select contract, which trades at a discount to
the benchmark West Texas Intermediate contract. The discount now
stands at more than $30 a barrel.  Given oil production of at least 2.5 million barrels a day,
that difference implies $75 million a day, or $28 billion a
year, of lost revenue.  Ask any analyst what they think is the biggest determinant
of this discount and they will give you the same answer:
insufficient pipeline capacity. Ron Liepert, Alberta’s former
energy minister and its current finance minister, has a less
technical term for it: “landlocked in bitumen.”  Keystone Denial  President  Barack Obama ’s temporary denial in early 2012 of
a permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, designed to carry oil-
sands crude to the U.S. Gulf Coast, epitomizes the problems
Canada faces expanding pipeline capacity. But Keystone’s
challenges are collateral damage from Canada’s climate policy.  To understand the connection, flash back to 2010. This was
a demoralizing year for the environmental movement. The United
Nations jamboree in Copenhagen at the end of 2009 had failed to
produce a strong agreement, and a cap-and-trade bill had died in
the  U.S. Senate . Environmentalists were looking for a new,
easier target. Enter Canada.  Since taking office in 2006, the Conservative government of
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  made it clear that Canada would
not meet its Kyoto commitments.  Programs established by the erstwhile Liberal government to
reduce  carbon emissions  were dismantled. Internationally, Canada
amassed a collection of “ Fossil of the Day ” awards rivaling
swimmer  Michael Phelps ’s Olympic medal count. For
environmentalists in search of a new target, Canada was a
serendipitous moose painted with a bulls-eye.  And so the wars over the oil sands and their pipelines
entered high gear and continue to this day. Environmentalists
are planning yet another demonstration at the White House on
Presidents Day in February 2013, calling Obama’s continued
rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline their “one big ask.”  For Canada, this poses a real risk that the discount of
Canadian oil to the West Texas Intermediate benchmark will
persist.  Did it have to be this way? Is oil-sands development
inimical to carbon-reduction initiatives like the Kyoto
Protocol? The answer is no. In fact, Kyoto could have helped
save Keystone.  Cleanup Costs  Despite the label “dirty oil,” the Canadian  oil sands  are
not all that much dirtier than conventional crude. The oil
industry estimates that, considering its entire well-to-wheels
existence, a barrel of oil derived from oil sands spews 5
percent to 15 percent more carbon into the atmosphere than does
a barrel of conventional crude.  All the additional emissions accrue in the production
process. The trouble is that the main technology option to
reduce those emissions, carbon capture and storage, is
expensive. Shell Canada thinks it could accomplish the job for
about $70 a metric ton of CO2 reduced. Government estimates have
gone as high as $200 a metric ton.  The Liberal government of Jean Chretien that negotiated and
ratified the  Kyoto Protocol  wanted to develop the oil-sands
asset just as much as the Conservatives do now. But unlike the
Conservatives, the Liberals knew they had to address the oil
sands’ carbon emissions and they needed to do it cheaply. So
they pressed for a provision in the Kyoto Protocol called the
Clean Development Mechanism.  Rather than the expensive process of carbon capture in the
oil sands, this mechanism would allow companies to invest in
projects in  developing countries  that reduced emissions in
sectors with much lower abatement costs.  In return, the companies would obtain carbon credits that
could be used to offset emissions at home. During the Kyoto
compliance period, the price of these credits has averaged about
10 euros ($13) a metric ton of CO2, or a fifth to a fifteenth of
the potential cost of  carbon capture .  Imagine if Canada had stayed in Kyoto -- perhaps not
meeting the target, but taking a best-efforts approach under the
agreement. It would have implemented a cap-and-trade system
that, with the use of  carbon offsets  and a price on carbon,
would have cost-effectively driven oil-sands emissions down to
conventional levels.  In this alternative history, the credibility of the
argument against “dirty oil” would have been greatly
diminished. Environmentalists might have left Canada alone and
focused on the greater problem of  China ’s increasing emissions
from coal-fired power generation.  Today’s reality is instead pipeline protests and active
campaigns for divestment in oil-sands assets. Today’s reality is
billions a year in lost revenue for oil-sands producers, their
shareholders and the tax and royalty base.  Time will tell whether Obama finally approves the Keystone
XL pipeline. Regardless of his decision, opposition to oil-sands
development is unlikely to fade. Maybe Canadian policy makers
should pause before swilling any more bubbly over Canada’s
withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol.  (Chris R. McDermott, who was from 1998 to 2006 a Canadian
federal negotiator on the Kyoto Protocol, works in private
investment in oil and gas, renewable energy and carbon trading.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Christopher McDermott at  Christopher_r_mcdermott@yahoo.ca .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 