-- Jackhammers Pound River Rocks to Keep Mississippi Open
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/blasting-mississippi-rocks-delayed-as-backhoes-make-progress.html
Efforts to clear the drought-
depleted  Mississippi River  will proceed without the aid of
explosives as the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers has opted, for
the moment, to jackhammer submerged rock obstacles in hopes of
opening the waterway for barge traffic.  While blowing up the so-called pinnacles, submerged
formations south of St. Louis that hinder passage in the low-
level Mississippi, remains “on the table,” a Corps spokesman
said a “hydro hammer” will be used to break up the rocks.  “This thing is basically a huge aquatic jackhammer, it
looks like something Wile E. Coyote ordered from Acme -- it’s
awesome,” said Mike Petersen, chief of public affairs for the
Corps’ St. Louis District.  As water levels fall to near-record lows, the rocks near
the town of Thebes, at the southern tip of  Illinois , loom as
dangerous obstacles to vessels moving coal, grain and other
cargo on the nation’s busiest waterway. Barges have already
reduced loads as a precaution against striking the pinnacles.  Although Petersen said he expects explosives to be part of
the solution for this 15-mile stretch at some point before the
end of January, the river is low enough now to enable the
breaking and removal of rocks at a lower cost and without the
environmental and ecological damage from blasting.  Part of a $10 million project, the Corps had originally
planned to plant explosives in the riverbed beginning yesterday.
The river was closed to barge traffic for 16 hours starting at 6
a.m., the start of a daily shutdown to allow engineers to remove
the obstacles.  River Closings  Portions of the  Mississippi  now resemble a beach at low
tide. Sandbars have replaced areas that used to be marked by
swirling currents. Barges with excavating equipment and Coast
Guard patrol boats are the only vessels on the water for two-
thirds of the day, while north and southbound barges wait in
line for the eight hours they have to proceed.  Success in clearing the river will hinge largely on the
weather.  “Rain, rain and more rain. There is no end game without
more rain,” Major General John W. Peabody, the commander of the
Corps’ Mississippi Valley region, told Bloomberg TV in an
interview. “In about 30 days, we’ll have lowered the channel
that has the rock obstructions in it by about a foot and a half.
So that will take the navigation channel down about that
amount.”  Unusual Levels  The last time the Corps had to resort to blasting was 1989.  “It’s unusual to have very low water like this,” Peabody
said. “It doesn’t happen often, it happens periodically.
Unfortunately when it does happen, it tends to go in multi-year
stretches, so it’s possible that we may be seeing this for the
next few years as well, depending again on what happens with the
weather.”  Mississippi River barge traffic is slowing as the worst
drought in five decades combines with a seasonal dry period to
drop water levels, prompting shippers, including  Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. (ADM)  and AEP River Operations LLC, to seek alternatives.  Industry groups have been pressing to get the work under
way quicker to keep open a route through which $7 billion in
goods pass in a typical December and January. Barge captains
have long navigated the contours of the Mississippi River made
famous by  Mark Twain , carefully following a channel that winds
between submerged pinnacles and other obstructions.  Half Solution  Ann McCulloch, a spokeswoman for the American Waterways
Operators, said there is “nothing to suggest the river levels
will not continue to drop,” regardless of the success the Corps
may have removing the pinnacles.  “We’re clearly seeing the consequences of reduced flows
from the Missouri River, and removal of the rock obstacles is
really only half the solution,” said McCulloch, whose
Arlington, Virginia-based trade group represents the tugboat and
barge industry.  Last week, the agency began to increase the flow from
Carlyle Lake on the Kaskaskia River system in southwest
Illinois, which it said may add 6 inches of water to the lowest
point in the Mississippi. The Corps has so far refused requests
from shippers to increase the flow of water from the Missouri
River, which flows into the Mississippi near  St. Louis .  The Mississippi at St. Louis and Thebes yesterday was about
18 inches above the level at which barges may not be able to
pass safely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  