-- BOE Credit Plan Shows Signs of Cutting U.K. Funding Costs
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-18T11:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/boe-s-credit-plan-shows-early-signs-of-lowering-funding-costs.html
The Bank of England’s credit-
boosting plan is showing “early signs” of helping to lower
bank funding costs, which may spur a gradual pickup in mortgage
approvals and aid the U.K. economy, the central bank said.  “Easier access to credit” through the so-called Funding
for Lending Scheme “should boost consumption and investment by
households and businesses,” it said in an article in its
Quarterly Bulletin, published in  London  today. “In turn,
increased economic activity should raise incomes.”  The FLS, which began on Aug. 1, is intended to improve the
flow of credit. Early signs have been “encouraging” and
suggest the program is working as expected so far, though there
are likely to be “sizeable” time lags until its effects are
fully visible, according to the article.  Still, the attractiveness of using the FLS program has
decreased as market funding costs fall. When the plan was
announced on June 14, it would have been around 200 basis points
cheaper than using other sources of secured wholesale finance,
such as mortgage-backed securities or covered bonds, the Bank of
England said. With the recent declines in wholesale costs,
driven partly by the FLS, the scheme was likely to be around 100
basis points cheaper as of Nov. 26, the central bank said.  For some banks, “the relative attractiveness of the FLS
would be reduced, the BOE said. It is still likely that for most
banks the FLS provides an attractive source of funding,” it
said.  ‘Fallen Sharply’  The  chapter in the bulletin  was written by Rohan Churm and
Amar Radia of the Monetary Assessment and Strategy Division,
Jeremy Leake of the Financial Institutions Division, Sylaja
Srinivasan of the Statistics and Regulatory Data Division and
Richard Whisker of the Sterling Markets Division. In it, they
said early signs from the FLS “have been encouraging, as
funding costs for U.K. banks have fallen sharply.”  Bank of England  policy makers introduced the FLS to help
stimulate an economy  struggling to recover  from a recession. Its
introduction coincided with some officials expressing doubts
about the effectiveness of their  bond-purchase program , which
has reached 375 billion pounds ($607 billion).  Still, a separate article in the bulletin noted that the
pickup in  broad money growth  during the latest round of
quantitative easing, which finished at the end of October,
“appear to indicate a positive effect of asset purchases.”  Sentiment Improves  In a chapter on financial markets, the Bank of England said
sentiment “showed signs of improvement” in recent months. This
was partly because of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
pledge, which many contacts thought “had eliminated the risk of
a disorderly unwind of euro-area imbalances in the short term.”  The chapter, which reviewed developments up to Nov. 26,
added that tensions rose at the end of the period on concern
that U.S. political negotiations aimed at avoiding the so-called
fiscal cliff “may fail to produce an agreement on the speed and
composition of  deficit reduction .”  In a section on derivatives clearing, the BOE said new
global rules will increase demand for “high-quality  government
bonds ” that can be used as collateral. It said that “although
significant uncertainties remain, estimates of the size of that
additional demand are large.”  European Union and U.S. regulators are struggling to align
rules for the $648 trillion market for over-the-counter
derivatives, which became a target for tougher oversight after
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Banks may
have to meet minimum collateral rules for trades that aren’t
centrally cleared as part of a push by global regulators to make
the market safer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  