-- BofA Shares More Than Double for Year as CEO Boosts Capital
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-12-18T21:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bofa-shares-more-than-double-for-year-as-moynihan-boosts-capital.html
Bank of America Corp. , the  best
performer  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  for 2012, has more
than doubled since the start of the year as the company rebuilds
capital and investor confidence.  Bank of America climbed 36 cents to $11.36 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York , bringing its advance for this year to 104 percent. The
second-largest U.S. lender by assets has more than quadrupled
since February 2009 when the stock sold for $2.53 during the
credit crisis amid speculation it would be nationalized.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has targeted $8
billion in annual cost cuts and is boosting capital at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm, in part by selling more
than $60 billion in assets since he took over in 2010. Moynihan
said Dec. 4 he’s confident Bank of America will pass the next
round of U.S. stress tests, a move that could open the way for a
higher dividend or share buybacks.  “Given the improvement in Bank of America’s capital ratios
over the past year we now believe it is highly likely that it
will return capital in 2013,” Richard Staite, an analyst with
Atlantic Equities LLP, said in a Dec. 13 note. Excess capital
will “reduce the perception of risk,” making the company “our
top pick among U.S. banks,” he wrote.  The  Federal Reserve  subjects the biggest financial firms to
stress tests designed to show whether they can handle a set of
theoretical economic setbacks and shocks. The results can
determine whether payouts increase. Bank of America’s quarterly
dividend has been a token 1-cent a share since March 2009.  Excess Capital  “The question will be what to ask for and when, because
we’re not going to fail this,” Moynihan, 53, said at an
investor conference earlier this month. “It’s pretty clear
we’ve got the capital we need.”  Bank of America shares beat  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , which gained
50 percent this year, and Walt Disney Co., which advanced 34
percent, as the best performer in the 30-company Dow Jones
benchmark. In the KBW Bank Index, which features 24 of the
biggest commercial lenders, Bank of America exceeded  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) ’s 64 percent rise.  The bank remains far below levels that prevailed in
November 2006 before the financial crisis, when it sold for more
than $55 a share and ranked as the biggest U.S. lender.  Meredith Whitney , the bank analyst who correctly predicted
Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut, yesterday upgraded her
recommendation on Bank of America shares. Whitney is the CEO of
Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  