-- Bovespa Stock-Index Futures Rise as Higher Commodities Lift Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-18T11:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-as-higher-commodities-lift-vale.html
Bovespa-index futures rose as higher
commodities prices boosted the outlook for Brazilian raw-
material producers amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers will agree
on a budget.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA advanced in Frankfurt trading.
Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company,
may move after Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on
its foreign currency bonds to negative from stable. Sugar and
ethanol producer Sao Martinho SA may be active after saying it
paid 199.6 million reais to Biosev SA for Usina Sao Carlos
assets.  Bovespa-index  futures  climbed 0.5 percent to 60,330 at 9:06
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0967
per  U.S. dollar . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials added 0.2 percent.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
are negotiating to avert more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts set to start in January, known as the fiscal
cliff. Obama yesterday made a new offer that would raise taxes
by $1.2 trillion and cut $1.22 trillion in spending, according
to a person familiar with the talks.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index has climbed 14 percent from this year’s
low in June as stimulus from central banks around the world
eased concerns about an economic slowdown, while record-low
benchmark lending rates has pushed some investors to move into
stocks from fixed-income.  The index  trades  at 11.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates
for the next four quarters, in line with the ratio for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 11.9 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday. That compares with a daily average of 7.26
billion reais this year through Dec. 14, according to data
compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  