-- Brazilian Real Rises as Short-Dollar Reserve Requirements Eased
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-12-18T20:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/brazil-real-snaps-declines-as-short-dollar-requirements-eased.html
Brazil ’s real rose for the first
time in four days as the central bank eased reserve requirements
on bets against the dollar to boost the local currency.  The real appreciated 0.5 percent to 2.0890 per U.S. per
dollar at the close in Sao Paulo. Swap rates on contracts due in
July 2014 increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 7.27 percent.  Financial institutions will be required to collect reserve
requirements on short dollar positions above $3 billion starting
Dec. 20 instead of the previous $1 billion level. A short is a
bet an asset will lose value.  “If the central bank is making those rules more flexible,
it’s because it wants a stronger real,” Reginaldo Siaca, the
currency manager at Advanced Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo,
said in a phone interview. “The central bank wants the market
to cede a bit so the  exchange rate  doesn’t affect inflation.”  The government started this month loosening capital
controls it imposed in the past two years after the real tumbled
to a three-year low on Nov. 30 as the economy grew in the third
quarter at half the pace forecast by analysts.  Swap rates rose today as the Foundation Economics Research
Institute reported that Sao Paulo’s consumer prices increased
more than economists forecast, spurring speculation the central
bank will begin raising borrowing costs to stem inflation.  Brazil’s policy makers left the  target lending rate  at a
record low 7.25 percent last month following 10 straight
reductions. Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on the
direction of borrowing costs.  Falling Real  The real has fallen 11 percent this year, the worst
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
weakness in the exchange rate is inflating the cost of interest
payments for Brazilian borrowers and sapping profit at companies
with expenses in dollars such as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA.  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real from strengthening.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps on
Dec. 3 and $1.6 billion on Nov. 23 to stem the real’s declines.
From August through October, the bank sold reverse currency
swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  Foreign direct investment, which has hovered at almost
record levels in recent years even as global economic growth has
slowed, will increase by $2 billion to $65 billion next year,
the central bank reported today. That is just enough to cover
the expected current account deficit next year. Foreign direct
investment in November was $4.6 billion, more than the $3
billion forecast by economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  