-- Brazilian Journalist Gets Threats After Police Reporting
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-12-19T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/brazilian-journalists-gets-threats-after-police-reporting.html
A Brazilian journalist who won the
Committee to Protect Journalists’ International Press Freedom
award received death threats after publishing an investigation
that documented alleged police corruption.  Anonymous callers to the  Gazeta do Povo  newspaper and a
local television station said police officers were planning to
kill reporter  Mauri Konig  at his home in Curitiba, in
southeastern  Brazil , according to Leonir Batisti, who oversees
investigations into police crime at the public prosecutor’s
office. Officials are investigating the alleged threats, Batisti
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Konig and other journalists at the newspaper started
publishing in May a series of stories and photographs that
showed several police officers using their official vehicles
allegedly for personal purposes, including visiting brothels and
going to the beach. Gazeta do Povo published a story yesterday
saying that those same officers are being promoted in alleged
violation of police statutes.  “The Brazilian authorities must respond firmly,” Carlos
Lauria, Americas program coordinator for the Committee to
Protect Journalists, said in a telephone interview. “The
subjects Mauri reports on are of great public interest. This
isn’t the first death threat that he has received.”  Konig went into hiding this week after receiving the
threats, the CPJ said in a statement.  Police Promotion  The alleged personal use of police vehicles is being
investigated and no officers have been promoted, according to a
press official at the Parana civil police, who asked not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly.  Four journalists have been killed because of their work
this year in Brazil, the most in more than a decade, according
to the New York-based CPJ. That places it fourth among the
deadliest countries for journalists this year, after Syria,
Somalia and  Pakistan .  Two-thirds of the 24 reporters murdered in Brazil since
1992 covered corruption, according to the CPJ. Brazil ranks 69th
on Transparency International’s list of the most corrupt
countries.  Impunity is one of the biggest obstacles to press freedom
in Brazil as journalists increasingly report on corruption,
organized crime and human rights, Konig said in a blog post
published yesterday on CPJ’s website.  “Journalists are killed in reprisal for this type of
reporting,” said Konig. “The media professionals who are most
exposed are those who take up political causes or are linked to
local authorities. Journalists who work in smaller cities,
especially near the border areas, are more vulnerable.”  Konig’s previous reporting helped break up a sex-
trafficking ring in Brazil, according to the citation for his
press freedom award. In 2000, he was beaten with chains and left
for dead near the Brazilian border with  Paraguay  for reporting
on child kidnappings, the citation said.  Last month, Brazilian journalist Eduardo Carvalho was shot
to death in front of his home in the capital of the central-
western state of Mato Grosso do Sul, the G1 news service
reported. Carvalho owned a website that reported on local
corruption, according to the CPJ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  