-- Brazil Sees Current Account Gap Widening to Record Next Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-18T16:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/brazil-sees-current-account-gap-widening-to-record-next-year.html
Brazil’s central bank forecast the
country’s  current account deficit  will widen next year to the
biggest on record as strong demand causes growth to accelerate.  The deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, is expected to rise to $65 billion
in 2013 from an estimated $52.4 billion this year, the bank said
in a report today. The shortfall widened in November to $6.3
billion, more than the $6.1 billion median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  “This reflects our growth expectations for 2013,” Tulio Maciel, the head of the central bank’s economic research
department, told reporters in Brasilia today. “When there is an
acceleration in economic activity, there is a demand for
services abroad, and that gets reflected in the current
account.”  Foreign direct investment, which has hovered near record
levels in recent years even as the global economy remains weak,
will increase by $2 billion to $65 billion next year, according
to the bank, whose report contained 2013 estimates for the first
time. That’s barely enough to cover the expected current account
gap next year. FDI in November was $4.6 billion, more than the
$3 billion forecast by economists.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has broadened the
scope of stimulus measures to revive  Brazil ’s $2.5 trillion
economy, which economists forecast will grow 1 percent this
year. In the last 16 months, policy makers have cut interest
rates to record lows, trimmed taxes on consumer goods and
increased public spending.  Trade Balance  The government has also worked to boost local manufacturers
and exporters by weakening the real, which has declined 11
percent this year, the worst performance among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The drop in the currency has yet to revive manufacturing
exports. Brazil posted a trade deficit in November of $187
million compared with a surplus of $577 million a year ago,
according to today’s report. Exports fell 6 percent from a year
earlier to $20.5 billion, while imports slid 2.5 percent to
$20.7 billion.  Brazil’s trade surplus next year should shrink to $17
billion, from a forecast $19 billion this year, as imports rise
at a faster pace than exports, the bank said.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 were
unchanged at 7.08 percent at 1:38 p.m. local time. The real
strengthened 0.31 percent to 2.0932 per U.S. dollar.  Accelerating Growth  The world’s second-largest emerging market  grew  0.6 percent
in the third quarter, half the pace of economists’ forecast and
slower than the U.S. Since then, indicators suggest that growth
is gaining speed. The  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, rebounded more than analysts forecast in
October. Retail sales in October increased at the fastest pace
in three months as low unemployment underpins consumer spending.  Economists surveyed by the central forecast growth next
year will accelerate to 3.4 percent.  International companies have announced investments in
various sectors. Japanese automaker  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co. said it is
considering investing as much as 400 million reais ($190
million) in a technology center, while  BP Plc (BP/) , the second-
biggest European oil company, will spend $350 million to double
capacity of its Tropical ethanol project in Brazil, Mario Lindenhayn, chief executive officer of BP’s Brazil biofuel unit,
said Dec. 7.  Uneven economic growth hasn’t helped the central bank fight
inflation. Consumer prices rose 5.53 percent in November from a
year ago, faster than the 5.45 percent pace a month earlier.
Inflation is converging to the bank’s 4.5 percent target, bank
President Alexandre Tombini said Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 