-- Brazil Eases Reserve Requirement on Banks to Buoy Currency
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-18T16:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/brazil-eases-reserve-requirement-on-banks-to-buoy-currency.html
Brazil ’s central bank reduced
 reserve requirements  on short dollar positions held by local
banks as it steps up efforts to buoy the real, the worst
performing major currency this year.  Starting Dec. 20, banks will be required to deposit in cash
at the central bank 60 percent of their short positions in U.S.
dollars above $3 billion, up from a previous limit of no more
than $1 billion or any amount in excess of its capital base, the
central bank said in a statement. The real strengthened 0.2
percent to 2.0992 per  U.S. dollar  at 1:10 p.m. local time.  The government started this month loosening capital
controls it imposed in the past two years after the real tumbled
to a three-year low on Nov. 30 and the economy grew at half the
pace forecast by economists in the third quarter. Brazil is
facing a different situation now compared with early 2011, when
measures were implemented to slow capital inflows, said Tulio Maciel, the head of the central bank’s economic research
department.  “This is one more measure that removes breaks put in place
in the past, when the dollar was at 1.75 and people saw it going
to 1.50,” Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at Banco
WestLB do Brasil SA in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview.
“Given the dollar is at a new level the government considers
more acceptable, the central bank is cleaning house.”  Half the Pace  Brazilian banks’ short dollar position was $3.65 billion on
Dec. 14, Maciel said today. That compares with banks’ $914
million long dollar position last month. Banks short dollar
position was $16.8 billion in December 2010, just before the
government introduced reserve requirements to deter bets against
the dollar.  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.6 percent in the third quarter,
the national statistics agency said Nov. 30, as government
stimulus efforts failed to revive investment that fell for the
fifth straight period. The growth number was lower than the
forecasts of all 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg whose
median estimate was for 1.2 percent expansion.  The real has weakened 11 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasília at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 