-- Brazil Said to Plan Higher Ethanol Blend as Early as May
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-12-18T15:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/brazil-said-to-plan-higher-ethanol-blend-as-early-as-may.html
Brazil , the world’s biggest sugar-
cane grower, is considering raising the amount of ethanol mixed
with gasoline as early as May as millers are forecast to process
a record crop next year, a government official familiar with the
plan said.  The mandatory ethanol blend in fuel sold at Brazilian
service stations would rise to 25 percent from 20 percent now,
said the official, who asked not to be named because he’s not
authorized to discuss the plan publicly. Mills in the country
process most of the sugar-cane crop into sweetener and fuel
between April and November.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-run oil producer,
has been importing gasoline and selling it below cost this year
after fuel demand in the world’s second-largest emerging economy
exceeded domestic supplies. Brazil lowered the ethanol blend to
20 percent from 25 percent in October 2011 after rainfall
delayed sugar-cane harvesting and reduced crop yields.  Brazil’s finance and energy ministries declined to comment
in e-mailed responses to questions.  A record sugar-cane crop next year means ethanol production
in Brazil’s Center South region will rise to a three-year high
of 23.7 billion liters (6.3 billion gallons), Pedro Mizutani,
head of sugar and ethanol at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Cosan SA
Industria & Comercio’s Raizen venture, said in a Dec. 13
interview. Raizen is the world’s largest sugar-cane processor.  Record Crop  Sugar-cane output in the region will rise to a record 580
million metric tons, while production of the sweetener made from
the tropical plant will increase to an all-time high of 36
million tons, Mizutani said. The Center South produces about 90
percent of Brazil’s sugar and ethanol.  Sugar futures have slumped 40 percent in the past two years
after Brazil and  India , the largest producers, increased output
of the sweetener. The contract for March delivery fell 1.1
percent to 19.20 cents a pound at 10:01 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  