-- Builders Hanging Help-Wanted Signs as Industry Rebounds
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-12-18T21:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/builders-hanging-help-wanted-signs-as-industry-rebounds.html
Construction employment in the U.S.
is poised to rebound as a swelling pipeline of projects prompts
companies to expand.  Builders in October had the most  job openings  and broke
ground on more homes than at any time in four years, government
data show. Billing by architecture firms, which typically leads
construction by at least nine months, is climbing at the fastest
pace since December 2010.  “You have a lot of projects right now in design and
development, and as soon as the financing hits and the approvals
are out, then the shovels go in the ground,” said Suzanne Breistol, co-owner of  ConstructionConnection.com , a Marble
Falls, Texas-based employment consulting service.  While construction payrolls accounted for 4.1 percent of
all U.S. employment in November, a six-decade low, industry
hiring will ripple through the world’s largest economy,
prompting manufacturers, retailers, landscapers, real-estate
brokers and transportation companies to also take on staff,
according to economist  Mark Zandi . About 250,000 construction
and related jobs will be created in 2013, 13 percent of the 1.93
million Zandi projects the U.S. will add.  “Construction is a small share of the job market, but it
can be a very large share of job growth, particularly when the
construction industry is in an upswing,” said Zandi, chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “A big share of the improvement in jobs growth
that I anticipate will come from construction and anything
related.”  Builder Confidence  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders climbed in December for
the eighth straight month, reaching its highest level in more
than six years.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence increased to 47 this month from 45 in
November, the Washington-based group reported today.  The number of  job openings  at construction firms jumped to
130,000 in October, up 59 percent from the prior month and the
most since May 2008, Labor Department data show. Housing starts
climbed to 894,000 that month, the highest level since July
2008, according to Commerce Department data. Each new home
usually equates to full employment for three people for a year,
according to Robert Dietz, an economist at the National
Association of Home Builders in  Washington .  Qualified Tradespeople  “The first and second quarter of next year is when you’re
really going to start seeing people pounding the door to get the
qualified tradespeople they need,” said Breistol, a two-decade
veteran in matching workers with jobs and firms with financing.  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , the Scottsdale, Arizona-based builder
of homes in the southern and western U.S., has increased its
workforce by about 20 percent during the past 12 months.
Meritage had a 39 percent increase in orders for the first three
quarters of the year, compared with a year earlier. The builder
has rallied  64 percent  this year through yesterday.  The new staff don’t include “people our suppliers and
subcontractors have added with the extra work they are
getting,” Brent Anderson, a spokesman for Meritage, said in an
e-mail. “You can see how significant an impact homebuilding can
have on the  U.S. economy .”  In  California ,  home prices  gained 25 percent in the 12
months through November, the most in eight years, as demand rose
in expensive coastal areas. The median price of an existing,
single-family detached rose to $349,300, the California
Association of Realtors said today in a statement.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose amid signs of progress in budget talks
between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 1.1 percent to 1,446.79 at
the close in  New York , a two-month high.  The value of all U.S.  construction  projects, including
residential, commercial and those financed by the government,
climbed in October to an $872.1 billion annual rate, the most
since September 2009, according to data from the Commerce
Department. Yet builders had 5.51 million workers on payrolls
last month, little changed from the almost 15-year low of 5.46
million in January 2011.  “Spending is getting better, and yet employment is not,”
said Ken Simonson, chief economist at the Associated General
Contractors of America in Arlington,  Virginia , and president of
the National Association for Business Economics. “You have to
expect that the jobs will begin to pick up” because “you need
more workers in order to produce the output.”  Hours Worked  The rebounding  construction industry  may be reaching the
limits of how much it can do with current staff. The number of
hours worked per week by each employee averaged 38.8 over the
past three months, the most in any similar period since monthly
records began in 2006, according to Labor Department data.  The American Institute of Architects’ Work-on-the-Boards
Billings Index rose to 52.8 in October, the second-highest level
in almost five years, according to the Washington-based industry
group. Readings above 50 signal an increase in activity. The
gauge, based on a survey of about 700 U.S.-based firms,
including Skidmore Owings & Merrill LLP, HOK Architects Corp.,
and Gensler, has climbed for five straight months, the longest
streak of gains in a decade. The group’s index of  inquiries 
about new work also has risen five straight months.  Mortgage Rates  Construction is aiding the U.S. economy’s three-year-old
expansion after the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented efforts
drove  mortgage rates  to record lows. The central bank has
purchased almost  $3 trillion  of assets and held the main
 interest rate  near zero for four years. The average fixed rate
on a 30-year mortgage was  3.32 percent  last week, close to last
month’s record low of 3.31 percent, according to  Freddie Mac .  Residential construction may add to economic growth this
year for the first time since 2005, boosting gross domestic
product by 0.3 percentage point, according to according to
 Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York. That  contribution  may double next year and reach about 1
percentage point when related industries such as furnishings and
remodeling are added, he said last week.  To be sure, there are obstacles preventing builders from
boosting staff in the short run. Firms are wary because they
must pay more for health insurance under President Obama’s
Affordable Care Act and because of concern about a fiscal
contraction if lawmakers and Obama can’t agree on a budget plan,
according to Adam Bonsky, an executive vice president at Fringe
Benefit Group., an Austin, Texas-based hiring and benefits
consultant for construction companies.  ‘Big Things’  “They’re on every contractor’s mind right now,” Bonsky
said. “The fiscal cliff and the health-care mandate are the two
big things out there that create a lot of uncertainty for
construction right now in terms of their hiring.”  At the same time, reconstruction after superstorm Sandy may
lead to a burst of hiring in early 2013, which will also push up
wages.  Ed Walters, who’s been building homes in  New Jersey  since
becoming a carpenter in 1984, expects a “huge spike” in
employment in the Northeast U.S. next year.  The 50-year-old founder of Walters Group, a Barnegat
Township-based developer of homes, apartments and shopping
centers, already is seeing trucks around the area sporting
Alabama and Texas license plates. Workers pulling down $12 to
$15 an hour now may command as much as $20 an hour a year from
now, he said.  “Once the floodgates open, that workforce is just going to
be completely absorbed with no problem,” Walters said. “As
long as this recovery is real and sticks and doesn’t evaporate
like some have in the last three or four years, then we’re going
to start experiencing labor shortages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  