-- California to Require Disclosure 10 Days Before Fracking
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-12-18T20:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/california-to-require-disclosure-10-days-before-fracking-1-.html
California regulators will require
oil and natural gas companies to disclose plans to use hydraulic
fracturing 10 days in advance, under draft regulations released
today.  If the regulations are adopted, the Division of Oil, Gas,
and Geothermal Resources will post well locations three days
before fracturing begins, according to a  statement  posted on the
agency’s website today. The state doesn’t currently require
companies to reveal fracking plans.  The so-called “discussion draft” proposal is meant to
begin talks over regulations that may be adopted at a later time
by Gov. Jerry Brown and state lawmakers. The formal process of
establishing the regulations will begin in early 2013, according
to the statement.  Oil and gas companies “will participate in the process as
new regulations are formulated,” Tupper Hull, spokesman for the
Western States Petroleum Association, an industry trade group,
said today in an e-mail.  The rules also would require companies to post information
about chemicals used to fracture wells on FracFocus, a national
website that the energy industry helped create in 2011 to allow
for voluntary disclosure. As in other states, companies would be
allowed to avoid naming some chemical compounds considered to be
trade secrets. In some cases, they may also seek exceptions
where fracturing is expected to occur for exploratory wells.  The regulations also require additional well testing and
monitoring before, during and after fracturing operations.  California is the nation’s third-largest oil-producing
state, with average output of 524,000 barrels a day of crude in
September, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  