-- Canadian Dollar Drops as U.S. Lawmakers Seek Budget Compromise
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-12-18T15:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/canadian-dollar-drops-as-u-s-lawmakers-seek-budget-compromise.html
The Canadian dollar declined against
its U.S. counterpart amid signs lawmakers may find a compromise
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, bolstering prospects for
the American economy.  Canada ’s currency rallied against the  U.S. dollar  by the
most in five days yesterday after the federal statistics agency
said foreign investors had their fourth straight month of net
investment in the nation’s securities. Further gains for the so-
called loonie may be limited as a technical measure shows it may
have rallied too much, too fast. The currency trailed the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers today along with the fellow
commodity-related dollars of Australia and  New Zealand  as oil
pared earlier gains.  “Anything relating to the fiscal cliff, any positive
developments, are certainly going to help the U.S. dollar,”
said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange in
Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , in a telephone interview from
Toronto. He said currency flows have declined recently as market
participants go on vacation.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to 98.51
cents at 10:26 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0151. The loonie has gained 0.9 percent this month, paring it
quarterly loss to 0.1 percent.  Canada’s dollar fell after the 14-day relative strength
index versus the dollar touched 33 yesterday, approaching the
level of 30 that indicates a currency may have strengthened too
rapidly and is due for a reversal.  Going Long  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 0.3
percent to $87.49 a barrel in  New York  after rising as much as
0.8 percent. The Standard & Poor’s Index of stocks gained 0.3
percent.  The loonie has lagged behind other majors amid “a lack of
interest to add to what are already fairly aggressive long
position in both the Canadian and Australian dollars,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , said by telephone from Toronto.  Futures traders have increased their bets that the loonie
will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar compared with
those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was 62,533 on Dec. 11,
compared with net longs of 57,071 a week earlier.  Bonds Decline  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the benchmark 10-
year note up one basis point, 0.01 percentage point, to 1.84
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June
2022 rose 10 cents to C$107.92. Yields on Canadian securities
maturing in 2041 increased one basis point to 2.41 percent.  “That’s some decent movement in the long end,” said Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based Concannon Wealth Management, which oversees about $250
million. “Some of this feels like early exits in anticipation
of re-entering at better levels.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  lowered his tax revenue demand,
moving closer to a budget deal with House Speaker  John Boehner ,
as politicians in Canada’s biggest trade parter seek to avoid
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled to begin in January. They want to replace the
immediate  deficit reduction  with more gradual changes.  Canada’s currency has gained 0.8 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 3.2 percent and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 12.2 percent. New
Zealand’s dollar leads gainers, up 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  