-- Cathay Pacific, Flight Attendants Fail to Reach Accord
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/cathay-pacific-union-talks-start-today-with-mediators.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and its
cabin crew  union  failed to reach an agreement in talks yesterday
as government mediators seek to avert possible  industrial action 
during the year-end travel rush.  The Cathay Pacific Airways Flight Attendants Union will
begin protests if negotiations don’t produce “significant
progress” by the end of today, the group said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, adding that management suggestions can’t
address the concerns of cabin crew. Members may work to rule or
reduce services, the union said earlier.  The airline’s assessment of the talks was more positive: it
called them “constructive” with “good progress made,”
according to an e-mail. Talks resume today, Cathay said. The
airline and the union didn’t disclose topics discussed.  The discussions are focused on work patterns and
conditions, Tsang Kwok-fung, a spokesman for the labor group
said by telephone before talks started yesterday. Shifts and
routes affect cabin crew’s pay because they get extra allowances
for longer flights. The union represents more than 5,800 of the
Hong Kong-based  airline ’s 9,000 flight attendants. It has no
plans to strike over Christmas or New Year’s Eve, Tsang said.  The dispute comes as slumping long-haul travel demand
forces Cathay to cut capacity in a bid to end losses. The cuts
affect cabin crew because allowances make intercontinental
flights more lucrative and help speed promotions.  Cathay has said it won’t raise pay by more than 2 percent.
That’s “very much” a final decision, Chief Executive Officer
John Slosar said in an interview published in the South China
Morning Post yesterday. The union earlier asked for as much as 5
percent.  The airline’s  stock  fell 0.7 percent to HK$13.88 in Hong
Kong trading yesterday and has gained 4.2 percent this year,
 compared  with a 22 percent climb in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  The last time Cathay flight attendants went on strike was
during the Lunar New Year holiday in 1993, when about 1,000
cabin crew walked out for 17 days, the longest in the union’s
history, according to Tsang. Since then, there have been smaller
actions such as working to rule, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  