-- Central Bank Chiefs Said to Seek Basel Liquidity Rule Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-18T16:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/central-bank-chiefs-said-to-seek-liquidity-rule-compromise-deal.html
Global central bank chiefs and
regulators will next month seek to resolve clashes on a
liquidity rule after the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
failed to clinch a full deal on the controversial measure,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  The top officials may meet as soon as Jan. 6 in the Swiss
city to thrash out a compromise on the so-called liquidity-
coverage ratio, that central bankers including European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  have warned may choke interbank
lending and stifle economic recovery.  Basel members failed to broker an accord on all parts of
the LCR during talks last week, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the negotiations are private. Stumbling
blocks included the list of assets that banks may use to satisfy
the rule and whether the introduction of the standard should be
delayed beyond its planned 2015 start date, the people said.  “Positions may be narrowing, but the Basel meeting was so
fractious that the LCR remains a chasm from which a final
standard has yet to emerge,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing
partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., said in an e-mail.  “At this point, I think an LCR will emerge from Basel in
watered-down, very compromised form if only to keep up hopes of
a global bank-regulatory framework,” she said.  The timing of next month’s meeting of the so-called  Group
of Governors and Heads of Supervision  is provisional and may
still change. The GHOS is the Basel committee’s governing board.  The Basel committee declined to comment.  Heavily Diluting  While Draghi and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  have
urged caution on the LCR, supervisors from nations including the
U.S., Germany and  Sweden  have argued that heavily diluting the
standard risks rendering it meaningless.  The LCR would force  banks  to hold enough easy-to-sell
assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. It’s a key component
of an international package of capital and liquidity measures,
known as Basel III, drawn up by officials to avoid a repeat of
the 2008 financial crisis.  The rule sets out a  stress test  that banks should apply to
their books, assessing whether they would be able to generate
enough cash from asset sales to meet their obligations. A draft
version of the standard was published in 2010.  Foreign Branches  “Because the U.S. is committed to a domestic liquidity
rule, including one governing foreign branches doing business
here, it will push hard for a final accord and it has formidable
allies on its side,” Petrou said. “Of course, finalized or
not, the key question is whether whatever LCR comes out of Basel
then is implemented in anything like a consistent fashion in key
markets.”  The U.S. banking industry has a shortfall of around $840
billion in LCR-eligible assets, according to  The Clearing House ,
an association representing lenders including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  The findings,
dated Dec. 14, use data from the second quarter of 2012.  The Clearing House has called for changes to the LCR,
including a revision of the simulated stress scenario, and the
scrapping of a cap on the use of covered bonds and corporate
debt to meet the rule.  Collective Shortfall  Further work on the LCR will take place in the run up to
the planned Jan. 6 meeting, one of the people said.  The GHOS called at the start of this year for the Basel
committee “to finalize and subsequently publish”
recommendations on the LCR by the end of 2012.  The GHOS brings together monetary policy and bank oversight
chiefs from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K.,  China  and
 Japan .  A sample of 209 banks had a collective shortfall of 1.8
trillion euros ($2.4 trillion) at the end of 2011 in the assets
needed to meet the 2010 version of the LCR, according to figures
 published by  the  Bank for International Settlements .  There are “critical problems” that need to be addressed
in the LCR plans,  Richard Reid , a research fellow for finance
and regulation at the  University of Dundee  in  Scotland , said in
an e-mail. “Some central banks will be arguing strongly that
they should have more time to evaluate fully the impact of the
new liquidity rules and how to deal with them efficiently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  