-- Cerberus Founder Feinberg’s Father Is Resident of Newtown
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-12-18T17:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/cerberus-founder-feinberg-s-father-is-resident-of-newtown.html
The father of Stephen Feinberg, the
founder of the private-equity firm that owns gunmaker Freedom
Group Inc., lives in the town where a Freedom Group-made rifle
was used to kill 26 people in an elementary school.  Martin Feinberg, whose son founded Cerberus Capital
Management LP in 1992, is a resident of Liberty at Newtown, a
community for people 55 and older that’s about 6 miles from
Sandy Hook elementary school. Cerberus today announced it will
sell Freedom Group, which makes the Bushmaster semi-automatic
rifle that authorities said was used to kill 20 children between
the ages of six and seven, as well as six adults at the school.  The shooting was “devastating,” Martin Feinberg said in a
brief interview in the foyer of his building. “It’s horrendous,
truly horrendous.”  Cerberus bought the Bushmaster gun operation in April 2006,
one in a series of acquisitions Feinberg’s firm used to build
Freedom Group into the nation’s biggest manufacturer of guns and
ammunition, with nine plants and 3,100 employees. The decision
to sell it came just hours after California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said he’ll propose that the state’s public pension
funds, the two largest in the U.S., dump investments in firearm
manufacturers that make guns prohibited under state law.  The White House yesterday reiterated President  Barack Obama ’s support for a new ban on assault weapons and lawmakers
called for stricter gun-control laws.  ‘Perfect Town’  Newtown had a population of 27,605 as of 2010, according to
its  economic development commission . The median household income
was $111,506 as of 2011, and the median age was 41. Liberty at
Newtown describes it on its website as “that quaint, perfect
New England town that we picture in our minds.”  The residence consists of housing units that are clustered
together, with a main entrance serving as many as eight
residences. Each home is one-floor, has a private two-car garage
and is “designed with the look and feel of a great mansion,”
according to the website. An elevator from the foyer leads to
the second and top floor in each.  There’s no gate at the entrance. Instead, a stone edifice
about 10 feet high carries a sign announcing it as Liberty at
Newtown. A sign on the driveway leading into the neighborhood
says “private community.”  ‘Proud’ Father  Martin Feinberg was dressed casually and sat in an armchair
during the short interview, saying he was “very proud” of his
son, who he said grew up in Spring Valley and Yonkers, New York,
before attending Princeton University.  He declined to comment on Cerberus’s ownership of Freedom
Group.  Stephen Feinberg, 52, was a trader at Drexel Burnham
Lambert before starting Cerberus. His company oversees about 
$20 billion in assets, including private equity and hedge
funds. It once owned Chrysler Corp.  The Newtown shooting was the deadliest massacre in the U.S.
since 33 people died in a 2007 rampage at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Virginia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Newtown at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  