-- Venezuela’s Chavez Stable After Respiratory Infection
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-12-19T01:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/chavez-ally-says-no-other-scenario-to-jan-10-inauguration-1-.html
Venezuela ’s Information Minister
Ernesto Villegas said President  Hugo Chavez  is in “stable”
condition after his medical team yesterday controlled a
respiratory infection.  “The medical team has said that President Chavez should
have absolute rest in the coming days and receive the prescribed
treatment with the greatest rigor,” Villegas said in a national
address.  Diosdado Cabello, president of the National Assembly and a
close ally of Chavez, said he expects the president to be sworn
in for a new term next month, dismissing speculation that the
ailing leader would skip a planned inauguration while he battles
cancer in Cuba.  “We don’t have any other scenarios,” Cabello said today
on state television. “There is a date established in the
constitution. We want the president to recover and be healthy,
and God willing, that’s how it will be.”  Cabello didn’t give any details of Chavez’s recovery from
cancer surgery in Cuba on Dec. 11.  Before the president departed for  Havana , he urged
Venezuelans to elect Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  should he be
unable to take office or fulfill his term. Under Venezuelan law,
if Chavez steps down before his new term begins on Jan. 10,
Maduro would see out the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to the National Assembly president, who would have to
call an election within 30 days.  Chavez, 58, suffered complications due to bleeding during
the six-hour surgery and his recovery won’t be immediate, Maduro
said on Dec. 13.  The socialist party Chavez leads, known as PSUV, won
governorships in 20 of 23 states in regional elections held on
Dec. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  