-- Chile Central Bank Lowers CPI Estimate and Sees Rates Steady
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-12-18T14:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/chile-central-bank-lowers-cpi-estimate-and-sees-rates-steady-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank today indicated
the  benchmark interest rate  will remain steady after policy
makers reduced their inflation forecasts and raised economic
growth estimates.  The central bank board lowered its 2013 inflation forecast
to 2.9 percent from 3 percent, while changing its growth
estimate to a range of 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent from 4
percent to 5 percent, according to the quarterly monetary policy
report published today. They raised the 2012 growth forecast to
5.5 percent from a range of 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent.  The board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, changed
its 2013 inflation estimate after  consumer prices fell  0.5
percent last month, the most since August 2009. While inflation
has remained below the 3 percent target since June, policy
makers have been unwilling to cut the 5 percent benchmark rate
for the past 11 months as economic growth exceeds their
estimates.  “In the base scenario, which today we consider most
probable, the Chilean economy will once again grow at rates in
accordance with its trend while inflation gradually will return
to levels in line with the target,” Vergara said in prepared
remarks to the Senate today. “The base scenario uses as a
working supposition that the monetary policy rate will remain on
a stable trajectory, as indicated in current surveys.”  Traders and investors polled by the central bank on Dec. 10
forecast borrowing costs will remain unchanged at 5 percent
through the end of next year before rising to 5.25 percent by
December 2014.  Beating Forecasts  Since quarterly estimates were last published in September,
 economic growth  has exceeded estimates made by analysts for
three straight months. Policy makers today changed their 2012
estimate for the growth in gross domestic product to 5.5 percent
from a range of 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent in September.  The economy expanded 5.5 percent in the first three
quarters from the same period last year, while unemployment fell
to 6.6 percent in the three months through October from 7.2
percent in 2011.  The rapid expansion of home builders and mid-size banks may
create “vulnerabilities,” the central bank said in its bi-
annual financial stability report, also published today.  Home builders have taken on more debt, while mortgage
lending for their clients has become less restrictive, trends
that “must be followed carefully,” Vergara said.  Home prices 
have risen an average of 5.7 percent above inflation since 2009,
according to the report.  Mid-Sized Banks  Medium-size banks are growing faster than their larger
counterparts and may become increasingly exposed to the threat
of cyclical factors, especially as lenders run the risk of
underestimating the threats posed by credit card debt, the
central bank said.  Central bank board members forecast a current account
deficit equivalent to 4.6 percent of GDP next year, compared
with their 4.4 percent forecast published in September, as they
expect copper prices to average $3.40 a pound, according to the
quarterly report. Chile is the world’s largest copper producer.  Inflation slowed to 2.1 percent in November from 3.9
percent in the year-ago month. The central bank board targets 3
percent inflation plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  Policy makers, who last changed  borrowing costs  in January
with a quarter-point cut, probably will start raising  interest
rates  sooner than traders expect, Leonardo Suarez, research
director at Larrain Vial SA, wrote in a Dec. 17 note e-mailed to
investors.  “Internal demand still remains highly dynamic and the
labor market is very tight,” Suarez wrote. “Given the vigor of
internal demand, we estimate the balance of risks may change the
central bank’s focus to the local scenario and cause it to raise
the monetary policy rate in the first quarter of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 