-- China Builder With $48 Billion Credit Seeks U.S. Projects
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-19T11:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-builder-with-48-billion-credit-seeks-u-s-projects.html
China Communications Construction Co. (1800) 
said it has access to at least 300 billion  yuan  ($48 billion) of
credit lines from local banks as it seeks to invest in
infrastructure projects in the U.S. and other developed nations.  The  company  is looking to help fund, build and operate
ports, highways and bridges, Liu Wensheng, the chairman of its
overseas financial arm, said in an interview in  Hong Kong 
yesterday. It is also working with a global private equity fund
to help find opportunities, he said, declining to elaborate.  “The credit facilities give us solid backing for investing
in projects in developed countries,” Liu said. The credit lines
include a 170 billion yuan agreement with  China  Development Bank
Corp. The Beijing-based builder, China’s No. 2 by market value,
won’t set a total investment target.  China Communications, which made sections for the new San
Francisco Bay Bridge, and other Chinese builders are expanding
overseas as slower domestic growth saps demand at home.
Financing from state-controlled lenders may gave them an edge on
overseas competitors as foreign governments trying to pare
budget deficits ask construction companies to help pay for
projects.  China State Construction Engineering Corp., the nation’s
biggest builder by market value, has also signed a 100 billion
yuan agreement with China Development, according to a Dec. 18
 statement . The funds will support the builder’s domestic and
international plans, it said.  New Plans  China Communications’ plans to invest in projects in
developed countries mark a change to its work in  Africa , where
it only acts a contractor, Liu said. The company’s Africa
 projects  include a highway in  Ethiopia , and port facilities in
Sudan and Mauritania.  “We want to invest in developed countries because of the
stable legal environment and their requirement for quality
construction,” Liu said. Overseas markets accounted for about
11 percent of the builder’s 294.3 billion yuan of  sales  last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company may invest in a proposed container port in
Louisiana, EvangelineToday.com  reported  last month. The builder
is assessing potential harbor projects overseas, Liu said,
declining to give examples. The company is China’s biggest port
builder.  China Communications, which is also working on a stadium in
Qatar for the 2022 soccer  World Cup , dropped 0.9 percent to
close at HK$7.49 in Hong Kong trading today. It has risen 23
percent this year, matching the gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  China State Construction said last year that it planned to
invest as much as $2 billion in the U.S. as part of an overseas
expansion push. Third-ranked China Railway Construction Corp. is
working on a new stadium for Italian soccer team  Inter Milan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  