-- China Home Prices Gain in Majority of Cities as Curbs Stay
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-18T03:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-home-prices-advance-in-majority-of-cities-while-curbs-stay.html
China ’s new  home prices  rose in the
majority of cities the government tracks in November as property
curbs slowed construction, reducing the supply available for
sale.  Prices climbed in 53 of the 70 cities from the previous
month, compared with 35 in October, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics today. That was the most in 18
months. Prices fell in 10 cities.  The government is maintaining property controls, while it
said it will seek a higher “quality and efficiency” of growth
next year after the annual central economic work conference in
Beijing over the weekend. China will stick to its real estate
curbs, Liao Yonglin, an official from the Ministry of Land and
Resources, said at a press conference in Beijing today,
according to a transcript on the ministry’s website.  “Because of the lower new starts in construction, with
fewer new projects, prices will continue to rise in the bigger
cities,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, told Bloomberg Television today. “The
government will be more focused on the housing prices in
 Shanghai  and Beijing than in the smaller cities.”  China’s new property starts fell 7.2 percent in the first
11 months from last year to 1.62 billion square meters (17.4
billion square feet), according to statistics bureau data.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.4 percent at the lunch break, while the benchmark
advanced 0.7 percent.  Price Pressures  The western city of Luzhou in Sichuan province led gains in
November, with a 0.9 percent increase from October, according to
today’s data. Among major cities, Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shenzhou rose 0.6 percent each, while home prices in Shanghai
climbed 0.2 percent from October. Home prices were unchanged in
seven cities.  “There is still rising pressure on home prices, so it’s
very difficult for the government to relax the measures,” Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc., said in
a phone interview today. “The government will strengthen the
enforcement of the current curbs if not necessarily issue new
measures.”  The statistics bureau stopped releasing national average
property prices and changed the methodology of the survey from
January last year, saying it more accurately reflected the
market.  Existing Homes  In its more than two-year effort to rein in prices, the
central government raised down-payment and mortgage requirements,
imposed a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social housing, and
placed home-purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Home prices were little changed in the first 11 months of
this year at 8,791  yuan  ($1,411) per square meter (10.76 square
feet), according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest
real estate website owner. They rose 0.26 percent last month
from October, based on SouFun’s per-square-meter calculations.
That was the most in four months.  Existing home prices rose 0.8 percent in Beijing last month
from October and increased by 0.2 percent in Shanghai, according
to today’s data. Home prices rose in 25 cities from a year
earlier, more than double the 12 cities that increased from a
year ago in October.  Strong Sales  China’s  housing sales  in November climbed 18 percent to
595.8 billion yuan ($96 billion) from a month earlier,
government data showed.  “What has given developers the confidence is the sales,”
Du said. “The past few months were supposed to be the low
season, but housing sales have been relatively strong. Next year
is expected to be better.”  Some developers have already achieved the year’s sales
target.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  sold 84.6 billion yuan
of properties in the first 11 months, 5.8 percent higher than
its annual sales target.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest
developer, sold properties for a total 127.2 billion yuan in the
first 11 months, higher than the full-year sales last year.  The recovery in housing will be maintained or even
accelerate in 2013, with a 10 percent gain in both home prices
and sales from this year, Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in a Dec. 13
report. The government may tighten policies in the middle or
later next year if housing prices continue to rise, Jin said.  China’s home prices may climb 5 percent in 2013 as growth
picks up in the world’s second-largest economy, said  Liu Yuan , a
researcher in Shanghai at Centaline property Agency Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate brokerage.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  