-- China Foreign-Investment Declines for 12th Time in 13 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-18T03:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-foreign-investment-inflows-show-12th-decline-in-13-months.html
Foreign direct investment  in  China 
fell for the 12th time in 13 months, suggesting the nation’s
economic-growth rebound has yet to attract a fresh influx of
 capital spending  from abroad.  Investment dropped 5.4 percent in November from a year
earlier to $8.29 billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in
Beijing today. FDI inflows in the first 11 months of the year
fell 3.6 percent to $100 billion.  China will step up efforts to stabilize investment inflows
next year and expand outflows, state media reported Dec. 16
after an annual economic-planning meeting in Beijing. While
factory  output  and retail sales have accelerated for the last
three months, trade and lending trailed forecasts in November,
restraining the pace of recovery.  “As China’s economic growth may pick up slightly next year,
so may FDI inflows,”  Ren Xianfang , a Beijing-based analyst with
IHS Global Insight, said before the release. “But don’t expect
any big increase partly due to the government’s efforts in
curbing the property sector.”  Foreign-investment inflows are likely to be stable next
year and won’t drop significantly, Shen Danyang, a ministry
spokesman, said at a press briefing today.  China’s economy  will
probably rebound further in 2013 even as slow global growth may
continue, Shen said in Beijing.  Home Prices  Separately today, China’s new home prices climbed last
month in 53 of the 70 cities the government tracks, data from
the National Bureau of Statistics showed today. That was the
most in 18 months.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks advanced
0.7 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, extending a
rally that’s pared the decline so far this year to 1.1 percent.  Non-financial investment abroad rose 25 percent in the
first 11 months to $62.5 billion, the ministry said yesterday,
highlighting the nation’s search for opportunities overseas amid
slower growth at home.  Investment from  Japan  showed a pickup in November, with
spending in the first 11 months gaining 11.3 percent from last
year, compared with a 10.9 percent rise in the January-October
period. Investment had slowed from the first nine months as a
dispute between the two nations over uninhabited islands
intensified.  In the statement following the policy-setting national
conference, there was no mention of seeking “relatively fast”
growth, a phrase in place since 2006. Leaders vowed to target
“sustained and healthy development” as they maintain a
“prudent” monetary policy and “proactive” fiscal stance,
according to the statement published by the state-run Xinhua
news agency.  Welcome Investors  People’s Bank of China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday that China will continue to welcome long-term foreign
investors and keep controls on short-term capital flows.  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker, expects China’s economic growth to
increase next year as the government focuses on urbanization,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on Dec.
6.  --Zhou Xin, Liu Li. Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact the reporter on this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  