-- China Said to Set Growth Target at 7.5% for Second Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-18T06:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-said-to-set-economic-growth-target-at-7-5-for-second-year.html
China  has set its initial target for
 economic growth  at 7.5 percent for a second year and tightened
its inflation goal to the lowest level since 2010, two bank
executives and a regulatory official briefed on the matter said.  Policy makers said during the annual central economic work
conference that ended on Dec. 16 that they aim to keep  inflation 
at about 3.5 percent, they said, asking not to be named as they
aren’t authorized to disclose the details. The government didn’t
set targets for money supply or new loans at the meetings, the
three bank executives said.  Chinese officials are signaling tolerance for a slower pace
of growth than the average of more than 10 percent for the past
decade as the nation seeks to shift to a consumer-driven
economy. China will seek a higher “quality and efficiency” of
growth next year, the official Xinhua News Agency reported after
the leaders’ meeting.  “A 7 percent growth target would have given a stronger
signal that the government wants to focus more on quality and
structural change,” said Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS
AG in Hong Kong. “However, given that the economy is already in
a cyclical upswing, a 7 percent target would mean policy
tightening, so 7.5 percent is more neutral and realistic.”  China’s benchmark stock gauge, the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP) , gained 0.8 percent to 2,178.19 at 1:39 p.m. and has
rebounded 11 percent since slumping to an almost four-year low
on Dec. 3. The CSI 300 Index climbed 1.1 percent to 2,392.91.  Economic Targets  The government usually reveals specific economic targets at
the legislature’s annual meeting in March. Nine of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News last month forecast China would keep
its 7.5 percent goal for growth in gross domestic product next
year. The figure -- announced in March 2012  --  was the lowest
target since 2004.  China’s policy makers have set the inflation target at 3.5
percent for next year, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing a person it didn’t identify. Communist Party chief
Xi Jinping, Premier Wen Jiabao and Vice Premier Li Keqiang were
among those who attended the conference, according to Xinhua.
This year’s inflation target is 4 percent.  Next year’s growth target is “reasonable,” said Stephen
Green, head of Greater China research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Hong Kong. “Maybe the year after it can be adjusted down to
7 percent. Potential growth is in a glide-path downwards, not a
collapse.”  The economic recovery and food prices are likely to push
inflation above 5 percent in the second half of 2013, resulting
in a full-year pace of 4 percent, Green said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  