-- China Company Profits to Grow 10% Next Year, Russell Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-18T22:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-company-profits-to-grow-10-next-year-russell-says.html
Chinese corporate earnings are set
to climb as much as 10 percent next year as the world’s second-
biggest economy emerges from its slowdown and more people move
to cities, Russell Investments says.  Companies that can benefit from an increase in domestic
consumption may post even greater growth, Gustavo Galindo, who
helps manage $8 billion of emerging-market equities for Russell
in New York, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “What you have is more and more people joining into the
middle class and that trend is very likely to continue,”
Galindo said. “When the economy improves, they have to buy more
goods and services and they are the ones that will be pushing
consumer companies to better profits.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its fourth-quarter and 2013
economic growth forecasts for  China  yesterday to account for
gains in production, after data last week showed industrial
output climbing the most in eight months in November. Retail
sales last month also rose at the fastest pace since March,
adding to signs the economy is emerging from a  slowdown  that
started in the first quarter of 2011.  The Russell  Emerging Markets  Fund that Galindo oversees has
returned 16 percent this year, beating 43 percent of its peers.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has  returned  18 percent, while
the Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares posted a
return of 0.9 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Growth  The average  earnings per share  of companies in  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index grew 4.3 percent in the 2012
fiscal year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. EPS growth for the
Shanghai Composite was 17 percent.  Chinese policy makers have set an initial growth target of
7.5 percent for 2013, the same as for 2012, according to two
bank executives and a regulatory official briefed on the matter
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
disclose the information.  The country’s new leaders have pledged to support greater
urbanization, with as many as 300 million people moving from the
countryside by 2030, to join 600 million already living in
cities, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  