-- Most Chinese Stocks Fall as Property Shares Drop; Miners Gain
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-12-18T07:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/china-s-stock-futures-rise-before-fdi-property-price-reports.html
Most  Chinese stocks  fell, led by
property companies, after valuations on the benchmark index rose
to a five-month high and technical indicators signaled that
equities were overbought.  China  Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the two
biggest developers, sank more than 3 percent on speculation the
government may intensify property curbs after a report showed a
jump in  home prices . Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-
Tech Co. jumped 5.1 percent as Hunan Corun New Energy Co.’s plan
to buy a rival boosted prospects for industry consolidation.
 Shanxi Securities Co. (002500)  rose 7.5 percent after CCB International
said brokerages are the best way to invest in a market rebound.  Five stocks fell for every three that rose in the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which gained 0.1 percent to 2,162.46 at the
close. The index has rebounded 10 percent since slumping to an
almost four-year low on Dec. 3 amid speculation growth is
stabilizing. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1 percent to 2,368.12.  “Stocks are falling after rising a lot in the past two
days,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co., referring to a 4.8 percent rally in the  Shanghai  index in
previous two trading days. “We may still see some correction,
profit taking along the way in the near term. However, the
outlook for stocks is more optimistic as the economy has
stabilized and company earnings won’t worsen.”  The Shanghai Composite’s trading volumes were 79 percent
higher than the 30-day average for this time of day. The gauge
pared gains in the afternoon as its 14-day  relative strength
index , which measures how rapidly prices have risen or dropped,
rose to 70.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Some traders use
a reading above 70 as a signal to sell. It closed at 68.7.  Rising Valuations  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 1.7 percent this year,
heading for a third straight annual loss. The index trades at
11.9 times reported earnings, the highest level since July, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio fell to 10.8 this month,
the lowest level since at least 1997.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai index slid 1.8
percent, the most among five industry groups. China Vanke
declined 3.7 percent to 9.22  yuan , while Poly Real Estate lost
3.6 percent to 12.14 yuan.  China’s new home prices climbed in 53 of the 70 cities last
month, compared with 35 in October, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics today. That was the most in 18
months. Among major cities, home prices in Beijing and Guangzhou
rose 0.6 percent each, while Shanghai climbed 0.2 percent from
October.  In its more than two-year effort to rein in prices, the
central government raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social
housing, and placed home-purchase restrictions in about 40
cities.  Property Curbs  “There is still rising pressure on home prices, so it’s
very difficult for the government to relax the measures,” Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc., said in
a phone interview today. “The government will strengthen the
enforcement of the current curbs if not necessarily issue new
measures.”  A gauge of material stocks in the CSI 300 added 0.8
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Inner Mongolia
Baotou surged 5.1 percent to 36.17 yuan, whle Rising Nonferrous
Metals Share Co. soared 10 percent for the second time in three
days, to 47.55 yuan.  Hunan Corun New Energy Co. jumped 10 percent to 20.50 yuan
after it said it plans to acquire Yiyang Hongyuan Rare  Earth
Co. (8922) , a company valued at 1.22 billion yuan ($200 million).  “The planned purchase revives expectations of
consolidation through the industry chain,” said Zhang Fang, a
Beijing-based analyst with China Securities Co. “The market is
bullish on rare earth stocks.”  Brokers Gain  Shanxi Securities rose 7.5 percent to 6.89 yuan for a
three-day gain of 20 percent. Citic Securities Co. added 0.3
percent to 11.83 yuan after CCB made the Hong Kong-traded shares
of Citic one of its top picks among Chinese brokerages,
according to a report yesterday from Silvia Fun, a Hong Kong-
based analyst.  China’s stocks have rallied on A-share equity investment
demand from overseas investors, Fun said. China may relax or
abolish a rule that requires  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors to keep most of their funds in bonds,
the  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority said Dec. 13.  The government a day later announced it would ease
restrictions on investments by overseas sovereign wealth funds
and central banks in its  capital markets .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong slipped 0.1 percent today. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index fell less than 0.1 percent yesterday,
while the  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.3 percent, extending
its advance this year to 13 percent.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  