-- Christie Re-Election Gets Construction Union Endorsement
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-18T18:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/christie-re-election-gets-construction-union-endorsement.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
a Republican who killed a planned commuter-rail tunnel to  New
York , was endorsed almost a year ahead of his re-election by a
labor union representing 20,000 construction workers.  Laborers International Union of  North America  said today
it’s backing Christie in the November election. It cited his
support for a ballot initiative designed to create $1 billion in
new construction at state colleges and universities, and for
replenishing the Transportation Trust Fund, the state’s main
source of funding for road work.  Christie’s calls for smaller government and lower taxes,
and spars with public employee unions, made him a national
Republican figure. The 50-year-old governor, enjoying record
approval ratings for his response to superstorm Sandy, said on
Nov. 26 that he will run again to oversee the $36.9 billion job
of rebuilding the state.  “The people in this room are the backbone of New Jersey,”
Christie told union members after accepting the endorsement at a
rally. “When you’re busy, when you’re working and making money
to support your family, New Jersey is doing well.”  The union in 2009 backed Christie’s opponent, incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine . In 1997, it endorsed Republican Christie Whitman over Democratic challenger James McGreevey.  Tunnel, Roads  Christie canceled the tunnel under the  Hudson River  in
October 2010, as he cited cost overruns he said could have been
$5 billion over budget. He later put out a 5-year, $8 billion
roadwork plan that relies more on cash funding, and has advanced
a $1 billion project to raise the Bayonne Bridge.  As the governor walked into the rally in Aberdeen Township,
hundreds of union members in orange shirts chanted “Christie!
Christie!”  Raymond Pocino, vice president of the union, said the
governor “tells it like it is.” Pocino lauded Christie’s
praise of President  Barack Obama  for his handling of the storm a
week before the presidential election.  “We make this endorsement today not as a favor but because
we believe in you, governor,” Pocino said. “You’ve earned the
right to finish the job you started.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  