-- Clearinghouses Face BOE Spot Checks on Risk-Management Practices
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-18T11:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/clearinghouses-face-boe-spot-checks-on-risk-management-practices.html
Clearinghouses face unannounced
reviews into how they manage risks when the  Bank of England 
takes over as financial supervisor next year.  Clearinghouses, which act as central counterparties in
derivatives transactions, will also have to show that bonuses
for senior management don’t prioritize “revenues, market share
and profit over systemic risk-management objectives,” the
central bank said in a  report  on its website.  The paper precedes a meeting at the central bank today
where officials including  Paul Tucker , deputy governor for
financial stability, and  Andrew Haldane ,  executive director  for
financial stability, will inform the industry about supervision.
It said central counterparties will need to show that risk-
management functions are “adequately resourced, sufficiently
independent from commercial pressures and have a key role in the
decision-making process.”  The Bank of England will take responsibility for
supervising central counterparties and securities settlement
systems once the U.K. Financial Services Bill takes effect,
expected on April 1. European Union and U.S. regulators are
trying to align rules for the $648 trillion market for over-the-
counter derivatives, which became a target for tougher oversight
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The central bank also said that traders should post high
margins to clearinghouses even during periods of low financial
stress to make the system more resilient against sudden changes
in trading conditions.  There may be incentives for central counterparties to
“allow margin requirements to fall to low levels when prices
are relatively stable in order to reduce collateral costs for
participants and thereby to win business,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  