-- Colorado City Sued by Oil Industry Group for Fracking Ban
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-19T00:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/colorado-city-sued-by-oil-industry-group-for-fracking-ban.html
The  Colorado  Oil & Gas Association
sued the city of Longmont to overturn a voter-approved ban on
the use of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to extract oil and
gas from sand and shale formations.  The industry group, in a complaint filed yesterday in state
court in Greeley, Colorado, claims the resolution deprives land
owners of property-development rights and conflicts with state
law allowing the practice.  “The hydraulic fracturing ban in Longmont effectively
stops oil and gas development,” COGA President Tisha Schuller
said in a  statement  yesterday announcing the filing. “There is
clear legal precedent in Colorado that the ban is illegal and we
expect it to be overturned by the courts.”  The group provided a copy of the complaint to Bloomberg
News and the court’s clerk confirmed that it was filed.  Rigo Leal, the city’s public information officer, said in a
phone interview today that the municipality doesn’t comment on
pending litigation.  ‘Whatever It Takes’  “The city council is on record as being committed to
defending this lawsuit, whatever it takes,” he said.  Longmont voters approved the resolution on Nov. 6. The
city, with a population of 86,270, according to 2010 U.S. Census
figures, is about 37 miles (59 kilometers) north of Denver.  Its oil and gas minerals are valued at $500 million,
according to Denver-based COGA. Because the city owns 90 percent
of the mineral rights within its boundaries, its taxpayers are
losing access to an estimated $90 million in potential
royalties, the group claimed.  The case is Colorado Oil & Gas Association v. City of
Longmont, 2012-cv-960, Weld County, Colorado, District Court
(Greeley).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  