-- Comcast Tops $100B Market Value for First Time
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/comcast-tops-100b-market-value-for-first-time.html
Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S.
cable company, saw its market value close above $100 billion for
the first time, validating the bet it made on NBC Universal
almost two years ago.  Since it bought a controlling stake in NBC on Jan. 29,
2011, Comcast’s stock has increased by more than two-thirds. The
company has benefited from improving prime-time ratings among
18- to 49-year-olds at the broadcast network, which climbed from
last place to first this season.  Comcast, which has about 22 million cable-TV subscribers,
now has a higher market capitalization than McDonald’s Corp.,
Home Depot Inc. and Walt Disney Co. And it’s closing in on
technology heavyweights such as Intel Corp., Cisco Systems Inc.
and Qualcomm Inc. Comcast’s ascension is emblematic of both a
successful acquisition and an industry that’s thrived during
difficult economic times, said  Frank Louthan , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Atlanta.  “If you go back two years ago, everyone thought people
would cut expenses, but as it turns out, Americans will pay
their cable bills before they pay their mortgage,” Louthan
said. “As incomes come down, cable and Internet both look like
pretty good values.”  Comcast rose 1.4 percent to $38.05 at the close yesterday,
a record high, amid a broader wave of cable-stock gains. Time
Warner Cable Inc. climbed 0.4 percent to $96.27 for a 51 percent
increase this year. Charter Communications Inc., up 30 percent
this year, advanced 4.8 percent to $74.14 yesterday.  Outperforming Peers  Comcast is the best performing stock in the  16-member
Standard & Poor’s media index  this year. While the Philadelphia-
based company shed cable-TV subscribers in 2012, the losses have
shrank year over year for eight straight quarters. Comcast’s
reliable revenue flow also appeals to investors in a shaky
economy, said Louthan, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on
Comcast and a $42 price target.  “As small-business growth stagnates, recurring revenue
models will continue to add value, and that’s where investor
dollars will flow,” he said.  Comcast spent $13.8 billion in cash and assets to buy its
majority stake in NBC. Chief Financial Officer  Michael Angelakis 
said in September Comcast is considering purchasing the
remainder of NBC, owned by General Electric Co., in 2014. The
network has relied on hit shows such as “Sunday Night
Football,” “The Voice” and “Revolution” to boost ratings
this year, following years of last-place showings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  