-- Pertamina to Buy Conoco Algerian Fields for $1.75 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-12-18T21:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/conocophillips-to-sell-unit-to-pertamina-for-1-75-billion.html
PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-
owned oil company, agreed to buy stakes in three Algerian  oil
fields  from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  for $1.75 billion, expanding its
overseas assets.  The onshore oil fields produce the equivalent of 11,000 net
barrels a day, Houston-based ConocoPhillips said in a statement
yesterday.  The acquisition would be the largest by announced value
this year for Pertamina, which last month dropped a bid to buy
Houston-based  Coastal Energy Co. (CEN)  after failing to agree on a
price. Indonesia’s oil production has been declining since 1998
as the nation’s fields matured. Pertamina, based in Jakarta, was
formed in 1957 after the government seized control of Dutch oil
fields in Indonesia.  The company has said it’s seeking acquisitions at home and
overseas for growth. In June, it agreed to buy all of  Harvest
Natural Resources Inc. (HNR) ’s interests in Venezuela for $725 million
in cash. Pertamina may pump 127,889 barrels of oil a day this
year, according to government data, making it Indonesia’s
biggest oil producer after a unit of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   The transaction, expected to close by mid-2013, is subject
to approval from the Algerian government and ConocoPhillips’s
partners in the fields. It would bring to about $9 billion the
proceeds from ConocoPhillips’s current asset sales program. The
company has previously targeted $8 billion to $10 billion in
asset sales this year and next to focus on investment in more
profitable businesses.  Field Partners  “The sale of our Algerian business unit represents another
important step in transforming ConocoPhillips’ asset base, and
advances the strategic interests of both Pertamina and
ConocoPhillips,” Don Wallette, executive vice president of
corporate planning, said in the statement.  The sale includes 65 percent of Menzel Lejmat North, 3.7
percent of Ourhoud and 16.9 percent of EMK. ConocoPhillips’s
partners in the fields include  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Sonatrach Petroleum Corp.,
Algeria’s state-owned oil company.  ConocoPhillips rose 1.8 percent to $59.30 at the close in
New York. The shares, which have 11 buy, nine hold and four sell
ratings from analysts, have climbed 6.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  