-- Cowboys’ Brent Gets NFL Sideline Ban After Crash, ESPN Reports
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-18T18:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/cowboys-brent-gets-nfl-sideline-ban-after-crash-espn-reports.html
Dallas Cowboys defensive tackle Josh
Brent, who is charged with intoxication manslaughter in the
death of a teammate, won’t be allowed on the club’s sideline for
the rest of the season after spending time there two days ago,
ESPN reported.  The  National Football League  and the team didn’t know that
Brent would be on the sideline in street clothes during the
Cowboys’ victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers and both agree
that it’s not appropriate,  ESPN said , citing unidentified people
with the league and the squad. Brent’s presence was criticized
by CBS commentators during the network’s telecast of the game.  Rich Dalrymple, a spokesman for the Cowboys, declined to
comment on the report in an e-mail.  Greg Aiello , a league
spokesman, said in a separate e-mail the league hadn’t barred
Brent and that the Cowboys were handling the matter.  Brent, 24, was charged after a one-car accident early on
Dec. 8 in the Dallas suburb of Irving,  Texas . He was driving at
high speed when the vehicle hit a curb and flipped at least
once, killing teammate  Jerry Brown , according to police. He had
a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit, the
Dallas Morning News reported.  Brent said in a statement that he was devastated and would
live with the “horrific and tragic loss every day” for the
rest of his life. He attended the funeral with the blessing of
Brown’s family.  Helmet Stickers  With a moment of silence before the game for Brown and
players wearing his No. 53 on their helmets, Brent, who is on
the Cowboys’ reserve/non-injury list, was encouraged to attend
the game by Brown’s mother, who asked the Cowboys’ players to
support him, team owner  Jerry Jones  told reporters after the
overtime win.  “I do know certainly there is the other side of the
coin,” Jones said on whether Brent should have attended the
game. “But this is a case of the people who he’s arguably the
closest to really wanting him around.”  Jones didn’t know Brent was at the game until seeing him on
television, and the contest had already begun before coach  Jason Garrett  noticed, according to ESPN. Brent, who was reluctant to
attend, left in the third quarter when informed that his
presence had sparked a debate, the website said.  Among those who were critical was CBS Sports NFL analyst
Boomer Esiason.  “Am I the only one that is wondering what in the world the
Cowboys are thinking with Josh Brent on the sideline?” Esiason
said on his Twitter account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  