-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall on Budget Discussions; Edison Triggers
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-12-18T22:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-on-budget-discussions-edison-triggers.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined to the least in almost three months on signs of
progress in U.S. budget talks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.6
basis points to a mid-price of 89.3 basis points at 5:16 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest close since Sept. 19.  The swaps index eased as President  Barack Obama  proposed a
budget plan that would cut about $1.2 trillion in federal
spending and raise a similar amount in taxes during the next
decade, according to a person familiar with the talks. Signs of
progress are reassuring investors that a compromise will bolster
the economy, helping companies’ ability to repay debt.  “Something’s going to get done, it looks like,”  Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP, said today in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.” While it doesn’t address the “fiscal crisis that the
U.S. has been looking at for the last several years, this is
sort of a down payment on finally some fiscal reform,” he said.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, is up from
this year’s low of 83 basis points on Sept. 14. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ‘Plan B’  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he will push a budget
“plan B” measure that would include tax increases on income of
more than $1 million, while continuing to negotiate with
President Obama.  Yields on junk debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , reached a
record low 6.69 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 13.3 basis points to 451.3 basis points, also
the least since Sept. 19, Bloomberg data show.  “I don’t think there’s a credit bubble at this point in
time,” Gundlach said. “I just don’t believe, until there are
cracks in the credit quality structure of the credit system,
that you’re going to see a substantial selloff in the credit
market.”  Bond Funds  Investors have funneled a record $460 billion this year
into bond mutual funds, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm EPFR Global. Company bonds have attracted
investors seeking a reprieve from four years of U.S. benchmark
interest rates between zero and 0.25 percent, a range that the
central bank plans to maintain at least until mid-2015.  Edison Mission Energy’s bankruptcy filing triggered
contracts that protect against default, according to the
committee of banks and investors that govern credit-default
swaps.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee  said  the Chapter 11 filing of the
unregulated generating unit of Edison International is a so-
called  credit event . The panel of the New York-based group will
hold an auction to settle the contracts.  Edison Mission  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Santa
Ana , California-based Edison Mission dropped yesterday after it
filed for bankruptcy and said it reached agreement on a
reorganization plan with holders of its $3.7 billion in debt and
its parent. The contracts fell 6.3 percentage points to 46
percent upfront yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Zurich-based UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, submitted
the request for a ruling from ISDA’s determinations committee on
Dec. 17, the association said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  