-- Croatia Battles EU ‘Basket Case’ Label After Downgrade
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-19T12:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/croatia-battles-eu-basket-case-label-after-downgrade.html
A year after winning office vowing
to boost  Croatia ’s economy as it enters the European Union,
Premier Zoran Milanovic is struggling to overcome a recession
and opposition to austerity after a credit-rating downgrade.  The prime minister and senior officials publicly disagreed
over how to respond after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Croatia’s
sovereign debt rating to junk Dec. 14. The  government ’s
structural and fiscal overhaul isn’t enough to spur growth and
render public finances sustainable, S&P said.  “Croatia can still manage in the short-term, but it needs
someone with a vision and a long-term plan to solve its deeply
rooted structural problems,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-
market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd, said in an interview
in Zagreb. “Otherwise, it will be facing a slow death.”  The economy of Croatia, set to join the  EU  in July, is in
its second recession in two years after contracting for four
quarters. Next year’s budget deficit will widen more than first
estimated as the government, which forecasts a 1.1 percent
economic contraction in 2012, pays debts and begins contributing
to the bloc’s coffers.  The yield on dollar-denominated notes due in March 2021
rose after the downgrade before easing today to 4.403 percent.
The kuna has declined 0.3 percent against the euro since the
rating announcement, trading at 7.535 at 1:20 p.m. in Zagreb,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Different Responses  S&P’s move prompted a range of responses from officials.
Milanovic said Croatia won’t cut public wages and pensions or
seek aid from the  International Monetary Fund  as the country
“can do it alone.” Finance Minister Slavko Linic said the
nation may abandon debt sales abroad and cooperate with the IMF.  Central bank Governor Boris Vujcic on Dec. 16 said Croatia
should continue to borrow both abroad and domestically and find
the “strength” to carry out reforms. Vujcic also declined to
release foreign-currency reserves to aid government borrowing.  Milanovic’s  Social Democrats  led a four-party coalition to
victory in December 2011, dethroning the  Croatian Democratic
Union  that was tainted by graft scandals after governing for
eight years. With investment drying up and unemployment rising,
 Fitch Ratings  advised the government as it was coming to power
to make “unpopular” spending cuts to revive growth and boost
fiscal credibility.  The 2012 budget included 4 billion kuna ($700 million) in
proposed cuts to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 4.2 percent in 2011, prompting
Fitch in September to lift its outlook to stable from negative.  Outlook Switch  While Linic has boosted revenue through improved tax
collection, the 2013 budget submitted in November sees the
fiscal deficit widening to 3.5 percent of GDP as expenditures
rose. In response, Fitch changed its outlook back to negative.  “Croatia was the recipient of plentiful goodwill, with the
new coalition government being widely praised,” said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets strategist in London at  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc . “The nail in the coffin was the
2013 budget, which abandoned the government’s commitment to the
fiscal responsibility law.”  S&P’s downgrade to BB+, the first time Croatia lost its
investment grade by any of the three major rating companies
since 1999, put its creditworthiness on par with Romania and
 Indonesia .  “Policy inertia and opposition from vested interests that
benefit from long-entrenched entitlements have contributed to
wage and price rigidities, the low participation rate, and loss
of economic competitiveness,” S&P said in the statement.  Bond Markets  The global bond market disagreed with S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service more often than not this year when the
companies told investors that governments were becoming safer or
more risky. Yields on sovereign debt moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of the 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent,
based on more than 300 changes since 1974. This year, investors
ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook changes and 50
percent of those by S&P.  Public Debt  Croatian public debt, estimated at 172 billion kuna at the
end of June, will rise to 55 percent of GDP next year, when
state borrowing will total 27 billion kuna, according to
government data. The government expected to sell about $2.5
billion of debt in January on the U.S. and European markets,
with a second round later in 2013 on Asian markets.  Croatia can probably finance itself next year without a
foreign-currency debt sale even without IMF aid as there are no
external bonds maturing, analysts from  London  to Moscow said.  “A country with a liquid banking system and neutral
current account with limited repayments in 2013 can perfectly
cope on its own even after the downgrade,” Petr Grishin, a
chief economic analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail.  The  economy  will contract 2 percent this year and stagnate
in 2013, according to S&P. Unemployment in the nation of 4.2
million reached 19.6 percent in October, while the public
sector, which employs 17 percent of workers, has seen no
reductions amid opposition from powerful labor unions.  Without a change in direction, Croatia “will enter the EU
not as a serious country capable of managing its own economy and
finances, but as a typical southern European basket case,”
Velimir Sonje, an economist at  Zagreb School of Economics and
Management , said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  