-- Current-Account Deficit in U.S. Narrowed 9% in Third Quarter
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-18T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/current-account-deficit-in-u-s-narrowed-9-in-third-quarter.html
The  current-account  deficit in the
U.S. narrowed in the third quarter, helped by slowing imports.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade
because it includes income payments and government transfers,
shrank 9 percent to $107.5 billion, the smallest in almost two
years, from a $118.1 billion shortfall in the prior quarter, a
Commerce Department report showed today in Washington. The
 median  forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for
the deficit to narrow to $103 billion.  Cooling demand in the world’s largest economy is limiting
imports at the same time that a slowdown in growth from  Europe 
to  China  reduces overseas sales, a sign it’ll get harder to keep
shrinking the trade deficit. The balance of payments gap also is
a reminder the U.S. remains dependent on foreign investors for
funding.  “We could have the current account balance remaining
broadly where it is,” Jeremy Lawson, senior U.S. economist at
BNP Paribas in New York, said before the report. “If growth in
 emerging markets  picks up next year, that would boost export
performance. Similarly, faster growth in the U.S. would increase
imports. It’s hard to say how much of an improvement we could
see.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from deficits of
$98.5 billion to $116.1 billion. The second-quarter shortfall
was revised to $118.1 billion from a previously reported $117.4
billion.  Smaller Share  The gap represented 2.7 percent of gross domestic product
last quarter, the smallest in three years and down from 3
percent in the prior quarter. The deficit reached a record high
of 6.5 percent of GDP in the fourth quarter of 2005.  The  trade deficit  in goods and services, which accounts for
most of the current-account gap, fell to $124.5 billion from
$137.4 billion in the prior three months, today’s report showed.  More recent figures indicate the current account balance
may help underpin the economy this quarter. Adjusted for prices,
which are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
the trade gap shrank to $46.2 billion in October from $46.6
billion in September, Commerce Department data showed Dec. 11.  A slowdown in overseas demand is clouding the outlook for
some manufacturers.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of
Pratt & Whitney jet engines, this month forecast lower profit
and sales next year than analysts projected.  “The challenging macroeconomic environment will
continue,” Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  said at an
analyst meeting on Dec. 13. He expects “solid growth in
emerging markets, more growth in America, flattish in Europe.”  Income Surplus  Today’s report showed U.S. income on overseas assets was
little changed at $184.4 billion in the third quarter, compared
with $184 billion in the previous three months. Foreign earnings
on U.S. assets, including wages and compensation, increased by
$1.65 billion to $133.6 billion.  That left a $50.8 billion surplus on income payments, down
from $52.1 billion in the prior quarter. U.S. investments
overseas generally yield more than the Treasury securities that
foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain the income
surplus.  Payments by the U.S. government to foreigners and other
private transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas
by $33.8 billion last quarter, compared with $32.7 billion in
the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  