-- Czechs Keep Zero Rates as Policy Moves to Currency Sales
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-12-19T15:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/czechs-to-keep-zero-rates-as-talk-shifts-to-koruna-sales.html
Czech central bankers kept the main
interest rate at effectively zero as the second recession since
2009 sparked debate on whether to weaken the koruna to further
ease monetary conditions.  The Ceska Narodni Banka held the two-week repurchase  rate 
at 0.05 percent, almost three-quarters of a percentage point
less than the euro-area benchmark, at a board meeting today, in
line with forecasts by all 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  After three rate cuts this year, the Czech central bank is
in uncharted territory as weakening domestic demand tames
inflation and pushed the economy into its second  recession  since
2009. Several policy makers, including Governor Miroslav Singer,
have said the bank may sell the koruna to further relax
conditions as the slump risks stretching into the longest ever.  “The koruna exchange rate, which is weaker than assumed in
the forecast, for now is partly offsetting domestic anti-
inflationary developments,” Singer said at a press conference
in Prague after the announcement. “Although the  exchange rate 
is helping us to some extent at the moment, we still perceive
the risks as slightly anti-inflationary.”  The koruna reversed a retreat to a four-week low after
Singer’s comments, trading less than 0.1 percent weaker at
25.197 per euro by 3:46 p.m. in Prague. It had retreated as much
as 0.5 percent to 25.310, its weakest intraday level since Nov.
21, before the governor spoke.  The koruna has lost 2.6 percent against the euro since
Sept. 17, one day before Singer first said the bank may use
sales of the currency to ease monetary conditions. That’s the
sixth-worst performance among major emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  Steady Rates  Most Czech central bankers agree the main interest rate
should be kept at the current level until inflation risks rise
significantly, according to minutes from the November meeting.  Monetary authorities in central  Europe  are easing policy to
alleviate the impact of the sovereign-debt crisis in the euro
area, the region’s main trading partner. Hungary cut its  main
rate  to 5.75 percent yesterday, the fifth reduction in as many
months, while  Poland ’s central bank Governor Marek Belka on Dec.
11 called for more  interest-rate  cuts from 4.25 percent.  Czech monetary policy may need to be more relaxed in 2013
to ensure that inflation develops as the central bank forecasts,
according to Singer.  “The forecast assumes more relaxed monetary conditions at
around the middle of next year,” Singer said today. “The data
mix we are getting shows slight anti-inflationary risks vis-a-
vis the forecast, but I wouldn’t make any strong statements
about a shift in the timing that’s assumed in the forecast.”  Weak Economy  The economy is suffering from weak domestic demand as
households and businesses cut spending due to government
austerity programs and the euro-area debt crisis. Output shrank
for a third three-month period from July to September, one
quarter short of matching the longest decline ever.  Gross domestic product  fell a quarterly 0.3 percent from
April-June, compared with a revised 0.4 percent decline in the
previous three months, the Statistics Office in  Prague  said Dec.
7. GDP  contracted  1.3 percent from a year earlier, also a third
straight decline and the worst reading since 2009.  Inflation eased to 2.7 percent in November, the slowest
this year, from 3.4 percent in the previous month. Inflation
relevant for monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted
for changes in indirect taxes, was 1.5 percent.  Price Growth  Inflation next year will hover “slightly above” the 2
percent target, the central bank said in a quarterly update of
its forecasts published on Nov. 1. It sees monetary-policy
inflation between 1 percent and 2 percent next year.  Selling the currency is the preferred next policy tool,
after exhausting the room for cutting  interest rates , because of
the “proven and quick reaction of the economy to depreciation
of the koruna exchange rate,” Tomas Holub, the head of the
central bank’s monetary and statistics department, wrote in a
column for the Euro magazine posted on the central bank’s
website on Dec. 3.  “Nothing was said about potential interventions,”  Martin Lobotka , an economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague, wrote in
e-mailed comments after the rate announcement. “This may
suggest the CNB is OK with the koruna being where it is now and,
if it stays there, the bank won’t do anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  