-- Dark Pool Growth Hurts Investors, NYSE, Nasdaq Tell Senate
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-18T19:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/dark-pool-expansion-hurts-investors-nyse-nasdaq-to-tell-senate.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq  OMX Group
Inc., their share of American equity markets squeezed by venues
that sprang up in the mid-2000s, told legislators today that too
much trading occurs in dark pools, hurting investors.  Exchanges and private, broker-run dark pools are subject to
separate regulations that impair the price-setting process and
make it harder for public venues to compete, executives from the
largest stock market operators said. Trading that occurs away
from exchanges, excluding the biggest venues known as electronic
communication networks, or ECNs, has doubled since early 2008,
according to data compiled by Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Members of a U.S. Senate subcommittee heard both sides
today in the debate over off-exchange venues, which have risen
to prominence since the 1990s when new rules enabled automated
systems to compete with the main markets. While proponents say
dark pools spur competition and help investors trade more easily
and without affecting prices, exchanges say regulators have let
the venues grow too freely without rules for fair access and
equal treatment of participants.  “As a result of this advantage, large broker-dealers
continue to move more order flow into their own private trading
venues for a ’first look’ before routing on to the lit public
markets,” Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities at NYSE
Euronext, said in written testimony. “We’ve seen two markets
evolve -- the lit, public, regulated and accessible market
versus the dark, selective and private non-transparent market.”  Complexity, Fragmentation  Complexity and fragmentation has increased in U.S. equity
markets, with trading now spread across 13 stock exchanges and
about 50 dark pools. High-frequency trading, the obligations of
market makers and the fees exchanges charge or rebate to users
have come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, flash crash,
when the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly plunged 9.2
percent. A third of U.S. volume occurs away from exchanges.  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity trading for Credit
Suisse Group AG, which operates the world’s largest dark pool,
called Crossfinder, and Investment Technology Group Inc.’s Chief
Executive Officer Bob Gasser told senators that exchanges aren’t
being disadvantaged and transactions in dark pools shouldn’t be
limited without evidence they’re causing harm. ITG’s Posit dark
pool began matching orders daily at scheduled times in 1987.  ’Less Oversight’  NYSE, Nasdaq Stock Market and other public venues compete
with dark pools and brokers that “are able to employ different
practices than exchanges with far less oversight and
disclosure,” Mecane said. Some non-exchange markets allow firms
providing liquidity to trade only with certain types of clients,
a practice not permitted on exchanges, he said. The CEOs of NYSE
Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ) , both based in New York, have argued for
several years that different regulatory regimes for dark pools
and exchanges create an unlevel playing field.  Trading away from exchanges and the biggest ECNs was about
33 percent in October, compared with 16 percent in early 2008,
according to Rosenblatt data. While dark pools, which don’t
display orders publicly, accounted for less than half the off-
exchange volume two months ago, their share has increased about
threefold since the first quarter of 2008, the data show.  New national trading rules implemented in 2007 led to more
transactions away from exchanges, “which denies market
participants a clear view of trading interest in a given
stock,” according to testimony by  Eric Noll , executive vice
president and head of transaction services at Nasdaq OMX. Stock
prices established by exchanges underlie those of equity futures
and options and are deemed the reference price for transactions
in dark pools, he said.  First Destination  From 2008 through 2010, big banks expanded their dark pools
by using them as the first destination to which their trading
desks routed orders, Justin Schack, a managing director and
partner at Rosenblatt in New York, said in a phone interview.  “A lot of what they used to internalize in their upstairs
business they now systematically internalize in their dark
pools,” Schack said. “It took some firms quite a while to get
every customer desk, principal desk and proprietary trading desk
to prioritize their internal dark pool first.”  At least 40 percent of trading occurs away from exchanges
for more than 3,000 U.S. securities, according to Mecane. For
the 709 securities listed on NYSE MKT, formerly known as the
 American Stock Exchange , 42 percent of trading took place off-
exchange in November, he said.  “This level of off-exchange activity erodes the incentive
for market makers to continue to trade the less-active
securities, has a negative effect on price discovery and
threatens to further decrease the incentives for companies to go
public,” Mecane said. He urged policymakers to adopt “similar
levels of rules and oversight for activities that occur on
different venues.”  U.S. Oligopoly  Regulators in  Canada ,  Australia  and  Europe  have instituted
or are weighing rules to limit the amount of trading away from
exchanges. ITG’s Gasser said efforts in Canada and Australia may
already be reducing liquidity and raising trading costs.  “Regressing to an oligopoly of U.S. exchanges is clearly
not the answer,” Gasser said. “There’s no evidence to suggest
that competition and fragmentation have damaged price discovery
or harmed capital formation.”  Credit Suisse’s Crossfinder, the world’s largest dark pool,
traded almost 109 million shares on average each day in October,
or 1.8 percent of total U.S. equities volume, according to
Rosenblatt data. Sigma X, a venue run by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., was the next largest with more than 87 million shares
executed each day, the data show.  Monitoring Trading  The 19 U.S. dark pools tracked by Rosenblatt accounted for
13.4 percent of total equities volume in October, the New York-
based broker said. Knight Capital Group Inc.’s Knight Link
system was next with 80 million shares traded each day in
October, followed by Barclays LX, owned by Barclays Plc, with 78
million shares a day, Rosenblatt said.  Exchanges, unlike dark pools, are responsible for
monitoring trading and working with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to ensure that the markets remain “strong and fair”
for investors, Noll said.  “Only exchanges have the authority and responsibility to
oversee broker-dealers as they interact with the market,” Noll
said in his prepared remarks. “Exchanges alone adopt member and
market regulation rules, develop automated surveillance systems
to detect rule violations and discipline broker-dealers that
violate rules and harm investors.” Exchanges also set and
enforce rules and halt trading in an emergency, he said.  SRO Responsibilities  Alternative trading systems, which include dark pools and
electronic communication networks such as Citigroup Inc.’s
LavaFlow ECN and Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s Light Pool, “are
not entrusted to regulate and discipline their users in this
manner,” Noll said. These venues could register as so-called
self-regulatory organizations if they chose to accept the duties
imposed on exchanges, he said. All exchanges are SROs.  “One need only look at the list of SRO responsibilities
that registration triggers to understand why so few of our
lightly regulated competitors voluntarily take that step,” he
said of alternative venues.  Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC,
which built their markets as ECNs to compete with the NYSE-
Nasdaq duopoly in 2005, are now exchanges. Bats converted in
2008 to reap the financial benefits and greater control it had
over its systems as a regulated market. Direct Edge made the
leap in 2010. They operate four of the 13 exchanges, with six
more owned by NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX.  $464 Million  Exchanges and brokers don’t have the same responsibilities
for overseeing markets because of their regulatory status.
Public exchanges receive market data revenue for the sale of
information about transactions and quotations. They also have
civil immunity from liability for technology breakdowns that are
their fault. Dark pools, in contrast, have a duty to get their
clients the best trade possible and face limitations on how much
market share they can amass and still remain private.  Revenue from the sale of consolidated or public market data
totaled $464 million in 2008, the SEC said in a  report  in 2010.
Net income for the 11 exchanges and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority that year was $449 million. The three stock
exchanges now owned by NYSE Euronext received almost $180
million while those now owned by Nasdaq OMX got almost $144
million. Finra earned $61.6 million from market data that year.  Credit Suisse’s Mathisson  said  that the market-data revenue
of about $400 million a year the exchanges and Finra get is a
“government-granted windfall” that far exceeds the regulatory
expenses it’s supposed to offset. He urged policymakers to
overhaul the data-revenue plans. Finra gets the funds for
trading that occurs away from exchanges including on dark pools.  Data Monopoly  Credit Suisse executed 12.4 percent of U.S. equity volume
this year, most from 1,600 institutional clients including
mutual and pension funds, according to Mathisson. That occurred
on exchanges, in dark pools and on other venues.  “Given that real-time data is a government-granted
monopoly, and market data prices are not set by the market and
are not subject to competition, the investing public is arguably
being overcharged for market data by approximately $400 million
a year,” Mathisson wrote. He also said exchanges should not
have immunity from prosecution for financial losses they cause.  Blurred Roles  Executives in charge of electronic trading at Morgan
Stanley told the SEC in a March 2010  letter  that the activities
of exchanges and brokers were starting to overlap and should be
kept distinct by the agency. The different roles of exchanges
and brokers became blurred as technology and electronic trading
enabled them to engage in businesses away from their traditional
turf to increase profits or save money, William Neuberger and
Andrew Silverman said.  The conflicts between exchanges and brokers, which are also
their member firms and ran their markets before exchanges
converted into publicly traded corporations, are occurring
against a backdrop of technology breakdowns that have hobbled
the confidence of some institutions and retail investors.  Technology problems that led to Bats withdrawing its
initial public offering in March and Nasdaq’s botched IPO for
Facebook Inc. two months later drove the impression of technical
mishaps run amuck. Knight Capital Group Inc.’s accidental
trading because of a software malfunction on Aug. 1 produced
more than $450 million in losses and pushed the market-making
company to the brink of bankruptcy.  Smaller anomalous trading or difficulties with exchanges’
data feeds occur almost daily.  ’Unnecessary Complexity’  Still, the percentage of equities trading canceled after
transactions occur is at a nine-year low, according to data
compiled by NYSE Euronext. This year, 0.18 percent of U.S.
equities volume was voided by exchanges or Finra because the
trades were deemed erroneous, down from 0.23 percent last year
and a high of 0.43 percent in 2004, the data show.  Exchanges introduced new rules for when they cancel trades
after the 2010 flash crash. They also implemented curbs that
halt trading when a stock moves 10 percent in five minutes,
limiting the number of errant trades that may have to be voided.  Technology and market-structure developments in recent
years have emphasized speed, increased the cost of maintaining
networks and trading infrastructure, and “created unnecessary
complexity and mistrust of markets,” even as they brought
investors benefits, NYSE’s Mecane said. He urged Congress and
the SEC to simplify what he called a “complex ecosystem.”  U.S. equities  volume  was 6.4 million shares a day so far in
2012, a 17.5 percent decline from last year’s daily average of
7.8 billion shares and down 34 percent from 9.7 billion shares a
day in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. To counter
declining volume, exchanges are trying to diversify their
revenue away from U.S. equities by increasing their derivatives
and technology businesses.  “If you’re Nasdaq or NYSE and you’re a publicly traded
company, your U.S. equities business is suffering not only from
lower volumes but a smaller share of those volumes,” Schack
said. “It’s a double whammy and that’s part of the reason why
exchanges complain that there’s too much dark trading. The less-
selfish reason is the question about whether high levels of dark
trading damage price discovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 