-- Dassault Names Eric Trappier as Chief to Succeed Edelstenne
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-18T15:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/dassault-aviation-names-trappier-as-chief-to-succeed-edelstenne.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , the French
maker of combat planes and business jets, named Eric Trappier to
succeed Charles Edelstenne as chief executive officer as the
company fights to win its first export order for the Rafale.  Edelstenne, CEO since 2000 and a 27-year veteran of
Dassault, must step down next month upon reaching 75, the
company said in a statement. He’ll remain a director and member
of the  audit committee , much as founder Marcel Dassault played a
role until his death at age 94. Loik Segalen, now chief
financial officer, becomes chief operating officer.  Trappier, 52, has overseen Dassault’s international
business since 2006. He takes over starting Jan. 9 as the
company is poised to win its maiden export deal for the Rafale,
a contest in which he has played a lead role.  India  chose
Dassault for exclusive negotiations for a 126-fighter order in
March. So far, the plane has relied solely on domestic orders, a
stark contrast to the company’s previous jet, the Mirage, which
got two thirds of its sales outside  France .  “Trappier’s No.1 objective will to be get the India deal
signed,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of the Teal
Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based forecaster. “Nailing it down
has been difficult, which is predictable, with India, but still
it has to be done. It’s the biggest single export fighter
purchaser ever.”  Indian Defense Minister A.K. Antony told parliament Dec. 17
that negotiations were continuing.  Front-Runner  A more difficult challenge may be restoring Rafale’s
chances in the  United Arab Emirates . The fighter was the front-
runner for the UAE’s Dassault Mirage 2000-9s replacement, before
a public rift more than a year ago led the government to
consider other offers, including from Boeing Co. and the
Eurofighter consortium of  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/)  The UAE may buy as
many as 60 jets.  The change in management also comes as  Europe  enters an era
where it will no longer be able to afford several fighter
programs, driving partnerships in defense. The region currently
has three fighter planes competing in export markets: the
Eurofighter, built by the U.K.,  Germany ,  Spain  and  Italy ,  Saab
AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen, and Dassault’s Rafale.  Dassault is working with BAE to design an unmanned combat
aircraft. The French company this month completed first flight
of the European Neuron combat drone demonstrator, built with
partners including  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia unit and Saab.  Development Delays  The French and British governments have agreed to jointly
pursue development of the technology for an operational system,
with Dassault and BAE the respective industrial champions. BAE
is working on its own demonstrator, the Taranis, although
development delays have caused first flight to slip into 2013.  Dassault, with sales last year of an estimated 3.5 billion
euros ($4.6 billion), stands out among defense and aerospace
companies in Europe in that it has consistently been profitable.
Its main peers, BAE, European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
Italy’s Finmeccanica and Saab have all lost money in at least
one year over the last two decades.  The company is tightly controlled, with the Dassault
family, headed by 87-year-old Serge Dassault, the son of founder
Marcel Dassault, owning just over 50 percent of the shares. EADS
has a 46 percent financial stake, given to it by the French
government when EADS was formed in 2000, while about 4 percent
of the shares are traded.  Close Ties  Dassault owns 25.96 percent of defense electronics maker
 Thales SA (HO) , giving it a key role alongside the French state, with
27.08 percent, in controlling the company.  Dassault today has a backlog of 8 billion euros, 54 percent
of that for Rafales or modernization of older models, and the
rest for Falcon business jets, including the 7X model.  Dassault next year plans to unveil details of its newest
business jet, still known only as the SMS. The company has been
working with suppliers on the design for several years, with the
goal of flying the first model in 2014 and starting customer
deliveries in 2016.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  