-- Dividends Fail to Attract Small Cap Buyers: Corporate Canada
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-12-18T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/dividends-fail-to-attract-small-cap-buyers-corporate-canada.html
The shift by Canada’s small energy
producers to pay dividends for the first time is failing to win
over investors as rising costs and reduced prices for Canadian
crude have made energy the second-worst performing industry
group in the country this year.  Three of the four oil and natural gas producers with market
valuations of up to C$1 billion ($1 billion) that announced
dividends this year have declined since the move. The producers
include Equal Energy Ltd.,  Renegade Petroleum Ltd. (RPL)  and  Whitecap
Resources Inc. (WCP)   Higher costs for drilling wells, and a near record $40  gap 
between Canadian crude and global benchmarks have overshadowed
the junior producers’ bids to attract investors by paying
dividends. The payouts may be harder to sustain for smaller
companies with fewer projects and less cash flow than bigger
rivals such as Suncor Energy Inc.  “With a number of the new names, particularly these
smaller companies, we’re a little bit cautious,” Les Stelmach,
who helps manage about C$15.8 billion at Bissett Investment
Management in Calgary, said in a phone interview.  Executives new to paying dividends must refocus on
delivering income with less growth, shifting from a strategy of
increasing production and cash flow, he said. “It’s not like
flipping a switch.”  Four other small producers may soon offer dividends,
according to an analysis by National Bank Financial, as they try
to lure investors that currently reward income over growth.  Dividends Popular  Dividends are popular in  Canada ’s oil patch, with 73
percent of companies on the S&P/TSX Energy Index making
payments, versus 65 percent on the broader index. The energy
index has fallen 5.2 percent this year, the second-worst
performing among industry groups on the broader index, beating
only the materials industry.  The trend of paying out a portion of cash flow to boost
valuations has now gone “down market,” to smaller energy
companies, said Tim Murray, an analyst at Desjardins Securities
Inc. in Calgary. “Usually dividends sit with your larger
companies, guys that generate lots of cash flow.”  Canada’s smallest energy companies, known as the juniors,
loosely defined as those that produce less than 10,000 barrels
of oil a day, historically drilled to prove reserves and
increase production to be acquired. With fewer ready buyers and
muted economic growth prospects depressing energy stocks, some
are instead trying to entice investors with monthly payments.  Energy stocks in Canada have fallen this year because of
constrained pipeline capacity that has widened the gap between
Canadian crude and global benchmarks.  Drilling Costs  In addition, drilling has become more expensive, forcing
companies to invest more money into operations and take more
time before they become profitable. Much of the recent increase
in fossil fuel production has resulted from the use of
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing technology, which
is more costly than traditional vertical drilling.  Equal Energy (EQU) , which forecast production next year of the
equivalent of 7,900 barrels of oil a day, will begin issuing a
20-cent dividend on Jan. 1 after the sale of royalties and land
to Keystone Royalty Corp. for C$11.4 million.  The dividend is to “reward shareholders for their
patience,” Equal Energy Chief Executive Officer Don Klapko said
in a phone interview from Calgary. “We think it’s something the
overall market is looking for.”  Twin Butte  Twin Butte Energy Ltd. (TBE) , producing 13,750 barrels a day in
the third quarter, led the charge among smaller producers when
it acquired Emerge Oil & Gas Inc. on Jan. 9 and began paying a
dividend the next month. That was followed on Oct. 29 by
Renegade Petroleum, the smallest of the group, with 3,923
barrels a day. Whitecap Resources, with output of 15,800 barrels
a day, promised a dividend on Nov. 20, followed a week later by
Equal Energy.  The stock lift has only materialized for Twin Butte, up 11
percent including dividends since it announced the payout,
versus peers on the S&P/TSX Energy Index, with a drop of 5
percent including the dividends. Equal has fallen 15 percent
since announcing its dividend. Renegade fell 5.7 percent since
its move, while Whitecap is down 3.7 percent.  “Others haven’t received that positive market reaction,”
said Mason Granger, who manages C$500 million at Sentry
Investments Inc. in Toronto, including Renegade shares.  “They have to deliver for a number of quarters in a row
under the discipline of that dividend model and exceed
expectations before the market’s going to reward them with that
higher multiple,” Granger said.  Share Response  “We’re somewhat disappointed with the response of the
share price,” Klapko said, blaming the stock’s decline on
“unrealistic” investors calling for a higher dividend. “We
think some of our shareholders had some unreasonable and frankly
unsustainable expectations.”  Twin Butte CEO Jim Saunders didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment, nor did Whitecap Resources CEO Grant Fagerheim
and Renegade Petroleum Chief Financial Officer Alex Wylie.  Additional companies that could become income names in the
energy sector include Crew Energy Inc., Legacy Oil + Gas Inc.,
Pace Oil & Gas Ltd. and Surge Energy Inc., Calgary-based
National Bank Financial analysts Matt Taylor, Dan Payne and Ryan
Mooney said in a Nov. 20 note.  Issuing a dividend is “something we evaluate and we’re
looking at,” said Trent Yanko, CEO of Legacy Oil + Gas. “Our
asset base is amenable to that type of structure, but it’s also
amenable for continued growth.”  Crew Energy CEO Dale Shwed didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment, nor did Pace Oil & Gas CEO Fred Woods and Surge
Energy CEO Dan O’Neil.  Hybrid Model  Smaller energy companies may not be able to afford to
explore and pay dividends in some of Western Canada’s early-
stage areas of light oil production, where it costs more to
maintain output as the flow of oil drops faster than in mature
fields, said David Neuhauser, who manages $100 million at
Livermore Partners Inc. in Northbrook,  Illinois . Analysts have
dubbed the strategy a “yield plus growth” model.  “They’re trying to be hybrids,” promising production
growth and income, Neuhauser said. “You’re going to keep
spending money and the question is, where’s that money going to
come from if you’re going to distribute a pretty high chunk of
fund flows to shareholders every month.”  Analysts including Murray are watching that dividends can
be maintained, usually measured as a so-called sustainability
ratio by adding capital spending and dividends then subtracting
those reinvested, and dividing by cash flow.  “If it’s over 100 percent, it’s not sustainable,” Murray
said. “If you cut your dividend, your stock goes with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  