-- Dodd-Frank Clearing Has Risks for Wall Street, Banks Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-18T22:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/dodd-frank-clearing-has-risks-for-wall-street-banks-say.html
Wall Street ’s largest banks are
exposed to increased financial risks through their membership in
clearinghouses charged with guaranteeing most swaps under the
Dodd-Frank Act, a trade group said.  Clearinghouses, which accept collateral from buyers and
sellers to curb risks in trades, should take steps to limit the
liability their member banks face during a default, according to
a 29-page report released today by  the Clearing House
Association LLC . Clearinghouses should also put more of their
own capital at risk in a default before losses are passed along
to non-defaulting banks, the group said.  “We want to make sure some of the appropriate safeguards
are in place at clearinghouses so that a default doesn’t spread
contagion throughout the marketplace,” Alex Radetsky, New York-
based vice president and assistant general counsel at the group,
said today in a telephone interview.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to
write rules to curb risk in a $639 trillion global market.
Lawmakers took action after unregulated trades helped fuel a
credit crisis that in 2008 led to the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and U.S. bailouts for companies including
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insurer.  The Clearing House Association is a trade group
representing the largest commercial banks, including those owned
by  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The affiliated Clearing House Payments
Company LLC provides payment, clearing and settlement services
to member banks. The association doesn’t represent derivatives
clearinghouses.  ‘Lowers Risk’  “Central clearing lowers the risk of the highly
interconnected financial system,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
said in a statement last month. The CFTC on Nov. 28 completed
rules requiring the first credit-default and  interest-rate swaps 
to be guaranteed at clearinghouses owned by LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd.,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  Uncertain exposure to losses will undermine confidence in
clearinghouse members and create risk for banks that are
unmanageable, according to the study. “When a defaulting CCP’s
losses are very limited, owners of for-profit CCPs do not have
sufficient incentive to ensure that risk is effectively
managed,” the study says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  