-- E-Mail Privacy Change Shelved in House Netflix Vote
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-18T20:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/e-mail-privacy-change-shelved-in-house-netflix-vote.html
The U.S. House shelved efforts to
update a 26-year-old e-mail privacy law as it passed a bill,
backed by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , making it easier for people to share
their video-viewing habits on Facebook Inc.’s social network.  The bill mirrored video-sharing provisions in a measure
approved last month by the Senate Judiciary Committee, while
stripping out a Senate proposal restricting government access to
some e-mails that authorities can now obtain without a warrant.
The bill passed the House on a voice vote.  The vote probably ends, for this year, efforts by privacy
and civil-liberties advocates to tighten law enforcement access
to e-mail messages, while giving Netflix the ability to take
advantage of its U.S. partnership with Facebook, the world’s
largest social network.  “We shouldn’t do privacy reform piecemeal,” said Chris
Calabrese, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties
Union, which supported the e-mail revision. “We can’t give
priority to special interests.”  The e-mail provision would require law enforcement
officials to get search warrants to obtain communications that
are older than 180 days. Under the 1986 Electronic
Communications Privacy Act, the government can often procure
those older messages without a judge’s permission.  Virginia Republican Representative Bob Goodlatte, who
sponsored the video-sharing bill, said the House isn’t prepared
to consider e-mail privacy before the next session of Congress.  Lame Duck  “I certainly agree that ECPA is something that Congress
should look at closely to see if updates or reforms are
necessary,” Goodlatte, who is set to become chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee in January, said in an e-mailed
statement. “I do not think that it is possible to complete the
thorough examination that is needed in the short amount of time
we have in this lame-duck session.”  Goodlatte’s bill now must go back to the Senate, where the
e-mail privacy language had been inserted into Netflix
legislation by Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a
Vermont Democrat. Jessica Brady, a spokeswoman for the Senate
panel, had no immediate comment on the House bill.  Iowa Senator Charles Grassley, the Judiciary Committee’s
top Republican, said last month the panel should take more time
to examine law enforcement concerns about the impact of e-mail
privacy changes on investigations.  ‘Swift Action’  Netflix looks forward to “swift action” by the Senate to
pass the bill, “giving consumers more freedom to share with
friends when they want,” the company said in a statement e-
mailed by spokesman Joris Evers.  Facebook (FB)  also hopes the Senate
acts quickly to pass the measure, spokesman Andrew Noyes said in
an e-mail.  Netflix, the world’s largest video-subscription service,
last year announced a way for its users to share with friends on
Facebook the titles of movies and television shows they’re
streaming. The arrangement has taken effect in more than 40
countries and territories where Netflix operates, yet isn’t
available in the U.S. because of another 1980s-era privacy law,
according to Netflix.  The measure passed by the House today revises a 1988 law
passed after then-Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork’s video
store rental history was published in a Washington newspaper.
The change would allow people to give one-time online consent to
share the titles of the movies they watch.  The House bill incorporates changes made by the Senate
Judiciary Committee last month, requiring that consent must be
sought at least every two years and giving consumers a “clear
and conspicuous” opportunity to withdraw from disclosing their
videos on a case-by-case basis.  An earlier version of the video-sharing bill passed the
House last December.  The bill is H.R. 6671.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  