-- Teacher Image Shifts to Child Saviors After School Attack
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-12-18T15:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/teacher-image-shifts-to-child-saviors-after-school-attack.html
Sandy Hook Elementary School teacher
Kaitlin Roig rushed her first-grade class into the bathroom,
barricaded the door and kept them quiet -- and safe -- until the
gunfire ceased in the hall.  Victoria Soto, 27, was killed after ushering her students
into a classroom closet and placing her body between them and
the assailant, according to the  New York  Daily News. Her
colleague, Anne Marie Murphy, 52, died shielding students from a
rain of rifle bullets that killed 20 children, all 6 or 7, in
Newtown,  Connecticut , on Dec. 14, according to Newsday.  The massacre has drawn attention to efforts by teachers to
protect children during the second-deadliest shooting in U.S.
history. It marks a shift, however fleeting, in the image of
public employees, accustomed to political fights over union
power, pensions and whether schools would improve if teachers
were easier to fire.  “It’s a shame that it takes a tragedy for people to
acknowledge the good work we do,” said Kristi Barel, 35, a
teacher from Shelby Township,  Michigan , who this month was among
those protesting against a law that allows workers to opt out of
paying union dues. “When you feel like you’re under attack, it
hurts.”  Teaching has been a beleaguered trade since the  recession ,
which led school districts to cut about 287,000 jobs as states
cut aid and  tax revenue  tumbled, according to  data  from the U.S.
Labor Department.  ‘Political Thugs’  Their unions have parried political attacks. New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  has called leaders of the state’s
largest teachers’ union “political thugs.” Wisconsin Governor
 Scott Walker  restricted public unions’ bargaining rights in
2011, a step that triggered a U.S. debate about pay and
pensions. The  Heritage Foundation , a Washington research group
that favors small government, has said that public school
teachers are overpaid by $120 billion every year.  Democrats have also endorsed policies that have been
criticized by teachers’ unions. President  Barack Obama ’s Race to
the Top program awarded grants to states that link teacher
evaluation to student performance. That issue was at the center
of contract negotiations in  Chicago  that led teachers to strike
for the first time since 1987.  “We’ve seen more clashes between school superintendents
and unions than we have in recent years,” said Arthur Levine, a
former education professor who is president of the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foundation in Princeton,  New Jersey .
“We’ve seen more clashes between policy makers and school
systems than we have in recent years.”  Job Satisfaction  It’s taken a toll. MetLife’s annual survey found that the
number of teachers who say they are very satisfied tumbled to 44
percent by 2011 from 59 percent in 2009. They were more than
four times as likely to feel insecure in their job than in 2006.  “If we’re very critical of unions, it’s very hard if
you’re a member of the union to believe they aren’t being
critical of you,” Levine said.  Since the Sandy Hook tragedy, a more concrete image of
teachers has taken hold as American television broadcasts have
stayed focused on mourning and acts of heroism.  “If anything comes out of this tragedy, it’s that
Americans will see how dedicated these educators were, as they
are in classrooms across America,” said William Bushaw,
executive director of PDK International, a Bloomington, Indiana-
based association representing teachers.  Shielding Children  Roig, 29, in an interview with ABC News, recalled whisking
the children into the bathroom after Adam Lanza, 20, shot his
way into the school and went on a rampage -- firing as many as
11 shots into each of his victims. She told them she loved them.  “I wanted that to be one of the last things they heard,”
she said.  Six school employees were killed in the attack, including
Dawn Hochsprung, the principal, who was shot after confronting
the attacker. Her office left the public address system on,
which warned the rest of the school.  Mary Sherlach, 56, a school psychologist, also died.
Rebecca Castegner, a 20-year-old former student, said in an
interview that Sherlach was a substitute mother to children
having difficulty adjusting to school. “She was there for the
kids if they needed her,” Castegner said.  Dream Fulfilled  Lauren Rousseau, 30, became a full-time teacher at Sandy
Hook this year after years working as a substitute, according to
a statement from her mother.  “Lauren wanted to be a teacher from before she even went
to kindergarten,” Terri Rousseau said. “We will miss her
terribly and will take comfort knowing that she had achieved
that dream.”  The family of Soto said she died a hero, an image they want
her to be remembered by.  Ken Pires, a deputy sheriff in Franklin County,
 Massachusetts , came to Newtown on Dec. 17 to pay his respects.
He visited a makeshift memorial, where candles and images were
left to commemorate the dead.  “To do what they did in such fear is amazing,” Pires
said. “Twenty babies died, but also six heroes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  