-- Egypt’s Opposition Rallies as Tensions Persist After Voting
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-18T16:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/egypt-opposition-plans-rallies-as-tensions-persist-after-vote.html
Egyptian opposition activists
rallied today to protest an Islamist-backed constitution after a
first round of voting on the charter sparked allegations of
irregularities.  Initial results from the Dec. 15 referendum suggested a
victory for the “yes” vote and a “no” vote that’s large
enough to prolong tensions. Voters in Cairo, Alexandria and
eight other provinces endorsed the new constitution by 57
percent to 43 percent, according to state-run Ahram Gate
website. Official results won’t be announced until after the
second round, which will be held on Dec. 22 in areas where
support for the Islamists is traditionally strong.  “We are continuing to express our rejection for this draft
constitution because it divided the country,” Khaled Dawoud, a
spokesman for the National Salvation Front, one of the groups
calling for protests, said today by phone. “If about 50 percent
of the population is not satisfied with the constitution, this
is a prescription for more instability.”  The referendum follows a wave of demonstrations against
President Mohamed Mursi’s efforts to push the charter through,
sometimes escalating into fatal clashes between his supporters
and opponents. Mursi’s backers, including the Muslim
Brotherhood, argue that the constitution will help stabilize the
country and speed the economy’s recovery, and they say the
opposition must accept the public’s verdict. Critics say the
text was drawn up by Islamists, won’t protect rights, and was
opposed by enough people to make it unworkable.  Opposition Chants  Protesters marched through the streets of Cairo, some
banging on drums and yelling: “Freedom! Freedom!” footage
aired on the Arabic-language Al Jazeera channel showed. Others
waved Egyptian flags and clapped as they chanted: “We don’t
want the constitution of blood.”  In a scene replayed at recent protests, demonstrators used
the chants that rang out during last year’s uprising that
unseated  Hosni Mubarak  -- this time against Mursi. “Leave.
Leave,” and “The people want to topple the regime,” some
shouted.  “The Islamists could feel empowered by their victory,
which they could interpret as a fresh mandate,” Raza Agha,
chief regional economist for VTB Capital Plc in  London , wrote in
a research note yesterday. “Given that the opposition does not
also seem to want to budge, political instability is unlikely to
come down even after the second round.”  Complaints Filed  Opposition leaders and representatives of rights groups
today filed complaints to the public prosecutor, demanding that
investigative judges be assigned to look into irregularities
they say occurred during the Dec. 15 voting, according to an e-
mailed statement from the National Salvation Front. Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, has called the
allegations baseless.  Justice Minister Ahmed Mekky asked appeals courts
nationwide to assign investigative judges to look into alleged
“violations and crimes” relating to the vote, MENA reported
today. Mekky said he is ready to appear before an investigative
judge, MENA reported citing ministry spokesman Ahmed Roushy.  The constituent assembly that drafted the constitution
invited four opposition leaders from the front for a “public
and transparent” dialogue on Dec. 21 to discuss their
objections, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported
today. They include Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei and former
presidential candidates Amre Moussa and Hamdeen Sabahi, it said.
Dawoud said the front was unlikely to attend as one of its main
demands, to postpone the referendum, hadn’t been met.  Battered Economy  The political turmoil threatens to set back  Egypt ’s efforts
to rebuild an economy battered since last year’s uprising.
Mursi, who became Egypt’s first freely elected civilian leader
when he won a presidential vote in June, last week postponed
Egypt’s application for a $4.8 billion International Monetary
Fund loan.  Prosecutor-General Talaat Abdullah submitted his
resignation yesterday to the Supreme Judicial Council after
hundreds of prosecutors rallied against him outside his office,
MENA reported. He was appointed by Mursi last month. The
Brotherhood urged the council to refuse to accept his
resignation, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  