-- Teletubbies Seek New Owner as BBC Worldwide Sells Venture
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-18T09:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/teletubbies-seek-new-owner-as-bbc-joint-venture-stake.html
The  Teletubbies , the toddler-sized
creatures with antennas on their heads, are following Barney and
Peter Rabbit down the path to new ownership as the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s commercial arm cashes in on a burgeoning
children’s market.  BBC Worldwide  and  Ragdoll Productions  decided to sell their
joint venture that owns the rights to the Teletubbies and pre-
school shows such as “In the Night Garden” and “The
Adventures of Abney & Teal,” the broadcaster told  Bloomberg
News .  Entertainment companies  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  have
purchased children characters such as  Thomas the Tank Engine  and
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Teenage in recent years to tap
demand for globally known brands, especially in markets such as
 China  and  Brazil . Kids’ characters are attractive assets because
they generate a new audience every few years, can be easily
dubbed and provide lucrative ancillary sales from licensing and
merchandising.  “The pre-school market is a new market every three to four
years and that audience is a very loyal audience,” said Darren Throop, chief executive officer at  Entertainment One Ltd. (ETO) , which
owns the rights to Peppa Pig, one of the most popular pre-school
characters. “These brands transact quickly because people
understand there is a long tail on the revenue side of
merchandising.”  Mickey Mouse  Though Throop has no plans to seek buyers for Peppa, he
said he bid for some characters that were for sale in recent
years, declining to identify the targets.  Lunchboxes, sleeping bags and stuffed animals bearing the
characters’ images provide revenue to the owner for years.
 Mickey Mouse , the cartoon character created in 1928 by  Walt Disney , remains one of the most popular children’s characters.  “With children’s programs, you’re buying into the brand
franchise,” said Nigel Pickard, the U.K. head of  Zodiak Kids ,
the children’s content arm of producer Zodiak Media. “The TV
show is at the front but it’s everything that follows that gives
it a long-standing shelf life.”  The Teletubbies, four oddball characters known as  Tinky
Winky, Dipsy, Laa-Laa and Po , aired on the BBC in 1997 and have
since been shown in 120 countries and in 45 different languages.  “We have taken the decision with Ragdoll to seek a buyer
for our successful joint venture we established in 2006,”
 Marcus Arthur , managing director for  BBC  Worldwide’s global
brands unit, said in an e-mail. The British broadcaster is
seeking someone for the joint venture “to invest in and grow
the business,” he said.  Merchandising Potential  DC Advisory Partners , which last year sold the rights to
characters including Peter Rabbit, Mr. Men and Paddington Bear
for entertainment company Chorion Ltd., is handling the sale for
the BBC.  The BBC is one of largest platforms for kids content in the
U.K. with its television channel CBeebies targeting pre-school
children and its CBBC channel focussing on older ones. Ragdoll
will continue in the children’s business by developing new
content.  “The Teletubbies changed everything about the way people
thought about preschool,” said Pickard. “It’s a heritage
brand. I think they are no longer at their peak but clearly in
TV licensing they are relicensed and they do drive ancillary
revenue for merchandising.”  Brand Power  Mattel’s purchase of  Hit Entertainment Ltd.  last year
illustrates the power of a brand’s licensing and merchandising
potential, as the world largest toy company paid $680 million to
add characters including Thomas the Tank Engine, Bob the Builder
and Barney.  Spending on products targeting kids aged up to 4 years has
soared in  emerging markets . In Brazil, it surged by 28 percent
to $528 million between 2008 and 2011, and by 46 percent to $867
million in China, according to researcher  Euromonitor
International . In the U.K., that figure rose 3.2 percent to $892
million, while it was little changed at $3.3 billion in the U.S.  “The important part now is having the intellectual
property of a brand,” said Sander Schwartz, president of kids
and family entertainment at FremantleMedia, the production arm
of  Europe ’s biggest broadcaster  RTL Group SA. (RTL)  “TV is never
going to be anymore the principle source of income.”  FremantleMedia’s kids division, whose roster includes shows
such as “Ella the Elephant” and “ My Babysitter’s a Vampire ,”
earns a large portion of revenue from distribution of such
properties.  Italian Franchise  “Nothing repeats or travels better than children’s
shows,” said Schwartz. “They have a very long life and nothing
has a longer tail for ancillary revenue.”  Aside from merchandising and TV rights, children drag their
parents in droves to the cinema for the latest screenings, which
is something Viacom is betting will happen with its expected
2014 release of the latest Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie.
Viacom bought the franchise in 2009 for $60 million.  Viacom last year also acquired a minority stake in Rainbow
Group, the creator of the popular “ Winx Club ” Italian TV
franchise. In August,  DHX Media (DHX)  of  Canada  bought peer Cookie Jar
Entertainment, which owns rights including Care Bears,
Strawberry Shortcake and Inspector Gadget for $111 million to
create the country’s largest children’s entertainment company.  Declining Prices  The prices for some kids’ content have fallen as more
programs and characters flood the market, said  Jules Borkent ,
senior vice president of global acquisitions and international
programming at Viacom’s children’s channel Nickelodeon.  Viacom’s most popular brand is SpongeBob, which is seen in
more than 170 countries on  Nickelodeon . SpongeBob to date has
generated more than $12 billion in retail sales, according to
the company, and the character has more than 37 million fans on
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website.  While Nickelodeon is pitched about 500 pieces of content a
year, the station will only sign a handful, Borkent said.
“We’re going into companies much earlier as kids are watching
more now with iPads, computer and there are bigger audiences.”  As more companies try to break into the children market,
it’s key to secure the lucrative global brands, said  Stewart
Clarke , an editorial director at researcher Informa Telecoms &
Media.  “It’s an unbelievably cluttered children’s market,” he
said. “But when you get a SpongeBob you are sitting on a
billion-dollar property and assets you can sweat for years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 