-- Entergy Power Boost in Mississippi Lifts Nuclear Output
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-12-18T15:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/entergy-power-boost-in-mississippi-lifts-nuclear-output.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  raised output at the
1,297-megawatt Grand Gulf reactor in  Mississippi , sending U.S.
nuclear-power production higher for a second day.  Generation nationwide rose 31 megawatts from yesterday to
 89,798 megawatts , or 88 percent of capacity, according to U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. Output
was 3.1 percent lower than a  year ago  with 12 of 104 nuclear
reactors shut.  Entergy’s Grand Gulf, about 25 miles (40 kilometers)
southwest of Vicksburg, operated at 85 percent of capacity
today, compared with  60 percent  yesterday. The unit is powering
up after completing planned maintenance that began Dec. 8, said
Suzanne Anderson, a company spokeswoman.  “The work was primarily associated with the main turbine
generator systems and did not affect nuclear safety-related
equipment,” Anderson, who is based at the plant, said in an e-
mail. Testing and repairs were also done on several plant
components, she said.  Brunswick 2, a  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  reactor with the capacity
to generate 937 megawatts near Raleigh,  North Carolina , returned
to 100 percent of power after operating yesterday at 80 percent.  “Brunswick was at reduced power to conduct planned testing
of fuel and related components,” Rita Sipe, a company
spokeswoman in  Charlotte , said in an e-mail today.  Regional Output  Nuclear generation in the NRC’s Southeast region gained 0.7
percent to 27,835 megawatts, the  highest level  since Sept. 14,
commission data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The advance was
the biggest among U.S. regions.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ’s Florida-based St. Lucie 2 reactor
operated at full power for a third day. The unit began powering
up in November after work that boosted its capacity by about 150
megawatts, said Doug Andrews, a company spokesman based at the
plant.  Crews replaced components including heat exchangers,
generators, transformers, valves and pumps, Andrews said in a
telephone interview. St. Lucie 2, near Fort Pierce,  Florida , has
the capacity to generate 1,002 megawatts, according to
commission data.  Output in the Northeast declined 0.4 percent to 22,928
megawatts after Entergy slowed the 852-megawatt FitzPatrick
reactor to 75 percent from full power yesterday. The unit is
located near Oswego,  New York .  Algae Removal  Entergy reduced the unit’s power to perform maintenance,
said Tammy Holden, a company spokeswoman based at the plant.  “Workers removed algae and debris that accumulated in the
station’s main condenser waterboxes as a result of a condition
on  Lake Ontario ,” Holden said in an e-mail today.  Operators are also performing a regularly scheduled control
rod sequence exchange, she said.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  