-- Merrill Lynch Sued by Trusts Over $1 Billion in Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-18T17:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/merrill-lynch-sued-by-trusts-over-1-billion-in-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch unit was sued by two trusts that hold and administer
mortgages on behalf of investors who own more than $1 billion of
securities collateralized by the loans.  Merrill bought more than 6,000 mortgages with an original
principal balance of more than $1.1 billion from a third-party
loan originator, ResMAE Mortgage Corp., in 2006 and turned them
into tradeable securities that were sold to investors, according
to the complaint filed today in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  ResMAE filed for bankruptcy in February 2007 and the trusts
pursued claims against ResMAE in bankruptcy through LaSalle
Bank, demanding that it buy back loans where borrowers had
missed their first or second payments or provide other
compensation, according to the complaint. LaSalle in July 2008
settled those claims on behalf of five Merrill-sponsored trusts,
including the two plaintiffs in today’s suit.  A review of files associated with the loans in 2011 and
2012 found that more than 2,600 of them “suffered from breaches
of representations and warranties” and misstated information,
such as the borrowers’ income, employment and property value,
according to the complaint.  Contractual Obligations  “Having been liquidated in bankruptcy, ResMAE can no
longer fulfill any of its contractual repurchase obligations and
thus Merrill must repurchase loans under the terms of the sale
agreements,” the trusts said in the complaint.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
lawsuit in a telephone interview. Bank of America is the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets.  The case is Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors Trust, Series
2006-RM4 v. Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending Inc., 654403/2012,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  