-- Esprit Sees First-Half Loss Amid Efforts to Rebuild Brand
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-19T09:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/esprit-sees-first-half-loss-amid-efforts-to-rebuild-brand.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  said it may
post a loss in the first half ending Dec. 31 as the apparel
company struggles to revive its brand after missing earnings
estimates for five straight years. The stock dropped.  The expected loss is “mainly attributable to worse-than-
expected operating results” after its performance in the three
months ended Sept. 30, Esprit said in a statement to the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. It didn’t provide details.  Esprit, which last month raised money from a rights offer,
reiterated yesterday that it will continue efforts to “rebuild
and revitalize” the brand, improve the quality of its products
and improve efficiencies of its supply chain and distribution
channels. The apparel brand has battled slower sales as
customers have turned to rivals such as Inditex SA’s Zara.  Nomura Equity Research lowered its rating on the stock to
“reduce” from “neutral” and cut the price target to HK$9
from HK$12.50. “The announcement has added further uncertainty
to brand momentum and positioning, and creates more doubt around
the Esprit story,” Tanuj Shori, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Nomura wrote in a note to clients.  Esprit shares fell 4.5 percent to HK$11.16 at the close of
Hong Kong trading. The benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.6
percent.  Chief Executive Officer Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez took
over in September after the previous CEO and chairman quit
within twenty-four hours of each other earlier this year.  Martinez took the place vacated by Ronald Van der Vis, who
announced his departure in June. Chairman Hans Joachim Koerber
quit a day after Van der Vis. The departure of both executives
had raised doubts over succession as Esprit struggles to
restructure its business.  Michael Ying, the company’s former chairman, more than
doubled his stake in the Hong Kong-based clothing retailer to
10.3 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  