-- EU Rapeseed Growers Eye Output Gain as Germany Boosts Acres
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-12-18T17:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/eu-rapeseed-growers-eye-output-gain-as-germany-boosts-planting.html
Rapeseed output in the European
Union, the world’s largest producer of the oilseed used in
cooking and biofuels, may increase to a four-year high after
German farmers planted more crops.  Total European production may rise to 20.96 million metric
tons in 2013-14, up 8.8 percent from a year earlier, Brussels-
based farm lobby Copa-Cogeca said in provisional estimates
released Dec. 14. That would be the largest crop since the
2009-10 season, EU  data  show. The rapeseed harvest in  Germany ,
the second-biggest grower in the 27-nation bloc, may climb 15
percent to 5.54 million tons, the country’s oilseed-industry
association said in an e-mail Dec. 10.  Rapeseed futures on NYSE Liffe in Paris advanced 4.6
percent this year, rising to a record in July, as drought in the
U.S. crimped supplies of soybeans, an alternative oilseed. This
season, the EU’s rapeseed harvest was little changed at 19.2
million tons, according to the European Commission, the bloc’s
administrative arm. EU farmers begin sowing rapeseed in August,
and plants go dormant over winter before harvest starts in June.  “The price was very attractive at the sowing time,” said
Dieter Bockey, head of biofuels and renewable resources at
Berlin-based industry group Union zur Foerderung von Oel- und
Proteinpflanzen e.V., or UFOP. Germany had “the best sowing
conditions in years.”  Rapeseed trailed soybean’s 22 percent gain this year on the
Chicago Board of Trade and a 11 percent rise in ICE Futures
Winnipeg’s contract for canola, a variety of rapeseed. Soybeans
climbed to a record $17.89 a bushel in September and corn
climbed to an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel in August. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture gauge of eight commodities
advanced 7.1 percent this year.  Producer, Consumer  The EU is the world’s largest producer, consumer and
importer of  rapeseed , according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . The oilseed is the bloc’s fourth-largest arable
crop, after wheat, barley and corn. In the 2013-14 season,
rapeseed may be grown on 6.81 million hectares (16.8 million
acres) in the EU, up from 6.48 million hectares in the previous
season, according to Copa-Cogeca.  The area devoted to rapeseed in the EU may climb by as much
as 500,000 hectares as Germany had its first planting season in
three years without excess rain, and farms in  Poland  seeded more
of the crop, Oliver Balkhausen, deputy head of economics at
trader Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH, said on the
sidelines of an oilseed meeting last month.  Oil World  Oil World said today it expects EU rapeseed production to
rise 7.5 percent from last year to 20.5 million tons, as Germany
supplants  France  as the EU’s largest rapeseed grower. The
Hamburg-based researcher said Germany’s harvest may climb 14
percent to 5.5 million tons, while production drops to 5.2
million tons in France and 2.5 million tons in the U.K. Poland’s
output may jump 19 percent to 2.15 tons, Oil World said.  In Germany, crop conditions are currently “very good,”
Bockey of the UFOP in Berlin said. The group’s production
forecast is contingent on the expectation that winter
temperatures won’t drop low enough to damage crops. Germany’s
rapeseed production in the previous season was 4.82 million
tons, according to the Federal Statistics Office.  The winter-crop area in France, the EU’s largest rapeseed
producer, may drop 9.4 percent to 1.45 million hectares, because
drought in August and September discouraged farmers from
planting, according to Paris-based researcher Cetiom.  U.K. Crops  As much as 20 percent of rapeseed crops in the U.K. may be
at risk of failure after excess rain fell from September to
November and fields were infested with slugs, according to the
Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board. Devizes, England-
based marketing company United Oilseeds estimates that 114,000
hectares will have to be replanted in the spring, or about 15
percent of the country’s crop.  “Crops have struggled,” said Owen Cligg, the trading
manager at United Oilseeds, which a handles 20 percent of the
U.K.’s rapeseed crop. “They’re still quite small and not very
well-established, so we’re expecting a certain percentage of
those not to come through the winter. Some already have been
plowed up to be planted with something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  