-- EU Urges Spain to Rein in Pension Costs to Protect Budget
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-18T11:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/eu-urges-spain-to-rein-in-pension-cost-growth-to-protect-budget.html
Spain  should rein in the growth of
costs related to its aging population, the European Union said,
increasing pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  who has
sought to protect pensioners from austerity measures.  Public pension spending will exceed the European average
until 2060, even after an overhaul approved by the previous
government, the EU said today in its fiscal sustainability
report. Assuming no policy changes, Spain’s debt burden would
rise to 114 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 and 129
percent in 2030, from 97 percent in 2014 and 36 percent in 2007,
it said.  “In Spain, the risk of fiscal stress has been reduced
thanks to the consolidation measures adopted in the past one or
two years, but it still remains rather elevated,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today
in Brussels. “It is essential that Spain will effectively
implement the budget for 2013 that includes a substantial amount
of fiscal consolidation.”  According to today’s report, which covers the 24 EU nations
not in full bailout programs, short-term “risks for fiscal
stress have abated in nearly all countries” since a previous
sustainability report in 2009. While the 2009 report indicated
that almost two-thirds of EU nations had “elevated risks of
fiscal stress for 2010,” today’s report said only Spain and
Cyprus “appear to be still at risk” in the short term.  Public Finances  For Spain, “further containing age-related expenditure
growth appears necessary to contribute to the sustainability of
public finances in the long term,” the European Commission, the
EU executive in Brussels, said in the report.  Spain’s Rajoy pledged in July to review pension rules as
part of a set of budget cuts announced after he agreed to a
European bank bailout. While cutting benefits and public wages
and raising taxes, the government has tried to shield retirees
from austerity as it increased pensions this year and raided the
country’s welfare-reserve fund to pay for benefits.  Still, the government said on Nov. 30 that it was scrapping
a law that obliged it to compensate pensioners for higher-than-
expected inflation. Pensions rose 1 percent this year, compared
with an annual inflation rate of 3 percent in November. Next
year, pensions will rise another 1 percent, with retirees on
less than 1,000 euros ($1,317) per month receiving a 2 percent
increase.  ‘High Risk’  Cyprus, which in June became the fifth euro-area nation to
seek international aid, “appears to be at high risk of fiscal
stress in the short-term, originating from both the
macrofinancial and fiscal side of the economy,” the EU said in
the report. In the long term, Cyprus should rein in age-related
spending, including through pension reform, to help ensure
sustainable public finances, the EU said in the report. Without
policy changes, Cypriot government debt would increase to 102.7
percent of economic output in 2014 and to more than 127 percent
in 2020, the EU warned.  In the case of  Italy , the “country does not face a risk of
fiscal stress in the short term” as the  budget deficit  is under
the EU limit and the pension system has already been overhauled
to address the ageing population. Reducing the euro area’s
second-biggest debt is Italy’s largest challenge, according to
the report.  Primary Surplus  The government forecasts that its primary surplus, the
government balance excluding interest payments, will reach 5
percent of GDP by 2014, allowing a reduction in total borrowing,
which is forecast to total 126.5 percent of GDP that year.
Maintaining that 5 percent primary surplus will be challenging,
given the country’s track record and historically low economic
growth, the EU said in the report.  “This result is therefore conditional upon the very high
structural primary surplus forecasted for 2014 -- 5% of GDP --
being maintained after that year,” the EU said. “Such a
structural primary surplus is considerably higher than what has
been observed historically for Italy -- 2.6 percent of GDP on
average over the last 15 years.”  While France does not appear to face a risk of fiscal
stress in the short term, the EU said there are “some
indications that the fiscal side of the economy continues to
pose potential challenges.” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said on Dec. 14 that his government’s “clear”
economic strategy rests on maintaining credibility on its budget
and competitiveness to keep borrowing costs low.  ‘Favorable Conditions’  In a separate report, the commission said  Germany  and the
Netherlands will be key in the euro area’s effort to cut
 current-account imbalances . “Favorable conditions for
adjustment in current-account surpluses are in place in most,
albeit not all, surplus countries,” it said.  “From the euro-area perspective, the developments in two
major surplus countries will be decisive. While Germany is
reducing its surplus, subdued domestic demand and deleveraging
pressures combined with tightening policy measures exert upward
pressure on the Dutch surplus,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  