-- European Trading Volumes Rise Before Last Options Expiry
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-12-18T15:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/european-trading-volumes-rise-before-last-options-expiry.html
European trading volumes surged as
investors prepared for the last options expiry of 2012 amid
optimism that U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republicans will
agree on a budget.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.4 percent to 280.31 at
2:57 p.m. in London and the volume of shares changing hands was
38 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. On Dec. 21, futures contracts and
options on equity indexes and single stocks expire in a process
known as triple witching that can increase trading volatility.  “Higher volume may have to do with Friday’s last option
expiry for the year, some optimism on the fiscal cliff and the
fact that strategists are bullish on prospects for 2013,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London . “The Santa Claus rally may be around the corner,”
he said, referring to a common upswing in the last five days of
the year and the first two in January.  The volume of shares traded on Spain’s IBEX 35 jumped to
two-and-a-half times the average of the last month, while in
 Asia , activity on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose to more than
twice the average level, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  President Barack Obama proposed a budget plan that would
cut about $1.2 trillion in federal spending and raise a similar
amount in taxes, according to a person familiar with the talks.  “If there is a budget resolution, equities will clearly
perform the best out of all the assets,” said  Jim Reid , a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Equity volumes have declined globally, with NYSE Euronext,
Deutsche Boerse AG and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. all reporting
reduced trading of stock and options this year.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
the world’s largest futures market, said in October that third-
quarter profit fell 31 percent as trading in interest-rate
contracts slid the same amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  