-- Ex-Home Diagnostics CEO Avoids Prison for Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-12-18T00:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ex-home-diagnostics-ceo-avoids-prison-for-insider-trading.html
George Holley, former chief
executive officer and chairman of Home Diagnostics Inc., avoided
prison when he was sentenced to three years of probation for
 insider trading .  Holley, 72, was sentenced today in federal court in
Trenton, New Jersey, where he pleaded guilty on Aug. 8 to two
counts of  securities fraud  in his trial’s eighth day. Holley
faced between 33 and 41 months in prison under advisory
sentencing guidelines, according to his attorney,  Kevin Marino .
U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano also fined him $260,000.  Pisano had dismissed some of the charges at trial after
prosecutors rested their case, Marino said. Holley admitted
tipping his cousin and a friend that Osaka, Japan-based  Nipro
Corp. (8086) , a maker of medical equipment, would buy his company.
Prosecutors said he told them to buy Home Diagnostics stock
three weeks before the merger was announced.  “We always felt that a probationary sentence was
appropriate in this case, and we are very gratified that that
sentence was ultimately imposed,” Marino said. “Mr. Holley has
lived an extraordinary life marked by generosity of spirit and
philanthropy. He regrets his foolish mistake.”  Matthew Reilly, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman,
declined to comment on the sentence.  2010 Sale  Nipro bought the company for $215 million in February 2010.
Shares of Home Diagnostics, based in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida ,
rose 89 percent after the announcement. The subsidiary, which
makes blood glucose monitoring systems and disposable supplies
for diabetics, is now known as Nipro Diagnostics.  One of the people that Holley admitted tipping was Phairot
Iamnaita, of Hangdong,  Chiang Mai , Thailand. Holley, of Norwalk,
Connecticut, was arrested in January 2011 and charged with
Iamnaita. Prosecutors dismissed the charges against Iamnaita
when they indicted Holley for a second time in May.  Iamnaita was a “close personal acquaintance” of Holley
who “regularly socialized and vacationed” with him, according
to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s arrest complaint. The
two invested in business ventures in Thailand, the FBI said.  From 1985 to March 2010, Holley was chairman of Home
Diagnostics, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The SEC sued Holley, Iamnaita and a third man. A
judge administratively closed that lawsuit so that it wouldn’t
interfere with the criminal case.  The case is U.S. v. Holley, 11-cr-66, and the SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Holley, 11-cv-205, both in
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  