-- Food Inflation May Help Kroger, Dollar Stores: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/food-inflation-may-help-kroger-dollar-stores-chart-of-the-day.html
Food prices have begun to rise at a
faster pace in the U.S. and some retailers are poised to profit
from the acceleration, according to  John Heinbockel , an analyst
at Guggenheim Partners LLC.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks two indicators of food
inflation that Heinbockel mentioned in a Dec. 14 report. One
reflects price tags on grocery shelves, and the other is based
on what foodmakers charge for finished items. Both of them rose
in the past two months, as the chart highlights.  “Reflation has begun,” the New York-based analyst wrote.
He estimated the supermarket-based consumer price index will be
2.4 percent higher next year, exceeding November’s 1.3 percent
gain from a year earlier. He predicted the producer gauge will
climb 3.3 percent in 2013, up from 2.6 percent last month.  Retailers will be able to raise prices about 3 percent
without a meaningful decline in demand, Heinbockel wrote. This
will pave the way for faster sales growth, lower expenses as a
percentage of revenue, and higher earnings before interest and
taxes, the report said.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the country’s largest owner of supermarkets,
will be “a clear beneficiary” because sales are already on the
rise, Heinbockel wrote. Fourth-quarter sales will increase as
much as 3.5 percent at stores open more than a year, the
Cincinnati-based company said last week in a filing.  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  may
benefit as well because of the value that shoppers associate
with them, the analyst wrote. He recommends buying shares of
 Dollar General , based in Goodlettsville, Tennessee, and Family
Dollar, based in Matthews, North Carolina, as well as Kroger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  