-- Ford COO Says Automaker Working on Quality After Recalls
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ford-coo-says-automaker-working-on-quality-after-recalls.html
A spate of recalls on  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s redesigned Escape sport-utility vehicle and Fusion sedan,
among its most important offerings, is not slowing sales of
those models, the company said yesterday.  “Our sales are doing well and the perception of our
products are doing well,” Chief Operating Officer Mark Fields,
51, told reporters yesterday after a ceremony in Detroit. “But
we understand that’s a very precious thing and we’re working
very hard every day to deliver that quality.”  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally made quality a
cornerstone of his turnaround plan for the Dearborn, Michigan-
based automaker. That effort has stumbled as Ford has plunged in
quality rankings from researcher J.D. Power & Associates and
Consumer Reports magazine. The 2013 Escape, Ford’s top-selling
SUV, has been recalled four times since it was introduced in
May. The new Fusion has had two recalls since its October debut.  “On the Escape launch, we have had a few issues,” Fields
said. “But when you look at our Escape, look at our new C-Max,
look at our Fusion, they are the fastest-turning products in our
showroom. When you look at the transaction prices of the new
models versus the old models, they are significantly up.”  Ford is attempting to satisfy customers affected by recalls
by giving them free loaner cars and promptly making repairs,
Fields said.  “We realize that we have to keep at this, and we will,”
Fields said. “Our commitment is to bring out products of the
very best quality and as we see issues, we’re going to jump on
them.”  Recalls, Fires  On Nov. 30, the automaker  recalled  73,320 Escape models and
about 19,000 Fusions equipped with its 1.6-liter EcoBoost
engine. The company said Dec. 10 it found a solution to an
overheating issue that could cause engine fires.  Ford also has been criticized for quality by Consumer
Reports. The company’s Ford brand fell seven spots to second-to-
last place while its Lincoln luxury nameplate plunged twelve
spots in the magazine’s annual auto-reliability survey.  Ford’s rankings suffered because of problems with its
MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch audio, entertainment and
navigation systems and defects with models such as the Explorer
sport-utility vehicle and Fiesta and Focus cars, Consumer
Reports said in October.  The company has also slid in an annual new-car quality
survey by J.D. Power. The Ford brand fell to 27th in 2012 from
23rd last year and fifth in 2010.  ‘Significantly Improved’  Fields said yesterday that Ford’s quality is
“significantly improved” from five years ago. He blamed
declining quality scores in the last two years on glitches with
dashboard touchscreen controls and fuel-saving new
transmissions.  “Over the last couple years, we’ve had some isolated
areas, particularly around MyFord Touch and some of our
transmissions,” Fields said. “We’ve been addressing that and
we’ve seen improvements.”  Yesterday’s event was related to how the Ford Fund, the
company’s community-relations arm, is giving $10 million to the
City of  Detroit  to create a community center in the Mexicantown
neighborhood and to provide for a new youth recreation and
summer camp.  Ford gained  2.5 percent  to $11.67 yesterday in New York.
The shares have risen  8.5 percent  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  