-- Forint Steadies After Plunge as Hungary Central Bank Cuts Rates
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-18T16:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/forint-drops-to-5-month-low-as-central-bank-poised-for-rate-cut.html
The forint steadied after touching
the lowest level in almost five months as Hungary’s central bank
cut  interest rates  for a fifth straight month, bringing them to
the lowest in two years.  The forint traded unchanged at 288.15 per euro by 5:20 p.m.
in Budapest after weakening as much as 0.8 percent to 290.33,
the weakest since July 25, before the decision was announced.
Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds dropped five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.42 percent, the
lowest since April 2010.  The forint plunged the most in three months yesterday as
investors prepared for the rate cut, which was predicted by all
19 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Traders also reacted to
reports the Magyar Nemzeti Bank may resort to less conventional
easing tools next year. The central bank today lowered its
inflation and economic growth forecasts for 2013, projecting a
slower recovery from the second recession in four years.  “We expect the central bank to continue monetary easing
next year,” Gergely Gabler, a Budapest-based analyst at broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report after the
rate announcement. “While some players got unnerved by
yesterday’s dive in the forint, the Monetary Council didn’t get
scared.”  Hungary  raised 75 billion forint ($343 million) in three-
month Treasury bills at an auction earlier today, 50 percent
more than planned and the  highest amount  raised from that
maturity since at least 1995, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency. The average yield was 5.63 percent, the
lowest since September 2011.  Government ‘Ally’  Central bank President Andras Simor’s term expires in March
and his successor will be “allied with the government” in
boosting economic growth, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said
in a radio interview on Dec. 15.  “This does not sound too promising in light of the
government’s choice of unorthodox fiscal measures in the past
and its hostile approach towards the banking sector,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , wrote in an e-mail after the central bank
decision.  The forint plunged 15 percent in the second half of 2011
after Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s Cabinet nationalized
privately managed pension assets, levied special taxes on
lenders and forced banks to take losses on foreign-currency
loans, costing the nation its investment-grade  credit rating .  Hands-On Policy  The government may ask the new head of the central bank to
limit the amount commercial banks can buy in two-week bills and
make the central bank buy debt on the secondary market, hvg.hu
reported last month, citing unidentified people in Orban’s
ruling Fidesz party.  The forint’s swings this week revealed the fragility of
investor confidence in Hungary, which monetary policy makers
should keep in mind, Simor told reporters today.  Simor, who on Dec. 7 urged the bank to act “much more
firmly” against inflation, which slowed to 5.2 percent in
November, has been outvoted along with his two deputies in each
of the past four rate meetings by non-executive members who want
to spur an economy out of its second recession since 2008.  The four non-executive policy makers, appointed by Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party in 2011, have argued that
the inflation rate may drop to the bank’s target in 2014 as cost
shocks from energy and food prices fade. They have also pointed
to the resilience of the currency and falling risk premium for
supporting monetary easing.  The forint has gained 9 percent this year, the best
performance among more than 100 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “This is just the beginning,” Ilan Solot, a London-based
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, wrote in a research
report today on Hungary’s monetary easing. “The government will
soon appoint new members to the central bank’s board which will
make it even more dovish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  