-- France to Force BNP Paribas, SocGen to Wall Off Prop Trading
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-12-19T14:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/france-to-require-bnp-paribas-socgen-to-wall-off-prop-trading.html
French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici introduced a bill designed to force the country’s
largest banks to fence off proprietary trading activities in
dedicated units.  The product of months of discussions between industry and
government officials, the bill would require banks including  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to split market activities
deemed unnecessary to finance the economy into separately
capitalized units. The rules would also forbid banks from
holding stakes in hedge funds and limit high-frequency trading
and commodity speculation. The bill would also set up a 10
billion-euro ($13 billion) resolution fund.  “One cannot speculate with deposits,” Moscovici said at a
press conference in Paris today, describing the law as the first
of its kind in  Europe . The financial crisis “revealed the
threat proposed by proprietary trading.”  While France may be first to act, the changes are milder
than those proposed by the European Union and U.K., as the
government seeks to preserve a universal model that combines
consumer lending with corporate and investment banking.
President Francois Hollande, who called finance his “greatest
adversary” during his campaign, pledged to overhaul banking by
separating deposit-taking from speculative operations.  “Most of the capital-market activities, under the disguise
of so-called market-making operations, will stay in the deposit
bank,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based analyst at
AlphaValue. “This law is not going to protect the French
taxpayer.”  ‘Optimal’ Bill  Bank of  France  governor and European Central Bank Governing
Council member Christian Noyer called the law “optimal,”
rejecting criticism that it was “minimalist.”  He said the new
rules will isolate speculative and risky activities. A full
separation of market and retail activities “would be contrary
to the national interest,” he said yesterday on France’s BFM
Television.  The French push to create separate units for the riskiest
trading follows recommendations from an EU-commissioned group
led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen. Unlike the
Liikanen proposals, the French bill will allow lenders to keep
market-making operations within the main banking group.  Liikanen’s Oct. 2 report recommended a “legal separation
of certain particularly risky financial activities from deposit-
taking banks within the banking group.” It recommended putting
proprietary trading and market making in a separate unit.  Trading Assets  The EU report found that Paris-based BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale, along with Barclays Plc of  London , Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc of
Edinburgh, had the highest proportion of trading assets,
accounting for more than 30 percent of the total. Their value
fluctuates with their market performance.  The French banking federation, the group representing the
country’s institutions, said the bill  “will not favor a return
to economic growth.”  The FBF said “the law creates extra
constraints and costs at an inopportune time,” according to a
statement posted on its website.  Hollande projects 0.8 percent economic growth next year.
The median of 38 economist forecasts collected by Bloomberg
points to a 0.3 percent expansion.  The industry group also warned against the potential
handicap they face. “French banks may end up being the only
ones applying such rules on their activities,” saying the U.K.
and the U.S. rules implemention were ’’uncertain.’’  Protecting Consumers  “We cannot use the pretext that finance is too big and
that the stakes too complex to accept the failures of the
system,”  Moscovici said . “I want this law to protect
consumers, especially the most vulnerable ones.”  France is also setting up a system to help wind down ailing
banks without relying on taxpayers, as well as creating a
“macro-prudential” authority to better oversee systemic risks,
or linkages among financial institutions.  Lawmakers will start debating the proposed law in February
and the bill is likely to be voted in the first half of the
year. Banks will have to complete proprietary trading ring-
fencing by 2015.  French efforts to shield deposits from risky activities
come after measures proposed in the U.S. and the U.K. Named
after former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, the
U.S. plan would ban commercial lenders from proprietary trading.  Volcker-Type  While most French bankers opposed a separation between
consumer and investment banks, they have said they would accept
a Volcker-type rule. French banks, which are already adapting to
rules including Basel III stricter capital requirements, “will
have to run this on top of the rest,” Societe Generale Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said Nov. 15.  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, would have less than 2
percent of its corporate- and investment-banking sales affected
by the government split plans, Alain Papiasse, head of BNP’s
corporate and investment bank, said last month, declining to
further assess the impact of the law.  The U.K.’s Vickers proposals, from a group led by the
former Bank of England Chief Economist John Vickers, recommended
banks separate their consumer and investment-banking units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 