-- Gasoline Gains on Optimism U.S. Budget Talks Will Yield Deal
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-18T20:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/gasoline-gains-on-optimism-u-s-budget-talks-will-yield-deal.html
Gasoline and heating oil rose on
optimism that the White House is closer to a budget deal with
House Speaker  John Boehner .  Futures climbed as President  Barack Obama  lowered his tax
revenue demand by $200 billion and offered to start tax rate
increases at $400,000 in income instead of $250,000. Obama and
Boehner are trying to avert more than $600 million in tax
increases and spending cuts, the so-called fiscal cliff.  “The posturing is done and they’re really negotiating
now,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York . “Both recognize what they can
get for their sides and now the compromise phase in in.”  Gasoline for January delivery rose 3.63 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $2.6909 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Dec. 3. Gasoline reversed
its loss for the year to gain 0.2 percent.  Heating oil for January delivery advanced 4.02 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $2.9965 a gallon, the highest settlement since
Dec. 4, extending this year’s increase to 2.1 percent.  Boehner, leader of the GOP-controlled House, agreed last
week to accept higher tax rates on annual  household income  above
$1 million. Obama, a Democrat, moved off the $250,000 threshold
he has used for five years and offered to change the cost-of-
living calculation for  Social Security .  Boehner Legislation  Boehner said today he will push a “plan B” measure that
will include tax increases on income of more than $1 million a
year, while continuing to negotiate with the president. Boehner
said he expects the legislation to be on the House floor by the
end of the week.  “The market is feeling optimistic that something will get
done before the end of the year and, once we get this fiscal
cliff out of the way, we could get a big rally in commodities,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “A lot of funds got out of the market, not wanting to
take a chance if there’s no deal before the end of the year.”  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  sank 1.2
cents to a $3.236 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since Dec. 27.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  