-- GE Said to Beat Safran for $4 Billion Avio Acquisition
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-12-18T21:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ge-may-reach-deal-to-buy-italian-defense-company-avio-this-week.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
largest jet-engine maker, may reach an agreement to buy
aerospace-parts supplier Avio SpA from Cinven Ltd. this week,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  A deal may be valued at about 3 billion euros ($4 billion),
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private.  Safran SA (SAF) , which previously approached with a
competing offer, is no longer in the running, two other people
familiar with the talks said.  Buying Turin, Italy-based Avio would follow GE’s formation
of a partnership with  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  in October and a joint
venture with Parker Hannifin Corp. last month, both focused on
components for the company’s next-generation commercial engines.
The transactions give GE more control over its supply chain as
Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. push output to records.  Avio makes components for GE’s newest engine, the GEnx,
which powers Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 jumbo jet. It’s
also a supplier to CFM International SA, a GE-Safran joint
venture that is the exclusive source of engines for the  Boeing
737 , the world’s most widely flown  passenger jet .  GE is considering selling assets from Avio that it doesn’t
want to keep to Paris-based Safran, one of the people said.  No Comment  Spokesmen at Cinven, GE, Avio and Safran declined to
comment. Il Sole 24 and the Wall Street Journal previously
reported that a deal with GE may be close.  GE fell  1.1 percent to $21.69 at the close in New York. The
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company will consider acquisitions
of as much as $4 billion, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
told analysts and investors yesterday in New York, after
previously giving a target of $1 billion to $3 billion.  Cinven bought Avio in 2006 from Carlyle Group LP and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in a deal that valued the company at about 2.6
billion euros. The buyout firm began preparing Avio for a sale
last year when it hired banks to manage an initial public
offering. The IPO was postponed amid stock-market swings, after
London-based Cinven received approaches from suitors including
Safran.  GE has been discussing an acquisition of Avio, a person
with direct knowledge of the talks said last month, and its
purchase follows Cinven’s rejection of a previous offer from
private-equity firms CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Clessidra SGR
SpA, which earlier offered about 3 billion euros, people said
last month.  Finmeccanica,  Italy ’s biggest defense company, in May
agreed to sell its 15 percent Avio stake to Fondo Strategico
Italiano SpA, the country’s 4 billion-euro investment fund. As
part of the joint offer with CVC and Clessidra, the fund was set
to own about 20 percent of Avio and Cinven would keep about 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  