-- German Landlords Rally Seen Cooling On Fewer Deals
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-12-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/german-landlords-rally-seen-cooling-on-fewer-deals.html
German residential landlords, the
best-performing stocks on the country’s  mid-cap index  this year,
will cool off in 2013 as acquisitions become more expensive and
rent increases are curbed.  The biggest apartment owners,  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ,  GSW
Immobilien AG (GIB) ,  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  and  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , bought more than
74,000 properties this year. The stocks will become less
attractive as acquisitions drop, the government caps rent growth
and initial public offerings by competitors put more shares on
the market, said Peter Papadakos, an analyst at Green Street
Advisors.  “Share prices already reflect the look-forward growth,”
said Papadakos, who’s based in  London . “The peak is probably
going to be next year.”  Soaring home prices in cities including Berlin and Munich,
combined with rising rents, fueled the biggest stock gains by
German property owners since 2006, according to data compiled by
 European Public Real Estate Association . Investment funds are
buying groups of German homes seeking a safe investment as
 interest rates  hover near record lows amid Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  The four publicly traded residential landlords climbed 51
percent in  Frankfurt  trading this year, as measured by Brussels-
based EPRA’s weighted-average index. The stocks are among the  15
best performers  in the MDAX, which has added 34 percent.  Deutsche Wohnen and GSW shares are now priced at more than
the underlying value of their real estate, which may prompt
investors to look elsewhere for better returns.  Biggest Gain  The year’s biggest gainer has been Gagfah with an increase
of about 127 percent. GSW, a Berlin-based company that first
sold shares to the public in April 2011, advanced 50 percent.  GSW has the highest consensus  analyst rating  of the four
firms, with eight ranking the shares buy, nine recommending hold
and two advising sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock’s 12-month consensus target price was 32.57 euros.  Gagfah, based in  Luxembourg , had the lowest consensus
rating with five buys, six holds and four sells. The 12-month
consensus target price was 9.02 euros, compared with a closing
price of 8.90 euros on Dec. 17.  “We can’t keep growing at 50 percent a year,” GSW Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Zinnoecker said in a Dec. 4 interview.
“For real estate shares, the growth isn’t limitless when they
start trading at a premium to net asset value.”  Asset Values  Residential stocks rose partly because they were
undervalued compared with their net asset value, or NAV,
Zinnoecker said. GSW’s share-price gains will probably be weaker
in 2013, he said.  GSW’s NAV, a measure of the value of a property company’s
buildings, is 27.95 euros a share, compared with yesterday’s
closing share price of 32.65 euros a share. Deutsche Wohnen’s
NAV is 11.59 euros a share, according to the company’s third
quarter earnings report. Its shares closed at 14.36 euros
yesterday.  Papadakos said he expects share prices in the industry to
gain 10 percent to 15 percent next year.  “The momentum will continue for a while, but then there’ll
be a shift,” said Thomas Martin, an analyst at  HSBC Trinkaus &
Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in Dusseldorf. He expects the shares to be little
changed in 2013.  Acquisitions helped lift rental income and share prices
this year, Martin said. TAG grew its number of apartments by 83
percent through purchases and Deutsche Wohnen expanded its
holdings by almost 50 percent. Deal activity was fueled by sales
of apartments by private-equity firms and other investors that
had to pay debts racked up before the credit crisis.  Overpayment Risk  Fewer housing assets will be for sale next year,  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said yesterday. That’s going to make expansion more
difficult for companies in the industry. As supply shrinks,
there’s a risk that companies will overpay, said Papadakos.  “There is some optimism that as you grow the portfolio,
you capture a lot of cost savings,” said Papadakos. “We
fundamentally disagree with that notion; they’ve reached a
critical size where further synergy savings are quite minimal.”  Improving operational profit is also becoming more
complicated. Gains will be limited after the German parliament
passed a law this month that allows state governments to cap
rent increases in certain areas at 15 percent in three years,
from the previous 20 percent.  A growing number of politicians
and advocacy groups are also proposing rent-stabilization
measures.  “The rent topic is becoming increasingly politicized,”
said Andre Adami, a residential analyst at BulwienGesa AG. Rents
in  Germany ’s large cities are outpacing inflation for the first
time in two decades, stoking concern among middle-class Germans
that they won’t be able to afford their homes, he said.  Rent Index  Rents for existing leases can only be raised in line with
an index compiled by a municipalities with help from local owner
associations and tenant groups, said Commerzbank AG analyst
Thomas Rothaeusler in Frankfurt.  Companies like Deutsche Wohnen, Gagfah and GSW must charge
below-market rent in most of their apartments and on average can
only raise rents by about 2.5 percent a year, said Papadakos.  The outlook for German residential stocks is still
favorable, Commerzbank’s Rothaeusler said. Germany will be
viewed as a haven as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis continues
and European interest rates, which are near record lows, will
probably stay low enough to make it difficult for investors to
earn attractive yields in other assets, he said.  ‘Not Cheap’  “The stocks are not cheap, but the fundamentals are
supportive,” said Vicky Watson, an investment director at
Scottish Widows Plc, which started buying German residential
stocks in 2010. “They may still do better than average, which
is what we’re all looking for.”  Still, initial public offerings planned in 2013 from two of
Germany’s largest residential landlords will weigh on stock
prices across the industry, according to Martin.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, Germany’s largest
apartment owner, plans an IPO next year. Annington, owned by  Guy Hands ’ Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., has 186,000 homes
valued at about 8.4 billion euros. LEG NRW GmbH, with 90,000
apartments valued at 4.7 billion euros, is also planning an IPO
next year. LEG is held by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall
Street Real Estate Funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 