-- Ghana Opposition Protests in Stronghold Before Court Challenge
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-18T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ghana-opposition-protests-in-stronghold-before-court-challenge.html
Supporters of  Ghana ’s main
opposition party, whose leader lost the Dec. 7 presidential
election, are holding a demonstration in the second-biggest city
as they prepare a legal challenge to the result.  “Our supporters have kept faith with us and are currently
embarking on a peaceful protest in Kumasi,” John Owusu-Afriyie,
New Patriotic Party general secretary, said by phone today from
the capital, Accra. Kumasi is in the Ashanti region, a
stronghold of the NPP where Nana Akufo-Addo received 71 percent
of votes. Nationally, he won 47.7 percent, losing to John Dramani Mahama of the ruling National Democratic Congress, who
got 50.7 percent, according to the Electoral Commission.  The NPP, which governed Ghana from 2001 to 2009, said there
were discrepancies in the results tallied at polling stations
and those announced by the  Electoral Commission . Kwadwo Afari- Gyan, chairman of the body, denied the claims and foreign and
domestic observer groups said the election was fair.  The demonstrators will present a petition to the Ashanti
regional office of the commission after the protest, Owusu-
Afriyie said, without giving details. The NPP said last week it
would contest the election results in the country’s  Supreme
Court  in Accra.  Preparations for the challenge are “quite far advanced,”
Owusu-Afriyie said. The party has analyzed 23,000 polling
station results out of the more than 26,000 centers, he said.
“We believe we have compelling evidence.”  Owusu-Afriyie said the NPP will head to court “by the end
December,” in line with judiciary rules that give 21 days to
contest election results. “The Electoral Commission will have
10 days to respond,” he said.  Ghana’s cedi, which fell to a two-week low last week after
the NPP pledged to contest the election result, weakened 0.1
percent to 1.8948 a dollar by 11:10 a.m. in Accra, the third day
of declines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  