-- Giants Given 45% Chance to Win Last 2 Games to Make NFL Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/giants-get-45-chance-to-win-last-two-games-to-make-nfl-playoffs.html
The New York Giants have a 45
percent chance of winning their final two games to make the
National Football League playoffs, according to bookmakers’
odds.  The defending Super Bowl champions, who have lost four of
their past six games and are coming off a 34-0 defeat in which
they were shut out during the regular season for the first time
in 16 years, still control their playoff fate.  With a win at the Baltimore Ravens on Dec. 23 and then at
home against the Philadelphia Eagles the following week, the
Giants would be guaranteed a playoff spot at 10-6. Seven of the
NFL’s 12 postseason spots have been filled with two weeks left.  “Destiny is in our hands,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin told
reporters two days ago. “If we win two games, we’re going to be
in the playoffs. That’s what we have to focus on.”  The Giants are favored by Las Vegas oddsmakers to win both
games, given a 55 percent chance to beat the Ravens (9-5), who
have already locked up a postseason berth, and an 82 percent
chance to defeat the Eagles (4-10). The probability the Giants
win both is 45 percent, according to RJ Bell, the founder of Las
Vegas-based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  New York is tied with Washington and  Dallas  atop the
National Football Conference’s East Division with 8-6 records.
The Redskins hold the tiebreaker advantage and have won five
games in a row.  Las Vegas odds indicate the Giants have a better chance of
winning out than the Redskins (40 percent) and Cowboys (23
percent), according to Pregame.com.  Redskins’ Schedule  Washington visits the Eagles this week and then finishes
the season at home against the Cowboys, who host the New Orleans
Saints on Dec. 23. The Redskins are favored by 4 1/2 points over
the Eagles, while the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book lists the
Cowboys as 3-point favorites against the Saints. The Giants are
2 1/2-point favorites in Baltimore this week.  “We like our chances,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning
said two days ago at a news conference. “We know what we need
to do and it’s right in front of us and we’ve got to go out
there and win this game this week.”  While the Ravens have lost their past three games, they can
clinch the American Football Conference’s North division title
with a victory. Manning said he’ll probably talk strategy this
week with his older brother, Peyton, who led the Denver Broncos
to a 34-17 win in Baltimore three days ago.  “I’m sure I’ll have a few questions for him,” Eli Manning
said. “Our offensive philosophies are a little different some
ways, but I’ll ask and see if he has any tips.”  Giants’ Odds  Online sports book  Bovada.lv  puts the Giants’ odds of
making the NFL playoffs at 6-5, meaning a bettor would have to
wager $100 to win $120. A bettor wagering that New York won’t
reach the postseason has 5-8 odds, meaning it would take a $160
winning wager to make a $100 profit.  The Giants could clinch a playoff berth this week with a
victory and losses by the Redskins, Cowboys, Chicago Bears and
Minnesota Vikings.  A year ago, the Giants won three of their final four games,
beating the Cowboys in the season finale to win the NFC East and
earn the NFL’s final playoff berth. The Giants then went on to
win their second Super Bowl title in five seasons.  “We’re against the wall,” Coughlin said. “It is a
playoff situation for us, if you will. We now have to win to
have the opportunity to go into the playoffs. We’ve responded to
that in the past. We’re going to have to respond again.”  Three of the NFC’s six playoff spots have been booked, with
the Atlanta Falcons and Green Bay Packers having already won
division titles and the San Francisco 49ers also in.  49ers-Seahawks  The 49ers (10-3-1) can wrap up the NFC West crown with a
victory in  Seattle , where the Seahawks (9-5) have a 6-0 record
this season. Seattle, which is a 1-point underdog, would clinch
a trip to the playoffs with a win against the 49ers.  The Redskins could make the postseason with a win and
losses by the Giants, Bears and Vikings.  Chicago (8-6) is a 5 1/2-point favorite in  Arizona  against
the 5-9 Cardinals, while Minnesota (8-6) is a 7 1/2-point
underdog in Houston against the 12-2 Texans, who can clinch
home-field advantage throughout the playoffs with a win.  Houston, Denver and the New England Patriots have won
division titles in the AFC, while the Giants will try to prevent
Baltimore from capturing the other. The Indianapolis Colts and
Cincinnati Bengals could round out the AFC’s playoff field with
road victories this weekend.  The Colts (9-5) are favored by 6 1/2 points over the 2-12
Chiefs in Kansas City. The Bengals (8-6) are 4 1/2-point
underdogs in Pittsburgh, where the 7-7 Steelers need a win to
keep their playoff chances alive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  