-- Glaxo’s Revolade Wins U.K. Cost Agency’s Backing
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-12-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/glaxo-s-revolade-wins-u-k-cost-agency-s-backing.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Revolade won
the backing of the U.K. health-cost agency in draft guidance on
the treatment of a rare bleeding disorder after the drugmaker
agreed to sell it to the state-run medical system at a discount.  Revolade is a cost-effective option for chronic immune
thrombocytopenic purpura in certain adults who have had their
spleens removed and those who haven’t responded to at least one
other therapy, the  National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence  said today in an e-mailed statement. NICE advises the
 National Health Service  on which treatments represent value for
money.  Today’s decision reverses a 2010 ruling that the drug was
too costly. The net price of a pack of 28 25-milligram tablets
is 770 pounds ($1,250). The agency didn’t disclose the size of
the discount London-based Glaxo offered, saying it was
confidential. Some companies offer to reduce prices by as much
as 50 percent, NICE Chairman Michael Rawlins said in an
interview this month. Final guidance on Revolade, also known as
Promacta and eltrombopag, will be published in May, NICE said.  Chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura is caused by an
abnormally low amount of platelets, which are needed for the
blood to clot. People with the disorder have a daily risk of
bleeding and bruising, though it isn’t normally fatal, according
to NICE. As many as 3,500 people in England and  Wales  are
affected by the illness, the agency said.  Revolade, approved in  Europe  in 2007, works by increasing
platelet production. The product will have sales this year of
about 139.4 million pounds, according to the average of five
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  