-- GM to Boost Cadillac Showrooms in China to Challenge Audi
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-19T02:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/gm-to-boost-cadillac-showrooms-in-china-by-25-to-challenge-audi.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
foreign automaker in  China , will increase the number of Cadillac
dealerships in the country by about 25 percent as it competes
against German luxury automakers led by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  The Detroit-based company will add about 40 dealers for its
upscale Cadillac brand next year, up from about 160 currently,
Bob Socia, GM’s China president, said in an interview yesterday.
The automaker plans to open 400 more showrooms across its brands
in 2013 in China, bringing its total to about 4,200 in the
world’s largest vehicle market.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is championing a
worldwide expansion of the Cadillac brand as part of efforts to
raise profit margins and to hedge against the risk of declining
sales of high-profit trucks. The automaker has said it plans to
add a new Cadillac model annually in China through 2016.  “We’ve struggled in the past, there’s been a new
commitment so to speak, from General Motors about what we want
to do with the Cadillac brand,” Socia, 58, said in an interview
at GM’s offices in  Shanghai . “It’s a journey, you’re not going
to do this in a year or two, but you’ve got to come up with
product that unequivocally can compete.”  GM is committed and prepared to spend to market Cadillac in
China, Socia said, declining to give specific spending or sales
targets. Robert Ferguson, the GM executive leading the Cadillac
brand globally, has visited dealers in China, Socia said.  Cadillac Sales  The automaker sold 27,073 Cadillacs in China in the first
11 months, compared with 370,559 units for industry leader Audi.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW sold 295,974 while Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz delivered 177,301 in the same period.  “The Chinese consumer has a very high regard for European
luxury brands, they would put the Europeans at the top and
probably the Germans amongst the Europeans first,” said Steve Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “So the
Americans do have a place in the Chinese market because the pie
is still growing, but they need to do some work to penetrate the
market.”  GM will also focus on the sport utility vehicle market next
year, Socia said. The Buick Encore crossover introduced in
October will be one of the key products for the automaker in the
segment, he said.  SUV Sales  SUVs are the fastest-growing segment in China this year. In
the first 11 months of the year, deliveries climbed 26 percent
to 1.79 million units, surpassing the 7.1 percent gain to 14
million for total passenger vehicle sales, according to China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  China’s total vehicle sales may reach 21 million units next
year, representing an annual growth rate of five to eight
percent, said Socia, who reiterated a goal for GM to outpace the
industry.  Socia, who also oversees operations for GM in  India  and
 Southeast Asia , said the automaker will probably sell 75,000
units in  Thailand  this year.  Next year, the automaker will introduce the Chevrolet Spin
in Thailand and the Chevrolet Enjoy -- a version of a top-
selling Chinese minivan -- in India.  Socia was GM’s vice president of global purchasing before
he took over the China portfolio on Oct. 1 from Kevin Wale, who
retired.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  