-- Goldman Bullish With Hedge Funds Amid Citi Warning: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l ,   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-12-18T23:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/goldman-bullish-with-hedge-funds-amid-citi-warning-commodities.html
Investors almost doubled purchases
of commodities this year, at a time when Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley are forecasting higher prices and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  says the best returns are over.  Money invested in commodity funds increased by $21.6
billion this year, up 92 percent from the gain in 2011,
according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks the flows.  Hedge funds ’ bets on a rally are 51 percent
bigger than a year ago, U.S. government data show. Precious
metals will lead returns in 2013, rising as much as 25 percent,
as grains advance 18 percent and industrial metals 16 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 131 traders, investors and
analysts across 15 raw materials.  While commodities are headed for their first annual retreat
since 2008, growth in  emerging markets  will boost demand and
tighten supply, Goldman Sachs’ analysts said in a report Dec. 5.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials almost
tripled in the past decade as producers failed to keep up with
consumption. That “super cycle” of returns has now ended
because  China  is growing more slowly and supply has caught up,
Citigroup’s analysts said in a report last month.  “It comes back to the uncertainty about the economy, and
the government policies that are going to be enacted or
potentially changing over the next year,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee about $3 billion of assets as co-
chief investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. “That’s why you’re seeing that disparity in
the outlooks of many of these forecasting firms.”  Trading Partners  The S&P GSCI fell 0.7 percent this year, the worst
performance since a 43 percent drop in 2008, with the biggest
declines in coffee, cotton, sugar and crude oil. The MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities advanced 14 percent and the
Dollar Index, a measure against six major trading partners,
dropped 1 percent. Treasuries returned 2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  The declines in crude and gasoline are driving the S&P GSCI
lower because energy accounts for about 70 percent of the gauge
by weight. Eighteen members of the index advanced this year, led
by gains of 23 percent or more in wheat and soybeans as U.S.
farmers endured the worst drought in a half century. Gold is
headed for a 12th consecutive annual increase, driven by central
bank stimulus, and corn and cattle reached records.  Increasing Consumption  Accelerating economic growth in the second half of 2013
will spur more demand, said  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s New York-
based head of commodity research, predicting a 7 percent return
in commodities over 12 months. Increasing consumption will curb
available supply, boosting near-term prices relative to longer-
dated contracts, he wrote in the report.  Demand for energy and grains will be “resilient” and
delayed harvests in  South America  will limit corn and soybean
supplies,  Hussein Allidina  and  Peter Richardson , analysts at
Morgan Stanley in New York and Melbourne, wrote in a Dec. 6
report. Economies will accelerate in the second half of next
year should central banks extend stimulus measures, they said.
Policy makers from  Japan  to China to Europe to the U.S. have
pledged to do more if growth weakens.  Citigroup says prices that have risen in nine of the past
10 years are spurring more investment in production, creating
supply gluts, according to a Nov. 19 report by Edward L. Morse,
the bank’s New York-based global head of commodities research.
Output will exceed demand next year in 10 of the 15 commodities
covered in the Bloomberg survey, according to supply and demand
estimates from either Barclays Plc or Rabobank International.  Central Bank  The  European Central Bank  said Dec. 6 it expects the 17-
nation euro-area’s economy to shrink 0.3 percent next year,
having previously forecast growth. Europe accounts for about 18
percent of copper demand and 14 percent of global energy
consumption, Barclays and  BP Plc (BP/)  data show.  Hedge funds pared bullish  wagers  in the fourth quarter,
with net-long positions dropping 35 percent since the end of
September, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
While the Bloomberg survey shows that everything from cotton to
soybeans will gain at least 9.9 percent in 2013, the analysts
have been wrong before. In last year’s survey, only three of the
15 commodities covered reached their projected highs in 2012.  “Commodities tend to be victims of their own success,”
said  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee about $66 billion of assets
as chief investment officer of BMO Private Bank in Chicago. “If
you think about industrial metals, we have now dug a little
deeper, and we’ve mined a little more, and now we have
unprecedented inventories.”  World Growth  Commodity assets under management rose 8.6 percent to $429
billion in the first 10 months of 2012, according to London-
based Barclays. Contracts outstanding across the members of the
S&P GSCI advanced 12 percent this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products
jumped 12 percent and were last valued at $143.6 billion.  World growth will accelerate to 3.6 percent in 2013, from
3.3 percent this year, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  China’s economy , the biggest consumer of everything from
coal to cotton to copper, will accelerate in the fourth quarter,
after slowing for seven consecutive quarters, the median of 30
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  More central-bank stimulus means investors will continue to
buy gold to protect against inflation and currency debasement,
and prices will average a record $1,853 an ounce in 2013, Morgan
Stanley predicts. Gold for immediate delivery slid 1.6 percent
to settle at $1,671.10. Goldman says the prices will probably
peak next year because of improving U.S. growth.  Tax Increases  Demand for gold may also be boosted by mounting concern
that U.S. growth will slow. The  Federal Reserve  “doesn’t have
the tools” to counter the risks should lawmakers fail to reach
an agreement on about $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts that start automatically next month, Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said Dec. 12. Bullion will rise as much as 18 percent
to $2,000 in 2013, the median of 49 estimates in the Bloomberg
survey shows.  Soybeans and corn reached records this year and wheat
touched an almost four-year high as drought parched fields in
the U.S., the biggest agricultural exporter. Wheat will beat
corn and soybeans in 2013, advancing as much as 18 percent,
according to the median of 32 predictions. Citigroup expects
grain and soybean prices to be supported in the first half of
next year as supplies remain tight.  Arabica coffee is expected to have the biggest gain among
the 15 commodities in the survey, climbing as much as 33 percent
after slumping 36 percent in 2012. Nickel may be the best-
performing industrial metal, rising as much as 16 percent, while
copper will gain 12 percent, the survey showed.  Profit Measure  The gains may boost earnings for suppliers.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining company, will report a 6.7 percent gain
in its most-closely tracked profit measure to $7.66 billion in
its fiscal second half ending June 30, the mean of five
estimates shows. Shares of the Melbourne-based producer rose 6.5
percent this year, and may climb 4.4 percent to A$38.28 in 12
months, according to the average of 20 forecasts.  “It won’t be a straight line higher, but there’s a pretty
good undertow for commodities,” said  James Paulsen , the
Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $325 billion of assets.
“Commodities in general will trend higher the next few years,
but there’s room for selectivity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  