-- Google Antitrust Decision by FTC Delayed Until Next Year
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/google-antitrust-decision-by-ftc-delayed-until-next-year.html
The U.S.  Federal Trade Commission (FTC) ’s
final decision on how to resolve its 20-month antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will be delayed until next year,
said two people familiar with the situation who asked not to be
named because the talks aren’t public.  The agency had been expected to announce the outcome of its
probe this week, two other people familiar with the agency’s
thinking had said.  Google had been preparing a letter with voluntary
concessions to end the agency’s investigation of its practices
in the Internet search market without a formal settlement or
lawsuit, the people have said. The agency was also preparing to
file a consent decree on patents curbing Google’s ability to
seek court orders barring competitors’ products where the
company has agreed to license the technology on reasonable
terms.  A majority vote of the agency’s five commissioners is
required both to resolve the investigation into Internet search
and to accept a consent decree on standard-essential patents.  Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, and Cecelia Prewett, a
spokeswoman for the FTC, declined to comment on the timing of
the FTC’s decision.  Search Market  The idea that the FTC might close its investigation of
Google without a formal settlement on its practices in the
search market had sparked an outpouring of criticism, including
from Fairsearch.org, an alliance of Google competitors that
includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Fairsearch.org has charged the FTC
risks falling behind the European Union in its enforcement of
antitrust laws.  “Questions about Google’s search bias and other anti-
competitive practices will not end if the FTC fails to take
legally binding action to protect consumers and innovators in
the U.S., where the market conditions and law are different than
the EU,” Fairsearch.org said in an e-mailed statement.  The European Union’s antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia said
yesterday after meeting with Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  in
Brussels that he’s expecting an offer from Google in January to
settle an antitrust probe over claims that the world’s largest
search engine discriminates against rivals.  Google has been engaged in settlement talks with the FTC
for about two weeks, people familiar with the talks have said.
The Mountain View, California-based company has resisted the
FTC’s efforts to reach a formal settlement agreement over
allegations that it skews search results to favor its services,
saying such an agreement may hurt its business prospects, said
the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  