-- Google’s Android Fails Among Businesses Where Apple Leads
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-12-18T19:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/google-s-android-fails-among-businesses-where-apple-leads.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software for
mobile devices has opened up a wide lead in market share, yet it
hasn’t made the same inroads with a lucrative niche:
businesspeople.  Only 22 percent of information workers say they want a
smartphone based on Google’s software on the job, according to a
study by  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , Bloomberg.com reported on its
Tech Blog. That’s less than one-third compared with Android’s
broader market share, pegged at 68 percent for this year,
 according  to researcher IDC.  More office employees -- 33 percent of those surveyed --say
they’ll use iPhones for work. Among the 9,766 information
workers who took part in the poll, 10 percent will adopt
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone-based devices and 7 percent say
they’ll select  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry.  Why the disparity? Android has done very well with
consumers, particularly more price-sensitive ones, Gillett said.
Businesspeople can pay Apple’s prices for a premium product, and
millions of them already own iPhones and other Apple products
and aren’t likely to walk away from their investment, he said.  Those polled may have written off Android because their
companies don’t support it beyond e-mail access. That’s because
many chief information officers don’t like the fact that almost
every model of Android phone uses a slightly different version
of the software, which means more testing, security updates and
support costs, according to  Frank Gillett , a Forrester analyst.  Tablet Share  “CIOs are worried that their employees will end up with
malware that they’re not likely to get with iOS,” Gillett said.
“Google is taking the approach of reacting to problems, while
Microsoft and Apple are being more proactive.”  In tablets, Android has an even smaller share among the
business crowd. Apple is again at the top with 26 percent in
Forrester’s survey, while tablets based on Windows 8 come in
second at 20 percent. Android’s share of tablet preference among
information workers is 11 percent, while the BlackBerry PlayBook
is 1 percent.  Android’s poor showing is not for lack of trying. Dozens of
Android tablets have come to market since the iPad was
introduced in 2010. Even more notable is how poorly Android
scored relative to Microsoft, which has been a no-show in the
tablet market and hadn’t even begun selling its Surface tablet
until October.  Google rose less than 1 percent to $721.15 at 2:29 in  New
York , and were up 12 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  