-- Google-FTC Probe, CFTC-Audio Rule, JPMorgan: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-18T13:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/google-ftc-probe-cftc-audio-rule-jpmorgan-compliance.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is poised to make
voluntary concessions that will end a 20-month U.S. antitrust
probe of its business practices without any enforcement action,
two people familiar with the matter said.  Google, which has been under investigation by the Federal
Trade Commission, is preparing a letter promising not to copy
content from rival websites without permission and to allow
advertisers to compare Google’s ad-campaign data with
performance on other Internet search engines, one of the people
said Dec. 16. That will close the investigation without a
lawsuit or settlement, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  An end to the probe without any enforcement action would be
a blow to Google’s competitors including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yelp
Inc. and Expedia Inc., which formed an alliance to press the
agency to act. They claim Google’s dominance of Internet search,
combined with favoring its own services in answers to queries,
violates antitrust laws and impedes competition.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, declined to comment on
whether Google is preparing to announce concessions or any
matters involving the FTC. Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman for
the FTC, also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Audio Records of Swaps and Futures Trades Required by CFTC Rule  Derivatives traders will be required to keep audio records
of commodities transactions under U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  rules  completed in a private vote yesterday.  The regulation, revised by commissioners to limit the
impact on smaller brokers, could help CFTC’s enforcement unit
determine traders’ intent when later probing claims of market
manipulation and false reporting, the agency said in a
statement. It is already common practice for equities traders to
make such audio recordings.  Under the rule approved in a 5-0 vote, derivatives brokers
and certain members of exchanges and swap-execution facilities
will be required to record quotes, bids, offers, trading and
prices that lead to transactions whether communicated by
telephone, voice-mail, mobile or other electronic media.  The CFTC backed away from requiring records of oral
communications that lead to trades in grains, according to a
statement. Companies will have a year to comply with the
regulation.  The agency delayed consideration of the rule in September
amid resistance from industry groups representing trading firms
and exchanges.  Fed Stresses Bank Governance in Letter to Boards, Supervisors  The Federal Reserve stressed the responsibility of boards
and managers for governance in a letter to banks and their
supervisors that also outlined other priorities for oversight.  A bank’s “board is expected to establish and maintain the
firm’s culture, incentives, structure, and processes that
promote its compliance with laws, regulations, and supervisory
guidance,” the letter, released yesterday in Washington, said.
The letter also called for managers to set “appropriate
compensation and other incentives that are consistent with the
institutional risk appetite.”  Many of the items on the Fed’s letter, such as heightened
standards for capital and liquidity, are already under way as a
result of the annual stress tests and tougher supervisory
oversight. Governance is one area the Fed rarely discusses.  The Fed has been evolving its approach to large bank
supervision partly as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and also in
response to its own shortcomings during the 2008-2009 financial
crisis. The Fed said the guidance in the letter “does not apply
to community banking organizations, defined as institutions
supervised by the Federal Reserve with total consolidated assets
of $10 billion or less.”  Treasury Plan Would Fund Rate Cuts on Mortgages in Private Bonds  Some struggling homeowners left out of current U.S.
government mortgage-aid programs because their home loans have
been packaged into private securities could see their interest
rates cut through a subsidy being considered by the Treasury
Department.  Under the plan, the government would pay the difference
between the new and original interest rates to the owners of the
loans for five years in an effort to overcome investors’
objections to mortgage modifications, according to a person
familiar with plan who asked not to be identified because the
initiative isn’t final or public. Details on the cost of the
program and how it would be paid for weren’t available.  The proposal is among efforts by the Obama administration
to aid homeowners who remain under stress even as the housing
market begins to recover. Borrowers who owe more than their
homes are worth and who have mortgages that have been packaged
into bonds issued by private securitizers have been unable to
take advantage of existing government aid programs.  Borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments and
who owe at least 25 percent more than the value of their
properties would be eligible for the program.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Wins Approval for First U.S. Physical Copper ETF  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won regulatory approval for the first
U.S. exchange-traded fund backed by physical copper, which some
industrial users said may disrupt the market.  The proposed rule change by NYSE Arca Inc. to list JPM XF
Physical Copper Trust was approved, the regulator said in an
order on its website dated Dec. 14.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and ETF
Securities Ltd. also have said they plan to start physically
backed ETFs for industrial metals in the U.S.  A group of industrial copper consumers including AmRod
Corp., Southwire Co. and Encore Wire Corp. and hedge fund RK
Capital LLP opposed the plan, saying funds backed by copper
would leave less of the metal available for manufacturers,
creating shortages and driving up prices. Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, in July advised rejecting the planned ETF.  A review released last month by an SEC division concluded
that asset flows from exchange-traded products tied to metals
don’t have a significant impact on the price of the commodity.
Those findings were disputed by the copper-users group.  Patrick Burton, a London-based spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment on when the firm plans to introduce the
fund.  ETFs trade like stocks, giving investors access to
commodities such as copper without taking physical delivery. ETF
Securities started the first exchange-traded products backed by
copper, nickel and tin in London in December 2010.  NYSE Arca Inc., the electronic platform of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
filed with the SEC to list and trade JPM XF Physical Copper
Trust, according to an April 2 document. It sought approval to
list BlackRock’s iShares Copper Trust on June 19.  Separately, South Korea, the world’s fifth-biggest copper
consumer, is expected to introduce an exchange-traded fund
backed by physical metal this week.  The ETF will be listed on the Korea Exchange by the Public
Procurement Service, a government agency that manages strategic
commodities, Soon Jae Yoo, deputy director for stockpiling, said
Dec. 10 at a seminar in London. The fund will be backed by metal
stored in the agency’s warehouses and will hold 1,100 metric
tons of copper when trading starts, he said.  Allianz Pays $12.3 Million to Settle SEC’s Indonesia Bribe Claim  Allianz SE (ALV)  will pay more than $12.3 million to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that the Munich-based
insurer made improper payments to government officials in
Indonesia during a seven-year period.  The company was  cited  for violating the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act after an SEC investigation found 295 insurance
contracts on government projects from 2001 to 2008 that were
obtained or retained by payments of $650,626 by an Allianz
subsidiary to employees of state-owned entities, the agency said
in a statement yesterday. Allianz made more than $5.3 million in
profits as a result of the improper payments, the SEC said.  Allianz resolved the claim without admitting or denying
wrongdoing.  Joel Cohen , a Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP partner
representing Allianz, didn’t immediately comment on the
settlement when reached by telephone yesterday.  Morgan Stanley Fined $5 Million by Massachusetts on Facebook IPO  Morgan Stanley’s (MS)  handling of  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  initial public
offering, a deal that cost investors billions of dollars, broke
a decade-old pledge to block investment bankers from influencing
analysts, according to Massachusetts regulators, who fined the
bank $5 million.  A senior Morgan Stanley banker wrote a script that
Facebook’s then-treasurer used to update research analysts on
the company’s revenue outlook before the IPO, according to a
settlement document with Secretary of the Commonwealth  William
Galvin . He faulted Morgan Stanley for dishonesty, ethics
violations and failing to supervise employees -- the first
regulatory claims to stem from the bank’s handling of the deal.  A plunge in Facebook’s stock after it began trading in May
has fueled government probes and more than 40 lawsuits, with
some investors claiming the social-network company failed to
disclose revised forecasts before the IPO. The small size of
Morgan Stanley’s fine relative to investors’ losses shows other
regulators may struggle to pin much blame on the bank, said  Erik
Gordon , a professor at the University of Michigan’s Stephen M.
Ross School of Business.  Michael Grimes , the bank’s global co-head of technology
investment banking who helped lead the IPO, and a spokesman for
Secretary of the Commonwealth William Galvin’s office, didn’t
respond to messages seeking comment on the unidentified banker
described in the complaint. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman
for Morgan Stanley, declined to say whether Grimes is the
banker.  For more, click here.  Japan’s FSA Joins Probe Into RBS Rate Setting, Officials Say  Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  joined a probe into
possible rigging of interest rates at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , two regulatory officials with knowledge of the matter
said.  The FSA earlier this month began reviewing RBS’s Japan
banking and brokerage units on issues including compliance
related to the setting of London and  Tokyo interbank offered
rates , the people said, asking not to be named as the matter is
confidential. Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission began its inspection last month, a government
official with knowledge of the matter said at that time.  RBS, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, is among
banks facing allegations by regulators worldwide that they
manipulated Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities.  The FSA was scrutinizing RBS’s Tokyo banking branch
and RBS Securities Japan Ltd. as of Dec. 5, the agency said on
its website without disclosing additional details. It informed
RBS about the probe on Nov. 27, one of the people said.  “We are fully co-operating with all of our regulators,”
said Atsuko Yoshitsugu, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for RBS. She
declined to comment further.  Hiroshi Okada, a spokesman for Japan’s FSA, declined to
comment. RBS hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing by Japanese
regulators, which conduct regular inspections of financial
companies, according to the FSA’s website.  Courts  Hedge Fund Managers Convicted by Jury of Insider-Trading Scheme  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and
former Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd
Newman  were convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy for an
insider-trading scheme that reaped more than $72 million.  After deliberating a little more than two days, a federal
jury in New York found both men guilty of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud for a scheme to trade on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  using illicit tips.  The panel found Chiasson, 39, guilty of five counts of
securities fraud, earning Level Global $68.5 million on inside
tips trading on the two technology company stocks. Newman, 48,
was convicted of four counts of securities fraud related to
trades on inside information that earned his fund about $3.8
million.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office has charged
75 people with insider trading since October 2009. Seventy-one
of those pleaded guilty or were convicted after trial. Newman
and Chiasson, after the seventh trial connected to the probe,
are the ninth and 10th defendants convicted by federal juries in
Manhattan.  The two men face as long as 20 years in prison for
securities fraud when they are sentenced by U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan on April 19.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Antonia Apps, Richard Tarlowe and
John Zach argued during the trial, which began Nov. 7, that the
two portfolio managers were part of a “corrupt chain” of
analysts and insiders at the two technology companies who
swapped and traded on illicit tips. The scheme ran from late
2007 until 2009, prosecutors said.  Six people charged with being part of the insider-trading
ring have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the U.S.,
including Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC Capital Advisors
LP’s Sigma unit.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Diamondback, declined to
comment on the verdict. The fund told clients on Dec. 6 it will
shut after the FBI raided its offices two years ago, prompting
investors to flee.  For more, click here.  Ford Loses Bid for $445 Million in Interest on Income Taxes  Ford Motor Co. (F)  can’t collect $445 million in interest on
overpayment of income taxes, an appeals court ruled, saying the
Internal Revenue Service didn’t improperly calculate what the
company was owed.  Ford sued the U.S. in 2008, claiming that the government
shortchanged the auto company on interest accrued on overpayment
of corporate income taxes. A federal judge in Detroit rejected
Ford’s claim in 2010, agreeing with the government that the U.S.
had correctly calculated the interest Ford was due on the
overpayment.  Ford asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to
overturn the decision, contending that U.S. revenue procedure
required interest to accrue from the time the company deposited
money with the Internal Revenue Service. The appeals court
yesterday ruled that revenue procedure couldn’t be used to
support the company’s argument.  Jay Cooney, Ford spokesman, declined to comment immediately
on the court’s decision.  The case is Ford Motor Co. v U.S., 10-1934, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  Interviews  Evercore’s Altman Says Markets Are ‘Better Regulated’  Roger Altman , chairman of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and a
former U.S. deputy secretary of the Treasury, said the financial
crisis was “a cleansing act.”  Altman talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and Michael McKee
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Liquidity Rules Won’t Dent Banks’ Growth, Debelle Says  Guy Debelle, Reserve Bank of Australia assistant governor,
talked about new liquidity rules and their impact on the
nation’s banking industry. The RBA’s new liquidity rules won’t
have a material impact on banks’ balance sheet growth, he said
at a conference on regional financial stability in Sydney.  For the video, click here.  ECB’s Draghi Talks about ECB, Economic Recovery, and Bonds  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi spoke to the
European Parliament’s  Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee  in
Brussels on the ECB’s role as a bank supervisor. He also
discussed the economy and bond purchases.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  EU’s Reding Says Female Board Members Save Firms Cash  European Union Justice  Commissioner Viviane Reding
discussed the role of women on corporate boards.  She talked from Brussels with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 