-- Time Inc. Names Nelson as First Female Editor-in-Chief
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/time-inc-names-nelson-as-first-female-editor-in-chief.html
Time Inc., the publisher of People,
 Sports Illustrated  and other magazines, named Martha Nelson as
the first female editor-in-chief in its 90-year history.  Nelson will take the new job in January, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. The 60-year-old has spent
two decades at Time Inc., working most recently as editorial
director for the 17 brands in the Style and Entertainment Group.  “We’re in a challenging time, but also I think this is the
most exciting time for everyone in media,” she said in an
interview. Nelson, who was the founding editor of InStyle, said
she would be looking for editors to take more risks and be
creative about delivering their content to readers online.  Time Inc. Chief Executive Officer Laura Lang, who took the
reins last year, is working to merge print and Web ad
operations, aiming to reinvigorate what has become  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s worst-performing division. It has struggled to shift from
print to the Internet, where advertising commands lower rates
than with traditional magazine campaigns.  The division’s sales fell 6.2 percent to $2.47 billion in
the first nine months of 2012 from the year-earlier period. One
of the challenges: Readers aren’t buying as many magazines at
newsstands.  Single-copy sales of People, the company’s most profitable
title, fell 19 percent in the first half of 2012 from the year-
earlier period, according to the  Alliance for Audited Media .  Still, Time Inc. is making gains in subscriptions, Nelson
said. “We’ve had a better second half,” she said.  Nelson also is counting on the company’s high-profile
features, including Time magazine’s “Person of the Year,”
which will be announced this morning on NBC’s “Today” show.  “These moments show both our power to declare and to
engage millions and millions of people in the conversation
around the choices,” Nelson said. “They may not always agree
with our choices, but they’ll still talk about them -- it shows
our relevance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  