-- IMF Board to Decide Whether to Censure Argentina in Late January
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-18T01:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/imf-board-to-decide-whether-to-censure-argentina-in-late-january.html
International Monetary Fund
management today gave a report to the fund’s executive board on
 Argentina ’s progress in addressing concerns over its official
 data , leaving it to the 24 executive directors to decide next
month whether to censure the country.  “I expect this report will be given due consideration by
the Board sometime in late January’,” Gerry Rice, the director
of the IMF’s external relations, said in an emailed statement.
“The fund has no further comment on the report and its contents
at this time.”  Argentina is on track to be the first country ever
censured by the Washington-based fund for not sharing accurate
data about  inflation  and economic growth under a procedure that
can end in expulsion from the IMF. The board in September called
on the government to implement remedial measures “without
delay” and asked Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  to inform
directors on progress by today.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has denied any
wrongdoing even as the government’s official figures have been
disputed by the IMF, economists and politicians since 2007.  That’s when her late husband and former President  Nestor
Kirchner  replaced senior staff at the statistics institute,
known as Indec. Since then, Argentina has reported average
inflation of 8.8 percent a year, versus a 23 percent estimate by
private economists.  The official inflation rate of 10.6 percent in November,
less than half the private estimates, has enabled Argentina to
save about $6.8 billion since 2007 on debt payments, according
to Buenos Aires-based research firm ACM Consultores.  IMF Censure  According to IMF  rules  for countries that either fail to
provide information or provide inaccurate information, a
declaration of censure may follow several failed attempts to
have the country that breached its obligations take remedial
measures.  The board in September said it “may consider additional
steps based on Argentina’s response, and in line with IMF
procedures.”  Sanctions may follow later, such as declaring the country
ineligible to use the fund’s general resources and suspending
its  voting rights . “Compulsory withdrawal” is the last step of
the procedure, which leaves time between each decision for the
country to address concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  