-- India Changes Banking Rules, May Attract New Lenders
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-12-18T14:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/india-changes-banking-rules-may-attract-new-lenders.html
The Indian parliament’s  lower house 
approved changes to  banking laws , raising a cap on voting rights
and giving more regulatory power to the  Reserve Bank  of India in
a move that may attract investment to the industry.  The limit on voting rights of shareholders in state-
controlled lenders was increased to 10 percent from 1 percent,
and in other lenders to 26 percent from 10 percent. The new law
allows state-run banks to raise capital through rights offerings
and free shares.  The additional powers for the banking regulator take it a
step closer to issuing new bank licenses, part of a process that
has been under way for more than two years. The higher limit on
voting rights will boost investor interest in banks, Nitin Kumar, a Mumbai-based analyst at Quant Broking Pvt., said by
telephone before the bill was passed.  “This is a sentiment booster,” said Kumar. “Private-
sector banks including  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) ,  ING Vysya Bank Ltd. (VYSB)  and
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. stand to benefit most.” Flexibility
for state-run banks in raising capital will be seen as positive
by rating companies, he said.  The amended law will allow the  Reserve Bank of India  to
take control of a bank and inspect the books of lenders’
associate enterprises. The final rules for new banking permits
will be issued after the central bank has received the new
regulatory powers, governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said last month.  New entrants would compete with  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the
nation’s largest, and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the biggest private
lender.  India’s 26 state-run banks account for 76 percent of the
nation’s outstanding loans as of March 31, according to the
Reserve Bank of India. The 20 private domestic lenders had a 19
percent market share and 40 foreign lenders accounted for the
remaining 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  