-- India Holds Key Rate as RBI's Subbarao Resists Easing Calls
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-12-18T05:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/india-holds-key-rate-as-rbi-s-subbarao-resists-easing-calls.html
India ’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for a fifth straight meeting, as
the fastest inflation among the biggest emerging nations
inhibits scope for monetary easing sought by the
government.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept
the  repurchase rate  at 8 percent, according to a statement
in Mumbai today. The decision was predicted by 25 of 27
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, with two expecting a
reduction. The central bank also held the  cash reserve
ratio  for lenders at 4.25 percent after a cut in October.  Subbarao has so far withstood calls from Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram for lower rates to bolster
an economy forecast by the government to expand at the
slowest pace in a decade this fiscal year. Slowing gross
domestic product and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s policy
overhaul to revive growth may prompt the governor to
respond to “threats to growth from this points onwards,”
according to the RBI statement.  “The inflation picture is still not comforting enough
for the central bank to let down its inflation guard,”
Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief India and Southeast
Asia economist for HSBC Holdings Plc, said before the
decision. “Rate cuts are contingent on inflation coming
down, tangible progress on fiscal consolidation and
continued structural reforms.”  Sensex, Rupee  The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.4 percent
yesterday, while the rupee declined 0.7 percent to 54.85
per dollar, after the Finance Ministry cut its forecast for
India’s growth to about 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent in the
year through March from an earlier estimate of as much as
7.85 percent. That would be the smallest gain since the
year ended March 31, 2003, when gross domestic product grew
4 percent.  The RBI on Oct. 30 cut its projection for  economic
growth  to 5.8 percent from 6.5 percent and raised its
inflation forecast to 7.5 percent by March 2013 from 7
percent.  The rupee has appreciated since Sept. 13, when Singh’s
administration jump started stalled policy changes. The
government, striving to avert a credit-rating downgrade,
snapped months of policy paralysis in September by opening
the nation’s retail industry to overseas retailers such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and curbed energy subsidies. More
recently, it also set up a panel to accelerate
infrastructure projects and approved changes to a century-
old land law to help curb often violent protests that have
delayed projects.  ‘Investor Confidence’  “Both fiscal and monetary policies, however, would
need to be supportive to sustain investor confidence,” the
 Finance Ministry  said yesterday. A moderation in inflation
that may commence in the January-to-March quarter and
benign global commodity prices will “facilitate softening
of the monetary policy stance of the RBI,” it said.  India’s inflation rate remains the fastest among the
BRIC group of emerging nations that also includes Brazil,
Russia and  China . The country’s benchmark wholesale-price
gauge slowed to 7.24 percent in November. Consumer prices
climbed 9.9 percent last month.  Consumer price inflation “increased in November,
reflecting sustained food inflation pressures,” according
to the RBI statement. Still “the decline in  core inflation 
has been comforting. In view of inflation pressures ebbing,
monetary policy has to increasingly shift focus and respond
to the threats to growth.”  Trade Deficit  India’s  economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, slowing to match
a three-year low. The country’s trade deficit held near the
widest in more than 18 years in November as exports fell
for a seventh month.  Local passenger car sales by companies such as Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. fell 8.3 percent in November from a year
earlier, according to Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers data. Foreign direct investment fell 60
percent in the five months through August compared with a
year earlier.  “India is faced with a very difficult situation with
high inflation and deficits and sub-par growth,” said  Arun
Singh , an economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information
Services India Pvt. in Mumbai. “There is a real threat of
ratings downgrade and the need of the hour is to implement
economic reforms swiftly.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has called
for cheaper credit to back the government push to spur
growth, and pledged on Oct. 29 to contain the  budget
deficit  as officials sought to increase scope for a rate
cut. He said after the RBI held rates in October that
“growth is as much a challenge as inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  