-- Indian Stocks Rally as Monetary Easing Speculation Lifts Miners
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-12-18T10:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/india-s-stock-futures-rise-before-reserve-bank-policy-decision.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced the most in
three weeks as the central bank hinted at monetary easing next
month even after it kept interest rates unchanged for a fifth
straight meeting.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.6 percent
to 19,359.77, according to preliminary closing prices. Volumes
in the 30-stock measure exceeded the 30-day average by 47
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Aluminum
producer  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  led peers higher.  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT)  climbed 1.3 percent. Bharti Airtel Ltd. and  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  soared more than 4 percent each.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept the
 repurchase rate  at 8 percent and held the cash reserve ratio for
lenders at 4.25 percent after a cut in October. Slowing growth
and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s policy overhaul to revive
growth may prompt the governor to respond to “threats to growth
from this point onwards,” the central bank said.  “I don’t think it’s a lost opportunity and come January,
we will see some action from the RBI,” Gautam Trivedi, head of
equities at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said by telephone.
Trivedi said he plans to add more stocks that may benefit from
lower borrowing costs, including carmakers.  Subbarao has so far withstood calls from Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram for lower rates to bolster an economy
forecast by the government yesterday to expand at the slowest
pace in a decade this fiscal year ending in March. The central
bank’s next policy review is scheduled on Jan. 29.  The Sensex has risen 25 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual jump since 2009, as government policy steps to
open the nation’s economy to overseas investment lured foreign
funds. The 30-stock gauge is valued at 15.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 12
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  