-- Investors Shun Postwar Iraq as OPEC Star’s Recovery Lags
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-12-19T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/investors-shun-post-war-iraq-as-rising-opec-star-s-recovery-lags.html
Ziad Makkawi set up a private equity
investment firm last year to capitalize on  Iraq ’s plans for
reviving an economy gutted by wars and sanctions.  Makkawi’s zeal faded as OPEC’s second-largest oil producer
struggled, and he now sees brighter prospects elsewhere in the
Middle East, including Libya, where deadly attacks persist after
the 2011 revolt against Muammar Qaddafi.  “In Iraq, there are suicide bombings, political problems,
the Central Bank governor was dismissed, others have been
arrested -- these things cast a big shadow on the business
environment, and investors shy away,” said Makkawi, the
chairman of Dubai-based  Blue Gate Capital Partners .  Nine years after U.S.-led forces toppled the dictatorship
of Saddam Hussein, even specialists in frontier markets are
backing off from Iraq. Daily blackouts, congested ports and
other infrastructure woes compound investor concerns about
violence and corruption, and a broad recovery continues to elude
this energy-rich nation of 33 million people.  Iraq generated $7.8 billion a month from oil sales this
year and seeks to triple output of crude by 2020. The economy is
set to expand by 14.7 percent in 2013, 12 percent in 2014 and
9.3 percent in 2015, according to an International Monetary Fund
forecast. Spreading the wealth beyond the energy industry is
proving harder, though.  Political Logjam  “The government has ambitious spending plans, but
political disunity, capacity constraints and perceptions of
insecurity have meant that very few projects have yet come to
fruition,” said Liz Martins, a senior economist at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Dubai.  Reconstruction efforts have stalled amid deepening
divisions between Iraq’s majority Shiite Muslims and minority
Sunni Arabs and Kurds. The Sunni-backed al-Iraqiya coalition
boycotted parliamentary and cabinet sessions for several weeks
this year, demanding that the Shiite prime minister, Nouri al- Maliki, share power. Political differences have caused delays
for seven years in the enactment of an energy law, damping
investor interest in oil and natural gas projects.  Friction has intensified between the central government and
Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurds, since the U.S. withdrew its last
combat troops in December. The northern Kurds have angered
authorities in Baghdad by signing agreements with foreign oil
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Total SA (FP) , which have
criticized terms offered by the national Oil Ministry.
Government soldiers clashed for the first time with Kurdish
forces on Nov. 16, leaving one person dead.  Adding to the country’s instability, President Jalal Talabani, a respected mediator between rival ethnic, religious
and political factions, was hospitalized two days ago after a
stroke. Doctors from Germany and Iran are treating him, and a
British medical team plans to arrive today.  Attacks Mount  Iraq has endured “a troubled year” of worsening graft,
bloodshed and apprehension about the conflict in neighboring
 Syria , Stuart Bowen, a U.S. special inspector general, said in a
report published on Oct. 30. Attacks in Iraq have escalated this
year, with 4,019 civilians killed in the first 10 months
compared with 3,467 in the same period in 2011, according to the
Iraq Body Count website.  “The instability, the problems and the daily struggles
never end,” said Ali Hussein, a car-parts dealer in Baghdad.
“Leaving the country has become a priority,” the 40-year-old
said. “What would a bit more income do for me, if my kids or
other members of my family can get kidnapped on any given day?”  Crude Wealth  To be sure,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , OAO Lukoil and other
energy investors are pressing ahead with projects in much of the
country. Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude deposits,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) , and overtook Iran in June as the biggest
producer, after Saudi Arabia, in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  The nation pumped 3.35 million barrels a day in November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and Deputy Prime
Minister Hussain al-Shahristani said Oct. 10 that Iraq wants to
produce 10 million barrels a day by 2020. Iraqi crude will
account for almost half of the increase in global supply this
decade, the International Energy Agency said Oct. 9.  “The growth there is boosting our business,” said Richard
Davidsen, chief commercial officer of Aqaba Container Terminal
in neighboring  Jordan . Half of the goods unloaded at his
facility on the Red Sea journey by truck to Iraq, and Davidsen
wants to capture more of the trade.  Empty Skyline  The government is budgeting $118 billion in spending next
year, up 18 percent from 2012. Still, bureaucratic delays and
corruption probes have impeded many projects, and Iraqi
officials often can’t spend all their budgeted funds, said Sam
Wilkin, an analyst in Dubai at Control Risks Group, a
consultant.  Transparency International ranks Iraq 169th among 176
countries and territories in its 2012 Corruption Perceptions
Index.  Business outside the oil and gas industries has languished.
 Baghdad ’s skyline is almost bare of construction cranes, and
security checkpoints and 3 meter- (10 foot-) high blast walls
choke traffic. The capital’s only ATMs are located inside banks,
where armed guards frisk customers and remove mobile phones.  Tariq Najim, a Baghdad grocer, sees scant evidence of new
building even though officials have spent “so much money”
since 2003. “How many decades do they need to show us their
achievements?” the 28-year-old said.  ‘Bit Scary’  One of the country’s biggest projects is a $6 billion
planned upgrading of Grand Faw Port in southern Basra province.
The government, which has been discussing the work since 2004,
awarded a contract to build a first breakwater only last month.
Iraqi power plants still can’t produce enough electricity, and
the government buys power from  Iran  and three Turkish generating
ships to ease outages lasting several hours a day.  “The last 12 months have been really bad,” said Makkawi
of Blue Gate Capital, which opened an office in Libya in
November.  “It is a bit scary,” he said. “I mean, a company like
Exxon is looking to get out. What does this tell you? There are
opportunities elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  