-- Investors Are Most Bullish Ever on China Economic Growth
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-12-18T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/investors-are-most-bullish-ever-on-china-economic-growth.html
More investors than ever say they
are bullish about  China ’s economic outlook, and more favor
European rather than U.S. stocks for the first time in two
years, a Bank of America Corp. monthly survey showed.  A net 67 percent of money managers, who together oversee
$503 billion, predicted that  China’s economy  will grow at a
faster rate next year, the highest reading since the survey data
started in 2003. Some 7 percent hold more European stocks than
appear in benchmarks, the poll showed.  “Investor anxiety has been successfully sedated by
central-bank liquidity policies in recent months,”  Michael Hartnett , chief investment strategist at Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a report today. “Risk appetites
are higher and hopes for economic activity have picked up,
especially for Chinese growth.”  Optimism that the world’s second-largest economy will
accelerate may help to offset concern that potential budget cuts
and tax increases in the U.S. will curb global growth. A survey
showed China’s manufacturing industry may expand for a second
month in December, underscoring optimism the economy will
recover following a  seven-quarter slowdown .  A net 40 percent said the global economy will improve, the
highest reading in 22 months, while a net 11 percent said
profits will increase, the most bullish result in 20 months.  U.S. Budget  The poll showed 47 percent of money managers rated
America’s budget outlook as their top concern, compared with 22
percent who cited the euro area’s debt crisis. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  are trying to reach
an agreement to prevent more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts from coming into force in January.  Even as investors became more sanguine about global growth,
allocations to equities remained unchanged from November, BofA
said.  Hedge funds  were an exception, with net investment in
shares jumping to 45 percent, the highest since August 2006.  “While bullish rhetorically, the lack of follow through in
actual positioning suggests moderate conviction at best,” BofA
said in the report to investors.  Average cash levels fell to 4.1 percent from 4.2 percent in
November, BofA said. A net 41 percent said they hold fewer bonds
than benchmarked, the lowest in eight months, while a net 5
percent said they hold more commodities than appear in indexes.  Overweight Europe  The share of respondents who said they are overweight in
 European equities , meaning they hold more of the region’s shares
than are represented in global benchmarks, rose from 5 percent
last month, the survey showed. Those saying they are overweight
the U.S. fell to a net 5 percent from 11 percent, with the
country falling behind  Europe  in investors’ favor for the first
time since November 2010.  Investors remained underweight on  Japan  and the U.K., the
survey showed. A majority are now under-invested in energy
companies, for the first time since January 2009, BofA said.  A record high net 64 percent of respondents said companies
are not investing enough, BofA said. A net 45 percent of
investors now prefer companies to use idle cash to increase
 capital spending , the highest reading in 20 months, instead of
paying back debt or returning it to shareholders.  Almost 200 respondents participated in the global survey,
which Merrill Lynch conducted from Dec. 7 to Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  