-- Lira Rises as Basci Cuts One Turkey Rate, Keeps Another Fixed
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-18T15:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/lira-rises-as-basci-cuts-one-turkey-rate-keeps-another-fixed.html
The lira appreciated after the
Turkish central bank unexpectedly left the overnight borrowing
interest rate unchanged while lowering the benchmark repurchase
rate to spur economic growth.  The lira strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar at
1.7812 at 4:59 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest gain since Dec. 14.
The currency has appreciated 6.2 percent this year, the third
biggest advance among 10  emerging markets  in Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa . Yields on two-year benchmark debt increased
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.81 percent,
the highest since Dec. 5.  The central bank, led by Governor Erdem Basci, kept the
bottom of its so-called rates corridor unchanged at 5 percent.
The median estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 25 basis-point cut. Basci maintained the overnight
lending rate at 9 percent and lowered the one-week repurchase
rate by 25 basis points to 5.5 percent, in line with estimates.  “Market players including us were expecting that the bank
would cut the lower end of the corridor by 25-50 basis points,”
 Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said
in an e-mailed note. “Since the bank did not touch its lower
end, the lira appreciated.”  Unemployment in  Turkey  climbed to 9.1 percent in September,
the Ankara-based statistics office said yesterday.  Gross
domestic product  advanced 1.6 percent on an annual basis in the
third quarter, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession, the
agency said last month. Turkey’s economic growth may slow to 3
percent this year from 8.5 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate of 24 analysts on Bloomberg.  Economic Outlook  Basci implemented a rate corridor in October of last year
that allows him to adjust  interest rates  on a daily basis. It
was created to balance above-target inflation, slowing economic
growth and high volatility of the lira.  Given the country’s economic outlook, the central bank’s
decision today “is less dovish than what the markets
expected,”  Luis Costa , an emerging market strategist at
Citigroup in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  The central bank has driven the  average cost of funding  for
banks down by more than a half this year to 5.59 percent on Dec.
17, helping the benchmark bond yields fall 520 basis points in
the biggest rally globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  