-- Iraq President Talabani’s Stroke May Fuel Ethnic Tensions
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-12-20T07:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/iraqi-president-jalal-talabani-hospitalized-due-to-stroke.html
(Corrects date he was hospitalized in first paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, the
country’s first Kurdish head of state who has sought to balance
the nation’s rival ethnic and religious factions, was
hospitalized late on Dec. 17 after suffering a stroke, a Kurdish
lawmaker said.  Talabani, 79, was treated in  Baghdad  and was in stable
condition, Mahmoud Othman said by phone yesterday from the
hospital. His office said earlier that he had taken ill “due to
exhaustion and fatigue.” The president was flown today to
 Germany  for further care, Al Arabiya television reported.  If Talabani has to step down and isn’t replaced by a Kurd,
that could cause tensions, said Marina Ottaway, a senior
associate in the Middle East program at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, a Washington policy group.  “Talabani was a mediating influence because he managed to
keep a foot in both camps,” Ottaway said in a telephone
interview. “There’s no doubt he’s a Kurdish nationalist, but he
also was  Iraq ’s president and he managed to straddle the line.”  Ottaway said Talabani’s health crisis is “just one more
destabilizing factor” for Iraq. There are tensions between the
minority Kurds and the government led by Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki, who is Arab, mainly over royalties from energy
resources in Kurdistan.  Potential Disruption  “Certainly, the potential for disruption is there,”
Ottaway said.  The Associated Press yesterday cited Deputy Prime Minister
Saleh al-Mutlaq as saying that medical teams from Germany and
Britain would assess whether Talabani’s condition required him
to be moved abroad for treatment.  Talabani was chosen as president by Iraq’s parliament in
2005 after the country’s first democratic election in 50 years,
which followed the U.S.-led invasion to oust Saddam Hussein. He
has worked to ease the conflict between Iraq’s Shiite Muslim
majority and Sunni community that escalated into violence after
the 2003 war, and the tensions between Iraq’s Arabs and Kurds
over control and distribution of energy resources.  He began his political career in the 1950s and founded the
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan in 1975. His Peshmerga militia
battled Hussein’s army in the 1970s and 1980s, and following the
1991 Gulf War he led a Kurdish uprising against the Iraqi
government.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include  Canada ’s oil sands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francis Harris at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  