-- Ireland’s Economy Expands for Second Quarter as Spending Rises
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-18T11:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ireland-s-economy-expands-for-second-quarter-as-spending-rises.html
Ireland’s economy expanded in the
three months through September for a second straight quarter, as
 consumer spending  and exports gained.  Gross domestic product increased 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it rose a revised 0.4 percent, the  Central
Statistics Office  said in Dublin today. The agency had
previously estimated that the economy didn’t grow in the second
quarter. Third-quarter growth missed the 0.6 percent median
growth estimate of five economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The economy expanded 0.8 percent in the third quarter from
the year-earlier period. The  International Monetary Fund  said
yesterday Ireland faces “significant risks” to its growth
outlook from weakening in the economies of the country’s trading
partners and a fifth year of austerity. The government laid out
3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of tax increases and cost-
cutting measures earlier this month.  “The worry is obviously you can’t see consumer spending
holding up much given the austerity in the budget,” said  Alan
McQuaid , an economist at Merrion Capital in Dublin. “Clearly,
we are the only country that is growing among the peripherals so
that helps in our perception abroad with international
investors.”  Exports rose 0.3 percent in the quarter, while imports
increased 2.1 percent, the statistics agency said. Consumer
spending gained 0.5 percent and investment spending climbed 8.5
percent.  Gross national product, a separate gauge of economic
activity, fell 0.4 percent in the third quarter from the second
quarter and rose 3.7 percent from the year earlier period. GNP
excludes repatriated profit from overseas companies.  IMF Forecast  The IMF is forecasting 1.1 percent growth for the country
next year, lower than the 1.5 percent target set by the
government. The IMF said yesterday the government should defer
any additional austerity measures to 2015 if growth disappoints
next year.  The yield on Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October
2020 traded five basis points lower at 4.62 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net 
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  