-- Mirvac Said to Consider Offer for Australand Property
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-12-18T07:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/mirvac-said-to-consider-offer-for-australand-property.html
Mirvac Group (MGR)  is considering making a
takeover offer for  Australand Property Group (ALZ) , the real estate
developer that rejected a bid from  GPT Group (GPT)  last week, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Mirvac, a Sydney-based property trust, is seeking advice on
a potential deal from Citigroup Inc., said the people, asking
not to be identified as the matter hasn’t been made public. Any
deal is in the early stages and a bid isn’t imminent, the people
said.  Mirvac’s potential bid, as well as GPT’s earlier offer,
“augur well for REITs in 2013, and will result in other groups
stepping up and having a look around,” said Winston Sammut,
managing director of Sydney-based Maxim Asset Management.
“Borrowing costs are down and REITs are now trading closer to
net tangible assets, so funding for deals is likely to be a
combination of debt and equity.”  A deal, if agreed, would be the second announced takeover
of an Australian REIT in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It follows Brookfield Asset Management Inc.’s A$410
million ($432 million) takeover of Thakral Holdings Group,
announced in April and completed in October.  The Australian Financial Review today reported that Mirvac
is considering a deal that would create a A$7 billion
diversified property company. Australand hasn’t received a
proposal from Mirvac, the Sydney-based company said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  Assessing Opportunities  “We continually assess opportunities to increase
 shareholder value ,” Mirvac said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are also aware of our continuous disclosure obligations and
there is nothing to disclose.”  Judy Hitchen, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the bank’s involvement.  Australand last week rejected GPT’s takeover bid for its
commercial and industrial property assets and development
business, saying the A$140 million premium to the value of the
assets offered wasn’t sufficient. GPT responded that it’s
“committed to advancing” the bid, which would leave Australand
with only its residential business.  Australand  shares  jumped 2.7 percent to A$3.46 at the close
of trading in Sydney, the highest since July 2008. Mirvac shares
dropped 1.7 percent to A$1.485, the most in a month, while GPT
fell 0.8 percent to A$3.58 a share.  Mirvac has a market value of A$5 billion, compared to
Sydney-based Australand’s A$2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  