-- Shekel Rises to 8-Month High as 2013 Gas Output to Spur Rally
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-12-18T14:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/israeli-shekel-gains-as-2013-gas-output-expected-to-spur-rally.html
Israel ’s shekel strengthened to the
highest level in almost eight months amid speculation the onset
of domestic gas production next year will improve the nation’s
trade balance, lifting the currency.  The shekel rose as much as 0.5 percent to 3.7596 a dollar,
the strongest intraday level since May 1, before trading at
3.7621 at 4:31 p.m. in Tel Aviv, bringing this year’s
appreciation to 1.3 percent, the second-best performer in the
Middle East, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 5.5
percent benchmark government bonds maturing in January 2022
fell, pushing the yield up 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, the most since Nov. 14, to 3.76 percent.  Israel is set to start pumping gas from the Tamar field by
June, enabling it to reduce its dependence on Egyptian gas for
much of its electricity generation. The current account balance
may improve by as much as $3 billion next year as fuel flows
start, according to estimates of I.L.S. Brokers Ltd. For every
$1 billion improvement in the balance, the exchange rate should
appreciate about 1 percent, the Bank of Israel has estimated.  “The recent appreciation in the shekel-dollar rate was
derived from investors’ assessment of the expected improvement
in Israel’s balance of payments in 2013,” Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers, said by phone.  The currency jumped 1.8 percent last month, the best
performer among an expanded list of 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Since July, it’s strengthened 5.9 percent,
compared with an average gain of 1.7 percent for emerging market
currencies, Shafrir said.  Faster Growth  The government this week raised its 2013 economic growth
forecast to 3.5 percent from 3 percent to account for the effect
of natural gas discoveries. The shekel’s three-month implied
volatility, which reflects traders’ expectations of currency
fluctuations over the period, fell two basis points to 7.8
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 12.  Israel’s move to produce its own fuel comes after  Egypt  cut
its flow of gas to the country this year, forcing companies to
switch to more-expensive imported alternatives. Israel posted a
current account surplus in the third quarter, its first in a
year, as imports declined, the Central Bureau of Statistics said
Dec. 16.  Israel’s  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) ,  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and other
exploration companies have discovered enough gas under the
Mediterranean Sea over the past three years to supply the
country’s needs for 150 years. The Tamar and Dalit fields are
scheduled to start production next year, with output at the
Leviathan field, the nation’s largest, starting three years
later.  “We expect to see the strengthening impact on the shekel
to steam up in 2014 and 2015 as more gas starts flowing,” said
Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.
in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  