-- Mitsubishi UFJ Said to Seek VietinBank Stake Agreement Next Week
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-12-18T09:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-seek-vietinbank-stake-agreement-next-week.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest bank, is poised to sign an accord to buy a 20
percent stake in VietinBank from the Vietnamese government as
early as Dec. 26, said two officials from the Tokyo-based bank.  The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. lending unit is
seeking to buy the stake for about 60 billion yen ($715
million), the officials said, asking not to be named as the
talks are private. A deal may be announced on the day an
agreement is reached, they said.  Mitsubishi UFJ plans to complete the deal in the first six
months of 2013, one of the officials said. The Nikkei newspaper
reported on Dec. 13 that the Japanese bank plans to reach a 60
billion-yen agreement by the end of December to buy the stake.  An investment in the company, whose full name is Vietnam
Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade, would make
Mitsubishi UFJ the third Japanese megabank in five years to buy
a stake in a Vietnamese lender. Japan’s shrinking  population ,
contracting economy and entrenched deflation have prompted the
country’s largest banks to look abroad for growth.  Tomohiro Kohsaka, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
UFJ, declined to comment.  VietinBank (CTG)  Chairman Pham Huy Hung also
declined to comment.  VietinBank has a market capitalization of 48.5 trillion
dong ($2.3 billion), valuing 20 percent of the company at about
$465 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
possible $715 million purchase price is about 54 percent higher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  