-- Japan Stock Futures, Australian Shares Rise on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-18T23:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/japan-stock-futures-australian-shares-rise-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
Japanese  stock futures  rose as the
 Bank of Japan  begins a policy meeting and amid optimism U.S.
lawmakers are making progress on budget talks. Australian shares
advanced.  American Depositary Receipts  of auto manufacturer  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  and camera maker Canon Inc. rose more than 1.5 percent
as the yen trading near the lowest level in 20 months against
the dollar boosted the earnings outlook for Japanese exporters.
Shares of  Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. , Japan’s biggest
fixed-line phone company that is a customer of Oracle Corp., may
be active after Oracle reported sales and profit that topped
analyst estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s largest oil
producer, advanced 0.9 percent as crude prices climbed.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
March closed at 10,030 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,940 in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 10,040 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.6 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.8 percent.  “What is important and what is driving the market higher
is that the two parties in the U.S. are now in constructive
discussions over specific tax levels and spending programs and
working toward a common middle ground,” said Cameron Peacock,
Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider
of trading services for equities, currencies and commodities.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has climbed 15 percent
since Nov. 14 on speculation the  Liberal Democratic Party , which
returned to power in last weekend’s elections, will spend more
to boost the economy and pressure for more bond purchases by the
Bank of Japan, which meets today. The BOJ is forecast to boost
its asset purchases as soon as Dec. 20.  Japan Budget  Shinzo Abe’s LDP and coalition partner Komeito agreed to
pass a supplementary budget possibly worth more than 10 trillion
yen ($119 billion), the Nikkei newspaper reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were little changed
today. The gauge rose 1.2 percent yesterday, capping the biggest
two-day gain in a month on the benchmark measure.  President  Barack Obama  proposed a budget plan that would
cut about $1.2 trillion in federal spending and raise a similar
amount in taxes in the next decade, according to a person
familiar with the talks. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he will
push a budget “plan B” measure that would include tax
increases on income of more than $1 million, while continuing to
negotiate with Obama.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 12 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks from the U.S., Europe, Japan
and China took action to spur economic growth. The gauge traded
at 14.5 times average estimated earnings compared with 14 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude oil for January delivery advanced 73 cents to $87.93
a barrel yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since Dec. 4.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 1 percent yesterday in New
York to close at the highest level since May 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  