-- Japan’s Abe Could Join Reformers’ Pantheon
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/japan-s-abe-could-join-reformers-pantheon.html
Since November 1982,  Japan  has had
18 prime ministers, with an average stay in office of 658 days.
Arguably, only two left the job smiling: Yasuhiro Nakasone and
 Junichiro Koizumi , both strong reformers with clear agendas who
were, not coincidentally, among Japan’s longest-serving chief
executives.  Let’s hope that lesson isn’t lost on Shinzo Abe, Japan’s
next prime minister, when he takes office Dec. 26. With his
landslide victory, Abe has a political opening to push reforms
that could lift Japan from the economic morass it has been stuck
in for the past two decades.  He’ll still have his work cut out for him. The
supermajority that voters gave his  Liberal Democratic Party  and
its coalition partner Komeito in the parliament’s lower house
rests on a weak foundation: Voter turnout was the worst of any
general election in the postwar period, and the results suggest
voter disappointment with the ousted  Democratic Party  of Japan
rather than any rekindled love for the LDP.  To solidify support before elections in July for the upper
house, which is controlled by the DPJ and its allies, Abe will
have to quickly convince voters that he is pointing Japan in the
right direction.  Here’s the plan he ran on: get tough with  China  over the
disputed islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China,
and turn on Japan’s fiscal spigot to get its economy out of
recession. Unfortunately, neither course of action is likely to
produce the results he seeks.  A deepening confrontation with China over the islands is
the last thing Japan needs. Part of the reason its economy is
(again) in the doldrums is the dispute’s impact on Japan’s $340
billion trading relationship with China. Despite his hawkish
talk and provisions in the LDP’s manifesto calling for Japan to
station personnel on the islands and increase patrols, Abe’s
work to mend relations with China during his term in office six
years ago offers a better model for moving forward.  Better ties with China would spur Japan’s economy without
increasing its debt. That’s something you can’t say about Abe’s
promise to forge ahead with a “large” extra budget --
estimated at anywhere from 5 trillion ($60 billion) to 10
trillion yen --and push the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to double its
inflation target to 2 percent and increase asset purchases.
Japan’s levels of public debt, already the world’s highest, are
projected to be 230 percent of gross domestic product in 2014.  We recognize that asking the LDP to forgo pork-barrel
politics in a stagnant economy before an election goes against
its most primal political instinct. That said, Abe could signal
his determination to tackle Japan’s debt problem -- and perhaps
forestall a cut in its credit ratings -- by committing to the
sales-tax increases that are on the books for 2014 and 2015.  More fundamentally, he could advance economic reform by
embracing, and firming up, his predecessor  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
commitment to join negotiations for the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a  free-trade deal  encompassing 11 economies across
the Asia-Pacific region.  The TPP’s high standards for membership would  force  Japan
to revisit everything from the almost 800 percent tariffs it
sets on imported rice to the  anticompetitive practices  of  Japan
Post , a $3 trillion behemoth that controls more than 30 percent
of the country’s banking industry and just over 20 percent of
its insurance market. Such liberalization would not only boost
economic growth, but also amount to what former Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan   referred  to as “the third opening of Japan.”  Talk of Japan’s decline today is just as overheated as the
warnings a few decades ago of its predatory dominance. Japan is
still the world’s third biggest economy. Its people enjoy the
world’s longest lifespans. And its companies, universities and
research institutes churn out Nobel laureates and patents. While
marquee consumer brands such as Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
struggle, a  new breed  of more disciplined companies is thriving.  Some of the challenges Japan faces are indeed formidable.
And its voters, to their credit, are increasingly impatient with
leaders who can’t meet them. That’s what democracy is all about.
It’s now Abe’s turn.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 