-- Jefferies Profit Beats Estimates on Trading Revenues
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-12-18T21:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/jefferies-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-48-on-trading-revenue.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank that agreed to be acquired by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , said
fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 48 percent, beating analysts’
estimates, as trading revenue surged.  Net income for the three months ended Nov. 30 was $71.6
million, or 31 cents a share, from $48.4 million, or 21 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based firm said today in a statement.
Earnings per share excluding some items was 35 cents, compared
with the 32-cent  average estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Profit for the fiscal year fell to $282.4 million
from $284.6 million a year earlier.  Jefferies, run by Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler ,
said last month it would be acquired by its largest shareholder,
Leucadia, in a $2.8 billion deal. The purchase, which both
companies said would help Jefferies weather market turmoil,
gives investors 0.81 Leucadia share for each Jefferies share
they own, less 81 cents a share for the spinoff of a wine
business. Handler, 51, will become CEO of the combined firms.  “Trading markets and volumes were reasonably robust during
September and most of October, but slowed for the U.S. election
for the remainder of our fiscal year,” Handler said on a
conference call after results were released. “Activity and
volumes have been solid for the first few weeks of December.”  Jefferies  climbed  3.1 percent to close at $18.80 in  New
York , the most since Nov. 12. The shares have advanced 37
percent this year.  Trading Revenue  Sales and trading revenue surged 64 percent in the quarter
to $469.6 million from a year earlier. Driving the increase was
revenue from fixed-income trading, which more than doubled to
$293 million. Equities revenue rose 42 percent to $176.6
million.  The  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing program, where it
buys $40 billion in mortgage debt each month, has resulted in
“reasonably robust” trading volume, Handler said on the call.  “Across the products within fixed income, I think we’re
gaining market share,” Handler said. “The fact that the Fed is
cooperating is added gravy.”  Revenue from  investment banking  was $283 million, an 8.3
percent jump from a year earlier. Capital markets revenue rose
to $198.7 million from $89 million, while advisory revenue fell
51 percent to $84.3 million.  Total revenue for the year ended Nov. 30 was $3.87 billion,
a 9.7 percent increase from the previous fiscal year.  Cash Bonuses  Jefferies has vowed to pay year-end bonuses in immediately
available cash, according to a Dec. 7 memo obtained by  Bloomberg
News , distinguishing itself from larger Wall Street competitors
that are paying more compensation in deferred stock.  The firm set aside $460.4 million, or 60 percent of net
revenue, for compensation expense in the fiscal fourth quarter,
compared with $308.1 million, or 56 percent, a year earlier.  The Leucadia deal, which may be completed in the first
quarter, could help Jefferies bolster earnings without boosting
risk -- something Handler has said he wants to avoid. The firm
will be able to curb tax and dividend payouts so it can tap
profits to boost capital, analysts said after the deal was
announced.  Jefferies has pared assets by almost one quarter in the
past year following investor concern that standalone investment
banks are vulnerable to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
market upheaval. Like other Wall Street firms, Jefferies is
under pressure to cut costs amid a trading slump that has forced
smaller companies to close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 