-- Jeremy Lin Helps Rockets Send Knicks to First NBA Home Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-18T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/jeremy-lin-helps-rockets-send-knicks-to-first-nba-home-loss.html
Jeremy Lin scored 22 points in his
return to New York, leading the  Houston Rockets  to a 109-96
victory and sending the Knicks to their first home loss this
year after a 10-0 start at Madison Square Garden.  Lin emerged as a National Basketball Association phenomenon
in New York last season, when he became the first Taiwanese- or
Chinese-American to play in the league and helped the team to
seven straight wins. Last night marked Lin’s first road game
against his former club since the Knicks declined to match a
three-year, $25 million contract from the Rockets.  “It was a lot of fun playing out there and I think our
team took a step in the right direction,” Lin, who had eight
assists and hit 9-of-15 shots, said at his postgame news
conference. “For me, it was great to be back and it was a lot
of fun to be out on that court again.”  The Knicks hadn’t appeared to miss their former point guard
in winning 18 of their first 23 games, the franchise’s best
start since 1972. Last night, however, the Knicks were hammered
by Houston for the second time this season, while playing
without leading scorer  Carmelo Anthony  as well as Amar’e Stoudemire and Iman Shumpert because of injuries.  James Harden , Lin’s backcourt mate, had 28 points and 10
rebounds for the Rockets (12-12), who outscored the Knicks 54-29
over the second and third quarters.  New York trailed 60-55 midway through the third quarter
when the Rockets broke the game open with a 15-0 surge, with Lin
scoring on two drives and assisting on three of Houston’s other
four baskets during the run.  Perimeter Play  “We didn’t play like we’ve been playing,” Knicks coach
 Mike Woodson  said at a news conference. “They somewhat had
their way from the perimeter standpoint and our perimeter play
was sloppy in terms of turnovers and not getting into things
quickly enough from an offensive standpoint.”  Lin, a Harvard University graduate, finished with 20 or
more points for the third time this season to help the Rockets
to just their third win in 10 road games. Lin scored 13 points
in his first meeting against the Knicks this season, a 131-103
Rockets win in Houston on Nov. 23.  Lin was cheered last night during pregame introductions at
Madison Square Garden. He heard more jeers as the game went on.  “It was fine,” Lin said of the reception he received. “I
had fun out there and I’m thankful to the fans. It was actually
a lot better than I thought.”  The Knicks were led by 29 points from Chris Copeland, who
started with Anthony out with a sprained left ankle.  New York still has the best record in the Eastern
Conference at 18-6 and next hosts the Brooklyn Nets tomorrow.
The Nets are second in the Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic
Division  with a 13-10 record.  “We need some of our guys back, but we’re going to have
games like this,” said Knicks guard  Raymond Felton , who had 14
points on 7-of-18 shooting. “It’s a long season. We’re still
18-6. We just can’t let it pile up. We’re coming off a loss, so
we’re definitely going to be hungry.”  The Oklahoma City Thunder ran their winning streak to 11
games with a 107-93 win against the  San Antonio Spurs  last night,
while the  Los Angeles Clippers  beat the Detroit Pistons 88-76 for     
their 10th win in a row. In yesterday's other NBA games, the
 Memphis Grizzlies  topped the Chicago Bulls 80-71, the  Phoenix
Suns  defeated the Sacramento Kings 101-90 and the  Orlando Magic 
beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 102-93.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  