-- Jets Turn to Greg McElroy at Quarterback, Benching Mark Sanchez
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/jets-to-start-mcelroy-over-sanchez-after-nfl-playoff-chances-end.html
Greg McElroy  will start at
quarterback for the  New York Jets  this week in place of  Mark
Sanchez , who was benched after committing five turnovers two
days ago in a loss at Tennessee that ended the team’s chances of
making the National Football League playoffs.  McElroy, 24, will be making his first NFL start on Dec. 23
when the Jets (6-8) host the  San Diego Chargers .  “Where the team is now, I think it’s best for our team and
for this game,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said yesterday on a media
conference call. “It’s what I feel in my gut.”  The change puts into question Sanchez’s future with the
Jets, who traded up to draft him with the fifth overall pick in
the 2009 draft out of the University of  Southern California .
Sanchez received a three-year contract extension in the
offseason that included $20.5 million in guaranteed money.  McElroy was a seventh-round pick in 2011 from the
 University of Alabama  and has been the third-string quarterback
for most of this season behind Sanchez and  Tim Tebow . He made
his NFL debut on Dec. 2 after Sanchez was benched in the third
quarter, and led the Jets to a 7-6 comeback win against the
 Arizona Cardinals . Tebow missed that game with an injury.  “I like what I saw from Greg against  Arizona  and I like
what I see on the practice field,” Ryan said. “I truly believe
it’s what’s best for our team right now.”  Ryan said he’s unsure whether Sanchez or Tebow will be the
backup against the Chargers.  “As the week goes on, I’ll make that determination,” he
said. “I’m not ready to do that right now.”  Five Turnovers  Sanchez, 26, had a season-high four interceptions in
Nashville,  Tennessee , and lost a fumble on the Jets’ final snap,
blowing any chance for a comeback that would have kept the
team’s playoff hopes alive.  Ryan said he told Sanchez following the game that he’d be
making a change at quarterback and that Sanchez “respected my
decision.”  Sanchez leads the NFL with 24 turnovers, and now has 50 in
the last two seasons. After the benching earlier this month,
Ryan said he addressed the issue of turnovers with Sanchez, who
has thrown 17 interceptions and lost seven fumbles.  Sanchez has 13 touchdown passes in 14 games after throwing
a career-high 23 last year. He’s shouldered the bulk of the
criticism for the struggles of the Jets’ offense, which is the
NFL’s third-worst this season, averaging 302.1 yards a game.  No Tebow  The Jets acquired Tebow in an offseason trade with the
 Denver Broncos , and he has seen limited playing time this year.
Tebow threw one pass in the Jets’ 14-10 loss in Tennessee while
rushing for 15 yards on three carries.  Tebow’s eight pass attempts for the season are one more
than McElroy, who connected on 5-of-7 throws for 29 yards and a
touchdown against the Cardinals.  Ryan didn’t give a reason for choosing to start McElroy
over Tebow, who last season led the Broncos to the playoffs
after taking over at quarterback following a 1-4 start. He said
Tebow’s recent rib injury wasn’t a factor.  “I know Tim is a tremendous competitor,” Ryan said. “I
don’t doubt that at all, but for right now, I think this move is
best for our team and this game. This decision is my decision.
I’m choosing to go with Greg.”  Ryan sidestepped questions about whether Sanchez would ever
start again for the Jets, whether in the season finale against
the  Buffalo Bills  on Dec. 30 or next year, when he’s guaranteed
$8.25 million.  In four seasons with the Jets, Sanchez has completed 55
percent of his passes for 68 touchdowns and 68 interceptions.
This marks the second straight year that the team has missed the
playoffs after reaching the American Football Conference
championship game during Sanchez’s first two seasons.  “We have two games left, that’s where my focus is going to
be,” Ryan said. “What’s past that will be determined later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  