-- Jets Eliminated From NFL Playoff Contention With Loss to Titans
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-18T05:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/jets-eliminated-from-nfl-playoff-contention-with-loss-to-titans.html
The New York Jets’ slim chances of
making the National Football League playoffs were dashed with a
14-10 loss in Tennessee, where their season-long offensive woes
were encapsulated by a five-turnover performance.  Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  threw a season-high four
interceptions, including two in the fourth quarter, and fumbled
away his team’s final snap after getting the ball at the Titans’
25-yard line in the final minute.  The Jets fell to 6-8 with two regular-season games left and
will miss the NFL playoffs for the second straight year.  “That’s a devastating loss,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said at
his postgame news conference. “It hurts beyond belief. The
thing that really hurts the most is that we’ve got no one to
blame but ourselves.”  While the Jets’ offense failed to score a first-half
touchdown for the fourth game in a row, their defense gave up a
94-yard touchdown run to  Chris Johnson  in the second quarter and
a go-ahead 13-yard scoring run by quarterback Jake Locker with
28 seconds left in the third quarter.  The Jets still had several chances to win against a Titans
team that entered the game with a 4-9 record and a three-game
losing streak. Sanchez, however, threw his third interception
with seven minutes, nine seconds remaining, as his pass intended
for  Braylon Edwards  was grabbed by Michael Griffin at the
Tennessee 24-yard line.  Sanchez, who was told by Ryan several weeks ago to limit
his turnovers, threw another interception on the Jets’ next
possession. New York drove to Tennessee’s 23-yard line before
Sanchez’s deep pass into triple coverage was picked off by
Griffin at the Titans’ 2-yard line with 1:51 left.  Late Throw  “I just threw it a little late,” said Sanchez, who
completed 13 of 28 passes for 131 yards. “We had a quick play
action and I should have aborted it based on the look.”  The Jets got a final chance to try to pull out the win
after a 19-yard punt by the Titans’ Brett Kern gave them the
ball on Tennessee’s 25-yard line with 47 seconds remaining.  Instead, the NFL’s third-worst offense misfired again as
Sanchez wasn’t able to handle a low shotgun snap. Running back
Bilal Powell kicked the loose ball as he slid over to block and
the Titans recovered the fumble to seal the victory.  “I’ve got to catch the ball,” Sanchez said. “It doesn’t
feel good hurting your team like that.”  After the game, Ryan said he wasn’t ready to commit to
which quarterback would start on Dec. 23 against the  San Diego
Chargers . With the Jets out of playoff contention, the
 Indianapolis Colts ,  Cincinnati Bengals , Pittsburgh Steelers and
 Miami Dolphins  are competing for the final two postseason berths
in the American Football Conference.  AFC Berths  The Houston Texans, New England Patriots and Denver Broncos
have locked up AFC division titles, while the Baltimore Ravens
clinched at least a playoff spot.  The Colts (9-5) and Bengals (8-6) are currently in position
for the AFC’s final two postseason spots, with the Steelers
(7-7) and Dolphins (6-8) still in the hunt.  “We had the opportunity and we just let it slip away from
us,” Jets defensive end Mike DeVito said. “It’s frustrating,
disappointing and this one is going to hurt for a long time.’  In the  National Football Conference , three of the six
playoff representatives have been determined, as the Atlanta
Falcons and  Green Bay Packers  claimed division titles, and the
 San Francisco 49ers  won a postseason spot. Seven teams are in
contention for the final three berths, with the Seattle Seahawks
(9-5), Minnesota Vikings (8-6) and Washington Redskins (8-6)
currently in position for those spots.  The Chicago Bears (8-6), Dallas Cowboys (8-6),  New York 
Giants (8-6) and St.  Louis Rams  (6-7-1) need to win their final
two games to have a chance to make the playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  