-- KB Financial Dropping ING Bid Leaves Euh’s Promise Unmet
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-12-19T02:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/kb-financial-drops-bid-to-buy-ing-s-korea-insurance-unit.html
KB Financial Group Inc. dropping its
bid for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s South Korean life-insurance unit leaves
Chairman Euh Yoon Dae’s promise to diversify business
unfulfilled as banking in the country becomes less profitable.  KB Financial’s board rejected a plan to buy the ING unit
yesterday, deeming it more important to preserve capital as
growth slows in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy. The decision is a
setback to ING’s plan to raise about $2 billion from the asset
sale following a 2008 Dutch government bailout.  Banks in  South Korea  are facing shrinking loan margins and
setting aside more cash for bad debts as borrowing by households
-- who vote in presidential elections today -- climbs to a
 record . ING isn’t the only global financial firm looking to
scale back in the country, as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  considers ending
a 14-year quest to build retail banking operations there.  “This will be a blow to KB’s current management,” said
Yoo Sang Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment & Securities
Co. “KB will have to reconsider all options on how to grow and
diversify its business portfolio.”  KB Financial joined the race to buy the ING assets in July
as part of Euh’s effort to cut reliance on lending. In the same
month, the Seoul-based company dropped a plan to bid for the
government’s stake in bigger rival  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)   ‘Critical Time’  “KB Financial’s board deemed that this is a critical time
and it’s important to maintain a high capital-adequacy ratio
amid the economic uncertainty,” it said in a statement
yesterday. ING said it continues to explore all options for the
divestment of the unit.  Shares of KB Financial rose 1.7 percent to 38,200 won
yesterday before the announcement. South Korean markets are
closed today for the election. ING  shares  closed down 1.7
percent at 7.12 euros in Amsterdam yesterday, the biggest drop
since Nov. 16.  ING had agreed to cut the price for the Korean unit to
about 2.3 trillion won ($2.1 billion) from 2.45 trillion won,
the Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month.  Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen is divesting ING’s
insurance units after winning more time from European regulators
in November to complete the sales and repay state support. Under
the agreement, ING has to sell more than half of its Asian
insurance and investment-management operations by the end of
next year and dispose of the rest by the end of 2016.  Most Logical  “The most negative factor is that KB was the most logical
buyer of ING  Korea ,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at ABN Amro Group NV, who has a buy rating on ING
shares. At the same time, “it will be more difficult to meet
the European Commission’s deadline.”  ING’s insurance operations in  South Korea (KOSPFIN)  include ING Life
Korea and KB Life Insurance, a joint venture with KB of which
ING owns 49 percent. KB’s withdrawal from what would have been
its largest takeover comes amid growing concern about the impact
of low global  interest rates  on local insurers.  South Korea’s economy is entering a low-growth and low-rate
phase amid weak global expansion, posing “considerable
uncertainty” to the insurance business, Kim Seok Dong, head of
the Financial Services Commission, said in Seoul on Dec. 5.  Korean voters today will determine whether Park Geun Hye,
daughter of the nation’s 1970s military dictator, or Moon Jae In, a former human-rights lawyer, becomes president. The winner
will inherit an economy forecast by the central bank to grow 2.4
percent in 2012, the weakest since 2009.  Curb Lending  President  Lee Myung Bak , whose term ends in February, has
unveiled steps to curb lending to households, which swelled to a
record 937.5 trillion won in the third quarter, limiting the
scope for banks to expand their loan books. London-based HSBC,
 Europe ’s biggest lender by market value, said on Nov. 29 that it
is reviewing options for its Korean retail unit.  South Korean banks’ combined profit dropped 11 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier after lenders set aside
more bad-debt provisions and central bank interest-rate cuts
squeezed loan margins. At KB Financial, net income fell 29
percent to 410 billion won.  Euh, who took office in July 2010 for a three-year term
with pledges to cut costs and  boost earnings , said in September
that KB aims to increase non-banking profit to 30 percent of
earnings. Its Kookmin Bank unit accounted for 85 percent of
total profit for the nine months through September.  ING entered South Korea’s insurance market in 1989 with a
branch office and set up a locally incorporated unit in 1991,
according to ING Life Insurance Korea’s  website .  The Dutch firm was ordered to sell its global insurance and
asset management operations before the end of 2013 after
receiving a 10 billion-euro government bailout in 2008. The
European Commission said on Nov. 19 that it extended the
deadline because of current market conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  