-- Key Senator Drops Opposition to Galante as Leader of FHA
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-18T22:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/key-senator-drops-opposition-to-galante-as-leader-of-fha.html
Carol Galante, who has been acting
commissioner of the  Federal Housing Administration  for 17
months, may be on track to U.S. Senate confirmation after
Tennessee Republican  Bob Corker  dropped his opposition today.  Corker, who publicly criticized Galante’s leadership of the
financially troubled government mortgage insurer just a week
ago, released a statement saying he had received a letter from
her that convinced him she would improve the agency’s finances.  “Given the reforms she is committed to, I believe that
having an accountable commissioner with her resolve and
expertise will be in the best interest of the taxpayer,” Corker
said in a statement.  The agency, which backs $1.1 trillion in U.S. home
mortgages, last month revealed it was facing a projected
shortfall of $16.3 billion in the value of its insurance fund
because of defaults on loans it insured as the housing market
collapsed.  In her letter, which Corker released, Galante, 58, provided
more details of some steps the agency will take to improve its
bottom line.  FHA Steps  The FHA will soon limit borrowers with credit scores under
620 to debt that’s worth no more than 43 percent of their income
unless they make a large down payment or have other money in
reserve, Galante wrote.  The FHA will also limit the size of reverse mortgages that
enable senior citizens to borrow against the equity in their
homes and make larger loans more expensive, she said.  It wasn’t clear whether Corker’s change of heart may give
Galante the votes she needs to be confirmed. The Senate Banking
Committee on Dec. 13 gave preliminary approval for the
appointment.  Other Republicans, including  David Vitter  of  Louisiana ,
remain actively opposed to her confirmation.  “The latest independent actuary’s report makes clear that
a taxpayer-funded bailout of FHA is virtually inevitable,”
Vitter said today in a statement. “Ms. Galante’s nomination
represents the status quo at FHA -- that’s not good enough.”  Public Criticism  Corker’s announcement came a week after he criticized
Galante at a hearing of the Banking Committee while she sat in
the audience.  “Did we dodge a bullet in appointing her full-time with
all the issues that we have at FHA?,” Corker asked  Shaun Donovan , the U.S. Secretary of Housing and  Urban Development ,
the agency over FHA.  “I have enormous confidence that Carol can and will lead
us to that on that path that we need to take,” Donovan replied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  