-- Kirkland, Troutman Sanders, Skadden, Weil:Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-18T18:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/kirkland-troutman-sanders-skadden-weil-business-of-law.html
Mergers and acquisitions lawyer
Sarkis Jebejian, formerly of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, joined
 Kirkland & Ellis  LLP as a partner in the corporate practice
group in  New York .  Jebejian, who handles domestic and cross-border merger and
acquisitions deals, has worked on high-profile, high-value
deals, Kirkland & Ellis said.  In August, he represented Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA
in its sale to Validus Holdings Ltd. and led the Cravath team
for Genpact Ltd. in an investment by Bain Capital Partners LLC.
Jebejian also counseled BAE Systems in its sale of Safariland
and KKR Private Equity Investors in its combination transaction
with KKR & Co., the firm said.  Jebejian represented the independent directors of General
Motors Co. in connection with the conversion of GMAC into a  bank
holding company  and the related restructuring of GM’s investment
in GMAC, and advising the independent directors of Merrill Lynch
& Co. in its acquisition by Bank of America Corp.  “Sarkis is one of the country’s leading M&A practitioners
with significant experience representing clients on a wide range
of transactional, corporate governance and M&A work,” Jeffrey C. Hammes, chairman of Kirkland’s global management executive
committee, said in a statement.  Kirkland has handled 246 announced deals this year, valued
at $116 billion, according to Bloomberg’s league tables. Cravath
advised on 51, valued at $147 billion, with an average value of
$2.9 billion, the league tables show.  Sarkis joined Cravath in 1994 after graduating from
 Columbia Law School  and made partner at the firm in 2004.  “It was a difficult decision to leave Cravath and I will
always cherish my career there, but I am excited to join
Kirkland & Ellis and its talented team of M&A lawyers, many of
whom I have known for some time,” Jebejian said in a statement.
“I look forward to working alongside them to continue to build
Kirkland’s industry-leading corporate practice.”  A Cravath spokeswoman, Deborah Farone, said in a statement,
“We wish Sarkis well in the next stage of his career.”  Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff Joins Troutman Sanders  Utah Attorney General Mark L. Shurtleff is retiring and
will join Troutman Sanders LLP in January. He will work in the
firm’s Washington office, where he will join a state attorneys
general team.  “Mark’s addition will strengthen and enhance Troutman
Sanders’s state regulatory expertise in a number of areas,
including privacy, data security, state consumer protection
issues and matters involving the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau,” said Ashley L. Taylor Jr., the leader of the firm’s
state attorneys general team as well as its Regulatory
compliance and government litigation practice.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S. and  China .  Deals  Debevoise Advises Sun Life on $1.35 Billion Sale of U.S. Unit  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is providing legal counsel to  Sun
Life (SLF)  Financial Inc., the best-performing financial  stock  in
 Canada  this year, which agreed to sell a U.S. annuity business
in a $1.35 billion deal to a firm owned by Guggenheim Partners
LLC shareholders to cut risks in equity markets and  interest
rates . Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Guggenheim Partners.  The Debevoise team is led by partner Nicholas F. Potter and
includes partner Seth L. Rosen. The Skadden team includes M&A
partners Todd Freed and Christopher Ulery.  Guggenheim will provide  investment management  for the
acquired businesses, including some life insurance assets, Sun
Life said today in a statement. The business will be renamed
Delaware Life Insurance Co.  For more, click here.  Eight Firms Advise on Clearwire Deal With Sprint Nextel  Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , which
agreed to a sweetened, $2.97-a-share takeover bid from its
wireless partner  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , in a $2.2 billion offer to
acquire the portion of the company it doesn’t already own.
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and King & Spalding LLP
are representing Sprint.  The Kirkland team was led by New York corporate partners
Joshua N. Korff, David B. Feirstein and Christopher A. Kitchen,
together with David Fox.  The Skadden team includes partners Thomas Kennedy and
Jeremy London, mergers and acquisitions; Dean Shulman ,tax;
Richard Aftanas and Yossi Vebman, corporate finance; Antoinette Cook Bush, communications, FCC; Ivan Schlager, CFIUS; Regina Olshan, executive compensation and benefits; Robert Saunders,
litigation; Stephanie Teicher, banking; and  Steven Sunshine  and
Matthew Hendrickson, antitrust.  The King & Spalding legal team involved in the transaction
was led by corporate partner Michael J. Egan and included
partners Adam M. Freiman, corporate; and Kenneth A. Raskin,
employee benefits.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Richards, Layton &
Finger PA are representing the Special Committee of the Board of
Directors of Clearwire. Partner Rob Spatt, M&A, is leading the
team, which includes partners Marni Lerner, M&A; Joe McLaughlin,
litigation; and Marissa Wesley, finance.  Morrison & Foerster LLP  is advising Sprint’s partner,
Japanese wireless company Softbank, which recently announced a
controlling investment in Sprint Nextel. Leading the Softbank
deal team in the Clearwire acquisition are Morrison & Foerster
corporate partners Ken Siegel, managing partner of the firm’s
Tokyo office, along with Robert Townsend in  San Francisco , co-
chairman of the firm’s global M&A practice. Both lawyers are
also leading the Sprint transaction, the firm said.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP represents Intel, a shareholder
in the Clearwire deal. The deal team includes co-chairman of the
firm’s emerging technologies practice group and corporate
partner Gregory Davidson; and tax partner Paul Issler.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP represented Centerview,
financial adviser to the special committee of Clearwire. Weil’s
team was led by corporate department chairman Michael Aiello and
also included M&A partner Matthew Gilroy.  The new offer was approved by Japan’s Softbank Corp., which
agreed in October to buy 70 percent of Sprint for about $20
billion, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The bid
has the backing of Clearwire’s strategic investors such as
Comcast Corp. and  Intel Corp .  Sprint is moving to acquire 100 percent of the company
after their four-year joint venture struggled to build a
nationwide wireless network, leading to billions in losses for
Clearwire. Sprint aims to take over Clearwire’s spectrum -- the
airwaves that let mobile devices operate -- and use it to
bolster its own network. Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan
Hesse  said yesterday that the deal is “critical” to turnaround
efforts at the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  For more, click here.  Duane Morris, Weil, Proskauer on ARCP-ARCT III Deal  Duane Morris LLP is acting as special legal counsel to
 American Realty Capital Properties Inc. (ARCP) , which agreed to buy
American Realty Capital Trust III Inc., a non-traded real estate
investment trust, to expand its holdings of properties leased to
single tenants. Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP represented American
Realty Capital Trust III Inc. Proskauer Rose LLP is acting as
corporate counsel to ARCP and ARCT III.  A team of lawyers led by Duane Morris partners Richard
Silfen and Darrick Mix of the Philadelphia office, on corporate
and securities aspects, and Chester Lee of the New York office
on the real estate aspects, represented American Realty Capital
Properties. Key partners on the team also included Marc Kushner
of the New York office, with associates on corporate, securities
and tax matters and Marianne Adriatico and Seth Cooley of the
Philadelphia office with respect to environmental matters.  Weil’s team was led by New York partner and chairman of
Weil’s corporate department Michael Aiello and also included M&A
partner Matthew Gilroy. Additional partners included Scott
Sontag, tax department co-head.  Proskauer is acting as corporate counsel to American Realty
Capital Properties and American Realty Capital Trust III. The
Proskauer lawyers advising on the deal are partners Peter Fass,
Daniel Ganitsky, Steven Lichtenfeld, Frank Zarb, James Gerkis
and Leslie Loffman.  American Realty Capital Trust III shareholders may receive
$12 a share in cash or 0.95 of a share of American Realty
Capital Properties, equal to $12.26 based on the Dec. 14 closing
 price , New York-based American Realty Capital Properties said
yesterday in a statement. The cash consideration will be capped
at 30 percent of American Realty Capital Trust shares
outstanding.  American Realty Capital Trust III, based in New York, had
about 134 million common shares outstanding at the end of
September, according to a regulatory filing, suggesting a deal
value of about $1.6 billion.  The combined company will have more than 800 properties
leased to single tenants such as  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  Dollar General
Corp. (DG)  in 44 states, according to the statement. The deal is
expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2013.  For more, click here.  News  Iceland Special Prosecutor Indicts Ex-Baugur, Glitnir CEOs  Iceland’s special prosecutor indicted the former chief
executive officers of Baugur Group hf and  Glitnir Bank hf  for
their roles in approving a 6 billion kronur ($47 million) loan.  Baugur’s ex-CEO, Jon Asgeir Johannesson, Glitnir’s former
CEO Larus Welding and two former directors at the failed bank
were charged with fraud, according to the indictment obtained by
Bloomberg.  The former executives are accused of breaching their
authority in approving the loan to holding company FS38 ehf,
three months before Glitnir failed in October 2008. The loan was
used to buy a 25.7 percent stake in  Aurum Holdings Ltd.   Johannesson is accused of exerting pressure as one of the
largest shareholder in Glitnir to get the loan approved. Of the
total, 1 billion kronur was transferred into his personal
account, the prosecutor said.  A call to Johannesson’s mobile phone went unanswered and
Welding couldn’t immediately be reached through his lawyer,
Ottar Palsson.  Litigation  News Corp. (NWSA)  Asks Judge to Dismiss Macpherson Aide’s Hacking Claim  News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit asked a London judge to
dismiss a phone-hacking claim filed by a former adviser to  Elle Macpherson , arguing there is no evidence her voice-mails were
accessed.  Mary-Ellen Field’s claim is “not fanciful, it is
fantasy,” Michael Silverleaf, a lawyer for News Corp., said
yesterday at a hearing. “One is very sorry for the hurt that
has been caused but the problem is, she suffered it at the hands
of other people.”  Field, who believes voice-mails she left Macpherson were
intercepted by journalists at News Corp.’s now defunct News of
the World, acted as a business adviser to the model until
November 2005 when she was fired under suspicion of leaking
private information to the tabloid press.  “One of the prime witnesses has thus far declined to
assist the claimant,” Augustus Ullstein, Field’s lawyer, said
in court. “Some of the most vital evidence is what was the
basis for her dismissal by Ms. Macpherson.”  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the newspaper
last year in response to the scandal. More than 70 civil
lawsuits were settled by February, resulting in the cancellation
of a trial scheduled for that month. Another 22 lawsuits were
settled last week.  Judge Geoffrey Vos adjourned the hearing in order for
Field’s attorneys to contact Macpherson to provide information
regarding the firing and alleged leaking of information.  “It does appear to me that this is all a bit ham-fisted,”
Vos said. “I have great concern for the basis of your claim.
You have to focus on how it can be proven. The party has got to
stop at some point.”  News Corp. settled 22 more lawsuits Dec. 14 as the company
seeks to avoid a group civil trial next year. Singer James Blunt
also settled his claim with the company according to a statement
released yesterday by his lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 