-- Knight Takes Higher Price in Getco Sacrifices Cash Certai
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-19T19:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/knight-backs-getco-bid-ending-saga-that-began-with-trade-mishap.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s decision
to pursue a takeover by Getco LLC gives its shareholders, mostly
Wall Street firms, an opportunity for stock appreciation while
surrendering the certainty of cash.  Knight, pushed to the brink of bankruptcy in August by a
trading error, chose Getco’s proposal yesterday over a competing
offer from Virtu Financial LLC, three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The Chicago-based high-
frequency trader offered $3.75 a share for Knight, one-third of
it in stock, for a total value of $1.4 billion, according to a
statement from Knight today. Virtu’s offer was all-cash.  An acquisition would end the 17-year independence of  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Knight, a company propelled by the
explosion in electronic trading in American stock markets. While
joining with Getco preserves Knight’s listing and expands its
reach, it also means the company’s value will depend on the view
of markets, where Getco has never traded.  “There’s an uncertainty,”  Sachin Shah , a special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon
Plc, said in a telephone interview. “Shareholders want to know
that getting stock is attractive because it can appreciate. They
need to articulate the future opportunity of the combined
company. That will to some extent reduce the uncertainty so
shareholders feel comfortable that it is not just paper, it’s
valuable paper.”  Knight shares increased 5.9 percent to $3.53 as of 2:46
p.m. in  New York .  August Rescue  Knight lost more than $450 million in August when
improperly installed software caused it to bombard  stock
exchanges  with unintended orders. Getco and five other financial
firms provided $400 million to restore Knight’s capital in
return for convertible securities representing more than 70
percent of its equity.  Other rescuers were Blackstone Group LP, brokerages Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and investment
banks Stephens Inc. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  Virtu does not have
a stake in the company.  The priority now is building a team to work on integration
plans, Getco Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Coleman , who will
head the combined company, said in a phone interview. He and
Knight CEO Thomas Joyce, who will be executive chairman, will
lead the group, he said. No asset sales are currently planned.  ‘Revenue Potential’  “We’re putting these two firms together because of the
businesses they have,” Coleman said. “Knight has some great
business that from time to time people want to buy, but that’s
because they’re great businesses.” Asked about potential staff
reductions, Coleman said that while any merger has overlaps,
“this is more about the revenue potential than it is about
ripping out cost synergies.”  Joyce, who helped build a market-making unit that executes
orders for individual investors sent by about 700 retail brokers
and expanded into institutional services and currency and fixed-
income trading, said the takeover unites complementary
businesses. Getco, known for its financial technology, is a
global electronic market maker across asset classes and, more
recently, a provider of trading services to institutions.  “There’s certainly going to be an element of me being Mr.
Outside, if you will, on the road a little more often, out in
front of clients,” Joyce said about his role at the combined
firm. Coleman as CEO will be “Mr. Inside” running the
company’s day-to-day business, he said.  Getco Valuation  The valuation of the combined firm depends on Getco, which
is private and has made few financial disclosures, Patrick O’Shaughnessy, a New York-based analyst for Raymond James
Financial Inc., wrote in a note to clients. While that makes the
deal hard to evaluate, the price is more than owners would have
received had no bidding contest occurred, he wrote.  “Knight’s intermediate-term  earnings  power was
significantly harmed due to share dilution related to its Aug. 1
trading error as well as depressed industrywide trading
volumes,” he wrote. “As a result, we believe that an
acquisition price of $3.75 per share greatly surpasses what
Knight would likely have  garnered  over the next year as stand-
alone entity.”  Virtu had a fully funded offer at $3.20 a share to take
Knight private with equity financing from  Silver Lake  Management
LLC and debt and equity financing from Cerberus Capital
Management LP, according to one of the people.  Share Purchase  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake at Brunswick
Group LLP, declined to comment, as did Alan Sobba, a spokesman
for Virtu.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for Cerberus at  Weber
Shandwick , said he couldn’t immediately comment when reached
after normal business hours.  Under the terms of the agreement today, existing Knight
shareholders can receive $3.75 per share in cash or one share in
the combined firm. The payout will be pro-rated if shareholders
elect to receive more than $720 million in cash. Jefferies,
which provided financing to Getco, agreed to limit the cash
portion to 50 percent of their Knight shares, according to the
statement.  The Knight board “unanimously concluded that a merger
between Knight and Getco provides the best possible value
creation opportunity for Knight’s shareholders,” Joyce said in
the statement. “The transaction provides near-term certainty in
the form of cash, while also allowing shareholders to benefit
from participation in the future success of the firm.”  Stock, Warrants  Getco will receive 233 million shares in the new company
and retire the 57 million shares of Knight it currently owns. It
will also receive warrants for 75 million additional shares with
staggered strike prices.  “If I were a  shareholder , I’d want it to continue on and
would take a deal that allowed me to own some upside in a
publicly traded security,” Kenneth Pasternak, who co-founded
Knight in 1995, said in a phone interview from Ridgefield Park,
 New Jersey . “If you didn’t want to continue with Getco you
could take the cash and sell the stock and probably get as much
as Virtu is giving you.”  Automated market-maker  Virtu  in New York had asserted in
talks with Knight that its offer was more attractive than
Getco’s because it was for all of Knight’s shares and was more
likely to be completed, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Virtu had sought to convince directors that Knight and
its employees would be better off if the firm was restructured
as a private company. Virtu would go public later, the person
said.  ’Most Bang’  “The most bang for the buck will be with Getco,” Ben Schwartz, the Chicago-based chief market strategist at broker
Lightspeed Financial Inc., said in a phone interview. “They can
consolidate as liquidity providers and they will be able to
bring their technologies together to create a more efficient
market.”  Knight had more than 1,545 employees at the end of
September, it said in a regulatory filing. Getco had more than
400 in June after eliminating 40 jobs, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter. Virtu has about 150 employees.  Getco, Knight and Virtu are designated market makers, or
DMMs, on the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE MKT. The takeover
will make Getco the largest with more than 1,400 NYSE companies,
surpassing Barclay Plc, which has 1,200, based on data from the
end of October. Getco became a Big Board market maker in 2010.
Virtu has the most companies on NYSE MKT, formerly known as the
 American Stock Exchange .  Floor Traders  Barclays represents 12 NYSE-listed companies in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , followed by Getco with 10 and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. with 5, according to data from NYSE.  Getco is committed to being a large DMM on the NYSE floor
and maintaining Knight’s market-making business for over-the-
counter equity securities, Coleman said. The firms will review
the dark pools, or private venues that don’t display orders and
quotations, they each operate in the next few months and decide
whether clients would benefit if they’re combined, Coleman said.  Acquiring Knight speeds up by five years Getco’s plans to
expand into new businesses following a strategic review, said
Coleman, who was named CEO in February. He joined Getco as a
managing director focused on business development in September
2010 and later became global head of equities and client
services. He previously was global head of equities at UBS AG.  Owners Diluted  Knight shares  were above $10 before the trading malfunction
and bailout, which diluted existing owners by more than 70
percent.  In the first half of this year, Knight’s market-making unit
posted pretax  earnings  of $51.1 million, or 86 percent of the
company’s total, according to a statement. Institutional sales
and trading generated $7.2 million in the first six months of
this year. Electronic execution services had pretax earnings of
$23.6 million while the company’s corporate division had a loss
of $22.5 million before taxes.  Knight has  transformed  over the last decade from mainly
handling orders by individuals sent by brokers into a financial
services company with institutional clients, electronic trading
and businesses in fixed income and currency. It owns the Hotspot
FX and BondPoint platforms, provides research and asset
management and got into the reverse mortgage business in 2010.  “Getco was one of the six that bought Knight and they
probably have insights into the company as part of that due
diligence,” said Pasternak, who now works in the private equity
industry. “An acquirer always thinks the acquired company is
 undervalued  and they could do things differently that could
enhance the value of the enterprise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  