-- Korea Aerospace Declines as Stake Sale Plan Abandoned
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-12-18T08:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/korea-aerospace-declines-as-stake-sale-plan-abandoned.html
Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) 
declined in Seoul trading after shareholders abandoned the sale
of a $1 billion controlling stake in the company when they
failed to get enough bids.  Shares in  South Korea ’s only planemaker fell 3.2 percent to
close at 25,850 won, the lowest since Dec. 13.  Korean Air  Lines
Co., which didn’t submit a final bid for the planemaker, rose
2.3 percent to 46,000 won, the highest since Nov. 20.  Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. (003490) , the world’s biggest shipbuilder, climbed
1.1 percent to 234,000 won.  The shareholders intend to hold talks on what to do next,
state-owned Korea Finance Corp. said without elaboration. The
group may be unable to revive the sale of the 42 percent stake
in the near future because Dec. 19 presidential elections will
lead to a new government and possible change in policy, said
Kwak Min Jeong, an analyst at BS Securities Co. in  Seoul .  “It’s unclear what the new administration’s stance will
be,” she said. “It may take a while for the shareholders to
resume the sale.”  Hyundai Heavy was the only bidder ahead of yesterday’s
deadline, Korea Finance, which led the shareholders group, said
in a statement. At least two bids are needed for a deal to go
ahead because of rules covering sales by government entities.  Korean Air  Park Geun Hye, the presidential candidate for the ruling
party, said Dec. 16 during a debate that the sale of Korea
Aerospace must be carried out prudently. The main opposition
candidate Moon Jae In is against the sale.  Korea Finance offered part of its 26 percent stake in
Sacheon-based Korea Aerospace. It plans to remain the second-
biggest  shareholder .  Hyundai Motor (005380)  Co., Samsung Techwin Co. and
Doosan Group are each selling their 10 percent holdings.  Korean Air decided against submitting a bid because Korea
Aerospace shares are overvalued, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The carrier had registered a preliminary interest as
it seeks to expand its aerospace business. The company makes
parts for Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  planes. Hyundai Heavy sought
the stake as it tries to pare its reliance on the slumping
global market for ships.  The aerospace company has a limited pool of potential
bidders because national-security rules mandate that it remains
under local ownership. The South Korean military accounted for
57 percent of its 1.29 trillion won ($1.2 billion)  sales  last
year.  The company builds the T-50 jet-plane trainer, which was
developed with  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , and a helicopter devised
with Eurocopter. It has a market value of $2.3 billion at the
current share price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Doosan Corp. (000150) , the holding company of Doosan Group that owns
shares in Korea Aerospace, dropped 5.4 percent to 123,000 won.
Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, fell 0.4
percent, while Samsung Techwin advanced 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  