-- N.Z. Annual Current-Account Gap Narrows as Foreigners Earn Less
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-12-18T22:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/n-z-annual-current-account-gap-narrows-as-foreigners-earn-less.html
New Zealand ’s annual current-account
deficit narrowed in the year through September as earnings by
foreign-owned companies and banks declined, offsetting a rise in
imports and increased overseas travel.  The shortfall was 4.7 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ended Sept. 30 compared with a revised 4.8 percent in
the 12 months through June,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
Wellington today. The gap was smaller than the 4.8 percent
median  forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists.  The deficit, the broadest measure of trade because it
includes goods, investment income and services such as tourism,
has widened the past two years as a stronger currency encourages
residents to travel overseas and curbs exports. The shortfall,
one factor ratings companies such as Standard & Poor’s use to
assess the country’s capacity to meet it obligations, may grow
as a recovery and rebuilding of earthquake-damaged Christchurch
city stokes demand for imports.  “The nation’s external accounts will expand to an
uncomfortable degree over the next couple of years,”  Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, said ahead of the report. “As the deficit heads
above 6 percent by the end of next year, it will receive
increasing focus from markets and rating agencies.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report,
trading at 84.14 U.S. cents as of 11 a.m. in Wellington. It has
gained 8.3 percent this year, the best performing Group of 10
currency.  Annual Shortfall  The annual current-account shortfall narrowed to NZ$9.89
billion ($8.3 billion) from NZ$10.09 billion in the year through
June, today’s report showed.  The annual deficit on income, a measure of international
investment income and compensation for employees, was the
smallest since the second quarter of last year as earnings by
foreign-owned companies and banks declined, and New Zealand
investors earned more overseas, the statistics agency said.  The annual  trade surplus  was the smallest since the second
quarter of 2009 as fuel imports rose, outpacing a third-quarter
jump in dairy exports. Spending on overseas travel by New
Zealanders and higher reinsurance premiums paid by local
insurers led to a wider services deficit.  New Zealand’s Treasury Department yesterday estimated the
current-account deficit would widen to 6.5 percent of GDP by
March 2017, led by imports to rebuild Christchurch. Ebert
forecasts a 6.8 percent gap by the end of 2013.  The third-quarter deficit widened to NZ$4.42 billion from
NZ$1.8 billion in the three months through June. Economists
predicted the quarterly gap would be NZ$4.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  