-- Naira Falls to Month-Low Before Central Bank Stops Dollar Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-12-18T13:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/naira-falls-to-3-week-low-before-central-bank-stops-dollar-sales.html
The naira declined to its lowest in
a month as dollar demand increased before the  Central Bank of
Nigeria  ends foreign-exchange auctions for the year.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer slipped 0.2
percent to 158.2 per dollar as of 2:30 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. A close at this price would be its weakest
since Nov. 16. The naira has gained 2.6 percent this year, the
second-best performing currency in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies have increased demand for foreign-currency after
the central bank said last week it will end dollar sales to
lenders at twice-weekly auctions on Dec. 19 and resume on Jan.
7, according to  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  strategists, led by
Paris-based Paul-Harry Aithnard.  Ending the auctions is “likely to create a major shortfall
in dollar supply, thereby jeopardizing recent exchange rate
stability,” the Ecobank strategists said. The naira weakened
0.4 percent last week due to a “temporary surge in corporate
demand for dollars to cover import bills ahead of the Christmas
season,” the strategists said.  Nigeria ’s  inflation  rate rose for the second consecutive
month in November to 12.3 percent from 11.7 percent, the
 National Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday in an e-mailed
report. The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 12 percent this year to control inflation and
stabilize the naira.  Yields on 10-year naira debt rose three basis points to
11.88 percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021 fell
one basis point to 4.13 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi declined 0.2 percent to 1.8975 per dollar in
Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  