-- U.S. ‘Deeply Disappointed’ by Israeli Construction Plans
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-12-19T08:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/netanyahu-says-israel-will-continue-building-in-east-jerusalem.html
The Obama administration sharpened
its criticism of Israel’s housing construction plans in east
 Jerusalem , following steps toward building an additional 1,500
homes on land claimed by Palestinians.  In citing Israel for actions that “run counter to the
cause of peace,” the U.S. escalated its dispute with Israel’s
leadership after President  Barack Obama ’s re-election and ahead
of the Israeli vote next month, with polls showing a strong lead
for Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s bloc.  The U.S. is “deeply disappointed that Israel insists on
continuing this pattern of provocative action,” State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday,
responding to Israeli announcements in recent days involving
east Jerusalem and the West Bank.  “Repeated announcements and plans of new construction run
counter to the cause of peace,” she told reporters in
Washington. “Israel’s leaders continually say that they support
a path towards a two-state solution, yet these actions only put
that goal further at risk.”  While Nuland urged both Israelis and Palestinians to avoid
provocations and return to peace talks, her remarks were a rare
instance in which the U.S. singled out Israel with such pointed
criticism.  Uncertain Sign  “There is no room to expand in Jerusalem other than the
eastern half of the city,” Israeli Minister of Housing and
Construction Ariel Atias said today, adding that such building
was done by all previous governments. “The issue has been blown
out of proportion,” he said in an interview with  Army Radio .  David Makovsky  of the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy cautioned that “it’s a little too soon” to tell whether
the State Department criticism marks the beginning of an
escalation in U.S.-Israeli tensions.  “Without having a new secretary of state in place, I think
it’s fair to call the period we’re in a kind of interregnum,
therefore I’d be cautious about extrapolating too much about
what this means,” Makovsky said.  Netanyahu could find the U.S. criticism beneficial as he
woos a nationalistic element of the Israeli public ahead of Jan.
22 elections, Makovsky said.  East Jerusalem  Netanyahu said yesterday Israel will not be deterred from
expanding Jewish housing in east Jerusalem, which the Jewish
state regards as part of its unified capital. Israel captured
east Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East War and annexed it in a
step never recognized internationally. The U.S. regards the
final status of Jerusalem as a matter to be determined in
negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.  “Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the state of Israel
and we will continue to build there,” Netanyahu said.  A government committee gave interim approval on Dec. 17 to
a construction plan in east Jerusalem’s Ramat Shlomo section,
which raised tensions with the U.S. two years ago when the plan
was announced during a visit to Israel by Vice President  Joe Biden .  “Israeli settlements are illegal under international law,
and I condemn this decision,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday from
his office.  Peace Process  In a telephone call yesterday that touched on various
foreign issues, Obama and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
agreed “on the need to find a way forward on Middle East peace
that stops the cycle of counterproductive unilateral actions by
the Israelis and Palestinians,” according to a statement issued
by the White House.  Following a closed-door consultation set for today by the
15-member UN Security Council, all the nations other than the
U.S. will condemn Israeli construction plans, Palestinian UN
Ambassador Riyad Mansour told reporters yesterday in New York.
The council members are the U.S., France, the U.K., Germany,
Portugal, Morocco, India, Russia, China,  South Africa , Colombia,
Guatemala, Togo, Azerbaijan and Pakistan.  Their action would be symbolic since the statements are not
binding.  Israel captured the  West Bank  and east Jerusalem from
Jordan in the 1967 Six Day War. Palestinians want east Jerusalem
to be the capital of the state they’re trying to establish in
the West Bank and  Gaza Strip . The UN General Assembly recognized
 Palestine  as a non-member state on Nov. 29.  West Bank  Israel also announced this month that it will advance plans
for an area in the West Bank known as E-1 between Jerusalem and
the Maaleh Adumim settlement.  The U.S. and Europe have pressed Israel for years not to
proceed with development in E-1, which the  United Nations  says
threatens to split a future Palestine and cut off Palestinians
from their desired capital of east Jerusalem. Israeli officials
say that development wouldn’t necessarily prevent a contiguous
Palestinian state and that Israel expects to retain the area
under any future negotiated deal with the Palestinians to ensure
access to Maaleh Adumim.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has refused
to hold direct talks with Israel unless it ceases all
construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, a condition
Netanyahu says he won’t meet.  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group,
said that the Obama administration’s bark about Israel has
lacked bite.  Yesterday’s comments are “another example of how the
United States allows its rhetoric to exceed its prospective
actions,” Miller, a Middle East peace negotiator under
President  Bill Clinton , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  