-- New York Pensions to Add Hedge Funds to Reduce Volatility
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-12-18T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/new-york-pensions-to-add-hedge-funds-to-reduce-volatility.html
Three of  New York  City’s five public
pension funds are seeking to add as many as 15 hedge funds for
direct allocations to reduce price swings in stocks and improve
investment returns.  The New York City Employees’ Retirement System, New York
City Police Department and New York City Fire Department, which
have about $70 billion in assets, are searching for event-driven
funds, commodity trading advisers and global macro and relative
value managers, according to Seema Hingorani, head of public
equities and hedge funds at New York City Comptroller’s Office.
The focus is on event-driven strategies as the pensions now have
more allocated to global macro funds and CTAs, she said.  “We’re meeting as many event-driven managers as we can,”
Hingorani said in a telephone interview last week.  New York City’s main goal is to reduce equity volatility,
Hingorani said. Assets at the five funds fell to about $74
billion from $115 billion after the 2008 global stock market
plunge before rebounding to $127.8 billion as of the end of this
September. Two pension plans in San Jose,  California , and
Kentucky Retirement Systems are also allocating capital to hedge
funds to diversify investments and improve returns.  The New York City pensions will probably have “very
little” in long-short equities in the hedge-fund portfolio,
Hingorani said.  Direct Allocations  Event-driven hedge fund managers try to predict triggers
for stocks and bonds such as corporate restructurings,
acquisitions, management changes and share sales. Commodity
trading advisers buy and sell commodity linked and other
futures. Macro funds bet on global economic trends and relative-
value strategies attempt to profit from price differences
between assets.  About $1.7 billion of the funds’ approved allocation of
about $3.5 billion has been invested, Hingorani said. New York
City devoted $450 million to fund of funds Permal Asset
Management Inc. in 2011. Earlier this year, New York City made
five direct hedge-fund investments -- in Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, D.E. Shaw & Co., Brigade Capital Management LLC,
Caspian Capital Advisors LLC and BlueCrest Capital Management
LLP’s BlueTrend fund -- with the help of consultant Aksia LLC.  New York City seeks to post an 8 percent to 10 percent net
return with 5 percent to 7 percent volatility a year in its
hedge-fund portfolio, Hingorani said. It plans to invest all
$3.5 billion directly in hedge funds over the next few years
across a total of 15 to 20 managers.  Initial allocations will typically range from $100 million
to $350 million, Hingorani said. The approval process for
managers involves three boards, one each for the three pension
funds.  ‘More Nimble’  New York City will mostly consider hedge funds with more
than $1 billion in assets, while also looking at building
investments in emerging managers, Hingorani said. The pensions
have about $6 billion invested in smaller, newer managers
outside of hedge funds.  “Smaller managers can be more nimble,” she said. “We’re
out there meeting much smaller managers, much smaller than our
ticket right now has been. We’re trying to do all of our due
diligence and get comfortable.”  The comptroller’s office is the investment adviser and
custodian of New York City Teachers’ Retirement System and New
York City Board of Education in addition to New York City
Employees’ Retirement System, New York City Police Department
and New York City Fire Department.  Pension Returns  The pension funds returned between 4.3 percent and 4.7
percent in fiscal year 2011, according to the website of the
comptroller’s office.  Hingorani, 43, joined the comptroller’s office in April
2010. She was most recently global director of fundamental
research with Pyramis Global Advisors, a Fidelity Investments
company. Before that, she started her own hedge fund after
running a long-short equity portfolio of media and entertainment
stocks at hedge fund Andor Capital Management LLC. Hingorani
started her career at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. as an analyst in
media and technology.  Prior to joining the comptroller’s office, she worked on
education initiatives for children in  India  through a nonprofit
and was a member of the National Finance Committee for Hillary
Clinton’s presidential campaign. Her interest in public service
grew, which led to her current position.  “The hedge-fund program is the right thing for New York
City’s pension funds,” she said. “It makes a lot of sense for
diversifying the entire portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  