-- New York State Budget Balanced With Gimmicks, Study Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-18T19:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/new-york-state-budget-balanced-with-gimmicks-study-says.html
New York state relies on gimmicks
and nonrecurring revenue to pay for rising pension costs and the
most-generous Medicaid benefits in the U.S., said a group led by
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  and former
Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch .  Annual pension contributions may increase 31 percent to
$10.6 billion by 2015 from about $8.1 billion in 2013, and would
probably need to rise by an additional $14.8 billion if the
state were to adopt a 5 percent assumed rate of return on
invested assets, instead of the current 7.5 percent, the  State
Budget Crisis Task Force  said in a report issued today.  In 2009, New York spent $9,056 per enrollee in Medicaid,
the federal-state health program for the poor. That’s 69 percent
higher than the U.S. average, according to the report. Even with
a cap instituted last year, the state expects to pay $22.8
billion in fiscal 2014, an 8 percent increase from last year,
the group said.  “Retirement obligations and health care are outdistancing
revenues at an ever-increasing pace, and it’s hard to believe
New York finances will remain sustainable unless there’s
dramatic economic recovery at a 7 to 8 percent rate,” Ravitch
said in an interview. That’s not likely to happen, he said.  “The Empire State is not the powerhouse it was generations
ago,” the group concludes in the report.  Task Force  Ravitch and Volcker created the  task force  of former
government officials in 2011 to examine U.S. state finances. The
group released a main report in July on  California ,  Illinois ,
 New Jersey , New York, Texas and  Virginia , and is preparing
reports on individual states.  Their Dec. 13 report on New Jersey said that state’s
pension contribution may consume almost one-fifth of its annual
budget by 2018, under a law enacted by Republican Governor  Chris Christie  to compensate for underfunding its obligations since
the mid-1990s. The state’s contribution must rise by about $4.5
billion over the next five years, from $1.03 billion in 2013,
which Ravitch said may require “a Draconian tax increase.”  To balance New York’s budget, state officials have relied
on about $25 billion in nonrecurring, or “one-shot,” revenue
actions, over the past 10 years, according to today’s report.
The budget is $132.6 billion for this fiscal year.  “New York’s structural deficit, papered over with
gimmicks, has existed for decades,” according to the report.  Cuomo’s Response  Morris Peters, a spokesman for New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s budget office, responded to the report by saying that
the governor has gotten rid of “many of the budget gimmicks
made by previous administrations.”  Since assuming office in 2010, Cuomo, a 55-year-old
Democrat, has cut about $77 billion in projected budget
deficits, Peters said. This year, Cuomo made the first deposit
into the state’s rainy-day fund since the 2007 start of the
fiscal crisis, Peters said in an e-mail.  “Spending growth has been limited to 2 percent or less for
the second year in a row, and there have been no new taxes or
fees or gimmicks like borrowing to pay for operating expenses,”
Peters said.  One-Shots  Common practices include transferring unspent money from a
state fund or public authority; refinancing bonds without
creating new assets; delaying payments to suppliers, contractors
and localities from one fiscal year to the next; and delaying
payment of tax refunds, the group said.  “As a result of this reliance on cash manipulations and
one-shot transactions, the typical budget projections associated
with the enacted budget will show that the adopted spending plan
is in balance, but projections for future years will show ever-
growing potential budget gaps,” the group said in the report.  The state’s fiscal challenges include its reliance on
income levies for 61 percent of  tax revenue , which fluctuates
with the economy. Its  sales tax , which represents a broader
base, brings in about 17 percent of tax revenue, compared with
the average of 32 percent among U.S. states, according to the
report.  A new top income-tax rate of 8.82 percent for singles
making more than $1 million and couples earning more than $2
million, enacted a year ago, means that “the economic fortunes
of less than one-half of 1 percent of taxpayers will have
especially significant implications for the state’s fiscal
stability over the next three years,” according to the report.  Pension Borrowing  The report contains a warning for local officials who
amortize pension costs. The practice, which the report describes
as a “gimmick,” stretches contributions over 10 years by
borrowing, at 3.75 percent interest this year, and treating the
transaction as if the obligation has been paid in full.  That form of borrowing allows lower payments by the state
and participating municipalities in the short term and higher
total payments by future generations, the report said. It also
means the funds’ assets need to earn higher returns to make up
for amortized interest paid.  New York  ComptrollerThomas DiNapoli, a Democract, attended
Ravitch’s and Volcker’s presentation of the report today in
 Manhattan . He praised it as an “objective look from top to
bottom of New York’s financial condition.”  At the same time, DiNapoli defended the use of amortization
to reduce yearly pension contributions, describing the tactic as
“an effort to deal with real-life budget challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  