-- Newcastle Poised to Sign Remy for $16.2 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-18T05:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/newcastle-poised-to-sign-remy-for-16-2-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Advanced Talks  Newcastle United  is in advanced talks to sign Marseille and
France striker Loic Remy for 10 million pounds ($16.2 million)
next month in a move that also will involve a Magpies player
going the other way, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Marseille President Vincent Labrune is due in  London  today
to meet intermediaries and further negotiations will include
which player to the French club as part of the trade, the
newspaper added.  Lampard-Ranieri Reunion?  Former Chelsea manager  Claudio Ranieri  wants to sign  Frank Lampard  for French second-tier club Monaco as the England
midfielder prepares to leave the Blues, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 34-year-old Lampard, whom Ranieri signed from West Ham
United in 2001 when he was in charge at Chelsea, has been told
his contract will not be renewed when it expires at the end of
the season, the newspaper added.  Milan Monitors Balotelli  AC Milan will try to use  Mario Balotelli ’s fight with
 Manchester City  over a 340,000-pound fine for ill-discipline to
sign the striker for a reduced fee next month, the  Sun reported .  Milan is monitoring the situation closely and will have
cash to spend if it can sell ex-City forward Robinho or
Alexandre Pato, the newspaper said. Balotelli’s former club
Inter Milan is also interested, though neither team is likely to
meet City’s asking price of 24 million pounds, the Sun added.  Ferdinand Future  Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand will decide on his
playing future in the new year with clubs in the U.S. and  Middle
East  interested in signing him should he choose to leave the Red
Devils, the  Daily Mail reported .  Ferdinand, who is expected to be offered a one-year
contract extension by United, is said to want to see how his
body copes with the rigors of the winter program of matches
before making a decision, the newspaper added.  Lescott Considers Loan  England defender  Joleon Lescott  may consider a loan move in
January after starting seven games for Premier League champion
Manchester City this season, the  Guardian reported .  Lescott, 30, will assess his future if he doesn’t force his
way back into the first team over the Christmas holiday program,
with his former club Everton heading the list of potential
destinations, the Guardian added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  