-- Nielsen to Buy Arbitron for $1.26 Billion
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-18T21:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/nielsen-to-buy-research-firm-arbitron-for-48-a-share.html
Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , the biggest
tracker of U.S. television ratings, agreed to buy  Arbitron Inc. (ARB) 
for about $1.26 billion in cash, giving it access to the largest
source of data on the country’s radio listeners.  The $48-a-share offer is 26 percent higher than Arbitron’s
closing price yesterday. Excluding acquisition costs, the
purchase will add about 13 cents to earnings per share in the
year after it’s completed, Nielsen said today in a statement.
The New York-based company is financing the entire transaction.  If it passes regulatory hurdles, the deal will extend
Nielsen’s dominance in television to radio. The company wants to
offer its advertisers a unified system that measures audiences
across multiple forms of media, making it easier for them to
make ad-buying decisions -- whether on TV, radio or the Web. The
move follows a partnership with Twitter Inc. yesterday that will
monitor discussions of TV shows on the social network.  “We want to cover as much of the media landscape as
possible and be helpful to our clients in that way,” said Steve Hasker, Nielsen’s president of global media products, who will
oversee Arbitron after the merger. Marketers are looking for
simpler ways to compare their ad spending across media, he said.
As part of that effort, Nielsen plans to start measuring popular
digital radio services such as  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  after the
acquisition, according to Hasker.  Nielsen, which once relied on handwritten diaries by TV
viewers, now measures audiences through electronic-metering
devices installed in panelists’ homes. Arbitron uses a similar
system for radio listeners.  Antitrust Concerns?  The deal still faces antitrust scrutiny from the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission, said Rich Tullo, an analyst at Albert
Fried & Co. in New York. Nielsen controls more than 80 percent
of the TV-rating industry, while Arbitron has more than 90
percent of the market for terrestrial-radio ratings, he said.  “It’s a monopoly in radio and a monopoly in TV -- the FTC
is going to want to understand the transaction,” Tullo said in
an interview. After the deal was announced, he downgraded
Arbitron’s rating to the equivalent of a sell from a neutral
recommendation.  Shares of Columbia, Maryland-based Arbitron rose 9 percent
to close at $47.03 in  New York . The stock has gained 37 percent
this year.  Nielsen shares  climbed 4.4 percent to $30.92.  Scarborough Venture  The companies also have a joint venture called  Scarborough
Research  that monitors print advertising and other consumer
data. If that is divested, the deal has an 80 percent chance of
going through, Tullo said, though not before a long review.  “I would expect to see some push back from local customers
like local radio and TV operating groups,” he said. “The
concern is that they would have the ability to bundle services
and block competitors out of the business.”  Nielsen said it needs Arbitron to better measure consumers’
media habits when they’re out of the home. In addition to
tracking traditional radio, Arbitron will provide more data on
streaming audio. Nielsen also wants to improve its measurement
of minorities, who are more likely to listen to the radio.  “U.S. consumers spend almost two hours a day with radio,”
Nielsen Chief Executive Officer David Calhoun said in the
statement. “The high level of engagement with radio and TV
among rapidly growing multicultural audiences makes this central
to Nielsen’s priorities.”  Nielsen -- which is controlled by private-equity investors,
including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  -- makes money by helping advertisers,
consumer-goods manufacturers, retailers and other companies
figure out how to spend their marketing dollars. Together,
Nielsen and Arbitron generated revenue of $6 billion and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $1.7 billion in the 12 months ended Sept. 30.  Boosting Profit  Excluding transaction costs and other expenses, Nielsen
expects the Arbitron purchase to add about 19 cents a share to
earnings within two years of the deal’s completion. The
companies are looking to save at least $20 million by merging
their operations, mostly from combining technology systems and
spending less to obtain data.  “We think this is positive to shareholders,” Robb LeMasters, managing director of Blue Harbour Group LP, said in
an interview. Greenwich, Connecticut-based Blue Harbour holds
5.2 percent  of shares  in Arbitron. Advertisers are placing more
importance on better media measurement, he said.  Nielsen, which has a headquarters office in the Netherlands
in addition to New York, is counting on the deal to expand its
Watch program for measuring audiences across different kinds of
devices. The company faces mounting competition on the Web,
where younger research firms such as  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  track
everything from  search engines  to Web traffic to smartphone use.  Even in the  Internet era , radio remains a key piece of how
consumers get media and entertainment, Arbitron CEO William Kerr
said in today’s statement.  “Radio reaches more than 92 percent of all American teens
and adults,” Kerr said. “By combining Nielsen’s global
capabilities and scale with Arbitron’s unique radio measurement
and listening information, advertisers and media clients will
have better insights into consumer behavior and the return on
marketing investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  