-- Nordea Wins Top Spot in Bond Underwriting: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-12-18T14:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/nordea-wins-top-spot-in-bond-underwriting-nordic-credit.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s
biggest lender, surpassed SEB AB to reclaim its position as the
region’s top debt underwriter as more companies opt for capital
market funding over bank loans.  Nordea, based in Stockholm, helped companies sell $18.6
billion in bonds this year, 29 percent more than in the same
period in 2011. SEB AB, last year’s biggest deal maker, came
second with $14.6 billion of arranged issues, while  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) 
jumped to third place from eighth after doubling the value of
sales it helped facilitate to $14.2 billion.  Corporate debt sales across the U.S., Europe and  Asia 
surged to a record $3.89 trillion this year as borrowing costs
eased to their lowest ever, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With stricter capital rules making bank credit
scarcer, companies have stepped up efforts to shop around for
funding. Nordea’s grip on  Scandinavia ’s top slot suggests big
underwriters with established networks may fare best.  “Nordic corporates have carried out liability management
exercises to reduce the cost of their debt and extend its
duration,” Thomas Begley, Nordea’s Helsinki-based head of fixed
income, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “This is an
area that Nordea has been particularly successful in.”  Further Expansion  Bond deals in  Sweden ,  Denmark ,  Finland  and  Norway  increased
11 percent this year to $207 billion, excluding debt that banks
sold to fund themselves.  “The still nascent high-yield market will expand and grow,
driven by increased investor demand for higher yielding
instruments,” Begley said. “In addition to corporate high
yield issuers, we are expecting further expansion to be driven
by the issuance of private equity-owned corporates.”  Investors seeking refuge from the crisis in southern Europe
have poured into AAA rated Scandinavia’s debt markets. Though
demand was initially centered on  government bonds , investors
have since embraced mortgage and corporate debt as they search
for higher yields in regions they perceive as safe from default.  “Conditions in the  bond market  have been extremely
attractive with credit and swap spreads at exceptionally low
levels,” Begley said. “We have therefore seen significant
growth in issuance as corporates have locked in extremely low
financing costs.”  Special Resources  The extra yield that investors demand to own corporate
bonds rather than government debt was at 223 basis points
yesterday, narrowing from 351 at the end of last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporate & High Yield
index.  Nordea had 10.2 percent of Scandinavia’s corporate
underwriting market this quarter, up from 8.1 percent in the
third quarter, with 66 completed deals. It was the only Nordic
bank picked to manage a 2.625 percent 2024 bond sale for  Telenor
ASA (TEL) , together with Goldman Sachs International, Morgan Stanley
and ING Bank NV. The senior unsecured 600 million-euro bond was
sold at a spread of 83 basis points over the mid-swap rate.  “The fourth quarter was exceptionally busy,” Begley said.
“We expect the market backdrop to remain favorable in the new
year and we do expect that issuance will continue to be strong
across the Nordic region.”  Swedbank was the sole lead manager on a 1.5 billion-krone
($268 million) mortgage-backed 2019 covered bond issued by Terra
Boligkreditt AS. The lender has prioritized building up
resources in its debt capital markets business, including hiring
staff, forming a frequent issuers group and boosting credit
research, said Per-Aake Nyberg.  Providing research has helped it win business from unrated
companies seeking to tap debt markets, Nyberg said.  “We have more special resources now to advise issuing
clients,” Nyberg, who was appointed Dec. 4 to head the new euro
syndicate function at Swedbank’s office in  Stockholm , said by
phone yesterday. “We don’t have to push a product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  