-- Norilsk Payout Seen Fueling Surge to Sberbank: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-12-18T02:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/norilsk-payout-seen-fueling-surge-to-sberbank-russia-overnight.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , whose rally
this month has sent shares to the most expensive level since
2010, is poised to rise further as a new dividend plan lures
investors, OAO Sberbank and UFS-Finance Investment Co. say.  American depositary receipts of the world’s largest nickel
and palladium producer jumped 3.8 percent yesterday in New York
to trade at 10.1 times estimated earnings, the highest valuation
since May 18, 2010. The ADRs have surged 16 percent in December,
the steepest gain on the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.  Norilsk has climbed as the entrance of a new investor
spurred a truce between the company’s biggest shareholders,
aluminum producer United Co. Rusal and billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Group. Potanin, named Norilsk’s new chief
executive officer yesterday, said the company will target
dividends equivalent to at least 50 percent of its annual
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
Norilsk posted Ebitda of $7.2 billion in 2011.  “The company is about to finally get a vector for its
development,” Ilya Balakirev, an analyst at UFS-Finance in
Moscow, who rates Norilsk’s shares listed on  Russia ’s Micex
Index hold, said by phone yesterday. “They seek an unbelievably
high dividend yield and therefore have to increase free  cash
flow , including expanding share in their current markets and
winning new ones.”  Futures due March on Russia’s  RTS  Index added 0.3 percent
to 149,580 during U.S. hours yesterday. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed
0.2 percent to extend its 5 percent gain this year. The ruble-
denominated gauge goes from 30 to 50 stocks today, making its
composition identical to the RTS, which will remain priced in
dollars.  ETF Climbs  The Bloomberg Russia-US measure climbed 0.5 percent to
97.72 yesterday, bringing its advance in the year to 7.9
percent. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.5 percent
to $29.45, while the RTS Volatility Index dropped 3.3 percent to
22.32 points.  Norilsk’s ADRs rallied to $18.30 yesterday, the highest
level since April 3, and traded at a 1.7 percent premium to the
company’s Micex shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
was the biggest gap since Jan. 10. The company’s stock in Moscow
gained 3.7 percent to 5,573 rubles, or $180, the highest level
since March 19. One ADR represents a 10th of a Micex share.  The company will target about $9 billion of dividends in
2012 through 2014, three people with knowledge of the owners’
agreement said last week.  ‘High Dividends’  “They promise very high dividends and have to focus on
generating free cash flow,”  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst at
Sberbank Investment Research who has a buy rating on the stock,
said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “That also means they have
to look at their costs.”  Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, and
Potanin are settling a more than four-year battle over control
of Moscow-based  Norilsk Nickel  by balancing their
representatives on the board. As part of the accord,  Roman Abramovich , the billionaire Chelsea Football Club owner, will
control  voting rights  on a 20 percent stake to help quash
shareholder disputes, the parties said in a statement last week.  Norilsk got 55 percent of revenue from  Europe  last year and
23 percent from  Asia . It will earn $5.1 billion this year,
according to the median of nine analysts’ estimates.  “They will now have to concentrate on controlling costs
and spending overall, and may have to look at Asia, particularly
 China , for potential increases in supplies to the region,” Ivan Manaenko, the head of research at Veles Capital LLC that has a
hold rating on Norilsk, said by phone from Moscow yesterday.
“Demand in Europe will be suppressed by the economic crisis.”  VimpelCom Payout  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  jumped 3.5 percent to $11.39, the highest
level in a month, extending 2012 gains in New York for Russia’s
third-biggest mobile provider to 20 percent.  Amsterdam-based VimpelCom will pay a dividend of 80 cents
per American depositary share, including 35 cents per ADS
related to 2011 results, according to a PR Newswire statement
issued yesterday. The company, whose total dividend payout will
reach $1.3 billion, is free to pay returns to investors after
Russia agreed to withdraw legal claims against shareholder
 Telenor ASA (TEL)  over the Norwegian phone company boosting its stake.  ADRs of  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  fell 0.8 percent to $2.34 yesterday,
the lowest level since Dec. 7. The Moscow-based company’s  stock 
retreated 1.2 percent to 73.76 kopeks, or 2.4 cents, on the
Micex yesterday. One ADR is equal to 100 shares.  Surgut Slips  RusHydro is in talks with OAO Rosneftegaz to sell 5 percent
of OAO Inter RAO UES to the gas company, RusHydro’s chief
executive office Yevgeny Dod told reporters in Moscow yesterday,
according to Reuters. Russia’s biggest hydropower producer no
longer plans to acquire a 40 percent stake in Interrao, the RIA
Novosti newswire reported Dod as saying. RusHydro also plans to
“significantly” increase dividends, Dod said, according to the
report.  Preferred ADRs of oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas slipped
2.2 percent yesterday in the U.S. to $6.60, the steepest one-day
drop since Nov. 14. The drop followed a 2.1 percent slump in the
company’s Micex-listed preferred shares.  Ruble futures showed the currency weakening 0.1 percent to
30.78 per dollar yesterday. The ruble fell 0.7 percent to 30.94
per dollar in Moscow.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 0.8 percent to HK$4.76 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:30
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  