-- North Korea Unlikely to Get UN Punishment Until Next Year
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-12-18T01:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/north-korea-unlikely-to-get-un-punishment-until-next-year.html
China  is resisting U.S.-led pressure
to expand United Nations sanctions on North Korea, and a fresh
push will come in January when South Korea joins the Security
Council, according to four UN diplomats.  North Korea’s rocket launch a week ago drew condemnation
from the UN Security Council for violating its resolutions
barring the country from conducting ballistic-missile and
nuclear tests. Yet any punishment will have to wait while
diplomats try to win China’s assent.  Western nations favor expanding the UN blacklist of
individuals and entities subject to travel bans and asset
freezes, according to the four diplomats who asked not to be
named because talks are preliminary. China, as one of the
council’s five veto-wielding powers, can block measures to
punish its neighbor.  The Chinese have a track record of obstructionism,
hindering the work of a UN panel of experts investigating North
Korea’s nuclear program and most recently delaying the June
release of the group’s findings, the diplomats said yesterday.  China, North Korea’s main ally, insists that the Security
Council should avoid measures that may escalate tensions. The
council’s response should be “measured” and geared at keeping
the peace in the peninsula, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said Dec. 14.  The U.S. said it seeks a “clear and meaningful” response
-- a diplomatic reference to binding resolutions. North Korea’s
most recent provocations, including a failed rocket test in
April, so far have elicited little other than words of
condemnation.  ‘Vigorous’ Debate  Getting the Chinese on board will be an uphill struggle
since they’ve taken the view that North Korea’s actions don’t
threaten regional stability, the diplomats said.  Behind closed doors, U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice told her
Chinese counterpart on Dec. 12 that his government’s stance was
“ridiculous,” according to four diplomats in the room. When
asked about the mood during that first round of discussions,
Rice said that exchanges in the council “get vigorous.”  The last round of successful UN sanctions were passed
unanimously in 2009 after about three weeks of negotiations. The
council acted after North conducted a nuclear blast and tested
missiles.  The Dec. 11 launch of a long-range rocket followed a failed
rocket test in April that embarrassed new leader Kim Jong Un,
who has been working to secure his hereditary position since his
father’s death a year ago.  Six-Party Talks  North Korea has twice detonated an underground atomic
explosion, and Kim has shown no readiness to respond to calls
from the U.S., China, South Korea,  Japan  and  Russia  to return to
six-party talks aimed at getting the regime to abandon its
nuclear program.  North Korea’s missile program is now on a par with what the
U.S. and the Soviet Union achieved in the 1950s, according to
David Maxwell, the associate director of the Center for Security
Studies at Georgetown University in  Washington . He said it’s
unclear whether the regime is able to miniaturize a nuclear
warhead to fit it on a missile.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  