-- NRA Renews Criticism of Weapons Ban as Gun Debate Begins
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-19T20:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/nra-pledges-meaningful-contributions-to-respond-to-killings.html
The National Rifle Association
publicly pledged yesterday to “offer meaningful contributions”
to avoid a repeat of the Connecticut elementary school killings
-- even as it signaled to members that it will resist the return
of a 1994 assault-weapons ban.  As President  Barack Obama  today announced he is assigning
Vice President Joe Biden to lead the administration’s efforts to
reduce gun violence, he said he backs restricting military-style
assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition clips such as that
used by the shooter at the school in Newtown.  The president said the NRA, which has opposed bans on guns
and ammunition, is made up of “mothers and fathers” who have
been affected by the Dec. 14 shootings.  “Hopefully, they’ll do some self-reflection,” Obama said.  The NRA’s brief statement yesterday ended its silence since
the massacre in which 20 children and six adults were shot to
death at Sandy Hook Elementary School. The 20-year-old gunman
also killed himself and his mother.  The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA, which spent $12 million in
an unsuccessful attempt to deny Obama a second term in this
year’s election, said it was “shocked, saddened and heartbroken
by the news of the horrific and senseless murders in Newtown.”  Assault Weapons  The group also has been laying early groundwork to oppose a
return of the assault-weapons ban.  NRA News Update  host Ginny Simone began a webcast aired on
the group’s media site yesterday by saying that “as the nation
continues to mourn the loss of the 26 innocent victims” of the
shooting, Obama has directed his Cabinet members to propose
measures that would curb gun violence.  “Measures that would likely include the assault-weapons
ban because word from the White House is that the ban remains a
commitment of the president,” Simone said, characterizing it as
“a ban we all know was a failed experiment from the start.”  The dual messages are reminders of the difficultly
lawmakers likely will face as they try to impose new
restrictions on gun ownership.  As the NRA girds for a legislative confrontation that it
has avoided for more than a decade, its allies on Capitol Hill
and elsewhere began broadening the discussion to include the
issues of mental health and violent movies.  NRA Proposals  That’s a message expected to be echoed when the NRA unveils
its proposals at a press conference Dec. 21. In a webcast aired
on the group’s site on Dec. 17, National Review columnist John
Fund called what happened in Newtown “a mental health issue as
much as anything.”  “I know the people who work there, and I know they’re
horrified,” said Richard Feldman, a former political director
for the NRA. “This is almost an existential moment for the gun
community. It’s the worst-case scenario.”  Feldman said the association, which spent more than $2.2
million on lobbying in the first nine months of this year, will
be “aggressive” in resisting the effort by Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, to reinstate the federal
assault-weapons ban. The ban expired in 2004.  Beyond Guns  Gun-rights advocates, including those who have said that
some new restrictions should be considered in the aftermath of
the tragedy, began pressing that case to focus beyond the
weapons carried by the gunman in Newtown to other causes that
contributed to his crime.  Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat who has an
“A” rating from the NRA, said he raised the possible influence
of the entertainment industry and the issue of mental health in
a meeting yesterday with Obama.  “I know my friends at the NRA and those who support our
Second Amendment rights will participate” in grappling with gun
violence “because I know that their hearts are aching for the
families in Newtown, just like all Americans,” Manchin said in
a statement afterward.  “To have a productive dialogue, we also need to address a
number of critical issues, including our  mental health  system,
safety in our schools and a media and entertainment culture that
glorifies unspeakable violence,” he said.  Feldman, president of the Independent Firearm Owners
Association and an “endowment” member of the NRA, said “the
issue should never be about guns, it should always be about
whose hands the guns are in.”  Calling Republicans  The NRA began reaching out to allies on Capitol Hill
yesterday, making calls to Republicans to gauge the temperature
of their supporters, according to two House Republican aides
with knowledge of the calls.  The group also used the calls to trade ideas as they
formulated their response to the shooting, said the aides, who
requested anonymity to speak about the calls.  Some Republican supporters of gun rights have agreed to
discuss new firearm restrictions  “Having this discussion is a very important part of the
process that we must go through as Americans,” Representative
Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, said on  MSNBC . “I‘ve also
said you cannot leave out the mental health situation of this.”  Calls for a broader discussion went beyond NRA allies.  Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who heads the
Senate Commerce Committee, introduced legislation to direct the
National Academy of Sciences to investigate the impact of
violent video games on children.  “We need to take a comprehensive look at all the ways we
can keep our kids safe,” he said in a statement.  Video Games  Rockefeller also said he’d call on two agencies, the
Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications
Commission, take a fresh look at the effectiveness of the video
game ratings system and the impact of violent programming on
children.  “Changes in technology now allow kids to access violent
content online with less parental involvement,” he said.  Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, yesterday
suggested creation of a national commission on violence to
examine the role of the entertainment industry in addition to
gun laws.  “Very often, these young men have had an almost hypnotic
involvement in some form of violence in our entertainment
culture, particularly violent video  games ,” he said on the
Senate floor. “Then they go out and obtain guns and become not
just troubled young men but mass murderers.”  At today’s press conference, Obama also said “any single
gun law can’t solve all these problems.” He said Biden’s group
would look at mental health issues and school safety in addition
to gun laws.  Background Checks  Obama endorses legislation requiring purchasers at gun
shows to undergo background checks, White House spokesman Jay Carney said, and would look at efforts to restrict high-capacity
magazines that can accept more than 10 rounds of ammunition.  The shooter at Sandy Hook Elementary, Adam Lanza, used a
Bushmaster AR-15 rifle with 30-round magazines as his main
weapon, Connecticut State Police Lieutenant Paul Vance said at a
Dec. 16 news conference.  The author of legislation to ban those magazines, Senator
Frank Lautenberg, a New Jersey Democrat, asked his colleagues to
co-sponsor the measure and push it through the new Congress.  “High-capacity magazines are used by soldiers fighting
wars; they do not belong on our streets and in our
communities,” Lautenberg said in a letter to other senators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  