-- Nuclear Test for Abe as Quake Risk Doubles Spread: Japan Credit
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-12-18T06:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/nuclear-test-for-abe-as-quake-risk-doubles-spread-japan-credit.html
Shinzo Abe’s support for nuclear
energy is being tested during his party’s first week back in
power after utilities’ borrowing costs surged amid probes into
whether atomic facilities sit on active earthquake fault lines.  The extra yield investors demand to own  Japan  Atomic Power
Co.’s 1.422 percent notes due December 2019 over government debt
jumped 500 basis points to a record 900 basis points last week,
according to JS Price. Regulators earlier this month said its
Tsuruga plant may be sitting on an active fault. The spread on
similar-maturity 1.405 percent notes sold by Kansai Electric
Power Co., the second-biggest stakeholder in Japan Atomic,
climbed 35 to 175 basis points, reaching the highest ever on
Dec. 13, the data show.  Abe needs to weigh safety concerns with the impact of a
closure on the power industry, which has suffered losses since a
record earthquake in March 2011 led to the worst nuclear
disaster in a quarter of a century and the closure of all but
two of the nation’s 50 reactors.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s
 shares  surged 33 percent yesterday, leading a rebound in
utilities as Abe’s landslide victory increased expectations they
will reopen.  “If the reactor is decommissioned, Japan Atomic Power may
find itself in default,” Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear
analyst at the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan, said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 13. “The burden may fall on the
shareholders, or the government might step in. The least
publicly palatable option is to delay mothballing the reactor
until sufficient funds are found.”  Active Fault  The yield spread on global utility bonds rose one basis
point to 146 basis points last week, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. The yield premium on  Kansai
Electric ’s 1.405 percent debt and Japan Atomic Power’s 1.422
percent notes widened one basis point each yesterday, according
to JS Price.  A team of scientists led by Nuclear Regulation Authority’s
commissioner Kunihiko Shimazaki concluded on Dec. 10 that a
fault under the Tsuruga No. 2 reactor had likely moved together
with a nearby one that was active in the past. A fault is
defined as active if it has moved in the past 120,000 to 130,000
years, according to the NRA.  Under Japan’s guidelines for nuclear plants, utilities are
not allowed to build reactor buildings and other important
facilities above an active quake fault. The NRA will discuss
whether to allow Japan Atomic to restart the reactor after
Shimazaki compiles a report “soon,” Chairman Shunichi Tanaka
said Dec. 13. A decision on whether to decommission the reactor
will be up to the operator, Tanaka said, as the nuclear watchdog
doesn’t have legal authority to order it to do so.  Decommissioning Costs  Decommissioning a 1,100-megawatt reactor may cost as much
as 56.5 billion yen ($673 million), the Federation of Electric
Power Companies estimated in 2007. Japan Atomic would have 256
billion yen in losses if the company is forced to close the two
reactors at the Tsuruga plant as well as the Tokai Dai-Ni
station, exceeding its 163 billion yen in net assets, according
to the trade and economy ministry’s estimate in June.  Japan Atomic Power’s Tokyo-based spokesman Mitsuru Marutani
declined to comment on the bond moves. “We will continue to
monitor the bond market conditions and include loans and
commercial paper in our financing considerations,” Kansai
Electric’s spokesman Takahiro Senoh said. He declined to comment
on the impact of the election.  Default-Swaps  The cost to insure the debt of Kansai Electric for five
years fell 10 basis points to 345 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps  on  Tokyo 
Electric dropped 31 to 496, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The contracts fall when perceptions of creditworthiness
improve, and rise when they worsen. Data on Japan’s Atomic’s
swaps were unavailable.  Elsewhere in the domestic credit markets, East Nippon
Expressway Co. hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., Nomura Holdings Inc. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  to
manage a 20 billion yen sale of five-year notes planned for no
later than March 31, the first brokerage said in a statement
yesterday.  Metropolitan Expressway Co. plans an offering of similar-
maturity bonds managed by Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, Mizuho and Nomura, according to a
release from Mizuho.  Bond Returns  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., a Taiwanese contract-
manufacturer of electronics, signed an 8.5 billion yen
commitment line from Japan Bank of International Cooperation and
ING Groep NV, according to a statement on the website of insurer
Nippon Export and Investment Insurance yesterday. The company
will use the funds to purchase machinery from Japanese
manufacturers, it said.  Japan’s corporate notes have handed investors a 1.4 percent
return this year, compared with the 2 percent gain for the
nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Company bonds worldwide have returned 10.5 percent,
the data show.  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 83.98 per dollar at 3:54
p.m. in Tokyo today. It slid to 84.48 yesterday, the weakest
since April 2011, after Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party  won
elections on Dec. 16. He has called for more  Bank of Japan (8301) 
stimulus to achieve 2 percent inflation.  Nuclear Decision  The LDP said in its election  pledges  that it will make a
decision on whether to restart all of Japan’s nuclear reactors
within three years. It also vowed to decide the country’s best
energy mix within 10 years. The Democratic Party of Japan, which
was defeated over the weekend, and smaller opposition parties
are calling for the phasing out of nuclear power.  “The LDP has been seen as very interested in restarting
the country’s reactors, which is a positive for the nuclear
industry and has already been reflected in the pricing,”
Taketoshi Tsuchiya, Tokyo-based director of credit trading at
Barclays Plc. “There isn’t much action from overseas investors,
since they are already in holiday-mode. The credit markets are
reacting very calmly to the news.”  New Plants  Abe indicated he may allow utilities to build a new nuclear
power plant if it meets safety standards to be set by the NRA,
the Tokyo Shimbun  reported  Dec. 1, citing an interview with him.
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in September approved a policy
calling for banning the construction of new atomic plants.  LDP Chairman Hiroyuki Hosoda said in an interview with
Bloomberg last month that Japan must restart its plants quickly
after confirming they’re safe, citing increasing energy prices.  Shares of Kansai Electric closed 4.5 percent lower in Tokyo
trading today, after climbing 18 percent yesterday, the biggest
increase since at least September 1974. Its Ohi facility north
of  Osaka  is Japan’s only operational nuclear power plant. Tokyo
Electric’s shares surged 20 percent today. Japan Atomic Power is
an unlisted company.  Japan Atomic Power plans to carry out additional
investigations to support its view that the fault is not active,
saying the geologists “didn’t present enough explanation,”
according to an  open letter  from the company to the NRA.  “There is a good chance that the reactor won’t get the
permission to restart, which makes decommissioning a real
possibility,” Toshihiro Uomoto, Tokyo-based chief credit
analyst at Nomura Securities Co., wrote in a report on Dec. 13.
“Given a little bit of time, the arrival of the new government
may create some breathing room.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  