-- Nucor Quarterly Profit Guidance Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-12-18T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/nucor-fourth-quarter-profit-guidance-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest U.S.
steelmaker by market value, forecast fourth-quarter earnings
that missed analysts’ estimates after higher imports squeezed
margins at its mills.  The company expects earnings after one-time items to fall
to 25 cents to 30 cents a share in the fourth quarter from 43
cents a year earlier, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company said in a statement today. That’s less than the 33-cent
average of 19  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nucor and other domestic steelmakers are struggling with
demand that hasn’t returned to levels seen prior to the 2008
financial crisis. Imports have climbed 16 percent this year
through October, according to U.S. Census Bureau  data . U.S.
steel production has fallen 4 percent so far in the fourth
quarter from a year ago to average 1.76 million tons, according
to data from the  American Iron and Steel Institute .  “Lower steel mill margins are primarily impacting our bar
and plate steel mills reflecting the cumulative impact of high
import levels and general economic uncertainty,” Nucor said in
the statement.  Prices Fall  The average price of  hot-rolled coil , a benchmark steel
product used in appliances and automobiles, has dropped 5.3
percent this quarter compared with a year earlier, according to
data from Steel Business Briefing, a trade publication.  Steel Dynamics Inc. (STLD)  will earn 12 to 16 cents in the
quarter, excluding a 6-cent favorable tax adjustment, compared
with 14 cents a year earlier, the  Fort Wayne , Indiana-based
company said in a statement after the close of regular trading
yesterday. Analysts estimated an  average  12 cents a share,
according to 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Nucor, which remelts scrap steel in electric furnaces, rose
2.1 percent to $43.64 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 10 percent this year. Steel Dynamics rose 2.8 percent to
$14.14.  U.S. Steel Corp. is the largest U.S. producer of the metal
by volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  