-- Obama and Boehner, Both Reckless Spenders
-- B y   N i c k   G i l l e s p i e   a n d   V e r o n i q u e   d e   R u g y
-- 2012-12-18T00:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/obama-and-boehner-both-reckless-spenders.html
In negotiations over the so-called
fiscal cliff, U.S. President  Barack Obama  is  calling for  $1.4
trillion in new  tax revenue  over the next decade.  The Republican opposition, led by House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , has signaled that the Republicans could stomach
generating as much as $800 billion in new revenue over the next
decade, or half of Obama’s number.  Such a large difference obscures a more fundamental
agreement: Neither side is interested in addressing the central
role federal spending plays in creating persistent deficits and,
more important, damping economic growth.  The deficit for fiscal 2012, which ended on Sept. 30, came
in at about $1.1 trillion, marking the fourth consecutive year
that the nation has posted a trillion-dollar-plus spending gap.
Contrary to what  Dick Cheney said  when he was vice president,
deficits do matter.  Under the most recent budget plans of  House Republicans  and
Obama, the federal government will spend from  $40 trillion  to
 $47 trillion  over the next decade. Yet in the current
negotiations, Boehner has called for only $800 billion in
spending cuts and Obama $400 billion, most of which would be
pushed off until 2022 or later -- tantamount to saying they
won’t happen at all. Neither side’s long-term spending plans
envision a balanced budget in the next 10 years.  Reduced Growth  In a paper  released this year, economists Carmen M. Reinhart, Vincent R. Reinhart and  Kenneth Rogoff  said that
periods of debt overhang -- when accumulated gross debt exceeds
90 percent of a country’s total economic activity for five or
more consecutive years -- reduce annual economic growth by more
than one percentage point for decades.  Over 20 years, the authors write, there can be a “massive
cumulative output loss” that reduces gains by 25 percent or
more. The U.S. went over the 90 percent threshold after the 2008
financial crisis. At $16.3 trillion, our current gross federal
debt represents more than 100 percent of 2012’s total economic
activity or gross domestic product.  Obama hasn’t explained precisely how higher tax rates on a
small fraction of the population will do much to improve the
country’s balance sheet.  According to  the  Congressional Budget
Office , increasing taxes on the wealthiest Americans to Clinton-era levels will raise $220 billion over four years -- $55
billion a year on average through 2016, the last year of Obama’s
presidency.  Over that same period, the White House Office of Management
and Budget estimates federal spending at $15.8 trillion, or
almost $4 trillion a year on average, and annual deficits of
$700 billion.  A little history: 2000 was about the best year ever for
federal revenue since 1950. The government raked in slightly
more than $2 trillion in nominal dollars and $2.3 trillion in
inflation-adjusted (fiscal year 2005) dollars. When measured as
a percentage of GDP, revenue reached 20.6 percent, the highest
fraction ever recorded in peacetime. Although it’s true that
receipts in 2006 and 2007 topped the $2.3 trillion mark in
constant 2005 dollars, those totals represent smaller fractions
of GDP, 18.2 percent and 18.5 percent, respectively. So it’s
fair to call the $2.3 trillion in constant dollars a high-water
mark. All these figures are drawn from the 2013 Historical
Tables generated by the OMB;  see table 1.3 .  The high level of revenue -- both in constant dollars and
as a percentage of GDP -- was reached in a roaring economy. And
all Americans were taxed at significantly higher levels than
they are now.  Income Pyramid  Whatever you think about the decline of rates under
President  George W. Bush , it made the U.S. tax system more
progressive by reducing the burden on middle- and lower-income
people. That’s one reason that singling out high-income earners
for increases this time will yield such little revenue: All of
us paid higher taxes then. It wasn’t just the swells at the top
of the income pyramid.  Even if government could attain the revenue levels of seven
years ago, it wouldn’t come close to covering spending, which
crossed the $3 trillion mark, in inflation-adjusted dollars, in
2009. Neither Republicans nor Democrats are suggesting reducing
total year-over-year spending.  The OMB estimates that annual government spending from 2013
to 2016 will average $3.25 trillion in 2005 dollars, or 22.7
percent of GDP. Whether measured in constant dollars or as a
percentage of the economy, the government has never once reached
that level of revenue, much less sustained it for a number of
years.  Given low estimates for economic growth over the coming
years, any attempt to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio before Obama
leaves office will thus require significant spending cuts in the
near term.  Both the president and members of Congress worry that rapid
spending cuts would cause a new recession or slow down the
recovery. Such fears are overstated.  In the 1990s ,  Canada , for instance, reduced debt-to-GDP
ratios through an aggressive combination of actual, year-over-year spending cuts and higher taxes. The result wasn’t malaise
but a burst in activity.  The same happened in the U.S. right after World War II. In
1944 and 1945, annual  government spending  (in 2005 dollars)
averaged about $1 trillion and represented more than 40 percent
of GDP. By 1947, it had plummeted to $345 billion in 2005
dollars and 14 percent of GDP. Even facing the demobilization of
millions of soldiers, the economy soared and unemployment fell
despite almost universal fears that the opposite would happen.  Such outcomes are not flukes. Research by economists
Alberto F. Alesina and Silvia Ardagna underscored that fiscal
adjustments achieved through spending cuts rather than tax
increases are less likely to cause recessions, and, if they do,
the slowdowns are mild and short-lived.  Spending Reductions  What’s more, when spending reductions are accompanied by
policies such as the liberalization of trade and labor markets,
they are more likely to have a positive impact on growth.  While many economists -- and certainly all politicians --
worry that turning off the spigot of public spending will shrink
an economy (and anger constituents receiving the cash), the
opposite is likely to be true.  In an October 2012 study published in the National Bureau
of  Economic Research , Alesina and Ardagna point to Canada (1993-1997),  Sweden  (1993-1998) and the U.K. (1994-2000). In these
cases, spending cuts had a positive effect on private investment
while improving consumer and business confidence by reducing the
expectation of higher taxes.  Obama said in September that he would cut $2.50 in spending
for every new dollar of tax revenue -- what he has called a
“balanced approach.” Yet his proposal for dealing with the
fiscal cliff -- $1.4 trillion in new tax revenue and $400
billion in spending cuts -- represents a $3.50 increase in taxes
for every $1 of cuts, assuming the reductions take place.  As the history of deficit-reduction frameworks (including
those signed by Republican Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush ) has shown, when immediate rate increases were
“balanced” by spending cuts down the road, the spending cuts are
never made.  In any case, recent experience shows that even if Obama’s
2.5-to-1 ratio of spending cuts to revenue increases came to
pass by some miracle, it is far too timid. Economist David Henderson estimates that during the 1990s retrenchment in
Canada, the government cut spending by $6 to $7 for every new
dollar of revenue it raised.  Obama and Boehner have been largely silent on the specifics
of their cuts, though both seem bent on slicing off parts of
old-age entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security long
after they are out of office.  The best holiday gift the president and Congress could give
the country is to spend the final weeks of 2012 working on an
honest plan to cut spending here and now.  (Nick Gillespie is the editor in chief of Reason.com and
the co-author of “The Declaration of Independents: How
Libertarian Politics Can Fix What’s Wrong with America.”
Veronique de Rugy is a  senior research fellow  at the  Mercatus
Center  at  George Mason University . The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nick Gillespie at  Gillespie@reason.com  and Veronique de Rugy at
   vderugy@gmu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 