-- Obama Faces a More Volatile Mideast in His Second Term
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/obama-faces-a-more-volatile-mideast-in-his-second-term.html
President  Barack Obama ’s new
national security team will contend with a volatile  Middle East 
that’s far removed from his 2009 pledge in Cairo to create “a
new beginning” between the U.S. and Muslims around the world.  The Arab Spring revolutions that the administration in 2011
saw as pathways to democracy have traded  Hosni Mubarak ,   Muammar Qaddafi , Zine el Abidine Ben Ali and, perhaps next, Bashar al- Assad for instability and growing Islamist radicalism in Egypt,
 Libya , Tunisia and Syria.  Anti-American sentiment has grown while Libyan and Syrian
weapons have found their way to extremists. A year after the
last U.S. troops withdrew from Iraq, al-Qaeda is growing again
in the country’s  Sunni Muslim  areas. The latest fighting in Gaza
has boosted the prestige of Hamas, which  Israel , the U.S. and
the European Union consider a terrorist organization. Iran has
been seeking nuclear capability despite economic sanctions.  “There is much more crisis ongoing that can present
danger,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.
“This has nothing to do with the U.S. and everything to do with
domestic and international politics in the region,”  The president may announce his choices to replace outgoing
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta as soon as this week.  Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , a Democrat, is expected
to be named as secretary of state while former Nebraska Senator
Chuck Hagel, a Republican, is a leading candidate for the
Pentagon, according to two people familiar with the matter, who
asked for anonymity to discuss personnel matters.  New Team  The new team will be charged with helping Obama find a
strategic approach to the difficult region.  “We can, I think, do a better job of trying to anticipate
where it’s going,” said Mona Yacoubian, senior adviser for the
Middle East at the Stimson Center, a policy institute in
Washington. “We’re missing that overarching strategy.”  In Syria, the Assad regime has killed more than 41,000 of
its own people and displaced another 1.2 million in its effort
to remain in power, according to opposition and  United Nations 
estimates. The Obama administration has expressed concern about
the possible use of Syria’s chemical weapons. Last week, the
U.S. joined other nations in recognizing a rebel coalition, and
Russia, a longtime Assad ally and arms supplier, said for the
first time that his days may be numbered.  Syrian Challenge  “The most immediate challenge will be Syria,” said  Dennis Ross , a former Obama adviser and now a counselor with the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “It borders Iraq,
Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Israel. You can’t ascribe the Las
Vegas rules to Syria. What happens to Syria isn’t going to stay
there.”  The most persistent challenge may remain Iran, where
economic sanctions so far have failed to halt the Islamic
republic’s suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons. While the U.S.
and its allies are preparing a new push for negotiations,
pressure is mounting to consider military action against Iran.  Next year, Ross said, “is going to be a decisive year one
way or the other. You’re either going to have a diplomatic
outcome before the end of the year or you’re going to end up
seeing the use of force.”  In Egypt, the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood and President
Mohamed Mursi’s attempt to claim unchecked power and pursuit of
Islamic law led to deadly clashes and unrest. Obama has worked
with Mursi -- White House officials thanked Mursi for helping
broker a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas. Yet the Egyptian
leader emerged as more of a dilemma than a partner.  Muslim Brotherhood  The  U.S. Congress  has focused on the administration’s
failures in Libya.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations, withdrew her name from consideration for secretary of
state last week to spare Obama a political fight.  Rice was targeted by Republican Senators  John McCain  and
 Lindsey Graham  over statements she made after the Sept. 11
attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that killed
four Americans including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens.  The Benghazi attack also raised fresh questions about the
success of U.S. efforts to support the rebels who overthrew and
killed Qaddafi.  The recent fighting between Hamas and Israel, meanwhile,
did nothing to improve the already dim prospects for Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations. Nor did Israel’s recent announcement
that it’s considering building new Jewish settlements in a
sensitive area of the West Bank, which Israel captured from
Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War.  Lost Trust  Mustafa Alani, an analyst at the Geneva-based Gulf Research
Center, said Obama has lost trust among Muslims after setting
expectations high early in his administration.  “We don’t feel the U.S. is a credible partner in the
region,” Alani said. “We don’t see a defined policy here.”  Obama, Alani said, is perceived to have prioritized Asia
over the Mideast, sided with Israel over the Palestinians,
responded too slowly to the Syrian revolution and disappointed
secularists in Egypt by withholding criticism of Mursi and the
Muslim Brotherhood’s anti-democratic tactics.  “He is very late to support the Syrian revolution,” Alani
said.  Aaron David Miller  of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group, said Obama has
“run a pretty competent foreign policy,” given the complexity
of the challenges in the region and the limitations of the  U.S.
economy  and a war-weary public.  Obama Missteps  While Obama made missteps on trying to restart the Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process , Miller said, the sanctions on Iran
are having an impact, and on Syria, “He’s exercised
restraint.”  Mostly, Miller said, Obama’s failing has been that his
Cairo speech and Nobel peace prize “raised expectations to a
level that he could not possibly meet, and the gap between our
rhetoric and ability to deliver became wider still. His personal
approval ratings in the Arab world plummeted.”  “The mess that greets him in the second term is largely
the function of an unraveling of an old order,” said James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute, a  Washington 
policy group. “I don’t see this as a situation that he could
have handled fundamentally any differently than he did.”  “There is not yet a comprehensive vision of how we move
forward on doing the political work at home to educate Americans
to here’s what we have to do to make the Cairo speech become
real,” Zogby said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  