-- Obama’s Offer Keeps Threshold for Tax Break Limits at $25
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-12-18T23:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/obama-s-offer-keeps-threshold-for-tax-break-limits-at-25.html
Households earning between $250,000
and $400,000 a year would face limits on their tax breaks under
President  Barack Obama ’s latest budget offer, increasing their
tax bills even though they wouldn’t face higher rates, a person
familiar with the negotiations said today.  Obama’s latest plan would begin phasing out personal
exemptions and limiting itemized deductions at about $250,000 in
annual income. Those limits, which would raise a combined $165
billion over 10 years, are among six separate tax increases for
top earners in Obama’s plan. The other parts are rates on
ordinary income, capital gains, dividends and estates.  “You raise their tax rates in a basically disguised
fashion,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the
Congressional Budget Office.  Obama campaigned since 2007 on raising tax rates on married
couples’ income exceeding $250,000 a year and individual income
of more than $200,000. As part of an offer to House Speaker John Boehner yesterday, Obama raised that threshold to $400,000.  The person, who requested anonymity to discuss the private
talks, said the $400,000 limit would apply to single and joint
filers.  Taxpayers are allowed to take a personal exemption for
themselves and all dependents, set at $3,800 this year. The
exemption had been phased out for high-income taxpayers before
the George W. Bush tax cuts brought it back.  $42 Billion  The proposal is similar to one in Obama’s February 2012
budget plan that would begin phasing out the exemption and raise
$42 billion over the next decade. Under that plan, about 563,000
households are in the 36 percent bracket that would be most
affected by the personal exemption phaseout, according to an
analysis by Senate Finance Committee Republicans.  The exemption phaseout is the smallest of the six parts of
the George W. Bush-era tax cuts that Obama wants to eliminate
for top earners. It has received little attention during the
debate over averting tax increases and spending cuts scheduled
to begin in January.  A phaseout of the personal exemption would have the largest
proportional effect on people who earn less than $1 million a
year, said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the nonpartisan
Tax Policy Center in Washington.  “The guy who’s right above the point at which you’ve lost
everything is in the same situation as the person who’s $10
million above that point,” Williams said.  Many taxpayers in the top brackets don’t benefit from the
personal exemption because they must pay the alternative minimum
tax, a parallel system that takes back the exemption.  The deduction limit would have effects all the way up the
income scale. It would reduce the value of many itemized
deductions for high-income taxpayers. It would stop affecting
taxpayers when they lose 80 percent of their deductions, not at
a certain income level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  