-- Oil Advances After Progress on U.S. Budget Agreement
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-18T13:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/oil-advances-a-third-day-amid-optimism-on-u-s-budget-agreement.html
Oil rose for a third day in New York
on speculation that an agreement will be reached to avert a U.S.
budget impasse that would trigger automatic spending cuts and
tax increases next year, sapping demand for fuels.  West Texas Intermediate futures gained as much as 0.8
percent following yesterday’s close at the highest level in
almost two weeks. In discussions on the so-called fiscal cliff,
President  Barack Obama  made a new offer after House Speaker John Boehner dropped his opposition to raising tax rates for some top
earners. Crude supplies shrank last week while fuel stockpiles
rose, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  “It seems highly like that an acceptable compromise to
avert the fiscal cliff will emerge in time,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London.  Crude for January delivery climbed as much as 72 cents to
$87.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $87.76 at 1:35 p.m. London time. The
contract, which expires tomorrow, rose 47 cents to $87.20
yesterday, the highest close since Dec. 5. The more-actively
traded February future advanced 57 cents to $88.24 a barrel.  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained as much as 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $108.46 a barrel. The front-month European benchmark
contract was at a $20.10 premium to the corresponding WTI
future. The spread was $19.97 yesterday, the narrowest since
Oct. 19.  Budget Offer  Oil extended gains in New York after rebounding off an
upward-sloping trend line on the daily chart connecting the
intraday lows of June and November, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In the short term, crude’s advance may stall along
its 50-day moving average, around $87.62 a barrel today. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near technical-resistance levels.  The U.S. president’s budget offer would raise taxes by $1.2
trillion and boost tax rates for households earning more than
$400,000 a year, up from $250,000, said a person familiar with
the talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity. It would reduce
federal spending by $1.22 trillion.  Obama and Boehner are negotiating to avert more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to start in
January that threaten to derail the economic recovery. The U.S.
accounted for 21 percent of the world’s oil demand last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Seaway Expansion  WTI has declined 11 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the country’s largest
storage hub and the delivery point for New York futures. That
has left it at an average discount of $17.40 a barrel to Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the five
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has risen 1 percent this year.  The Brent-WTI spread narrowed yesterday in anticipation of
the expansion of the Seaway oil pipeline in early January.
Enterprise Product Partners LP will boost flows on Seaway, which
runs from Cushing to Freeport,  Texas , to about 400,000 barrels a
day next month from 135,000, according to a filing with the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. That may reduce the
Midwest crude glut and cut oil imports on the Gulf Coast, which
holds about 50 percent of U.S. refining capacity.  U.S. crude inventories probably fell  1 million barrels  in
the week ended Dec. 14, according to the median estimate of
seven analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Gasoline supplies may
have climbed 1.9 million barrels to the highest level in eight
months, while distillate stockpiles, including heating oil and
diesel, were up 1 million barrels, the survey showed.  The American Petroleum Institute in  Washington  will release
separate supply data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Separately, data on the Energy Department’s website showed
U.S. retail gasoline dropped 2.8 percent from last week to
$3.254 a gallon yesterday, the lowest price in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  