-- Oil Rises a Third Day on Signs of Progress in U.S. Budget
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-18T21:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/oil-rises-a-third-day-on-signs-of-progress-in-u-s-budget.html
Oil climbed for a third day in  New
York  on signs an agreement will be reached on the U.S. budget,
avoiding automatic spending cuts and tax increases next year.  Futures rose 0.8 percent after President  Barack Obama  made
a new offer on revenue and House Speaker  John Boehner  ended his
opposition to boosting tax rates for some top earners,
increasing optimism that the changes, the so-called fiscal
cliff, won’t happen. A report tomorrow will show that oil
stockpiles dropped, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The market is up on expectations that there will soon be
a resolution to the budget impasse and we’ll avoid the fiscal
cliff,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “If that
occurs, the economy should soar and demand will increase.”  Crude oil for January delivery advanced 73 cents to $87.93
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Dec. 4. The January contract expires tomorrow.
The more-actively traded February future rose 73 cents to settle
at $88.40.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. oil supplies fell 4.1 million barrels to
371.7 million last week. The January contract traded at $88.97 a
barrel at 4:33 p.m. the same as before the report’s release.  Brent oil for February settlement rose $1.20, or 1.1
percent, to end the session at $108.84 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The front-month European
benchmark ended the day at a $20.44 premium to the corresponding
West Texas Intermediate contract traded in New York. The spread
was $19.97 yesterday, the narrowest since Oct. 19.  Budget Offer  The president’s budget offer would raise taxes by $1.2
trillion and boost rates for households earning more than
$400,000 a year, said a person familiar with the talks, who
spoke on condition of anonymity. It would reduce federal
spending by $1.22 trillion.  “The potential avoidance of the fiscal cliff is giving the
market strength,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Boehner said today in Washington that he will push a budget
“Plan B” measure that would include tax increases on income of
more than $1 million, while continuing to negotiate with Obama.
He said he still hopes to reach a broader budget deal with the
president. The speaker said he expects the legislation to be on
the House floor by the end of the week.  “We’re moving on positive feelings that a way will be
found to avoid the fiscal cliff,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “The overtures from both the speaker of the House
and president are being fully embraced by the markets. A deal
would give us some needed stability.”  Budget Talks  Obama and Boehner are negotiating to avert more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to start in
January that threaten to derail the economic recovery. The U.S.
accounted for 21 percent of the world’s oil demand last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Oil also rose with equities, as the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  climbed 1.2 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
gained 0.9 percent. The dollar slipped as much as 0.6 percent
against the euro. A weaker U.S. currency increases the appeal of
dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment.  “It looks like there’s movement toward an agreement,”
said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF
Advisors in Houston. “This positive momentum has boosted the
stock market and a few days and oil is following stocks.”  Supply Glut  WTI has declined 11 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the country’s largest
storage hub and the delivery point for New York futures. That
has left it at an average discount of $17.36 a barrel to Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the five
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has risen 1.3 percent this year.  The Brent-WTI spread narrowed yesterday in anticipation of
the expansion of the Seaway oil pipeline next month. Enterprise
Product Partners LP will boost flows on Seaway, which runs from
Cushing to Freeport, Texas, to about 400,000 barrels a day in
early January from 135,000, filing with the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  showed. That may cut a Midwest crude glut.  The Energy Department will probably report that U.S. crude
inventories declined  1.75 million barrels  in the week ended Dec.
14, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in the
Bloomberg survey. Stockpiles of gasoline and distillate fuel, a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, climbed last
week, the survey showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 366,791
contracts as of 4:31 p.m. Volume totaled 489,772 contracts
yesterday, 5.1 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.51 million, the lowest level since Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  