-- Homebuilder Confidence Rises to Highest Level Since 2006
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/homebuilder-confidence-rises-to-highest-level-since-2006.html
Confidence among U.S.  homebuilders 
climbed in December for the eighth straight month, reaching its
highest level in more than six years and adding to signs the
 real-estate market  is aiding the economic expansion.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
of builder confidence increased to 47, the highest since April
2006, from a revised 45, the Washington-based group reported
today. The December figure matched the median forecast in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 49 economists.  Low  interest rates  and rising prices are bringing more
buyers into the market at the same time a growing number of
households boosts demand. That’s injected optimism at  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., which are
rebounding from the 2008 financial crisis that flooded the
market with foreclosures and brought building to a near halt.
Hovnanian is among companies that are raising prices.  “Builders across the country are reporting some of the
best sales conditions they’ve seen in more than five years, with
more serious buyers coming forward and a shrinking number of
vacant and foreclosed properties,” said NAHB Chairman Barry Rutenberg, a home builder from Gainesville,  Florida . “One thing
that is still holding back potential home sales is the
difficulty that many families are encountering in getting
qualified for a mortgage due to today’s overly stringent lending
standards.”  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 44 to 49. The
 index , first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in the five
years leading to the recession that began in December 2007. It
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of present  single-family  home
sales advanced to 51 in December, the highest since April 2006,
from 49 in November. A measure of sales expectations for the
next six months fell to 51 from a revised 52, which was the
highest since February 2007. A gauge of  buyer traffic  improved
to 36 from 35.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants about the outlook for
the next six months. A reading below 50 means more respondents
reported poor conditions. The main index hasn’t been above that
line since April 2006.  Regional Confidence  Regionally, confidence improved among builders in two of
four regions, led by the Midwest, where the gauge rose to 53
from 51.  The survey was taken about a month after superstorm Sandy,
which struck the Northeast on Oct. 29.  Hovnanian, based in  Red Bank ,  New Jersey , has raised prices
in more than half of its communities in the past year as the
supply of homes for sale shrinks, Chief Executive Officer Ara K. Hovnanian said.  “Record low interest rates, attractive  home prices , pent-
up demand, a lower supply of existing homes for sale,
improvement in the economy and employment and greater optimism
are all helping drive the housing recovery,” Hovnanian said on
a Dec. 13 earnings call. “This is occurring in spite of the
restrictive mortgage lending environment and the number of
underwater existing home buyers.”  For those who can qualify for a home loan, declining
mortgage costs are making it cheaper to buy a house. The average
fixed rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate purchase loan was 3.32
percent in the week ended Dec. 13, compared to 3.94 percent a
year ago, according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , based in McLean, Virginia.  A Commerce Department report tomorrow might show that
housing  starts  slowed in November after reaching a four-year
high the prior month. Builders broke ground on houses at an
annual rate of 871,000 last month, down from 894,000 in October,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 