-- Honda Rebound Aided as Consumer Reports Recommends Accord
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-18T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/honda-rebound-aided-as-consumer-reports-recommends-accord.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , stung by  Consumer
Reports ’ withering review of its Civic small car last year, got
a positive judgment for the revamped 2013 Accord that the
magazine said ranks among the market’s best midsize cars.  Among 4-cylinder engine sedans, the new Accord that went on
sale in September tops  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Sonata and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry, the Yonkers, New York-based magazine said
in a statement today. That version and the V-6 engine Accord
both earned the recommended status that eluded the 2012 Civic.  “Honda missed the mark with other redesigned models in
recent years, but it nailed this one,” Jake Fisher, director of
Consumer Reports Auto Test Center, said in the statement. The
mix of interior room, high fuel economy, ride and handling,
features and price underpin Accord’s appeal, the magazine said.  The upbeat assessment of Honda’s top-selling vehicle by the
magazine that calls itself the world’s largest independent
product-testing organization coincides with a rebound for the
carmaker in its biggest market. Along with the unfavorable Civic
review, 2011’s natural disasters in  Asia  slowed Honda production
for months and led to a 6.8 percent U.S. sales decline last
year. Through November, the Tokyo-based company’s sales
rebounded 24 percent.  Modified Civic  Honda in November released its modified 2013 Civic, with a
restyled interior, new front hood and grille, new rear
taillights, quieter cabin, and strengthened front-end to boost
crash safety to address the 2012 car’s shortcomings.  The new version of the best-selling U.S. small car is a
“major improvement,” Fisher said in an interview at the Los
Angeles Auto Show last month, without elaborating prior to the
magazine’s review.  Consumer Reports’ review of the new Accord appears today on
ConsumerReports.org and in the January issue of the magazine to
be published Dec. 27.  Honda’s U.S. unit is based in Torrance, California. The
company’s American depositary receipts gained 2.8 percent to
$34.91 at the close in  New York . They’ve risen 14 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  