-- Moody’s Seeks Feedback on Changes to Its Sovereign Rating Method
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-18T07:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/moody-s-seeks-feedback-on-changes-to-its-sovereign-rating-method.html
Moody’s Investors Service is seeking
feedback on changes to the way it rates governments to boost
transparency after being criticized for its methodology.  The proposed changes will place more importance on economic
growth and event risk of countries among its metrics, the
world’s second-largest credit-rating company said in a statement
today. The system will continue to focus on a nation’s
institutional and fiscal strength, it said.  In the past year, ratings companies have been criticized
for issuing sovereign-debt downgrades that countries including
Portugal, Greece and Ireland say triggered their need for
bailouts from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes this year, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The proposed amendments “are aimed at further increasing
the transparency and forward-looking nature of Moody’s current
approach,” it said today. Feedback will be received until Feb.
1, 2013, it said, adding that it does not expect any revisions
of current ratings when the changes are implemented.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s
suggested in 53 percent of the 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  While Moody’s and S&P face legal proceedings and increased
regulation after contributing to the worst financial calamity
since the Great Depression, politicians cite the grades as one
reason for austerity.  Moody’s has downgraded 6.4 government ratings for every
upgrade this year in the U.S. and  Europe , the highest ratio
since at least 2002, Bloomberg data show. S&P, Moody’s and  Fitch
Ratings , a unit of Paris-based Fimalac SA, provided more than 99
percent of rankings of government, municipal, and sovereign debt
and 96 percent of all outstanding grades last year, according to
a Nov. 15 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  