-- FDA Seeks to Balance Opioid Pain Needs With Addict Risks
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-18T18:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/opioid-painkillers-to-receive-closer-scrutiny-by-u-s-regulators.html
Regulators will reopen debate over
opioid painkillers next year as the U.S. government considers
ways to reconcile the needs of patients suffering chronic
ailments with the risks of addiction and recreational drug use.  The  Food and Drug Administration  plans a two-day public
hearing starting Feb. 7 after receiving “comments, petitions,
and informal inquiries concerning the extent to which opioid
drugs should be used in the treatment of pain.” The meeting is
intended to help understand how doctors define pain and measures
used to limit opioid use, the agency said today in a  statement .  The balancing act was highlighted two weeks ago when San
Diego-based drugmaker  Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX)  failed to persuade FDA
advisers to support approval of the first single-ingredient
hydrocodone pill. While the company showed the medicine worked
and presented patients from a trial who said the pill filled a
need in the market, advisers at the Dec. 7 meeting were swayed
by other stories of addiction and death.  “It is as complex an issue as I’ve seen in my 16 years at
FDA,” Douglas Throckmorton, deputy director at the agency’s
office that oversees drug reviews, said at a Dec. 10 conference
in Washington. “They are the most commonly prescribed
 prescription drugs  and they’re killing people.”  About 70 patient advocacy and health-care industry and
provider groups are seeking to overcome the negative perceptions
of painkillers by drawing attention to legitimate patients and
their need for access to prescription opioids, which share many
of the same narcotic traits as heroin.  ‘Not Addicts’  There’s a difference between being addicted and needing
pain medication to complete daily tasks just as someone with
high  blood pressure  depends on their pills, said Paul Gileno,
president of the Middletown, Connecticut-based  U.S. Pain
Foundation , in a phone interview. He said there’s a stigma pain
patients deal with even though “we know we’re not addicts.”  “If it’s safe for us to use, we want it to be available
for us so that it can help our pain,” said Gileno, who broke
his back at his catering business in 2003. “Overdose is
horrible and we don’t want to see that. We also want access.”  Some group members, including Gileno’s foundation, support
approval of Zogenix’s pure hydrocodone Zohydro. Other advocates
such as the  American Academy of Pain Management , based in
Sonora,  California , don’t support new painkillers without
tamper-resistant formulations that prevent the pills from being
crushed and snorted for a greater high, said Bob Twillman,
director of policy and advocacy for the group.  Tamper Resistant  The FDA expects to release a guideline on developing
tamper-resistant formulations next month, Throckmorton said. The
FDA will decide by March 1 if it will follow the panel’s advice
to block approval of Zogenix’s pill because of the risk of
abuse. Zogenix is researching a tamper-resistant version.  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  makes an extended-release
oxymorphone called Opana that is tamper resistant. The  Chadds
Ford , Pennsylvania-based company took its earlier version of
Opana without the abuse deterrent off the market. Now Endo is
suing the FDA to force the agency to say the earlier version was
unsafe for sale, a determination that would mean generic
competition can’t be cleared unless they’re tamper resistant as
well, said Blaine Davis, a spokesman for the company.  A hearing is set for tomorrow, Shibani Malhotra, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , said in a note to clients.  Impax Laboratories  FDA’s announcement of the February opioid meeting indicates
 Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL) , based in Hayward, California, will be
able to bring its non-tamper resistant, generic version of Opana
to market in January, Malhotra said. Impax’s product will only
be available temporarily, Malhotra said, as the FDA will
eventually find a way to prevent non-tamper resistant generics.  The FDA is considering two aspects of the opioid debate:
single-ingredient pills such as oxycodone and hydrocodone; and
combination pills like acetaminophen mixed Vicodin, which are
sold in lower doses and have fewer regulations.  Hydrocodone combinations are the most popular pharmacy
drugs in the U.S. with more than 130 million dispensed
 prescriptions  last year, according to IMS Health, a Parsippany,
New Jersey-based data company. The pills were also responsible
for 115,739 overdose-related emergency room visits in 2010,
double the tally in 2004, according to the Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration.  Drug Schedules  Advisers to the FDA will meet Jan. 24-25 to discuss the
risks and benefits of hydrocodone combinations used as pain
relievers or cough suppressants. The Drug Enforcement
Administration asked the FDA, which regulates pharmaceutical
sales, to recommend stricter regulations on those painkillers.  The DEA is seeking to change drug classifications in a way
that would require more interaction with doctors in order for
people to obtain those combination products.  Members of the pain forum wrote Congress last month asking
lawmakers to convene a  task force  from the  Department of Health 
and Human Services or a think tank to come up with ideas to
coordinate the government’s efforts to stem opioid abuse.  “While appropriate policies must empower law enforcement
officials to act aggressively against individuals and entities
actually engaging in diversion or abuse, diversion/abuse control
actions must be balanced against the needs of health-care
providers to provide care to legitimate patients,” the
organizations, including the U.S. Pain Foundation and the
 American Academy  of Pain Management, wrote Nov. 7.  DEA Crackdown  The biggest roadblocks have come from the DEA, said Kevin
Nicholson, vice president of government affairs and public
policy for the National Association of Chain Drug Stores. The
association, a Washington-based lobby group for companies such
as  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , is part of the coalition with the patient
advocates and also signed onto the letter.  The DEA has cracked down on retail pharmacies and drug
distributors that sell high amounts of controlled substances,
Nicholson said in a telephone interview.  A  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  distribution center was blocked from
shipping controlled substances in September after it was
determined to be a threat to public safety. The facility was the
largest distributor of oxycodone products in  Florida  since 2009,
the DEA said.  The pharmacy group said it supports prescription drug
monitoring programs that have been implemented or are being put
in place in every state except  Missouri . They want a commission
to figure out how to use the information, currently being
collected by each state, more effectively.  In New York, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman touted
monitoring legislation he proposed when his office arrested a
doctor in Westchester who allegedly sold $450,000 worth of
oxycodone to a drug dealer. The measure passed in June creates
an Internet tracking system for controlled substances that
doctors review and update when prescribing patients powerful
painkillers.  The forum has gotten mixed responses from Congress,
Nicholson said.  “We’re hopeful that it will lead to something more,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  