-- Orange Juice Jumps to Seven-Month High on Dry Florida Weather
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-12-18T19:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/orange-juice-jumps-to-seven-month-high-on-dry-florida-weather.html
Orange-juice futures climbed to a
seven-month high on speculation that damage to citrus groves
from dry weather in  Florida , the world’s second-largest grower,
will be more extensive than the government forecast.  Precipitation in the state will be below normal during the
first half of January, Donald Keeney, a senior meteorologist at
MDA Information Systems Inc. in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said
today in an e-mail. On Dec. 11, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture cut its forecast for Florida output by 5.2 percent.  Dry weather is causing fruit to spoil as it drops from
trees at the highest rate in 43 years, the USDA said, citing
data for non-Valencia oranges, which include early, mid-season,
and navel varieties. Prices rose 12 percent in seven sessions,
the longest rally in three months, signaling higher costs for
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Tropicana juices and Coca-Cola Co.’s Minute Maid.  “The drier outlook over the next two weeks may be enough
to hold the market up,” Sterling Smith, a market specialist at
Citigroup in  Chicago  said in a e-mailed report.  Orange juice for March delivery rose 1.1 percent to settle
at $1.40 a pound at 1:50 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S., after
touching $1.41, the highest for a most-active contract since May
1. The rally during the past month has pared this year’s decline
to 17 percent.  While normally 255 pieces of fruit would fill a 90-pound
(41-kilogram) box, it may take as many as 300 this year because
the lack of sufficient rainfall yielded smaller oranges, Jerry Neff, a branch manager at Allendale Inc. in Bradenton, Florida,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  