-- House-Senate Defense Conference Agrees on $640.7 Billion
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/house-senate-defense-conference-agrees-on-631-billion-measure.html
House and Senate negotiators agreed
on U.S. defense legislation authorizing about $640.7 billion in
the current fiscal year for the Pentagon and related programs at
agencies such as the Energy Department.  The annual authorization legislation calls for added
economic sanctions on  Iran , while giving President  Barack Obama 
more time to implement them, lawmakers told reporters yesterday
at the Capitol. The administration had said it was too soon to
add to the sanctions already in place.  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the  California 
Republican who heads the House Armed Services Committee, said
the measure will be brought to the House floor for final
approval tomorrow, followed by a Senate vote that would clear
the bill for the president to sign.  The measure includes provisions that would require defense
contractors to report computer security breaches and would
reduce restrictions on exports of commercial satellites.  The bill authorizes $633.3 billion under the direct
jurisdiction of the congressional defense committees, or about
$1.7 billion more than requested by Obama. The bill also
includes $88.5 billion to continue funding for combat in
 Afghanistan .  The legislation asks the Pentagon to weigh three options
for an East Coast missile-defense system, delaying action on
that issue. The U.S. currently has interceptor silos in Alaska
and California. The measure also would prohibit the transfer to
the U.S. of detainees from the U.S. military prison at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where accused and suspected terrorists are
held.  Veto Prospects  Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Senate Armed Services Committee, predicted yesterday that Obama
will sign the final bill. Aides to the president had warned that
they might recommend he veto an earlier version over a number of
provisions.  The spending outlined in the authorization bill won’t take
effect unless funding is provided later by the congressional
appropriations committees. The measure also doesn’t account for
the possibility of automatic defense cuts that would be required
under the process called sequestration.  Those across-the-board cuts would reduce defense spending
by about $500 billion over a decade, starting Jan. 2, unless
Obama and Congress agree on a deal to avert the combination of
tax increases and spending cuts known as the fiscal cliff.  In a time of budget cuts, the negotiators approved plans
for five-year purchases of major weapons systems including the
Marine Corps’ V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft, the Navy’s
Virginia-class attack submarine and DDG-51 Arleigh Burke
destroyer and the Army’s CH-47 Chinook heavy-lift helicopter.  V-22, Destroyer  The measure would benefit defense contractors including
 Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , makers of the V-22, and submarine
and destroyer producers  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The bill also would terminate payments for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System, which the U.S.,  Italy  and  Germany 
agreed to develop seven years ago to replace the Patriot defense
system.  The administration had requested a final $400 million to
phase out MEADS. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, the German
ambassador to the U.S. and the Italian defense minister all
wrote lawmakers urging them to preserve the funding.  Lawmakers moved to cut off MEADS because “we’re not going
to use it,” Levin said in an interview. “We don’t see the
value outweighs the cost.”  The measure also would provide a 1.7 percent pay increase
for military personnel, as requested by the administration.  The defense authorization bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  