-- How Global Headwinds Are Slowing Indian Growth
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/how-global-headwinds-are-slowing-indian-growth.html
India  hasn’t been spared the effects
of the recession and the recent slowing of global growth.  Weak Chinese imports in particular have had a distinctly
negative impact on suppliers such as South Korea,  Taiwan ,
 Indonesia ,  Australia  and Brazil. In the 2010-2011 fiscal year,
India’s trade gap with  China  jumped to $28 billion, its largest
shortfall with a trading partner.  India wants to shift its exports to China to value-added
products such as pharmaceuticals from raw materials such as
copper and iron ore, which account for about half the total.  Another headwind was the weak monsoon this year. About 60
percent of Indian farmland depends on monsoon rainfall, which
was 7 percent less than long-run averages. In reaction, farmers
planted fewer summer crops. They also pumped more water from
wells because reservoirs were depleted. That, in turn, required
more spending on  diesel fuel . The added costs, plus the
anticipated poor harvests, are squeezing farmers’ discretionary
spending.  Adding to those external detriments to economic growth,
India’s leaders recently have introduced a number of policy
measures that, though they may be politically necessary,
discourage domestic and foreign investment.  Retroactive Taxation  Early this year, the government proposed taxes on
transactions in which Indian assets were transferred between
foreign entities, to be applied retroactively. The proposal
would override an Indian Supreme Court decision in January that
U.K. mobile-phone company  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  isn’t liable for
more than $2 billion in taxes on a 2007 deal it made to enter
the Indian market.  Another proposal would establish an anti-tax-avoidance
policy that investors worry would allow the government to tax
investments in India conducted from offshore  tax havens  such as
Mauritius.  The plan puts the responsibility on investors, many of them
foreigners, to prove that they didn’t structure corporate deals
to avoid taxes. About $692 million in foreign capital left the
 Indian stock market  in the three days after that proposal was
announced.  Another deterrent to  foreign direct investment  is the
recent proposal to extend pharmaceutical price controls to 60
percent of the 348 drugs that the government considers
“essential” from the current 20 percent.  The price restrictions would extend beyond generics to
patented drugs for the first time. This is a response to the
government’s concern about the two-thirds of Indians who lack
health insurance and the fact that Indians pay 70 percent of
their health-care costs out of pocket.  Then there is the recent rash of scandals involving
government officials, especially “Coalgate,” in which
companies -- some controlled by senior members of the ruling
Congress Party -- illegally acquired coal block mining licenses
between 2008 and 2011. India’s Federal Auditor reported that the
government lost as much as $33 billion by allocating licenses
without transparent auctions.  The global economic headwinds and the bad economic policy
decisions have had significant negative consequences for
India. The mushrooming foreign trade and  current-account 
deficits are serious concerns, because the foreign funds
required to finance the shortfalls have largely dried up.  The  trade deficit  grew 56 percent, to $185 billion, in the
2011-2012 fiscal year, compared with the previous year, as oil
and gold import prices rose. The trade and current-account
deficits, about 4 percent of gross domestic product, are
significantly driven by oil imports, and global crude  oil prices 
are likely to remain high. India imports about three-fourths of
its petroleum consumption.  Equity Troubles  When it comes to  foreign investment , private-equity
companies poured into India-oriented funds from 2005 to 2007,
when the Indian stock market was booming. Now the private-equity
investors are having trouble raising money for India funds
because of the  fiscal  and current-account deficits, slowing
growth and uncertain outlook for stocks.  Returns on Indian-oriented private equity funds have been
poor in recent years, and a decline in initial public offerings
makes it difficult for investors to profit. In 2011, private-
equity companies sold stakes worth $3 billion via Indian IPOs or
through mergers and acquisitions, down from $7 billion in 2010.  With the high trade and current-account deficits and
foreign money abandoning India, it isn’t surprising that the
rupee has lost strength. The weak currency creates difficulties
for Indian companies with foreign-currency bonds as well as for
foreign investors in Indian debt.  In the  boom years  from 2005 to 2007, when Indian real GDP
was growing at an 8 percent annual rate and the stock market
jumped, the rupee was strong, reaching a record 40 rupees per
dollar; today, the dollar trades at about 54.5 rupees. As a
result, Indian companies sold huge quantities of bonds to
foreigners.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has attempted to support the
rupee by encouraging foreign purchases of  government bonds ,
hoping that investors would be attracted by  yields  of more than
8 percent, exceeding even those for the debt of Spain and Italy.  Foreign investors are often only interested in India bonds,
however, if they can hedge their currency exposure, but the RBI
has also made it more difficult for traders to bet against the
rupee with futures contracts.  The central bank has attempted to attract money from
offshore Indians by offering them higher  interest rates  on  bank
deposits  in India. In addition, in May, it forced foreign-
exchange earners to convert 50 percent of their foreign currency
holdings to rupees. None of these actions has produced lasting
support for the beleaguered currency.  Export Obstacles  The weak rupee does make Indian goods cheaper abroad. The
effect is limited, however, because exports account for only 16
percent of India’s GDP, compared with 26 percent for China.
Furthermore, the costs of exporting goods in India are more than
twice as high as in China and exceed even those in the U.S. and
the U.K. For India, the lack of infrastructure and prevalence of
graft increase costs and impede trade.  In April,  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its outlook on India’s
long-term debt to negative and warned of a possible credit
downgrade. S&P pointed to political gridlock and said there was
a one-in-three chance of a downgrade from BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, to junk, over the next two years “if the
external position continues to deteriorate, growth prospects
diminish, or progress in fiscal reforms remain slow in a
weakened political setting.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings didn’t join S&P
in its negative outlook, though they rated India at the lowest
investment grade, just above junk.  With a subdued global economy, investment-depressing
government policy and declining foreign direct investment,
private corporate  capital spending  in India has been on the
decline. It has fallen from 14 percent of GDP before the
financial crisis of 2008 to 10 percent in the 2011 fiscal year,
and even more in recent quarters.  In the past, growth in capital formation in India
correlated well with global GDP growth. Recently, however, it
has dropped below zero while global GDP growth is running at
about 4.5 percent year-over-year.  This trend suggests structural problems such as an
inhospitable government policy. The  World Bank ’s Doing Business
Rankings consistently put India behind the other BRIC nations --
Brazil, Russia and China. According to the  World Economic Forum ,
India’s global competitiveness fell to 56th place in 2011 from
49th in 2009.  Among other things, the downgrade reflected deteriorating
transparency in government decision-making and the relative slow
growth in infrastructure.  Slipping Growth  India’s  real GDP  grew 8.4 percent for both the 2010 and
2011 fiscal years. It slipped to 6.9 percent for the year ending
March 31, 2012. In the second calendar quarter of this year, it
grew only 5.5 percent from a year earlier, a low rate in a
developing country that needs at least that much growth to
accommodate the 13 million entrants to the  labor force  each
year.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts 4.9 percent real
economic growth for 2012, lower than its July forecast of 6.1
percent and the lowest in a decade.  Industrial production is falling. The HSBC India
Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index remains above 50,
indicating expansion, though at a slower pace. Compared with the
other BRICs, in 2011, India had the highest  inflation rate , the
highest  unemployment rate , the worst current-account balance and
the worst budget balance as a percentage of GDP.  The stock market is often a good gauge of a nation’s
economic and financial health, and the two-year slide in the
Indian market indicates a sick patient.  Falling  stock prices  are no match for bank deposit rates of
8 percent to 9 percent and yields of more than 8 percent on
government 10-year bonds. In response, the government is giving
tax breaks to individual investors with less than 1 million
rupees ($18,000) in annual income who invest as much as 50,000
rupees in stocks annually and hold the securities for at least
three years.  In India,  gold prices  and purchases are also major
indicators of economic well-being. Ornate necklaces, armlets,
earrings, bangles, chains and finger rings are essential parts
of a Hindu bride’s trousseau and are usually bought by her
parents. The World Gold Council reports that 27 percent of
global demand for gold jewelry and investment comes from India.  Nevertheless, gold purchases in India have fallen
dramatically, with demand for jewelry down 30 percent in the
first six months of this year compared with a year earlier, and
investment demand is down by 45 percent.  Early this year, the Bombay Bullion Association forecast a
20 percent drop in gold imports because of the weakening rupee.
It revised its projection to a 40 percent drop after the weak
monsoon and the widespread closing of jewelry stores for 21 days
to protest higher domestic taxes on gold jewelry and gold
imports.  The situation is so dire that the government was forced to
rescind the tax increase on gold jewelry.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the third in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  