-- Toyota RAV4 Slumping Toward Redesign in Market It Created
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-18T21:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/toyota-rav4-slumping-toward-redesign-in-market-it-created.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s RAV4 was an
oddity when it went on sale in the mid-1990s: a tiny, low-priced
alternative to hulking sport-utility vehicles such as its own
4Runner and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Explorer. It was a hit.  Now it lags behind  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s CR-V and Ford’s
Escape, which arrived later. With U.S. demand for compact light
trucks expanding, Toyota has put a higher priority on RAV4 as
part of a redesign for the 2013 model year, said Bill Fay, group
vice president for U.S. sales.  “It was a great concept and we’ve done well with it, but
we never took it and ran with it as hard as we’ve run with” the
Camry sedan, Fay said of the RAV4 in an interview in Scottsdale
 Arizona . “It’s a complete package this time.”  The revamping makes the RAV4 look more like a wagon and
less like a truck-based SUV, reflecting changes in the segment.
The new version arrives amid Toyota’s U.S. rebound after three
years of recession, recalls and natural disasters that have hurt
demand for its cars and trucks. Through November, Toyota’s U.S.
sales surged 29 percent from a year earlier, and the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker expects its U.S. vehicle sales to
top 2 million for the first time in four years.  Including so-called sport wagons, U.S. sales of small SUVs
totaled 2.89 million this year through November, or 22 percent,
of the 13.1 million light vehicles purchased, according to
Autodata Corp. The segment trails only midsize cars, led by
Toyota’s Camry, at 3.3 million units, according to the Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based researcher.  Sales of compact utility vehicles should grow 6.4 percent
in 2013, according to IHS Automotive -- faster than compact car
sales projected to rise 5.8 percent and midsize autos at 4.9
percent, based on IHS Automotive data.  2013 RAV4  While RAV4 sales jumped 33 percent to 157,526 through
November, it trails CR-V, the top-selling U.S. SUV, by nearly
100,000 units. Ford’s Escape follows with 240,877 sales through
last month, and even  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevy Equinox outsold
RAV4 this year, with 199,070 deliveries.  The restyled RAV4, unveiled last month at the Los Angeles
Auto Show, sports a lower roofline and sleeker exterior for a
more contemporary, wagon-like look. The spare tire, previously
carried on a side-hinged rear door, is hidden in the rear cargo
area, making the new model look less like an SUV.  Yoshikazu Saeki, the model’s deputy engineer, said that the
old RAV4’s spare tire on the rear door gave the vehicle a more
“old-fashioned look” compared with competitors.  Evolving Vehicles  Ford a year ago similarly altered Escape, also unveiled in
Los Angeles, eschewing a rugged exterior look in favor of a more
wagon-type appearance to try to overtake CR-V.  Toyota also will no longer offer optional V-6 engines or
three rows of seats. The company’s strategy is to nudge
customers needing such options to the larger Highlander.  “What’s happened is these products have been redefined;
they’ve evolved to match the times,” said Jim Hall, principal
of auto consulting firm 2953 Analytics in Birmingham,  Michigan .  The new RAV4’s pricing is also intended to boost its
appeal. While the base model starts at $23,000, compared with
entry-level CR-V and Escape prices of $22,795 and $22,470,
respectively, Toyota says RAV4 has more standard equipment,
including a backup camera and hands-free Bluetooth system.  Top-end Limited RAV4s with all-wheel-drive cost $28,410,
compared with $30,295 for an AWD CR-V EX with leather and
$32,120 for a Titanium grade four-wheel-drive Escape, according
to Honda and Ford websites.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts rose 3.1 percent to
$89.25 at the close in New York. They’ve risen 35 percent this
year.  200,000 Target  Toyota is also counting on the new RAV4’s increased space
and improved fuel economy to reach a 200,000-unit sales target
next year, Fay said in Los Angeles last month.  A year after its introduction in  Japan , Toyota began
selling RAV4 in the U.S. in 1996. Initially available in both
two- and four-door versions, the company touted it as a “new
concept” SUV. The name stood for Recreational Active Vehicle
with four-wheel drive.  The original model was derived from Toyota’s Corolla sedan,
developed to solve a production dilemma, Hall said.  “There was too much Corolla capacity in Japan at the time,
so it was created to round out plant capacity, since it was
built on the Corolla line,” he said.  Toyota already had SUVs, including the truck-based 4Runner
and Land Cruiser, so it wasn’t initially as focused on the RAV4
as Honda was on CR-V, according to Hall.  “Honda didn’t have anything in the truck space at the
time, aside from the Passport -- a rebadged Isuzu SUV,” Hall
said. “For Honda, CR-V was a product of desperation.”  Honda Battle  When Honda’s first CR-V arrived in the U.S. in 1997,
derived from its Civic platform, it was available only as four-
door model. Honda dealers had an incentive to push CR-V because
it was more profitable for them than Passport, Hall said. The
Passport was made at an Indiana plant co-owned at that time by
 Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)   “They didn’t want the product originally,” Hall said.
“That changed when they understood that a Honda-produced
vehicle made more money for them than one supplied by Isuzu.”  Toyota’s Fay and Saeki both said the carmaker’s larger line
of cars and trucks than Honda prevented it from focusing
intensely on RAV4.  “Perhaps because of that we haven’t had the investment in
it long-term that would have made it the class or segment
leader,” Fay said.  While Toyota’s sales goal for the new model isn’t to
overtake CR-V in the U.S., “We’re going to be much more
competitive,” Fay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  