-- Toyota Fined Record $17.4 Million for Not Reporting Flaws
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-19T00:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/toyota-fined-record-17-4-million-for-failing-to-report-defects.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the company that
has paid the most in fines to the U.S. auto-safety regulator,
agreed to pay a $17.4 million civil penalty for delaying reports
of a vehicle defect.  The new fine stems from a June recall for Lexus RX 350s and
RX 450h vehicles where the accelerator pedal could catch on the
driver’s side floor mat, causing it to stick and accelerate when
the driver didn’t intend to. It’s Toyota’s second penalty since
2010 for delayed reporting of defects.  “It’s critical to the safety of the driving public that
manufacturers report safety defects in a timely manner,” U.S.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator  David Strickland 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Every moment of delay
has the potential to lead to deaths or injuries on our nation’s
highways.”  The fine is a record civil penalty for a single violation
and the maximum amount the agency can assess, the NHTSA said in
the statement. It adds to scrutiny of the automaker by the
agency for defects that can cause unintended acceleration.  “The government’s clearly setting an example of Toyota,”
Michelle Krebs, an analyst with automotive researcher
Edmunds.com, said in a telephone interview. “There is a need to
take action when they start getting reports” from consumers of
problems with their vehicles.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , rose 2 percent to
3,795 yen as of 9:44 a.m. in Tokyo trading. The benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average advanced 1.4 percent.  The automaker paid NHTSA $48.8 million in 2010 for three
investigations stemming from delays in reporting defects that
could cause unintended acceleration.  Toyota said in a statement it agreed to the penalty
“without admitting to any violation of its obligations under
the U.S. Safety Act.”  Pedal Entrapment  “We agreed to this settlement in order to avoid a time-
consuming dispute and to focus fully on our shared commitment
with NHTSA to keep drivers safe,” Ray Tanguay, chief quality
officer of Toyota North America, said in the statement.  Automakers are required to notify NHTSA of safety defects
within five business days of determining one exists or that a
vehicle doesn’t comply with U.S. vehicle safety standards.  NHTSA said it noticed a trend in early 2012 in pedal
entrapment by floor mats in the Lexus sport-utility vehicles. In
May, the NHTSA contacted Toyota about the trend and learned in
June that the company knew of 63 alleged incidents of possible
floor mat pedal entrapment in those SUVs since 2009. By the time
the recall was announced June 29, NHTSA said it knew of 97
reports of pedal entrapment in the SUVs.  ‘Poster Child’  “The government is making clear that they’re serious and
slapping them hard on the wrist again because they didn’t move
fast enough on this one,” Krebs said. “The government is
really putting the hammer down and using Toyota as the poster
child.”  In June, Toyota recalled 154,036 of the vehicles in the
U.S. for possible floor-mat interference with pedals. In 2009
and 2010, Toyota recalled more than 10 million cars and trucks
worldwide for pedals that could stick and cause unintended
acceleration and floor mats that could trap accelerator pedals.  Toyota, as part of the settlement announced yesterday,
agreed to make internal changes to quality assurance and review
of safety in the U.S., NHTSA said.  “With today’s announcement, I expect Toyota to rigorously
reinforce its commitment to adhering to United States safety
regulations,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  