-- Paulson, Griffin, DiMenna Keep Ballerinas on Their Toes
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/paulson-griffin-dimenna-keep-ballerinas-on-their-toes.html
As the year closes, Scene Last Night
takes a look at the causes that people in finance tend to
cluster around. Today: The Hedge Funder Balletomanes.  “The ballet is a beautiful art form, it’s so sculptural,”
 John Paulson  said after a Dec. 8 performance of “The
Nutcracker” at  New York  City Ballet. Balanchine’s holiday
fantasy extravaganza, which the hedge-fund manager took in with
his family from orchestra seats, is a favorite. “I’ve seen it
so many times here -- you can’t see it enough,” Paulson said.  Naturally the Paulsons help the ballet raise money, as do
many families with hedge-fund pedigree. Lisa Falcone, wife of
Philip A. Falcone, is on the board of  New York City Ballet .
 William Ackman , of Pershing Square Capital Management, and Kinga
Lampert, wife of  Edward Lampert  of ESL Partners LP, are on the
board of  American Friends of the Paris Opera & Ballet , whose
dance company had a U.S. tour this past summer.  Looking ahead, Paulson’s wife, Jenny, will be a chairman of
the  School of American Ballet Winter Ball  on March 11, 2013.
Another chairman will be Diana DiMenna, wife of hedge-fund
manager Joe DiMenna, whose daughter Tess was a soldier in “The
Nutcracker.”  The pull of the ballet may be the art form itself, or
having a child studying ballet. Another is the fun of a ballet
party, as dancers double as some of the most chic party guests
ever.  In Costume  At the “Nutcracker” family benefit, the dancers stayed in
their costumes as they greeted guests on the promenade of the
David H. Koch Theater, made magical for the occasion.  Snow-covered Christmas trees surrounded the Elie Nadelman
sculptures, tables were decorated with gingerbread houses and
Santa stopped by. One of Paulson’s daughters snagged an
autograph from Olivia Boisson, a Flower, while Paulson posed for
a photograph with Sara Adams, the lead Marzipan Shepherdess.  This event raised $700,000 with leadership from chairmen
including Amy Griffin, wife of Blue Ridge Capital LLC’s John Griffin. The Griffins had a son this autumn, named Julian, after
John Griffin’s mentor, Tiger Management LLC’s  Julian Robertson .
Judging from a photograph shown by a beaming dad, this little
boy has all the makings of a Nutcracker Prince.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on film,  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter at @amandagordon  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 