-- PepsiCo Pop Star Beyonce Asked to Ditch Marketing Deal
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-12-18T21:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/pepsico-pop-star-beyonce-asked-to-ditch-50-million-deal.html
An anti-soda group has asked singer
Beyonce to ditch an endorsement deal with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , saying
its products contribute to obesity.  “You occupy a unique position in the cultural life of this
country and are an inspiring role model for millions of young
people,” Michael F. Jacobson, executive director of Center for
Science in the Public Interest, wrote in a letter to Beyonce
released by the group. “By lending your name and image to
PepsiCo, you are associating your positive attributes with a
product that is quite literally sickening Americans.”  PepsiCo said last week it had extended its 10-year
endorsement relationship with Beyonce in a deal that will
include new music and video content, collaborative designs and
fresh ad campaigns. Beyonce, a 16-time Grammy-award winning pop
singer, will headline the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl
halftime show in February, which is sponsored by PepsiCo.  In past years, the Washington-based CSPI helped pressure
 Kellogg Co. (K)  to adopt nutritional standards for marketing to
children, pushed  New York  City and later the  U.S. Congress  to
mandate menu calorie labels and threatened in 2006 to sue soft
drink companies over high-calorie drinks. The group’s 1998
report, “Liquid Candy: How Soft Drinks are Harming America’s
Health,” ramped up pressure on soda makers to more clearly
label products and market less to children.  Sugar-sweetened drinks are the largest source of added
sugar in youth diets in the U.S., according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Childhood obesity
more than tripled in the past 30 years, the agency says.  Obesity-related health problems have a disproportionate
impact on low-income, African-American and Hispanic communities,
Jacobson said, asking Beyonce to reconsider the Pepsi-Cola deal
or donate the proceeds to health causes.  A voice mail seeking comment from Beyonce’s publicist,
Yvette Noel-Schure, wasn’t immediately returned.  Peter Land , a
Pepsi spokesman, declined to comment.  PepsiCo rose 0.2 percent to $70.53 at the close in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  