-- Peugeot Appoints Former EADS Chief Gallois to Its Board
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-12-18T16:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/peugeot-to-name-eads-s-louis-gallois-to-board-union-says.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  appointed  Louis Gallois , former head of planemaker Airbus’s owner, as France’s
board representative at Europe’s second-biggest carmaker
following the government’s move to help the company’s bank unit.  Gallois will take his seat on Peugeot’s supervisory board
after ratification at the annual  shareholders’ meeting  on April
24, the Paris-based company said in a statement today.  The French state and Peugeot’s labor unions each won board
representation at the manufacturer as part of an agreement on
Oct. 24 for the government to guarantee as much as 7 billion
euros ($9.2 billion) in new bonds sold by the carmaker’s Banque
PSA Finance division.  Debt at Banque PSA has the lowest investment grade at
Moody’s Investors Service, which said on Nov. 14 that it’s
reviewing whether to cut the rating because of the bank’s ties
to the car-manufacturing parent company. Peugeot’s debt was
 reduced  to three levels below junk at Moody’s on Oct. 10.  Gallois, 68, ran Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence
& Space Co. (EAD)  for almost six years until May 2012, starting as co-
chief executive officer in mid-2006 and holding the post alone
following a reorganization in August 2007. Gallois published a
report last month on France’s business competitiveness that was
commissioned by President  Francois Hollande .  Peugeot is taking steps to shrink its French automotive
workforce by 11,200 positions, or 17 percent, over the next two
years. The automaker is closing a factory on the outskirts of
Paris, selling assets and working on a vehicle and component
alliance with Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  as Europe’s auto
market shrinks this year to the lowest volume since 1995.  Peugeot said on Dec. 15 that it’s close to completing a
deal with a pool of banks to refinance debt at Banque PSA. Talks
with lenders are “on track” and should lead to an agreement by
the Dec. 25 Christmas holiday, Carole Dupont-Pietri, Peugeot’s
head of  investor relations , said today by phone. She declined to
provide details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  