-- Pfizer Said to Fire 20% of U.S. Primary-Care Sales Force
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-18T21:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/pfizer-to-fire-about-20-percent-of-u-s-primary-care-sales-force.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the company that lost
its patent a year ago on the top-selling drug Lipitor, is firing
almost 20 percent of its roughly 3,000-person sales force for
primary-care drugs, said a person familiar with the matter.  The cuts, about 600 positions, are to begin this month and
are part of the New York-based company’s continuing effort to
lower costs, said the person, who asked not to be named because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Pfizer has been cutting expenses under Chief Executive
Officer Ian Read as it seeks to reposition itself after the loss
of Lipitor, the cholesterol-lowering medicine that generated
$9.6 billion in revenue in 2011. Read has said he’s refocusing
the company to bring new drugs to market as it continues to
integrate a decade’s worth of acquisitions.  “As part of our strategy to allocate our resources,
investments and people to the areas that best serve our patients
and customers, we continually evaluate how we can be more
efficient and effective,” Mackay Jimeson, a Pfizer spokesman,
wrote in an e-mail. “As a result, we are making changes in some
segments of our field force to better match the future needs of
the business.”  Pfizer rose 1.1 percent to $25.64 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
The stock is up 18 percent since the start of the year.  Primary-care drugs make up Pfizer’s  top-selling products ,
and include the erectile dysfunction pill Viagra, pain therapy
Lyrica and the arthritis treatment Celebrex.  Pfizer had 103,700 employees at the end of 2011, according
to corporate filings. The company may hire more workers this
spring, assuming the U.S. approval and sales start of its
experimental blood thinner Eliquis, according to the person.
Pfizer is developing Eliquis with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  The
two companies will split sales.  Before the firings, Pfizer had about 3,000 primary-care
salespeople and managers, according to PharmaForce
International, which tracks drugmaker sales forces and provides
market intelligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  