-- Polish Job Growth Declined in November as Companies Cut
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-12-18T13:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/polish-job-growth-declined-in-november-as-companies-cut.html
Polish employment declined for the
first time in more than two years in November as the euro area’s 
debt crisis slowed the expansion of the European Union’s biggest 
eastern economy.  Employment growth  at companies with more than nine workers
fell 0.3 percent after staying at zero between July and October,
the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office  said today. That was
the first drop since March 2010 and exceeded the median estimate
for a 0.2 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey of 22
economists. Hiring fell 0.2 percent from October.  Poland’s  economy  grew 1.4 percent in three months through
September from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the second
quarter of 2009. Growth will ease to 1.5 percent next year, the
least since 2002 and down from 4.3 percent last year, according
to the central bank’s forecast.  Today’s report confirmed the slowdown is deepening “as the
euro-area recession worsens local manufacturers’ prospects and
the negative impact of a weakening labor market leads to lower
consumer demand,” Cezary Chrapek, an economist at Citibank
Handlowy in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed note.  Polish manufacturing remained in a downturn for an eighth
month in November, HSBC Holdings Plc said Dec. 3. Fiat SpA said
four days later that it will eliminate 1,500 jobs in  Poland  as
the European auto market, with  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer
seeking to reduce costs as  Europe ’s auto market heads toward a
17-year low.  Average  gross wages  rose 2.7 percent last month from a year
earlier after growing an annual 2.8 percent in October, the
statistics office said in a separate release. That compares with
the 2.9 percent median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Wages advanced 1.7 percent from October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  