-- Polymetal Sees Platinum Attractive Amid South African Strikes
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-12-18T12:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/polymetal-sees-platinum-attractive-amid-south-african-strikes.html
Polymetal International Plc (POLY) ,
 Russia ’s largest silver producer, bought its first platinum
field and said it sees metal as promising for diversification.  “We see platinum as attractive metal especially given the
recent events in  South Africa ,” Vitaly Nesis, chief executive
officer said by phone today, referring to labor strikes in that
country. Polymetal, which also mines gold, said today it agreed
to pay $10 million for the Svetlobor platinum exploration
project in Russia’s Sverdlovsk region.  Platinum output worldwide dropped by about 10 percent, or
600,000 ounces, this year through the third quarter, compared
with the same period in 2011, according to  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) 
data. More than 500,000 ounces of the decline was in South
Africa, where strikes over pay have shut some mines. That has
helped drive up the metal’s price by 16 percent this year to
$1,612.30 per ounce.  Polymetal, with central offices in  St. Petersburg , said it
paid with shares to purchase 24.99 percent in Svetlobor, while
VTB Capital acquired the remaining stake. Polymetal plans to buy
VTB’s stake once regulatory approval is granted, it said. The
transaction will be fully paid by exchanging 0.14 percent of
newly issued Polymetal stock, according to the statement.  Svetlobor provides “a unique opportunity” among other
advantages, as is located in an area where Polymetal has
developed infrastructure, Nesis said. The project is at an early
stage of geological exploration with about 20 wells drilled in
2005-2010, he said. Between 1824 to 2003, more than 7 million
ounces of platinum were recovered in the area by placer miners,
Polymetal said in a statement on the purchase. This may indicate
a substantial amount of ore resources, according to Nesis.  Resources Audit  Polymetal company would “be glad” to look into other
platinum resources, but it doesn’t expect that a good
opportunity may occur soon, according to Nesis.  “Although this will have next to no impact on the near-
term outlook for the company, the potential diversification into
platinum is an interesting strategic move,” which also
highlights the value potential for platinum assets outside of
South Africa or  Zimbabwe , Nomura said in a note today.  Shares in Polymetal rose 0.9 percent to 1,192 pence in
London trading today as of 4:00 p.m. local time.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD)  is the largest producer of platinum
in Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  