-- Prince Charles Gives Conran Medal for Arts Philanthropy
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/prince-charles-gives-conran-medal-for-arts-philanthropy.html
Prince Charles, heir to the British
throne, rewarded designer Terence Conran and four other
recipients for their contributions to the arts.  They received the Prince of Wales Medal for Arts
Philanthropy at St. James’s Palace in  London  today. The prize
giving is managed by Arts & Business, a nonprofit organization
that has the prince as its patron.  Conran is helping pay for the Design Museum’s move into its
future home, the Commonwealth Institute in Kensington, which is
three times bigger. He has given 7.5 million pounds ($12.2
million) in cash as well as the proceeds from the sale of the
lease on the current building, valued at 10 million pounds.  “The arts clearly are under significant pressure with the
government funding cutbacks,” said Jonathan Moulds, who chairs
Arts & Business’s leadership team, and headed Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s European operations until earlier this year.
“Anything that can be done to recognize individuals and leading
institutions that are making a difference is all for the good.”  Moulds, a philanthropist himself, said it was “unrealistic
in the short term” to expect donors in the U.K. to fill gaps in
government cultural funding. “We’re not anywhere near a critical
mass of people giving,” he said.  Agatha Christie  The four other recipients are:  - Mathew Prichard, grandson of Agatha Christie, manager and
part-owner of her literary estate, and a patron of the arts in
Wales;  - Peter Moores, a music lover whose foundation is winding
down after giving away more than 215 million pounds to
charitable causes;  - Gerald and Margaret Elliot, who are benefactors of the
Edinburgh International Festival and of National Galleries of
Scotland, among other Scottish cultural recipients;  - Jane Rayne, whose family has donated more than 60 million
pounds to institutions including the Orchestra of the Age of
Enlightenment and Chickenshed Theatre.  One 2011 honoree has been invited to pick up her medal
today. She is Theresa Sackler, whose unquantified pledge to the
Serpentine Gallery in 2010 allowed it to beat  Damien Hirst  to an
adjacent Hyde Park space -- The Magazine -- which architect  Zaha Hadid  is now redesigning.  Sackler’s foundation, active all over the globe, has made
donations in the U.K. to the National Gallery, the Royal Opera
House, and the Natural History Museum, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 