-- Principal Sold Gunmaker Before Slump, MetLife Didn’t Buy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-18T23:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/principal-missed-gunmaker-slump-in-sales-before-shooting.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
provider of retirement-services, avoided declines in  Smith &
Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  by selling shares in the first two months
of this quarter, a spokesman said.  Principal was the fifth-largest  investor  in the gunmaker as
of Sept. 30, with about 1.9 million shares, a stake of 2.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Smith & Wesson
declined 10 percent to $7.79 as of 4 p.m. in New York,  extending
its slump  to 18 percent since the day before a gunman killed 20
students in a Connecticut elementary school last week. The stock
closed at $11.02 at the end of September.  “We significantly reduced our holdings in SWHC during the
months of October and November,” said Adam Lackey, a spokesman
for Des Moines, Iowa-based Principal in an e-mail using the
gunmaker’s ticker symbol. “Therefore, it’s very likely that we
are no longer one of the largest shareholders.”  U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, has
said she’ll introduce in the new Congress convening in January
legislation to reinstate a federal ban on assault weapons that
expired in 2004.  Principal, the seller of life insurance and mutual funds,
counts Apple Inc. and Exxon Mobil Corp. among its  largest equity
holdings . Lackey declined to provide further details on the
investment in Springfield, Massachusetts-based Smith & Wesson.  The insurer gained 3.1 percent to $28.70, the biggest jump
since August. Principal advanced 17 percent this year, beating
the 16 percent gain in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, has “no
material exposure to gun manufacturers,” said  John Calagna , a
spokesman for the New York-based company, in an e-mail after
markets closed. “MetLife has specifically passed on these type
of investments over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  