-- Putin Said to Seal $7 Billion Russian Arms Deal in India
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-18T15:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/putin-said-to-seal-7-billion-russian-arms-deal-for-india-trip.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin may
announce about $7 billion of weapons contracts, including for
Sukhoi fighter jets, when he visits  India  next week, according
to three people in the defense industry.  During Putin’s visit on Dec. 24, the two countries will
announce contracts for 42 Sukhoi Su-30MKI jets, made by United
Aircraft’s Irkut Corp., and almost 1,000 AL-31 warplane engines
to be delivered through 2030, according to the three people who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, declined to comment.  India, Russia’s top arms customer, has at least doubled its
defense budget over the last decade as it looks beyond a
traditional rivalry with  Pakistan  to counter  China ’s rising
power. Putin, who returned to the presidency this year, has
spearheaded Russia’s efforts to fend off competition for the
contracts from the U.S. and  Europe .  “These will be truly historical deals if signed,”
 Konstantin Makiyenko , the deputy head of the Moscow-based Center
for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, said by phone
yesterday. “I don’t remember a contract for 1,000 engines at
all and deals for over 40 planes happen twice in a decade.”  Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman at the Indian Ministry of
External Affairs, wasn’t available to comment. Vyacheslav Davidenko, a spokesman for Russia’s state-owned weapons exporter
Rosoboronexport, declined to comment.  Russia’s arms trade with India “will develop more
actively” after the visit, Yuri Ushakov, Putin’s foreign-policy
aide, said today in an interview. He declined to comment on
specific deals.  Russian defense-industry exports have exceeded $14 billion
billion this year, higher than the government’s target, Putin
said yesterday. The country has signed new contracts worth $15
billion in 2012, he added.  Then-Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov said Oct. 10 that
 Russia  expected to sign a deal to ship 42 Sukhoi jets to India
by the end of the year, RIA Novosti news service reported.  India has already received about 150 Russian jets,
according to CAST estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  