-- Queen Elizabeth Attends Cabinet to Mark 60 Years on Throne
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-18T13:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/queen-elizabeth-attends-u-k-cabinet-to-mark-60-years-on-throne.html
Queen Elizabeth II today became the
first British monarch to attend a Cabinet meeting since George
III in 1781 as part of celebrations to mark her 60 years on the
throne.  The queen, 86, was greeted by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
at his Downing Street residence in  London  and introduced to
Cabinet ministers from the ruling coalition of Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats, who bowed as a mark of respect. She wore a
royal-blue wool shantung dress with matching coat by designer
 Stewart Parvin , and a sapphire and diamond brooch.  In the Cabinet room, she sat between Cameron and Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  as Chief Whip George Young, who steers
legislation through Parliament, updated colleagues on the
passage of current bills. Television cameras cut away as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was due to talk about
the economy.  “The prime minister opened by welcoming Her Majesty to the
Cabinet,” Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told
reporters in London. “The last sovereign to attend Cabinet was
George III in 1781. The prime minister was able to inform
Cabinet that Anglo-U.S. relations had improved markedly since
then.”  Cameron’s office said yesterday that Queen Victoria, who
ruled from 1837 to 1901, had also attended Cabinet. Today, Gray
said further research had revealed this was not the case.  “The general event was very good-natured,” Gray said. On
leaving, “she wished them all a very happy Christmas,” he
said.  ‘Observer Role’  “It’s an observer role,”  Gus O’Donnell , the former head of
the civil service, told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “I’m
sure Cabinet want to do this because they want to say thank you.
I’ve always viewed the queen as the ultimate public servant. You
think what she’s done during the jubilee period, and they just
want to say thank you.”  After attending part of the meeting, the queen walked with
Hague to the Foreign Office, which is adjacent to Downing
Street, which houses the office and residence of the prime
minister.  Hague later announced that the southern part of the British
Antarctic Territory had been named “Queen Elizabeth Land” in
honor of her Diamond Jubilee. The area, which was previously
unnamed, occupies about 169,000 square miles (437,000 square
kilometers), making up just under a third of the whole land mass
of the British Antarctic Territory, the Foreign Office said in
an e-mailed statement. That’s almost twice the size of the U.K.,
which stands at 94,000 square miles.  Cabinet Gift  Cameron’s ministerial team presented the queen with a gift
of 60 placemats paid for from their own contributions. Made by
Lady Clare Ltd., the mats feature images of  Buckingham Palace ,
the queen’s London residence, selected from the royal library.
The Cabinet also gave a donation to the Queen Elizabeth Diamond
Jubilee Trust charity.  Britain staged four days of events in June to mark her
jubilee. Only Victoria spent longer on the throne.  As head of state, the queen “has to remain strictly
neutral with respect to political matters, unable to vote or
stand for election,” according to the monarchy’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  