-- Rally Aided by Firefighters in California City Hall: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-12-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/rally-aided-by-firefighters-in-california-city-hall-muni-credit.html
In Farmersville,  California , a city
of 11,000 in the agricultural San Joaquin Valley, firefighters
sleep in the city council chambers, share a bathroom with the
public and prepare meals in a  city hall  break room.  Municipal officials had different plans for their emergency
personnel, cobbling together funds from the local redevelopment
agency to build a $5 million fire station, said Rene Miller, the
city manager. The city had to kill the project -- and one to
improve the main road into town -- after California Governor
 Jerry Brown  and lawmakers dissolved the agencies, Miller said.  The step freed up $1 billion to cut state deficits, among
measures the Democrat championed to fix California’s finances.
It also left cities and counties with $29.8 billion in debt
incurred by their former agencies. The bonds are gaining as
investors buy them for their relatively higher yields.  “For our little city, we were always very conservative and
we were good stewards of the money we had,” Miller said in a
telephone interview. “Unfortunately we all got punished.”  Ripple Effect  Across California, the loss of redevelopment -- in which
 tax revenue  generated by new projects goes to combat blight --
has torpedoed a 98-unit affordable housing site outside  San
Diego , stalled efforts to relocate farmworkers from a mobile-
home park in the Riverside County desert and frustrated
investors in properties in Hemet, southeast of Los Angeles.  The agencies’ end also increased fiscal strains on
municipalities such as San Bernardino, which cited the loss of
about  $5 million  a year in transfers to the general fund as
contributing to its Aug. 1 bankruptcy filing.  This month, state Senator Lois Wolk, a Davis Democrat,
introduced a bill that would create a replacement for
redevelopment agencies by making it easier to start so-called
infrastructure financing districts.  Efforts to resurrect the agencies have failed so far. In
September, Brown vetoed bills by the Democratic leaders of the
state Assembly and Senate that sought to revive elements of the
program.  The 74-year-old governor  wrote  that replacing redevelopment
would endanger the savings the state had counted on.  School Cuts  In an Oct. 31 address in  Los Angeles , Brown acknowledged
that many city officials opposed ending redevelopment. The
alternative, he said, was even deeper cuts to education.  “Because the money went increasingly to redevelopment --
as much as 12 percent of local property taxes -- the state had
to backfill the difference to schools,” he told more than 100
people at a downtown hotel.  From the mid-1970s to 2011, the year lawmakers voted to end
redevelopment, the share of local property taxes devoted to that
purpose increased to 12 percent on average from about 2 percent,
according to a February 2011  report  by the nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office.  By ending redevelopment, California’s leaders created a
“wasteland scenario” that has crippled local economic
development and endangered the budgets of cities such as San
Bernardino, said  Chris McKenzie , executive director of the
League of California Cities.  “If people care about the construction of public
infrastructure -- simple things like parks and libraries and
schools -- which I know they do, these things have been hurt
considerably,” McKenzie said in a telephone interview. “It’s
also devalued redevelopment bonds. These downgrades eventually
can color other bonds issued by local governments.”  California Year  Holders of redevelopment securities are benefiting from a
rally in California debt as municipal yields remain near 47-year
lows.  Bonds of California issuers have earned 8.4 percent this
year, beating the 7 percent return for the $3.7 trillion
national market for local debt, Barclays Plc data show.  A federally taxable San Jose redevelopment bond maturing in
2035 traded yesterday at an average yield of 5.79 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That was about 3.1 percentage points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, down from a difference of
about 3.8 percentage points at the start of the year.  Bankruptcy Example  In San Bernardino, the loss of redevelopment monies --
which had subsidized the general fund -- helped push the city 60
miles (100 kilometers) east of Los Angeles into bankruptcy. With
the loss of the subsidy, “the cash-flow situation quickly
became critical,” City Attorney James Penman said in an
interview.  San Bernardino’s collapse isn’t likely to be replicated
widely, said Eric Hoffman, a senior vice president in the public
finance group at Moody’s Investors Service in  San Francisco . Few
cities relied on the proceeds to prop up general funds to the
extent San Bernardino did, he said. That doesn’t mean that some
of their debt isn’t vulnerable, he said.  “It’s certainly an issue for the tax-allocation bonds,
which we have under review for possible withdrawal due to a lack
of information,” Hoffman said in an interview.  Farmersville, on a highway connecting the San Joaquin
Valley to Kings Canyon National Park in the Sierra Nevada, had
planned to use redevelopment funds to improve the main road into
town to attract business, Miller said. Like the fire station,
the project was shelved, she said.  “We are barely keeping our police and fire staff on
duty,” she said. “There is nothing left for development.”  Losing Money  About 250 miles to the southeast, 11 buildings on Mobley
Lane in Hemet purchased by the city’s former redevelopment
agency are boarded up, their fate in limbo. The private owners
of five adjacent sites complained that their property values are
suffering as thieves strip metal from air-conditioning units of
the vacant sites.  “We’re losing $1,000 every month because of the
vacancies,” said Carina Alvarez, who said she bought a four-
plex for $170,000 in 2010 and spent more than $60,000 upgrading
it to rent out. “No one wants to live in a ghost town.”  Hemet had planned to use redevelopment money earmarked for
housing for low- and moderate-income residents to unify the
homes under common management or replace them, John Jansons, the
community investment director, said in an interview. Instead,
the city had to return the money to the state, he said.  “We were two years into this when the governor made his
announcement,” he said. “That really cut the knees out from
under us.”  In trading yesterday, yields rose on most maturities of
municipal debt. Yields on benchmark tax-exempt debt due in 30
years reached 2.61 percent, the highest in almost a month,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  