-- Ramaphosa Wins S. Africa ANC Deputy Post in Boost to Zuma
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-12-18T17:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ramaphosa-wins-s-africa-anc-deputy-post-in-boost-to-zuma.html
Tycoon  Cyril Ramaphosa  was elected
deputy leader of South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress 
in a move that may bolster President  Jacob Zuma ’s rule.  Zuma trounced his deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe , winning 75
percent of the 3,977 votes cast for the party presidency in the
central city of Bloemfontein. Ramaphosa defeated ANC Treasurer
Mathews Phosa and Human Settlements Minister  Tokyo Sexwale , with
76 percent support.  Zuma, 70, a former intelligence operative, won a second
five-year term even as his government faces mounting criticism
for its failure to tackle corruption, cut a 26 percent
unemployment rate and turn around a failing education system.
The appointment of Ramaphosa, 60, the chairman of  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, to a top party post
may benefit Zuma most as he struggles to restore investor
confidence in an economy hit by a wave of violent strikes.  “He brings cover for Zuma,” Mark Rosenberg, an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  New York , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The markets will look at him as a pair of safe hands. Zuma’s
main liability is his reputation as a bumbling, indecisive
leader.”  Ramaphosa’s election positions him to succeed Zuma as
president in 2019. The rand gained as much as 0.7 percent to
8.4825 against the dollar and the yield on  South Africa ’s 10-
year dollar-bond plunged 18 basis points to 2.94 percent.  Singing Supporters  Thousands of ANC members, dressed in the green, black and
yellow colors of the party, sang and applauded as electoral
officials announced the results. Zuma pleaded for party unity
and for differences in opinion over who should lead the party to
be respected.  “I am so happy,” Esther Qwabe, a Zuma supporter from his
home province of KwaZulu-Natal, said in an interview, in between
whistling and ululating. “Zuma is a hard worker. He has touched
the people.”  Ramaphosa is South Africa’s second-richest black
businessman after Patrice Motsepe, according to the
Johannesburg-based Sunday Times. He owns a stake in mines
operated by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-biggest platinum
producer, a coal-mining venture with  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
and has the  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchise in South Africa.  ‘Strong Qualities’  “He’s got very strong qualities as an organizer, as a
negotiator, as an administrator, as a business person, who would
bring the business element into the leadership and the thinking
of the ANC,” Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba  told
reporters in Bloemfontein.  Investors’ perception of risk in South Africa has increased
this year. The cost of protecting South African government debt
against non-payment using credit default swaps over five years
has jumped 13 basis points since the start of  mining strikes on
Aug. 10.  Gwede Mantashe was re-elected as ANC secretary-general,
defeating Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula, while Jessie Duarte
was named deputy secretary-general. Baleka Mbete retained the
chairperson post, while Zweli Mkhize won most votes for the
position of treasurer.  Ramaphosa served as ANC secretary-general and helped
negotiate the end of white segregationist rule before quitting
politics for business in 1996. He remained on the ANC’s national
executive committee and served as deputy chairman of a
government advisory panel led by ex-finance minister  Trevor Manuel  that proposed a raft of investor-friendly measures to
grow the economy and create jobs.  Mineworkers Union  He also helped found the  National Union of Mineworkers  in
1982 and led the biggest-ever strike in South Africa’s gold
industry five years later.  “Everybody knows Zuma is not the strongest leader on the
planet,” Susan Booysen, a political analyst at the University
of Witwatersrand, said in an interview in Bloemfontein.
Ramaphosa can “add a little bit of a spark to a pretty
downtrodden party leadership.”  Zuma has yet to signal whether he will appoint Ramaphosa as
deputy president of the country before national elections in
2014 to replace Motlanthe, who has been responsible for
coordinating the building of new  power plants , improving
railways and expanding ports.  Motlanthe, who declined nomination to the ANC’s 80-member
executive, said in an interview he didn’t know whether he will
retain his government post.  Ramaphosa “is someone that is expected to bring more of a
businesslike approach to government,” Dirk Kotze, a politics
professor at the Pretoria-based University of South Africa, said
in a phone interview. “He has a reputation of being a
businessman who can understand business better than many other
politicians.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Bloemfontein at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Bloemfontein at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Bloemfontein at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  