-- Ramaphosa’s Comeback May Cost Him Chairman Post at MTN
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-18T16:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ramaphosa-s-comeback-may-cost-him-chairman-post-at-mtn.html
Cyril Ramaphosa’s election as deputy
leader of South Africa’s ruling party spurred a call from the
country’s largest labor grouping and lawmakers to step down as
chairman of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Bidvest Ltd. (BVT)   Ramaphosa, 60, won 76 percent of the votes in a three-way
contest for the deputy presidency of the African National
Congress. His victory makes him frontrunner to succeed Jacob Zuma, who won a second five-year term as party leader, as the
nation’s president in 2019.  “Our official position” is he should relinquish all
business posts, Zwelinzima Vavi, leader of the 2.2-million-
member Congress of South African Trade Unions, told reporters in
the central city of Bloemfontein, after the election results
were announced. Members of the ANC “leadership mustn’t be
finding themselves in a contradictory situation of a conflict of
interest.”  Besides being chairman of MTN, Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone company, and industrial holding company Bidvest, Ramaphosa
sits on the board of brewer  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , lender Standard Bank
Group Ltd. and platinum miner  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)   Ramaphosa today declined to comment, saying he would do so
later. Bidvest Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe also declined
to comment when contacted on his mobile phone.  MTN’s board “will consider these latest developments, in
consultation with the chairman, in due course,” Paul Norman,
the Johannesburg-based company’s head of human resources and
corporate affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  Second-Richest  Ramaphosa doesn’t occupy a government position and isn’t
obligated to cease his business activities, Malusi Gigaba, South
Africa’s public enterprises minister, said in an interview in
Bloemfontein.  Ramaphosa quit politics for business in 1996, after losing
the race to succeed Nelson Mandela as president to Thabo Mbeki.
In September, Johannesburg’s Sunday Times estimated Ramaphosa’s
wealth at 2.22 billion rand ($260 million), excluding property
and unlisted assets, making him South Africa’s second-richest
black businessman after Patrice Motsepe.  Shanduka Group Ltd., an investment company he founded, owns
stakes in MTN, Bidvest, Standard Bank, and Liberty Group Ltd.
and has the  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchise in South Africa.
Ramaphosa also owns a stake in  Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) , the Canadian
mining company founded by billionaire Robert Friedland.  “Cyril, sell everything you own in the business world,”
Ben Turok, an ANC lawmaker since 1995, told reporters in
Bloemfontein. “Stop being a businessman. You can’t play two
markets. The two are in conflict.”  ‘Dastardly Criminal’  Ramaphosa drew criticism for his business interests after
the killing of 34 protesters by police at Lonmin’s Marikana mine
on Aug. 16 following days of illegal and violent strikes. He
said the labor unrest was “dastardly criminal” in an e-
mail a day before the shooting and called on police to take
“concomitant action,” the Johannesburg-based Times newspaper
reported on Oct. 24, citing evidence at a commission of inquiry
looking into the killings.  In April, City Press newspaper reported that he bid as much
as 19.5 million rand for a buffalo cow and her calf at a game
auction. He later apologized, telling Johannesburg’s SAFM radio
station that his actions were a mistake and inappropriate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  