-- RBA Cites Softer Labor Market for Dec. 4 Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-12-18T01:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/rba-cites-softer-labor-market-for-dec-4-interest-rate-cut.html
The Reserve Bank of  Australia 
decided to cut interest rates to match the half-century low set
during the 2009 global recession as a softer job market gave it
room to bolster demand, minutes of its Dec. 4 meeting showed.  “The information on labor costs and softening labor market
conditions suggested that the inflation outlook still afforded
the board some scope to provide additional support to demand,”
according to the minutes released today in Sydney. “Further
confirmation that the peak in resource sector investment was
near, and that the short-term outlook for non-resource
investment remained subdued, indicated that there was a case for
the board to provide that support.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens and his board reduced the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3
percent at the gathering, the sixth cut for a total of 1.75
percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011. The benchmark matched the
level reached from April-October 2009 that was the lowest since
1960.  The minutes indicated that, with data on gross domestic
product and November employment due out later in the week of the
board’s meeting, there was some discussion about whether to wait
for more evidence before easing.  Delay Considered  “The board considered whether to respond to this case in
the near term or wait for further information,” the minutes
said. “On balance, members saw merit in reducing the cash rate
at this meeting.”  Stevens is aiming to rebalance a two-speed economy, where
mining regions in the north and west thrive while manufacturers,
builders and retailers in the south and east struggle. The local
dollar’s 55 percent climb in the past four years has hurt
exporters, forcing them and other companies to adapt.  The so-called Aussie bought $1.0552 at 12:16 p.m. in
Sydney, compared with $1.0542 before the minutes were released.  Prices of iron ore, the nation’s most valuable commodity
export, have rebounded since reaching a three-year low on Sept.
5 after  China  announced spending on new subways and roads.  Weaker prices for raw materials last quarter and the
elevated currency prompted mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off
projects and cut jobs.  “Cost-cutting in the iron ore and coal industries was
feeding through to related business services industries,
resulting in some labor shedding,” the minutes showed.  Global Outlook  The minutes said global economic news over the past month
had a “slightly more positive tone,” with China’s slowdown
more stable, the U.S. growing at a “moderate pace” while
contractions continued in  Japan  and the euro area.  Since the RBA board’s last meeting, a government report
showed the domestic economy slowed last quarter on tighter
government spending and the weakest consumer demand in 2 ½
years.  Third-quarter GDP advanced 3.1 percent from a year earlier
after a revised 3.8 percent expansion in the April-June period,
a Bureau of Statistics report released Dec. 5 showed. Growth was
0.5 percent from the previous three months, when the quarterly
gain was 0.6 percent.  A Dec. 6 report showed a resilient labor market.
Australia’s unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped in November
as mining-industry hiring helps the economy weather a global
slowdown. The jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4 percent
in October, the statistics bureau’s report showed. The number of
people employed advanced by 13,900, compared with the consensus
forecast for no change.  Softer Employment  “Business surveys and information from liaison suggested
that businesses across of a range of industries anticipated an
easing in wage pressures in the period ahead,” the minutes
showed. “Forward-looking labor market indicators had generally
declined recently, suggesting that employment growth would
remain modest in the months ahead.”  A clouded global outlook is weighing on households.
Australian  consumer confidence  slumped by the most in nine
months as concern about economic prospects and unemployment
overshadowed the central bank’s interest-rate cuts, a private
survey showed last week. The sentiment index for December
dropped 4.1 percent to 100, a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
Melbourne Institute survey taken Dec. 3-9 of 1,200 adults
showed.  The RBA’s next scheduled meeting is on Feb. 5. Investors
were pricing in a 58 percent chance that the central bank will
lower the key rate to 2.75 percent at that meeting and a 19
percent probability the benchmark will be 2.5 percent a month
later, according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg earlier today.  Nineteen of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey this week
predicted no rate change at the February meeting, while 12 of 25
forecast a quarter percentage-point reduction at the scheduled
March 5 review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  