-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Close to 7-Week High Amid Fiscal-Cliff Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-12-18T17:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/treasuries-fall-on-fiscal-cliff-talks-yield-near-2-month-high.html
Treasury 10-year yields traded at
almost the highest level in seven weeks amid bets talks will
resolve a budget showdown and as the U.S. prepared to sell $35
billion of five-year debt in the second of four note auctions
this week.  U.S. government  bonds  remained lower for a second day after
President  Barack Obama  rejected an alternative budget plan
proposed by House Speaker  John Boehner  in talks to resolve a
fiscal showdown. The Treasury is auctioning $113 billion in four
sales that end Dec. 20.  “Even with some of the public political banter, markets
still feel optimistic there will be an agreement,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Federal Reserve. “There has been a lot of movement over the last
few days. People are still continuing to be optimistic and the
base case scenario is that there will be a resolution.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  increased two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.8 percent at 12:09 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.81
percent, the highest level since Oct. 26. The price of the 1.625
percent note due in November 2022 declined 7/32, or $2.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 14/32.  The  five-year  note yield rose one basis point to 0.74
percent after advancing earlier to 0.75 percent, the highest
level since Nov. 6.  Investors in Treasuries raised bets prices of the
securities will drop, resulting in the most net-short positions
in the week ended yesterday since June, according to a survey by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Net Shorts  The  proportion  of net shorts, or bets the securities will
fall in value, was at six percentage points in the week ending
yesterday, according to JPMorgan, up from four percentage points
the week ended Dec. 10.  The percent of outright longs was steady at 15 percent,
while the percent of outright shorts, or bets the securities
will fall in value, rose to 21 percent, from 19 percent in the
week ended Dec. 10, according to the survey. Investors cut
neutral bets to 64 percent from 66 percent, the survey reported.  Yields rose earlier amid optimism on the budget talks in
 Washington . Obama’s revised plan would raise $1.2 trillion in
taxes in the next decade and cut $1.22 trillion in spending,
said a person familiar with the talks. Obama would accept a new
inflation yardstick that would reduce Social Security cost-of-
living increases, according to the person, who sought anonymity.  ‘Not There’  Boehner told reporters today Obama is “not there yet” on
a balanced approach. The  Ohio Republican  said he will push a
budget “plan B” measure that will include tax increases on
income of more than $1 million a year, while he continues to
negotiate.  The House speaker’s plan “can’t pass the Senate and
therefore will not protect middle-class families, and does
little to address our fiscal challenges with zero spending
cuts,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a statement.  More than $600 billion in tax boosts and spending cuts will
automatically start taking effect in January unless an accord is
reached. Failing to avert the fiscal cliff may push the economy
in recession, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  One-month bill  rates  fell below zero for a third straight
day, touching negative 0.005 percent, before trading at zero.
Traders bet temporary government insurance on some bank-deposit
accounts will end as scheduled on Dec. 31 after a Senate effort
to extend it failed. That would trigger a flow of several
hundred billion dollars into Treasury bills, repurchase
agreements and money funds that purchase  government securities ,
according to Fed primary dealers including Bank of America Corp.  Note Auctions  The U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year notes yesterday at a
yield of 0.245 percent. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount offered, was
3.59, the weakest since February. The government will sell $29
billion of seven-year debt tomorrow and $14 billion of five-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Dec. 20.  The five-year notes being sold yielded 0.765 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.641 percent at the previous
auction of the securities on Nov. 28. The record  auction low  was
0.584 percent in July.  Investors bid for 2.89 times the amount of available debt
at last month’s five-year sale, versus 2.73 times on Oct. 24.  “Auction performance has improved in the five-year sector
recently,” Mikael Nilsson Rosell, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
 London , wrote in an e-mailed report. The firm is one of 21
primary dealers obliged to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “Since
dropping sharply in the second quarter, the bid-cover ratio has
recovered.”  Fed Purchase  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.7 billion of Treasuries today
maturing from February 2036 to November 2042. It will sell as
much as $8 billion of government debt due between June 2015 and
November 2015, according to the New York Fed’s  website . The
transactions are part of a program known as Operation Twist,
under which the central bank replaces shorter-maturity notes in
its holdings with longer-dated debt.  With that set to expire this month, the Fed will start to
buy Treasuries next year in an expansion of a round of so-called
quantitative easing. The new purchases don’t involve selling
shorter-term securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  