-- Renewable-Energy Projects Get 1.2 Billion Euros in EU Aid
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-18T15:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/renewable-energy-projects-get-1-2-billion-euros-in-eu-subsidies.html
The European Union granted 1.2
billion euros ($1.58 billion) in subsidies to 23 renewable-
energy projects under a program to promote low-carbon technology
as a part of the fight against global warming.  The aid for the projects located in 16 EU countries
including  France ,  Germany ,  Greece ,  Poland  and the U.K. comes
from the sale of allowances to emit carbon dioxide set aside in
a special reserve under  Europe ’s cap-and-trade program, known as
NER300. Today’s announcement covers proceeds from the first
tranche of 200 million allowances sold this year and last year.  The projects, ranging from biofuels to solar and wind
power, will boost annual renewable energy output in Europe by
about 10 terrawatt-hours, an amount equivalent to the yearly
fuel consumption of more than a million passenger cars, the
European Commission, the bloc’s executive, said in a statement.
The aim is to demonstrate technologies that will help scale up
clean energy production in the region.  “The NER300 program is in effect a ’Robin Hood’ mechanism
that makes polluters pay for large-scale demonstration of new
low-carbon technologies,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in a statement. “The 1.2 billion euros of grants
- paid by the polluters - will leverage a further 2 billion
euros of private investment.”  The  biggest subsidies  under today’s decision were granted
to the advanced biofuels projects Woodspirit in the Netherlands
and UPM Stracel BTL in France, which got 199 million euros and
170 million euros, respectively. The Veja Mate offshore wind-
farm project in Germany ranks third with 112.6 million euros.  Power Plants  No carbon capture and storage demonstration projects got
subsidies under the first portion of the EU aid. When it started
the contest two years ago, the bloc aimed to fund at least eight
CCS projects, saying the emissions-avoiding technologies at
coal-fired  power plants  will help meet Europe’s goal of reducing
 greenhouse gases  including CO2 by a fifth in 2020 compared with
1990. Most CCS projects were not confirmed by national
governments and could not be considered for funding, according
to the commission.  “Member states were unable to confirm the projects for
various reasons: in some cases there were funding gaps, while in
others the projects were not sufficiently advanced to allow for
confirmation within the timeframe of the first call for
proposals,” it said in a statement published in Brussels.  The 275 million euros envisaged for CCS projects in the
first part of the contest remains available to fund projects
under the second phase, which will cover 100 million of CO2
allowances. The EU wants to open the next round of the contest
“as soon as possible” in 2013 and seeks to grant the aid
within 12 months, Hedegaard told a press conference today.  Prospects ‘Bleak’  The CCS funds carried into the second round represent a
significant reduction of aid compared with what was expected for
the industry when the EU invited bids for the subsidies in
November 2010, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “With the exception of the U.K., prospects for CCS in
Europe are bleak,” Kieron Stopforth, an analyst at BNEF in
 London , said by e-mail.  The value of the reserve for new entrants to the EU
emissions trading system shrank as the price of allowances
dropped 56 percent in the past two years. EU permits for
delivery in December 2013 rose 0.8 percent to 6.75 euros a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 3:10 p.m. in
London. The  European Investment Bank  is selling the NER300
allowances.  The EU emissions-trading program, the world’s biggest
greenhouse-gas market, is a cornerstone of European efforts to
tackle the heat waves, storms and floods tied to  climate change .
The system started in 2005 with a three-year trading period, is
now in a second phase that ends this year and will enter a third
stage running from 2013 through 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  