-- Ringgit Halts Three-Day Drop as U.S. Seen Weighing Budget Deal
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-12-18T01:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/ringgit-halts-three-day-drop-as-u-s-seen-weighing-budget-deal.html
Malaysia’s ringgit rose for the
first time in four days as speculation U.S. policy makers are
moving closer to a deal on budget revisions spurred demand for
emerging-market assets.  President Barack Obama is considering a Social Security
budget concession after House Speaker  John Boehner  dropped his
opposition to raising taxes for some top earners, two people
familiar with the talks said after the officials met yesterday.
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will meet tomorrow as incoming Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe presses it to engage in further policy easing.
Malaysia will report November inflation data on Dec. 19.  “The likely stimulus out of Japan and some progress in
discussions to avert the fiscal cliff have contributed to
positive sentiment,” said  Nizam Idris , head of Asian fixed-
income and foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. “Range trade for the ringgit is still quite
likely.”  The ringgit climbed 0.1 percent to 3.0565 per dollar as of
8:38 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has gained 3.6 percent this year. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, rose 34 basis points, or
0.34 percentage point, to 4.53 percent.  Malaysia’s consumer price index probably increased 1.4
percent in November after rising 1.3 percent in October, the
slowest pace in more than two years, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before a government
report tomorrow.  Government bonds were little changed yesterday. The yield
on the 3.418 percent notes due August 2022 held at 3.52 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 