-- Roche’s Avastin Fails to Win NICE Ovarian Cancer Backing
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-12-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/roche-s-avastin-fails-to-win-nice-ovarian-cancer-backing.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s anti-tumor drug
Avastin failed to win the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost
regulator as a treatment for advanced ovarian cancer in a draft
decision released today.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
recommended against using the drug at the dosage for which it’s
currently licensed, the agency said today in an e-mailed
statement. The existence of two different dosages -- the
licensed dose of 15 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, plus
a smaller dose often prescribed by doctors -- made it difficult
to say for certain how effective the medicine is, NICE said.  Although Avastin used together with paclitaxel and
carboplatin chemotherapy did seem to help delay the cancer’s
spread, “it was unclear whether this translated into an overall
survival benefit,”  Andrew Dillon , NICE’s chief executive, said
in the statement. “There was no evidence to show that the
clinical benefit of the treatment justifies its cost, when
compared to existing treatments.”  Ovarian cancer is among the diseases Roche has said will
drive growth for Avastin, the Basel, Switzerland-based company’s
second-biggest-selling drug last year. The ovarian cancer market
in the U.S.,  France ,  Germany ,  Italy ,  Spain , the U.K. and  Japan 
may more than triple to $1.4 billion in the next decade,
research firm Decision Resources said on Dec. 10.  Roche’s Disappointment  “Roche is disappointed that, as part of its review, NICE
did not consider the entirety of evidence that was presented to
them for Avastin as a first-line treatment of advanced ovarian
cancer, and will continue to work with NICE to secure a positive
recommendation for Avastin in this setting,” spokeswoman Silvia
Dobry said in an e-mailed statement.  Avastin treatment for a 65-kilogram (143-pound) U.K.
patient with advanced ovarian cancer costs about 36,000 pounds
($58,000) at the licensed dose, according to NICE. Roche didn’t
submit a proposal to the U.K. Department of Health to make
Avastin more cost-effective, the agency said. Some companies
offer to reduce prices by as much as 50 percent, NICE Chairman
Michael Rawlins said this month.  The agency said it would give a final ruling on the drug
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  