-- Romanian Eurobonds Rally as Designated Premier Plans New Cabinet
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-12-18T15:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/romanian-euro-bonds-rally-as-re-elected-ponta-plans-new-cabinet.html
Romania’s foreign bonds rallied
after President Traian Basescu nominated rival Prime Minister
Victor Ponta to form a new government, easing investors’ concern
that a standoff between the two politicians might ensue.  Yields on euro-denominated bonds due 2019 fell 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 4.06 percent, the lowest
since the start of trading on Nov. 5. The leu weakened less than
0.1 percent to 4.4700 per euro by 5:25 p.m. in Bucharest today,
retreating from the highest level in almost four months reached
on Dec. 14.  Basescu, who has been embroiled in a power struggle with
Ponta since June, instructed him to form a new cabinet
yesterday. Foreign bond yields have fallen 60 basis points since
Ponta’s ruling coalition won a two-thirds majority in parliament
in a Dec. 9 election.  “The new cabinet may be formed this week, which may give a
boost to Romanian asset prices in the short run,” Szilvia
Laszlo, an economist at DZ Bank AG, said in an e-mailed note
today.  The political clash culminated with a 52-day suspension for
the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide impeachment
vote on July 29. Basescu said before returning to office at the
end of August that he wouldn’t nominate Ponta as premier for a
second time. Lawmakers may hold a vote to approve the new
cabinet on Dec. 21, Ponta said yesterday.  “The forthcoming period will not be easy for the new
government since the 2013 budget still has to be prepared,”
Laszlo said. “Cohabitation between the two leaders may not be
smooth despite the re-appointment.”  The yield on 2022 dollar debt fell 5 basis points to a
record 3.98 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  