-- Rosneft, Saras Sign Agreement to Form Joint Venture
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-12-18T17:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/rosneft-saras-sign-agreement-to-form-joint-venture-in-italy.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil
producer, signed an agreement with  Saras SpA (SRS)  of  Italy  with the
intention of forming a joint venture.  The 50:50 venture is for the processing of crude, sale of
refined products, and trading, Rosneft said today in a
statement. The deal was signed in Munich by Igor Sechin,
chairman of Rosneft, and Gian Marco Moratti, Saras’s chairman,
it said. The agreement will focus on the 300,000 barrel-a-day
Sarroch refinery in Sardinia.  “It’s a good deal, it’s about security of supply,” Ehsan
Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics, said
by phone from Walton-on-Thames in the U.K. “If European
refiners are interested in a steady supply of crude, they have
to form such partnerships.”  Refiners in  Europe  have been forced to align with crude
producers after falling demand for fuels amid a recession and
rising Brent oil prices squeezed profits. Some operators sold
plants while others closed them or converted sites to storage.  “Sarroch is a very flexible refinery so there’s no need
for any additional investment to process large quantities of
Russian oil,” Massimo Vacca, head of investor relations at
Saras, said in a telephone interview. The two companies are
discussing how the venture would work, he said.  Saras rose 3.5 percent to 1.039 euros in Milan, the highest
since Nov. 2.  Italy’s  ERG SpA (ERG)  said in August it may sell its remaining 20
percent stake in its ISAB facility in Priolo to OAO Lukoil as it
cuts exposure to refining. It also shut its Rome refinery, a
venture with Total SA, in September with plans to convert the
85,000 barrel-a-day site into a terminal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  