-- HRT Rises on Gas Development Schedule With Petrobras
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-19T19:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/hrt-rises-on-joint-gas-development-schedule-with-petrobras-tnk.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph of story published Dec. 18 to
show that HRT drilled one dry hole in the Solimoes River basin.)  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA 
rose in Sao Paulo after the company set a six-month timeline for
jointly developing gas fields in  Brazil ’s Amazon region with
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and TNK-BP Ltd.  Shares advanced 0.6 percent to 4.92 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo after earlier gaining as much as 5.1
percent. The benchmark Bovespa index added 1.5 percent.  HRT said in a regulatory filing yesterday that it has added
a work plan to an Oct. 15 letter of intent it signed with
Petrobras and TNK to bring to market natural gas from the
Solimoes Basin. The six-month timeline for the development
starts next month and includes an evaluation of the resources to
be extracted as well as engineering, environmental and logistics
studies, according to the filing.  “It’s very positive for HRT to have the help of a partner
like Petrobras to monetize the resources in the Solimoes Basin,
which holds the company’s most valuable gas assets,” Nataniel Cezimbra, an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA , said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . “HRT has to make the most of those fields. But we’ve
got to wait and see what the studies during the first half of
next year will show.”  HRT has tumbled 57 percent this year, while the Bovespa
rose 6.5 percent during that same period.  The company has drilled one dry hole in the Solimoes River
basin, a remote oil and gas region in the Amazon forest in
northern Brazil, since it started exploring last year, according
to information posted on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  