-- HSBC Says $58 Billion of Dim Sum Possible in 2013: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-18T06:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/hsbc-says-37-dim-sum-sales-jump-possible-in-2013-china-credit.html
Dim Sum debt sales may reach 360
billion  yuan  ($58 billion) next year as China’s new leaders
encourage use of the yuan in finance centers from  London  to
Taipei, the leading underwriter predicts.  Yuan bond and certificate of deposit issuance outside
mainland China will rise from 263 billion yuan in the first 11
months of 2012 as cross-border trade settlement in the currency
increases, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  Yields on Dim Sum
debt have dropped 88 basis points since Dec. 31 to 4.64 percent,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. That
compares with an average 2.61 percent for corporates globally.  Last week’s approval for Bank of China Ltd.’s Taipei branch
to clear trades in the currency and  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939) ’s Dim Sum sale listed in London in November show
regulators are supporting the expansion of the global use of
yuan beyond Hong Kong.  Singapore , and possibly London, may also
be permitted to clear yuan in 2013, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG
wrote in a report last month.  “We’re optimistic and are expecting a decent market next
year,” said Gina Tang, head of debt capital markets for greater
China at HSBC. “The further growth of the offshore  renminbi 
market and development in other centers including London and
Taipei is actually beneficial for Hong Kong as we will continue
to be well positioned as the center of most of the business.”  Yuan Clearing  Issuance of Dim Sum bonds and certificates of deposit will
likely grow to between 280 billion yuan and 360 billion yuan in
2013, according to an HSBC report dated Dec. 13.  About 860 billion yuan is currently in bank accounts around
the world, according to the Nov. 30 report from Deutsche Bank,
with yuan deposits in  Hong Kong , Singapore,  Taiwan  and London
likely to rise to 1.25 trillion yuan in 2013. Taiwanese
companies and consumers may also be able to set up accounts in
the Chinese currency after a pact signed between the two
governments in August.  Bank of China’s Taipei branch was named as a yuan clearing
bank by the central bank last week. The island will work to
start clearing the currency within a month, Taiwan’s central
bank governor told lawmakers on Dec. 12. The lender is now the
sole bank that can clear transactions involving yuan offshore.  Appreciation Allure  China Construction Bank Corp. sold the first yuan-
denominated securities listed by a mainland company in London
last month. The bank raised 1 billion yuan of 3.2 percent bonds
due November 2015, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Nine issuers
from  Australia  to  Japan  to  Latin America  now have Dim Sum bonds
listed in the U.K. capital, the data show.  London held more than 109 billion yuan of deposits as of
the end of 2011, according to a statement from the U.K. Treasury
on Nov. 30. Accounts have grown 80 percent this year, according
to the statement, which cited Citigroup Inc. data.  Appreciation of the currency makes the assets more valuable
to investors. The yuan will strengthen 1.6 percent by the end of
next year, according to a median estimate of 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. It has gained 1.95 percent in the second
half of this year to 6.2326 per dollar as of 11:24 a.m. in
 Shanghai  today, according to pricing from the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  “If you believe in the yuan story, you still get a
potential gain in total return terms on the foreign-exchange
side,” Chia-Liang Lian, the Singapore-based head of  investment
management  for  Asia  excluding Japan at Western Asset Management
Co., said at a briefing in Hong Kong this month. Western Asset
manages $10.7 billion of Asian fixed-income assets globally as
of Sept. 30.  Costs Decline  Expectations that the yuan will rise against the dollar
have helped to lower offshore borrowing costs. Dim Sum yields
fell to a 15-month low of 4.55 percent on Dec. 12, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  China’s offshore sovereign notes due June 2022 yielded 3.13
percent as of Dec. 17, 45 basis points less than the 3.58
percent its similar-maturity onshore bonds pay, according to
pricing from SinoPac Securities and the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Dim Sum debt sales rose 14 percent this year to 191 billion
yuan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, excluding deals
with a maturity of less than 12 months and self-led sales below
333 million yuan.  Liquidity Concerns  Lack of liquidity remains a concern for funds, particularly
those outside Asia, according to Samson Lee, head of debt
capital markets at BOC International.  “We are trying to market-make and provide secondary
liquidity, but we have to increase the overall depth of the
market and also develop different types of investors at the same
time,” he said. “It can’t be done in a day but it will
hopefully slowly improve.”  Sales from international issuers outside Hong Kong and
mainland  China  made up 21 percent of total issuance this year,
up from 15 percent in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corporacion Andina de Fomento, the Venezuela-based
supranational, sold 600 million yuan of bonds this month, while
Banco Santander Chile raised 500 million yuan last month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The province of British Columbia is now considering selling
debt in the currency, which would make it the first
international sovereign and the first Canadian issuer to do so,
according to Jim Hopkins, an assistant deputy minister in the
ministry of finance and Bloomberg-compiled data.  International Buyers  International investors are also buying Dim Sum debt.
 Germany ’s BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeraete GmbH sold 57 percent
of its 2 1/2-year bonds to European investors while French power
generator Alstom SA allocated 25 percent of a sale to the
region, according to people familiar with each matter.  The extra cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment
with credit-default swaps for five years over that of Germany’s
fell to a five-month low at 19 basis points on Dec. 17,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. China’s CDS was trading at 57.4 basis points
yesterday, 90 basis points less than at the beginning of the
year, CMA prices show.  Dim Sum bonds, other than those with a maturity of less
than a year, could rise to as much as 275 billion yuan in 2013,
according to  Standard Chartered  Plc, the market’s second-largest
arranger of Dim Sum bonds. The bank predicted 250 billion yuan
of sales this year, including sovereign auctions, 31 percent
more than what had been sold as of Dec. 17.  “It’s still growth over last year; not as much as the
market on average predicted but not too bad either,” said Tee Choon-Hong, global head of CNH capital market products at
Standard Chartered. “It’s spreading from Asia and at same time
you’re seeing the markets getting deeper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  