-- Schickedanz’s $2.5 Billion Oppenheim Claim Put in Doubt by Judge
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-18T13:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/schickedanz-s-2-5-billion-oppenheim-claim-put-in-doubt-by-judge.html
Madeleine Schickedanz, suing over
losses on a 53 percent stake in  Arcandor AG (ARO) , was told by a
German court to beef up her arguments if she hopes to win a 1.9
billion euro ($2.5 billion) claim against Sal. Oppenheim, its
former shareholders and property financier Josef Esch.  Schickedanz hasn’t yet shown the bank was her financial
adviser or that it gave her bad advice, Presiding Judge Stefan
Singbartl said at a hearing in Cologne today. She has until the
end of March to submit information to change the court’s view,
Singbartl said.  Schickedanz bought shares in KarstadtQuelle AG, which
became Arcandor, with a loan from Sal. Oppenheim and later added
collateral for the credit. Her 53 percent stake in Arcandor was
worth about 2 billion euros at the start of 2008. It had shrank
to 240 million euros by that September, when regulators started
probing the retailer’s disclosures and share-price moves. She
then ceded her control of the company.  “I know what it means to buy shares and I know what it
means to buy shares on credit,” said Singbartl. “A person like
Ms. Schickedanz cannot claim she had no understanding what risks
are involved in this.”  Stefan Homann, Schickedanz’s lawyer, said his client had
the habit of blindly trusting advisers and signing what they
proposed. He argued Sal. Oppenheim and Esch failed in their
duties as her financial advisers because she had sought a
conservative investment.  Sal. Oppenheim’s attorney, Carsten van de Sande, rejected
the allegations.  Forbes in 2008 ranked Schickedanz 277th in the magazine’s
list of the world’s richest people, estimating her fortune at
3.9 billion euros. By 2009, German newspaper Bild cited her as
saying she lived on 600 euros a month, only occasionally having
enough spare cash to afford a pizza at a local restaurant.  Arcandor, the former parent of  Germany ’s Karstadt
department-store chain, filed for insolvency in June 2009. Sal.
Oppenheim is now a unit of  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   To contact the reporter on this story: Karin Matussek in Cologne
via   kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  