-- SEC Revokes Toronto Firm’s Registration Over Manipulation
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-12-18T20:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/sec-revokes-toronto-firm-s-registration-over-manipulation.html
U.S. regulators revoked the
registration of Toronto-based brokerage Biremis Corp. and barred
its founders from the securities industry for failing to
supervise traders who engaged in a manipulative practice.  Peter Beck  and Charles Kim, who founded the firm, from at
least 2007 to 2010 ignored repeated red flags that affiliated
traders outside of the U.S. were engaging in so-called layering,
or placing non-bona-fide trades to trick others into buying and
selling stocks at artificial prices, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said. The two men agreed to pay a combined $500,000
to resolve the SEC’s claims.  Biremis and Beck were already expelled about five months
ago by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S.
brokerage industry’s self-regulator, which cited similar claims.
Biremis, Beck and Kim didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in
settling the claims.  “Engaged and forceful supervisors are the first line of
defense against individual misconduct in financial services
companies,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement. “Beck and Kim were neither, as they saw obvious red
flags of market manipulation by their firm’s traders but failed
to respond or take any steps to prevent the manipulation.”  Many Biremis-affiliated  day traders  based outside of the
U.S. engaged in repeated instances of layering from January 2007
to mid-2010, the SEC said. Beck and Kim learned from numerous
sources, including three U.S. brokerages and a Biremis employee,
that the manipulative practice was occurring, and failed to take
any steps to prevent it, according to the order.  A phone call to Michael Wolk, an attorney for the firm and
the executives, wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  