-- SEC Said to Weigh EX-CFTC Director as General Counsel
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/sec-said-to-weigh-ex-cftc-enforcement-chief-as-general-counsel.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Elisse Walter may hire as her top lawyer a former
enforcement director from the main U.S. derivatives regulator.  Geoffrey Aronow, a partner at law firm Bingham McCutchen
LLP, has been interviewed by Walter and is the leading candidate
to become the agency’s general counsel, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the hiring process isn’t public.  Aronow would replace Mark Cahn, who is stepping down in
January. As the chief lawyer at the agency, the general counsel
plays a central role evaluating rules, advising the chairman and
representing the SEC in legal disputes.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment. Aronow
didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  A graduate of Yale University and  Yale Law School , Aronow
was director of enforcement at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission from 1995 to 1999, according to his biography on
Bingham McCutchen’s website. He also serves on panels for
appeals of enforcement and disciplinary cases by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-
regulator, the biography said.  Some of Aronow’s recent clients include accounting firm
KPMG LLP, whose Chinese affiliate is in a dispute with
regulators over its refusal to turn over audit documents, and
Christine Serwinski, who was chief financial officer at  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s North American broker-dealer before it
collapsed in 2011.  Aronow “would adapt extremely well to the role of
regulator,” said Daniel Nathan, a partner at the Morrison &
Foerster law firm who was his deputy at the CFTC. “He would be
a perfect choice.”  Walter, who became chairman after  Mary Schapiro  left last
week, is moving to fill a number of high-level vacancies at the
securities regulator. Aronow would be her first outside hire;
Walter named acting directors of the agency’s corporation
finance and trading and markets divisions on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  