-- Basel Seeks Tougher Bank Capital Rules for Securitizations
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-18T16:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/securitized-debt-may-face-tougher-capital-rules-in-basel-plan.html
Banks trading asset-backed
securities may face tougher capital requirements and stricter
oversight from global supervisors amid concerns that regulation
is failing to curb excessive risk-taking.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said today that
it would seek views on how securitization is regulated in a bid
to make it safer.  Regulators started a “fundamental review” of the capital
requirements, the group said in a statement on its website.
Rules for securitized debt should be “more prudent and risk
sensitive,” it said.  The boom in the U.S. and European markets for securitized
debt in the years leading up to 2008 was seen by regulators as
one of the main reasons for the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial crisis, as lenders
struggled with a plunge in the debt’s market value.  Securitization has also been the subject of lawsuits, amid
accusations that some instruments were flawed or even designed
to incur losses.  An asset-backed security is a financial product whose value
derives from a pool of assets such as loans or credit-card debt,
rather than mortgages. The term securitized debt covers ABS as
well as insruments based on home-owner loans.  The Basel group’s draft proposals would overhaul the way
banks measure the risk of losses on securitizations, and so
calculate the financial reserves that must be held against them.
The plans include setting a floor for the minimum amount of
capital banks must hold against such securities.  Risk Weights  The Basel committee sets  capital requirements  for banks
that are worked out as a percentage of a  lender’s assets . Before
doing the calculation, the bank should discount or mark up the
assets according to their riskiness. Safer assets are meant to
have a lower risk weight.  The group’s proposals would ban banks from weighting
securitized debt at less than 20 percent of its value, so
preventing lenders from minimizing the amount of capital they
must hold against the securities. At present, the 20 percent
floor only applies to some lenders.  Still, the plans also include capping the amount of capital
that lenders should have to hold against securitized debt. Basel
rules already set a “maximum capital charge” for securitized
debt that banks buy. Under today’s plans, such limits would also
be applied to banks that create or sponsor securitizations.  Impact Assessment  The Basel committee will conduct an impact assessment of
the planned changes “in the coming months,” it said. The group
is seeking views on the measures until March 15.  In 2011, new securitized debt issuance in the U.S. was $124
billion, down from a 2006 peak of $753 billion, according to
data compiled by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association. A lack of bank-capital rules may have led to the
securitization boom before the crisis, according to the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions.   New issuance in  Europe  totalled 228 billion euros ($302
billion) in 2011, according to the Iosco report. This is down
from a peak of more than 700 billion euros in 2008. The European
Union nations responsible for the largest issuance of
securitized debt are the Netherlands, U.K.,  Spain  and  Italy .  The Basel plans also include cutting banks’ reliance on
assessments given by credit-ratings companies to calculate the
capital they should hold against securitized debt.  The new rules would reduce “mechanistic reliance” on
external credit ratings, the group said. The 2008 financial
crisis had revealed that such assessments “often did not
adequately reflect the risk,” the group said.  The push on securitization adds to the Basel group’s list
of priorities as it seeks to set liquidity rules for lenders,
overhaul capital rules for assets banks intend to trade before
maturity, and update limits on the amount of business a
financial firm can do with a single counterparty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  