-- Senegal’s Opposition Protests Probe Into Ex-President’s Son
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-12-18T16:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/senegal-s-opposition-protests-probe-into-ex-president-s-son.html
Senegal’s main opposition party
filed a complaint against a special prosecutor who is leading an
investigation into illegal enrichment by members of the previous
government, including ex-President Abdoulaye Wade’s son, Karim.  “The law does not permit the prosecutor to investigate
this case,” El Hadj Amadou Sall, spokesman for the Parti
Democratique Senegalais, or PDS, said in a phone interview from
the capital, Dakar. The probe should be handled by the  High
Court  instead, he said.  Karim Wade, who between 2009 and 2012 held a ministerial
portfolio that included energy, international cooperation,
regional development, air transportation and infrastructure, has
been questioned four times by police attached to a special court
that investigates fraud and financial crimes. The court was set
up by President Macky Sall as part of a pledge to crack down on
corruption.  Four PDS officials, including Karim Wade and ex-Mines and
Foreign Affairs Minister Madicke Niang, were stopped by police
at Dakar’s airport last week as they tried to board a plane to
 Ivory Coast , Sall said. The officials were prevented from
leaving the country on orders of the prosecutor, he said.  “We consider this a serious crime,” Sall said.  In March, Macky Sall defeated 86-year-old  Abdoulaye Wade ,
whose last year in office was marked with violent protests
against power cuts and his bid for a third term in power. Sall
has ordered audits into state institutions and programs,
including a 650 billion-CFA franc ($1.2 billion) energy-crisis
program started by Karim Wade.  Macoumba Mbodji, spokesman for the Justice Ministry didn’t
answer calls made to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  