-- Shire Wins European Backing for Vyvanse Attention Deficit Drug
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-18T15:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/shire-wins-european-backing-for-vyvanse-attention-deficit-drug.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  won backing to sell its
attention deficit drug Vyvanse in eight European countries,
paving the way for the company’s top-selling treatment in the
U.S. to be marketed in Europe.  The U.K., Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Spain
and Sweden have recommended approval for Vyvanse as a treatment
for children aged six years and over with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder, who don’t respond adequately to  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Ritalin, Dublin-based Shire said in a statement today. The
drug will be sold as Tyvense in Ireland and as Elvanse in the
other countries.  The eight nations are expected to formally approve the drug
within one month to three months, and negotiations with pricing
and reimbursement authorities will be required in some
countries, Shire, which has management offices in Basingstoke,
 England , said in the statement. Vyvanse earned Shire $805
million last year, or 19 percent of sales. It may reap $2.2
billion by 2017, according to the average of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We will now work closely with the pricing and
reimbursement authorities in the respective countries to ensure
that Elvanse is made available to patients as soon as
possible,” Angus Russell, Shire’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  Shire rose 0.1 percent to 1,925 pence as of 3:01 p.m. in
 London , giving the company a market value of 10.8 billion pounds
($17.5 billion). The stock has declined 14 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 17 percent
advance in the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  