-- Societe Generale’s Bertrand Badre Named World Bank CFO
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-12-18T20:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/societe-generale-s-bertrand-badre-named-world-bank-cfo.html
Bertrand Badre, a French national
who worked as chief financial officer at two of the country’s
largest banks, will take the same post at the  World Bank 
starting March 1.  “Bertrand has deep management experience in some of the
largest financial institutions in Europe,” World Bank President
Jim Yong Kim said in an e-mailed statement today. “I am
confident he will continue to protect the bank’s financial
strength and maintain our ongoing commitment to effectively
safeguard the resources entrusted to us.”  Badre, 44, studied at France’s elite administration school
ENA and is a graduate of the HEC business school while also
holding a master’s degree in history from the Sorbonne,
according to the World Bank. Badre has been  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA’s CFO since January at a time when the country’s second-
largest bank by market value continued to trim its riskiest
assets and sold its Greek unit.  Between 2007 and 2011, he held the same position at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest bank and the foreign bank
with the biggest lending exposure to  Greece .  World Bank  As CFO and managing director for finance at the Washington-
based World Bank, Badre will oversee a poverty-fighting
institution that made loans worth almost $53 billion last year.
The bank’s financial power is more constrained now than four
years ago, despite a 2010 capital injection, after stepping up
loans to developing economies hit by the global crisis of 2008.  Badre, who was an assistant director at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  in
London in 1999, a Lazard vice-president in New York in 2000 and
later a partner in Paris, also has experience working in
government.  He was former French President  Jacques Chirac ’s deputy
personal representative for Africa for the Group of Eight
nations and a spokesman for his working group on finding new
international financial contributions to fight poverty and fund
development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  