-- Korea’s Park Leads Close Election Race, Exit Polls Show
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-19T10:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/south-koreans-go-to-polls-with-turnout-crucial-in-park-moon-vote.html
South Korean ruling party
presidential candidate Park Geun Hye leads opposition nominee
Moon Jae In in a close race to lead  Asia ’s fourth-biggest
economy, exit polls showed.  Park, of the New Frontier Party, has 50.1 percent of the
vote compared with 48.9 percent for Moon, of the Democratic
United Party, according to a joint exit poll released by TV
broadcasters KBS, MBC and SBS after voting closed at 6 p.m.
local time. The poll, conducted until 5 p.m., had a margin of
error of plus or minus 0.8 percentage points.  An independent exit poll by the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper’s
cable-TV affiliate JTBC indicated a 0.2 percentage point lead
for Park while a separate forecast by broadcaster YTN put Moon
ahead with 49.7 percent to 53.5 percent, compared with 46.1
percent to 49.9 percent for Park.  A victory for Park, the daughter of the country’s longest-
serving military dictator Park Chung Hee, would make her  South
Korea ’s first female president. The winner will inherit an
economy forecast to grow this year at the slowest pace since
2009, with fewer job prospects for younger voters and dissent
over the power of the country’s conglomerates known as chaebols.  North Korea’s successful rocket launch last week
complicated both candidates’ calls for greater engagement with
leader Kim Jong Un’s totalitarian state.  ’Hopeful’  Almost 41 million people were eligible to cast their
ballots under cold, partly cloudy weather across South Korea.
Turnout was 75.8 percent or 30.7 million, based on provisional
figures at 7:10 p.m., the highest rate since 1997, the National
Election Commission said on its website. The victor will take
office Feb. 25, when President  Lee Myung Bak ’s single five-year
term ends.  Moon’s camp remains hopeful despite the exit poll numbers,
spokeswoman Jin Sun Mee said in an e-mailed statement.  “We were hoping to ride on the high turnout but it looks
like this won’t be easy,” Jin said. “The numbers are still
within the margin of error, so we still have hope.”  Moon, 59, cast his ballot at about 7 a.m. today with his
wife and his mother at a voting station in the southern port
city of Busan, according to an e-mailed statement from his party.
He is monitoring the vote count from his home in Seoul.  “Man proposes and God disposes,” Moon said, adding that
he slept well last night. “I’ve done everything that I can, so
I now wait for the results with a light heart.”  “I believe that the wise public will open a new era for
our country,” Park said when she voted near her home in  Seoul ’s
Gangnam district.  Tight Race  The turnout may decide who wins, according to analysts
including Kim Ji Yoon, the Asan Institute’s director of public
opinion studies. Turnout above 70 percent indicates
participation by more young people, who are more likely to vote
for Moon, she said.  “Underneath the political apathy and general lack of voter
participation, younger voters tend to be moderate, undecided or
generally veer left of center and support Moon,” Kim said. “If
voter turnout is high, Moon has a definite chance against Park,
who faces a more inherent difficulty in trying to convert their
generally liberal political leanings.”  In 2007, voter turnout was 63 percent, with voters in their
50s recording the highest participation rate of all age groups.
The biggest bloc of voters is in their 40s, accounting for 21.8
percent of 40.5 million registered voters, according to the
National Election Commission. Another 15.5 million voters are
from age 19 through their 30s, while 16.2 million are over 50.  Voter Turnout  There’s little to separate the candidates’ economic
policies. With voters demanding measures to reduce widening
income disparity, Moon and Park have pledged to boost welfare
spending, increase support for small-and medium-sized businesses
and rein in the influence of chaebols.  While the 10 largest chaebols, including  Samsung Group ,
account for more than half of the total market capitalization of
the Korea Stock Exchange, the biggest 30 employ just 6 percent
of the workforce. The nation’s richest 20 percent last year
earned 7.86 times more than the bottom 20 percent.  Moon has called for chaebols’ existing and new cross-
shareholdings to be banned to reduce the risk of monopolies,
while Park advocates keeping existing shareholdings exempt to
avoid hurting the economy.  South Korea’s economy is forecast by the central bank to
grow 2.4 percent in 2012, the weakest since 2009. The won has
climbed 7.4 percent against the dollar this year, an advance
that risks undermining export competitiveness. Stocks have risen,
with the benchmark Kospi Index up 9.2 percent.  North Korea  On  North Korea , both candidates say they will
unconditionally resume dialogue with Kim Jong Un’s regime. Moon
said he will invite North Korean officials to his inauguration
and hold summit talks with Kim by the end of next year. Park,
while also willing to meet the country’s leader, is more
cautious with promises of re-engagement, emphasizing the
importance of national security and “dialogue based on trust.”  Park and Moon both called on North Korea to refrain from
testing a long-range rocket, which Kim’s regime ignored with its
Dec. 12 launch.  The candidates’ careers are connected through Park’s father,
who oversaw South Korea’s economic rise through the growth of
automaking, steel and shipping and promoting the chaebols. Park
senior took power in a military coup in 1961 and ruled until
1979, when he was shot dead by his security chief. Park Geun Hye
served as her father’s first lady for five years from the age of
22, after her mother was killed in a North Korean attempt to
assassinate the president.  Moon was jailed in 1975 for leading street protests against
the Park government, and was then assigned to a front-line
position in a special operations unit during his military
service. He later served as chief of staff to President Roh Moo Hyun, who was in office from 2003 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  