-- Space-Age Art Upstaged By Constable at Royal Academy
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/space-age-art-upstaged-by-constable-at-royal-academy.html
Imagine a futuristic version of the
Stone Age, a transparent dolmen illuminated by ever-shifting
inner lights.  If you can manage that, you’ll have in your mind’s eye
something resembling “Tom Na H-iu II” (2006) by the Japanese
artist Mariko Mori, the most impressive piece in “Rebirth,”
her exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts.  It is lit from within by hundreds of LED lights in patterns
that fluctuate in response to neutrinos detected at the Kamioka
Observatory, a cosmic ray research unit at the  University of
Tokyo  (to which the work of art is directly connected).  Sit in front of it for a while, and it begins to take you
over: The experience is soothing, bland yet simultaneously
hypnotic.  Mori’s art is an odd, unclassifiable blend of eastern
mysticism, science fiction and pop culture. She is interested in
Shinto and Buddhism, and in the prehistoric cultures of  Japan 
and  Europe .  She’s also been a part-time fashion model and has a taste
for pastel colors which, in combination with a liking for
sparkling, bubble shapes, can give her art an unexpected
resemblance to bathroom fittings.  “Transcircle 1.1” (2004), her updated Stonehenge,
consists of nine monoliths which change color in a way intended
to symbolize the movements of the planets. I must confess that,
as I watched them morph from pink to lime green or powder blue,
thoughts of bath salts and soap came into my mind.  Space Capsule  Mori has produced some compelling pieces in the past,
including 3D film art and an astonishing cross between a space
capsule and a traditional shrine. On the whole this show of more
recent work is a disappointment.  Around the block, in the Fine Rooms at the front of
Burlington House, is another  Royal Academy  exhibition:
“Constable, Gainsborough, Turner and the Making of Landscape.”
This consists of works from the RA’s own collection -- which is
mainly made up of pieces presented by Academicians through the
centuries.  Ostensibly, the focus is on the way 18th- and early-19th-
century artists used the medium of prints to disseminate and
publicize their work.  Before the coming of photography, the only way to get to
know an artist’s achievement -- short of seeing the originals --
was to look at an engraving or mezzotint. Some of those on show
are beautiful things, particularly the magnificent series done
after Constable’s paintings by the print-maker David Lucas.  Time Capsules  For those not gripped by this rather specialized theme,
there are two other reasons to go to this little exhibition. One
is to take a look at the early-18th-century interiors by William
Kent in which some of the works are hung: elegant time capsules
of Georgian  London .  The other is to see the array of paintings by Constable,
who is too often dismissed and misunderstood as a specialist in
studies of cozy English countryside but was in fact one of the
supreme masters of the oil medium in the 19th century.  He is much better represented than any other artist in the
show, completely outgunning his old rival Turner and also
overshadowing a fine and little-known Gainsborough, “Romantic
Landscape” (c. 1783).  On display there is a selection of Constable’s fresh,
brilliant sketches done in the open air -- paintings that lead
much more directly into Impressionism than anything by Turner,
who is more often cited as a predecessor of Monet et al.  One picture would be enough make to the case for
Constable’s greatness. “The Leaping Horse” (1825) is the  Royal
Academy ’s finest treasure and one of the masterpieces of both
British and European art.  “Constable, Gainsborough, Turner and the Making of
Landscape” is in the John Madejski Fine Rooms at The Royal
Academy until Feb 17, 2013.  “Mariko Mori: Rebirth” is at The Royal Academy, 6,
Burlington Gardens, until Feb 17, 2013.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market,  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night and
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 