-- Spain’s $185 Billion Restructuring Test for Rajoy Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-12-19T08:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/spain-185-billion-refinancing-tests-rajoy-s-bank-cleanup-effort.html
A rush by recession-hit Spanish
businesses and consumers to refinance their loans will test
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s pledge of a “definitive”
cleanup of the nation’s crisis-hit banks.  Spain ’s banks have restructured about 140 billion euros
($185 billion) of loans outside the country’s crippled real
estate industry, according to Oliver Wyman, a consulting firm
that did a stress test of Spanish lenders. Bad loans surged to a
record 11.2 percent of total lending, the Bank of Spain said
yesterday.  “We are working with factories, restaurants, any kind of
business,” Agusti Bou, who works on restructuring credit at
Jausas, a Barcelona-based law firm, said in a phone interview.
“There’s going to be a growing default problem because the huge
issue in Spain is not the public debt, it’s the private.”  Spain has ordered banks to recognize 84 billion euros of
losses to purge their balance sheets of real estate as Rajoy
recapitalizes at least four failed lenders with about 40 billion
euros of European bailout funds. The strategy focuses on soured
property assets and may neglect impending losses on loans to
firms and homeowners as the economy shrinks, analysts say.  While small and medium-sized businesses have restructured
as much as 21 percent of the 230 billion euros they owe,
according to  Oliver Wyman , total non-performing loans in the
country grew by 7.8 billion euros to 190 billion euros in
October, the Bank of Spain said. The nation’s bad-loan ratio
will jump to 14.5 percent of all lending, assuming that 30
percent of refinanced credit turns sour within a year, said
Daragh Quinn, a banking analyst at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in
 Madrid .  ‘Decisive’ Steps  Rajoy, 57, said two days ago that the measures Spain has
taken to strengthen banks meant 2012 would be remembered as the
year it laid the ground for recovery.  “The definitive cleanup of our financial system will
contribute decisively to restoring confidence in the Spanish
economy,” he told members of his party in a speech in Toledo in
central Spain.  With the five-year  economic slump  showing little sign of
easing, businesses and consumers are approaching banks to
negotiate lower interest rates and longer maturities on their
borrowing. The economy may shrink by 1.5 percent both this year
and in 2013, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 37 economists. Unemployment, which stands at 26
percent, the highest in the European Union, will reach almost 27
percent next year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecast on Nov. 27.  Troubled Banks  Larger companies have restructured as much as 29 billion
euros of loans, or 11 percent of total borrowing, and homeowners
9 percent of 600 billion euros in mortgages, according to Oliver
Wyman data.  “Nobody should be invested in the domestic-focused banks
in Spain,”  Dirk Becker , head of banking research at Kepler
Capital Markets, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  Banco de Sabadell SA ,  Bankinter SA (BKT) ,  Banco Popular Espanol
SA (POP)  and  CaixaBank (CABK)  are rated as four of the five “top under
performers” among European banks covered by Kepler due to their
exposure to the domestic market, Becker said.  Bankia and  Banco Popular  rank among the bottom 10 lenders
in the 46-member Stoxx 600 Banking Index in terms of the ratio
of their share price to book value. The list also includes five
 Italian banks ,  National Bank of Greece SA , France’s  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)   and Commerzbank AG of  Germany .  Ski Resort  “You are basically depending on the economy performing
better and unemployment starting to fall before you can have any
comfort that further defaults can be avoided,” Benjie Creelan- Sandford, a banking analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd., said in a
telephone interview from  London .  Bou, the lawyer at Jausas, said he advised  Boi Taull , a ski
resort in the Pyrenees mountains in northern Spain, to
renegotiate about 45 million euros of debt this year after the
company sought protection from creditors.  Lenders agreed to extend repayment to 15 years from six
years and to reduce  interest rates  to an annual 0.75 percentage
points above benchmark European lending rates, or Euribor, from
as much as 3 percentage points, according to Bou. An official
for the resort declined to comment by telephone yesterday.  While the deal meant Boi Taull survived, the restructuring
may also help banks unwind the provisions they had set aside for
the bad debt and avoid selling off real estate assets that may
have been hard to value, said Bou.  “If there’s a chance of refinancing, banks will explore
all avenues to achieve it,” he said. “It’s less damaging than
having loan repayments frozen for years if the debtor applies
for creditor protection.”  Firms Collapse  Spain was the European country with the greatest number of
firms seeking protection from creditors since the start of the
2008 global financial crisis, according to Spanish credit rating
company Axesor. The number jumped more than 280 percent from
2008 to the end of 2011, outstripping insolvencies in  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal , it said in a July  report .  Spanish companies processed through  bankruptcy proceedings 
climbed an annual 23 percent to 6,142 in the third quarter,
according to the National Statistics Institute in Madrid.  Hair Transplant  Renegotiating the terms of loans may be a good strategy for
both banks and companies, said Stuart Percival, a lawyer at the
Madrid branch of law firm  Clifford Chance .  “I would like to think that once the restructuring has
been done, that should allow the companies to move on,” he said
in a phone interview. “The point of the process was to allow
companies to breathe.”  The danger is that some Spanish lenders may be using
refinancing as a tool to delay defaults that are inevitable,
said Mikel Echavarren, chief executive officer of  Irea , a
Madrid-based firm advising clients on loan restructuring.  “All this results in brutal contraction of income for all
companies and sectors, with the exception of those that rely on
exports,” said Echavarren in a phone interview. “We are
refinancing companies ranging from real estate to transport --
we even refinanced a hair transplant clinic.”  ‘Under Control’  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, said it’s got lending risks under control. The firm is
focused on ensuring that more loans awarded to smaller firms
don’t turn sour, Chief Operating Officer Angel Cano told
analysts in a conference call in October.  BBVA’s non-performing loan ratio for business lending
climbed to 8.2 percent of total loans in September from 5.7
percent at the start of the year, it said in its third-quarter
earnings statement.  The Bankia group, which has received almost 18 billion
euros of financial aid, is setting aside 8.1 billion euros in
provisions this year to cover potential defaults on non-real
estate loans, it said last month. Banco Popular said in October
it would write off 3.2 billion euros of non-property loans by
next year as it cleans up its balance sheet.  Government decrees in February and May have forced Spain’s
banks to recognize losses on their real estate assets. Based on
Oliver Wyman data, they’ve also restructured at least 108
billion euros in loans to real estate companies, on top of the
140 billion euros of refinancing for other businesses and
Spanish consumers.  Avoiding Losses  Bankia and the three other Spanish lenders bailed out by
the European Union must transfer their real estate to a so-
called bad bank, known as Sareb.  Jesus Maria Ruiz de Arriaga, a partner in  law firm   Arriaga
Asociados  specializing in refinancing, said he helped an
electronics producer restructure a loan of about 10 million
euros in 2011. The terms agreed with two banks, which he
declined to identify, included a two-year waiver on repayment of
capital.  “The company will have to renegotiate again next year
because the economic situation has not improved and its issues
are not resolved,” he said in a phone interview from Madrid.
“Part of my job is to explain to my customers that it’s the
banks that are weak in these situations, not them. The banks are
desperate to avoid more losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  