-- States Return to Peak Tax-Revenue Collections, Study Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/states-return-to-peak-tax-revenue-collections-study-says.html
Half of all U.S. states have
returned to peak tax-collection levels last seen before the
recession five years ago, or will soon, according to a survey by
the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Twelve states project their personal income-tax collections
will exceed what they budgeted for the current fiscal year,
while 15 states say they will come in on target, the  NCLS  said.
Collections of sales levies also are expected to exceed or meet
estimates in 28 states.  States have closed more than $500 billion of budget
deficits over the last four years by raising taxes, cutting jobs
and curbing spending, all of which acted as a drag on the
economic recovery. The longest  recession  since the Great
Depression began in December 2007 and lasted until June 2009. In
the preceding two recessions, it took two years or less for
revenue to return to previous peaks, NCLS said.  “Three and a half years following the official end of the
recession, state officials face the prospect that slow and
steady growth may be the ’new normal,’” NCLS said in the
report. “With the unpredictability of recent fiscal years,
stable is not necessarily a bad position for states, but enough
uncertainty lingers on the horizon to create a fragile situation
for state budgets.”  Corporate income-tax revenue, which account for about 5
percent of state collections, is expected to exceed or match
budget estimates in 32 states, NCLS said.  In  California , higher sales and income taxes approved by
voters in November have put the most populous U.S. state on
track to recording a surplus by 2015. The state has suffered
through $200 billion in combined shortfalls in the last 12
years, according to the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s
Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  