-- Stevens Says Australia May Not See Seamless Handover From Mining
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-18T14:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/stevens-says-australia-may-not-see-seamless-handover-from-mining.html
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens said there may not be a seamless “handover” from
mining to other drivers of economic growth, according to an
interview published today in the Australian Financial Review.  “We’re not going to be able to absolutely guarantee
seamlessly every handover from one source of demand to
another,” he said, according to a transcript published on the
newspaper’s website. Stevens expects non-mining investment to
pick up, although it may be a slower process than the RBA wants.
In the meantime, there are limits to what the central bank
can do to “fine-tune” the economy.  “If it is a bit slower to come through, it doesn’t make
sense to stoke up other things in some effort to overly fine-
tune a short-term path,” he said. “We’ve got to recognize that
monetary policy has limits.”  The RBA cut its  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent on Dec. 4. In the minutes of that
meeting, published yesterday, it said that mining investment may
be close to peaking.  “Further confirmation that the peak in resource-sector
investment was near, and that the short-term outlook for non-
resource investment remained subdued, indicated that there was a
case for the board to provide that support,” the minutes said.  Stevens said in the interview that the Australian dollar
“does seem to be a bit on the high side at the moment.” The
currency has strengthened about 55 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the past four years.  He said the RBA is “wary of” the risk of low rates
stoking asset prices. If you try to “‘compensate for a very
high exchange rate with cheaper, lower interest rates,” that
can lead to an “asset credit buildup,” he said.  “So we’re mindful of that, I don’t really think we’re
seeing that though at the present time,” Stevens said.  On inflation, Stevens said there are “still some lumps”
coming through in the headline numbers. That will push the rate
above 3 percent “briefly in another quarter or two, but in
trend terms we’re around what we want to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  