-- SuperJet Crash That Killed 45 Caused by Pilot Ignoring Alarm
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-12-18T08:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/superjet-crash-in-indonesia-caused-by-pilot-ignoring-warning.html
A Sukhoi SuperJet crash that killed
45 people in  Indonesia  happened after the pilot ignored an
automatic warning that the plane was on course to hit a mountain,
according to the official report.  The pilot of the Russian-made aircraft may have been
distracted as he was talking to a potential customer, said
Tatang Kurniadi, head of Indonesia’s National Transportation
Safety Committee, which probed the May 9 accident. The pilot’s
lack of familiarity with the West Java region and poor planning
also contributed, he told reporters in Jakarta today.  The agency didn’t find any system failure on the aircraft,
Kurniadi said. The 90-seat SuperJet, the spearhead of  Russia ’s
push to build a globally competitive  aerospace industry , was
carrying reporters and potential customers during the flight,
part of a regional promotional tour.  The aircraft was on its second flight of the day when it
disappeared from radar screens shortly after takeoff. The
collision-avoidance system was working, United Aircraft Corp.,
the Moscow-based parent of Sukhoi, said in May, citing the
cockpit voice recorder. The plane, which seats five abreast,
competes with models from  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   The flight was planned for an altitude of 10,000 feet over
the Bogor area, according to a statement released by NTSC today.
The available charts on board didn’t have information relating
to the area nor the nearby terrain.  “This demonstration flight was not prepared well,”
Kurniadi told reporters in Jakarta today. “The maps were not as
complete as they should be.”  Warning Ignored  At 2:26 p.m. local time, the pilot contacted the Jakarta
approach controller and requested for descent to 6,000 feet and
subsequently sought to make a right orbit, NTSC said. The
controller approved the request.  About six minutes later, the plane hit a ridge of Mount
Salak, at about 6,000 feet. Thirty eight seconds prior to the
collision, the Terrain Awareness Warning System activated
‘Terrain Ahead, Pull Up’ audio warning once, and ‘Avoid Terrain’
warning six times.  The pilot in command stopped the system, assuming that the
warning was triggered by a problem with the database, according
to NTSC. The flight warning system ‘Landing Gear Not Down’ was
also activated seven seconds before the crash.  At 2:50 p.m., the Jakarta approach controller noticed that
the plane disappeared from the radar monitor. There was no alert
on the radar before the jet disappeared. A simulation test
suggested that a recovery action up to 24 seconds after the
first warning could’ve avoided the crash, NTSC said.  The Jakarta radar service had also not established minimum
safe flying altitude for the region, according to the NTSC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vipin V. Nair in Mumbai at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  