-- Swedbank Rises to Europe’s Top Two as CEO Revives Swedish Lender
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-18T23:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/swedbank-rises-to-europe-s-top-two-as-ceo-revives-swedish-lender.html
When  Michael Wolf  took over the helm
of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in 2009, the bank suffered the biggest losses of
any major Nordic bank and relied on government guarantees for
funding. Today, it’s among  Europe ’s strongest.  The 49-year-old set off to boost capital buffers, cut risks
and restore investor confidence in a bank seen as the least
crisis-resistant in the country’s 2009 stress tests. That has
given the Stockholm-based lender a head start over competitors
before tougher capital rules come into force next year and made
it the second-best capitalized in the European Union.  Swedbank was the Swedish bank hardest hit by the global
financial crisis sparked by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse in September 2008, as a credit-fueled housing boom in
the Baltics turned to bust. Wolf’s approach, which has seen the
 share price soar  more than sixfold since he took over,
transformed the bank into the only Swedish lender seen posting
profits in every year through 2015 under a scenario of stress.  “You could say that we started the journey building
capital, extending maturities and building liquidity buffers far
ahead of the new regulatory changes,” Wolf said in an interview
in  Stockholm  on Dec. 4. “We took the cost very early on for
building a bank that had capacity to meet stress.”  Within six months of Lehman’s collapse, Swedbank had lost
more than 80 percent of its market value. Shareholders and other
investors bolstered the bank with 15.1 billion kronor ($2.3
billion) in October 2009, following a 12.4 billion-krona
injection completed in December 2008.  Capital Buffers  In his first year as CEO, Swedbank reported a  net loss  of
10.5 billion kronor as credit impairments soared in the Baltics,
where Swedbank is the largest lender. Three years later, the
central bank stress test on Nov. 28 showed the lender posting a
combined profit of 6.2 billion kronor in the three years through
2015, while  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) 
were seen with at least one annual loss.  Swedbank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was at 17.3 percent at the end of the third
quarter. That’s the second highest in the 27-member EU after
Swedish rival Handelsbanken. By comparison,  Germany ’s
Commerzbank AG and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  had a Tier 1
capital ratio of 12.2 percent and 11.7 percent, respectively.  The lender also already exceeds the Swedish government’s
new capital requirements -- or common equity Tier 1 capital
ratios of at least 10 percent next year and 12 percent from 2015
-- two years ahead of time. It will still have surplus capital
after new Basel III regulation and accounting rules and higher
risk-weights on Swedish mortgage assets come into force.  ‘Rebound Story’  “Swedbank was transformed into a conservative and
overcapitalized bank with focus on cost control,” said Mads Thinggaard, an analyst at Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen with an
outperform rating. “I cover eight Nordic banks and Swedbank is
by far the greatest Nordic rebound story among them.”  Swedbank, SEB and Nordea in 2008 and 2009 were among the
first European lenders to raise capital from their shareholders
as a result of the global financial crisis, giving them headway
to improving  capital ratios  and securing access to funding.
Deutsche Bank AG presented plans for a capital increase in
September 2010, while Commerzbank followed just months later.  Since Wolf took over, Swedbank shares have increased by
more than sixfold, while Handelsbanken doubled in value. The
shares have risen 39 percent this year, beating the Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index’s 21 percent gain.  ‘Market-Share Game’  Still, future threats may be largely beyond Wolf’s control
as European leaders struggle to contain the debt crisis, which
has raised investor concern about a breakup of the euro area.  “Swedbank’s turnaround has been impressive,” said Hakon Fure, an analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in Oslo, with a  sell rating . Still,
“the continued economic uncertainties in the euro area are
increasingly posing a risk. Earnings growth is set to stall.”  To Wolf, who had previously worked at debt collector  Intrum
Justitia AB (IJ) , the lender will continue to focus on risks.  “It’s important that banks have a strong view on risks and
that they focus less on volumes and market share because then it
becomes a relative game and we’re not here to play a market-
share game,” he said. “We’re here to help our customers do
well and if they do well, we will do well and the banking system
will be less of a concern for the society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  