-- Swiss Seeking Bargains Abroad Shrink Supermarket Sales
-- B y   J a m e s   K r a u s
-- 2012-12-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/swiss-seeking-bargains-abroad-shrink-supermarket-sales.html
Swiss retailers are struggling this
holiday season to curb cross-border  shopping  after patriotic
appeals have failed to stem a growing flow of bargain hunters to
supermarkets and shops in neighboring  France  and Germany.  “Other than soap, everything is cheaper,” said Yannick
Majors, a 79-year-old language teacher, who makes a 20 minute
drive every Saturday from her Geneva suburb to buy groceries in
a Carrefour store in the French border town of Divonne-les-
Bains. “I’ve yet to meet a Swiss person who wouldn’t go over
the border if they felt they could save money.”  While  Switzerland  has  Europe ’s highest concentration of
millionaire households, almost half the country’s shoppers will
make some purchases in euros this Christmas, a Dec. 3 survey by
Deloitte LLP showed. That is depressing Swiss retail sales as
the franc’s 24 percent gain against the euro over the past three
years spurs residents to pour through hundreds of often
unmonitored border crossings with France, Germany, Italy and
 Austria  in search of discounts.  The Swiss currency’s strength, along with pressure from
higher rents and health insurance, will help push cross-border
shopping up by about 60 percent to as much as 8 billion francs
($8.8 billion) this year from 2011, according to the Swiss
Retail Interest Group.  Job Drain  The cross-border appeal threatens the jobs of some of
Switzerland’s 370,000 retail workers as sales in the 100
billion-franc industry fell 1.7 percent in 2011, the steepest
drop in 15 years, according to Economiesuisse, a pro-business
lobbying group in Zurich.  Revenue lost to cross-border shopping would support as many
as 21,500  Swiss retail jobs , according to Migros, the country’s
second-biggest retailer, behind Coop.  Both Migros and Coop say cross-border shopping depressed
profit in  2011  as they cut prices to lure back customers. Net
income at Coop dropped 8.1 percent to 432 million francs, while
 Migros  reported a 26 percent decline to 662 million francs.  “Consumers have discovered shopping abroad,” said  Claude Maurer , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. With
the franc’s appreciation, “goods abroad suddenly became a lot
cheaper.”  Reversing the trend became more difficult last month when a
Swiss consumer  website , part funded by the government,
publicized price differentials for more than 700 products at
stores in Switzerland and neighboring countries. Swiss retailers
called for the site to be shut down, saying it was encouraging
shoppers to cross the border.  Cheap Heineken  “It’s less expensive for most things, especially meat, and
I probably save about 50 percent,” said Mireille Raphael, a 60-
year-old retiree from Geneva who does about half her shopping in
France.  The price-comparison website, barometredesprix.ch, showed
100 grams of Lindt chocolate could be bought for the equivalent
of 1.53 francs at Casino in France, 40 percent less than Coop
charges in Switzerland. Gillette Fusion razors cost the
equivalent of 14.44 francs at Kaufland in  Germany , versus 24.90
francs at Swiss store Manor. Three liters of Heineken beer costs
12.90 francs in Coop stores, while Austria’s Billa charges the
equivalent of 8.55 francs, according to the website.  While the retailers say they passed on lower costs of
imported products to customers --  Coop  cut prices by 2.4 percent
in 2011 and  Migros  by an average 3.9 percent -- that isn’t
enough, according to Mathieu Fleury, head of the Consumer
Federation of French-Speaking Switzerland.  “The situation is unsatisfactory, to say the least, with
two giants that dominate the market,” he said. “People are
voting with their feet.”  Patriotic Appeal  The trend has been a boon for France’s  Carrefour (CA) , which has
seen profit shrink amid a slump in revenue in its domestic
market. Third-quarter sales at the world’s second-largest
retailer rose 2.1 percent to 22.6 billion euros ($29.9 billion).  The Swiss Trade Association, a grouping of small and mid-
sized companies, has appealed to patriotism by handing out
600,000 shopping bags emblazoned with the Swiss cross.  “By shopping in Switzerland, they’re doing something for
the Swiss economy,” said Henrique Schneider, chief economist at
the trade association. “It’s about saying yes to a whole
economic system that makes you better.”  Higher prices partly reflect labor costs. Cashier salaries
start at about 3,850 francs monthly, more than double the wage
for a similar job in France, said Guy Vibourel, head of Geneva
operations for Migros.  No Ferraris  More stringent restrictions on opening hours and stricter
Swiss environmental and hygienic regulations also boost  prices ,
said Vibourel, adding that foreign suppliers routinely charge
more than they would in Germany,  Italy  or France.  Swiss lawmakers have proposed asking Germany to scrap tax
refunds on purchases made across the border. Coop has suggested
making it easier for Swiss retailers to buy from sources other
than authorized distributors in the country -- in effect trying
to do a bit of cross-border shopping itself.  “Coop and Migros are under big pressure,” said Damian
Kuenzi, an analyst at Credit Suisse in Zurich, adding that Swiss
retailers are limited in the price cuts they can make.  Geneva and Zurich ranked as two of the three most expensive
cities in the world for food with a typical shopping basket
costing almost a third more than in  New York , according to UBS
AG. That makes cross-border shopping particularly appealing to
poorer Swiss residents.  “The people who come here have limited incomes,” said
Thierry Job, manager of Carrefour in Ferney-Voltaire, France,
where half the cars outside have Swiss license plates.  “You won’t see any Ferraris in the parking lot,” Job
said. “Wealthy people don’t need to go shopping over the
border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Kraus in Geneva at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  