-- Syrians Fleeing Assad Flood Turkey as NATO Bolsters Border
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-12-19T12:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/syrians-escaping-assad-guns-flood-turkey-as-nato-bolsters-border.html
As Nasir Hackasim ran home to rescue
his family when Syrian soldiers gunned his kebab restaurant, he
remembered some childhood advice: find safety in water.  So the 58-year-old took his wife and nine sons and set off
from the town of A’zaz through a small river to cross the border
into  Turkey  and escape Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces
hunting him for refusing to spy on his patrons, the rebels. He
ended up at a camp now housing 13,600 refugees.  “My father often said there would be no landmines in the
water, walk in the water,” said Hackasim. “So, we walked
through a creek into Turkey in daylight. Someone else had
already destroyed the barbed wire.”  Turkey so far opened its doors to more than 210,000
refugees, about 40 percent of the total being processed in
Syria’s neighbors, including families of rebels and supporters.
As the country becomes a haven, Turkey is saddled with a drop in
trade and the cost of housing them as fears escalate that Syria
may launch a punitive missile attack.  The country spent 482 million liras ($270 million) on
refugees since fighting broke out in March 2011, Turkish Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  told parliament this week. Exports to
Syria fell 70 percent in the first nine months, the state-run
Anatolia news agency reported on Dec. 12, citing Simsek.  Financial Burden  “Turkey has the capacity to cope with the unexpected
financial burden,” Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, director of the  German
Marshall Fund of the United States  in Ankara, said yesterday.
“However, the crisis is poisoning its relations with its
neighbors. Turkey’s strong opposition to Assad jeopardizes its
relations with Russia,  Iran  and Iraq.”  Hackasim, an ethnic Turkmen with a gray-and-pepper beard
and a brown checkered head cover, has been under Turkish
protection since his escape from Syrian government soldiers nine
months ago, he said.  “It was Sunday, about 20 of them came and raked everywhere
with automatic weapons, knocking over the refrigerator and
tables,” Hackasim said in a Dec. 7 interview between drags on
endless cigarettes. “I fled through the back door.”  Before the start of the conflict 21 months ago, Turkey and
 Syria ’s relationship was so close that Assad and Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan vacationed together with their families in
2008. Tension rose when Turkey began calling on Assad to stop
massacring his own people and step down.  The downing of a Turkish reconnaissance jet by Syrian
forces in June and the deaths of five Turks by an errant mortar
round from Syria in October escalated it further.  Civil War  The civil war has killed about 44,000 people, according to
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  The opposition made gains against Assad’s forces and
controls mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the
northeastern outskirts of Damascus to areas in the southwest.
The Free Syrian Army seized a highway between the capital and
Aleppo yesterday, severing the supply route between the nation’s
two biggest cities, according to opposition activist websites.  Turkey is moving reinforcements and deploying weapons from
its NATO allies along the 900-kilometer (560-mile) frontier. The
U.S. and  Germany  agreed on Dec. 14 to send two Patriot anti-
missile batteries and some 400 soldiers to Turkey. Components
for the equipment started arriving yesterday. The missiles will
be deployed in Turkey by Feb. 1, Anatolia said today.  Regional Tension  Russia and Iran opposed deployment on grounds that it could
fuel tension in the region. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  responded yesterday by saying the time has come for
Iran to send a “clear message” to Syria to stop the war.  “Turkey is aware that its backing of rebels comes with
risks and it is preparing for a possible attack by Syria,” said
Nihat Ali Ozcan, a military analyst at the  Economic Policy
Research Foundation  in Ankara. “Although the risk of an attack
from Syria is minimal, military planners can’t ignore it.”  Hackasim set up a new makeshift kebab shop next to the
Oncupinar camp about 500 meters from Turkish guns pointing at
Syria. He was adamant he would continue his livelihood.  The second-hand refrigerator Hackasim uses has a sticker
with a French inscription that reads “For a Free Syria” and a
flag of the revolution with its green, white and black
horizontal stripes and red stars across the middle. Erdogan and
President Abdullah Gul smile from a poster on the wall.  World Upended  Not all Syrians are as lucky.  “Our world has come to a standstill,” said former
storeowner Muhammed Kenno, as Hackasim interpreted his words
from Arabic into Turkish, refusing to accept money for coffee
from the 48-year-old. “I had to abandon my supermarket in
A’zaz. Now we are miserable,” Kenno said.  Another Syrian, Ali Ismail, was able to pay 4 liras ($2.25)
for a kebab wrap for breakfast. He said he was spending the last
of the $5,000 he raised by selling his Suzuki car in August
before he escaped across to Turkey.  About 139,000 refugees are living in Turkish refugee camps,
the Disaster Management Authority said yesterday. More than
70,000 other Syrians have rented houses and some 25,000 others
were waiting to cross into Turkey, the government said.  The United Nations refugee agency today urged the
international community to donate $1 billion to support Syrians
fleeing to Turkey, Jordan,  Iraq , Lebanon and  Egypt . The appeal
is based on planning estimates that as many as 1 million Syrian
refugees will need help during the first half of 2013, the UNHCR
said in a statement.  Kebab Ingredients  While Hackasim has electric heaters at his prefabricated
housing unit, hundreds of Syrians are shivering under blankets
in makeshift tents near the town of Atmah in Syria, according to
the Anatolia agency on Dec. 12.  Three coffee machines, one broken, are lined up on a table
next to a cabinet with cokes, bottled water and ayran, a local
yoghurt drink. White smoke rises from a coal barbecue. Onions,
tomatoes and parsley sit on a giant wooden chopping board as
well as plastic bowls of spices, including cumin, sumac and
chili pepper. Skewers of mince kebab are in a deep freezer.  “For me, the war was over when they told me that I can
open a restaurant here,” Hackasim said. “But then, who would
voluntarily abandon his homeland?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  