-- Syrian Rebels Battle Palestinian Fighters in Damascus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-18T15:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/syrian-rebels-battle-palestinian-fighters-in-damascus.html
Syrian rebels and Palestinian
fighters loyal to President Bashar al-Assad battled for control
of a Damascus refugee camp days after government airstrikes in
the area.  There was heavy firing as the two sides fought in the
Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp in south Damascus, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The clashes have forced refugees to flee the area, the
U.K.-based group said.  Al Arabiya  reported today that the camp
was under rebel control.  Syrian forces had massed near Yarmouk yesterday as the
government tried to reassert control over the area in a campaign
that included weekend airstrikes that left at least eight people
dead. The opposition has made gains against Assad’s forces and
controls mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the
northeastern outskirts of the capital to areas in the southwest.  There are 525,000 Palestinian refugees in  Syria  and a
“significant number” have been killed, wounded or forced to
flee during the 21-month conflict, the United Nations Relief and
Works Agency said on its  website . Almost 44,000 people have died
since the anti-Assad uprising began, according to the Syrian
Observatory.  The fighting in Yarmouk is between rebels and the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, which has
been fighting with Assad forces, according to the Syrian
Observatory.  Russian Deployment  Russia , an ally and arms supplier to Assad’s government,
has dispatched warships to the Mediterranean to prepare for the
possible evacuation of its citizens from Syria, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified naval official. A frigate, two
amphibious assault ships and a tanker from Russia’s Baltic Fleet
left for the Mediterranean to hold planned exercises and replace
a Black Sea Fleet naval detachment in the area, Defense Ministry
spokesman Igor Konashenkov said by phone today.  The naval deployment was organized at short notice and aims
to put in place contingency arrangements for the evacuation of
Russian citizens in Syria, Interfax cited the unidentified naval
official as saying.  Syria has long served as Russia’s foothold in the  Middle
East , home to its only military base in the region, the
strategically located Tartous naval facility. Russia also has
been Syria’s leading arms supplier.  ‘War Criminals’  Hamas, the Palestinian movement that runs the  Gaza Strip 
and is designated a terrorist organization by the U.S.,  Israel 
and the European Union, condemned the Dec. 16 attacks by Assad’s
forces on the Palestinian camp and called those responsible
“war criminals,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Hamas was formerly allied to the Assad government and many
of its leaders were Damascus-based. The last member of the
organization’s politburo was reported by Israel’s Haaretz
newspaper to have left Syria in February as the Syrian civil
conflict intensified.  Fighting killed 158 civilians yesterday, including 50 in
Damascus and its suburbs, the opposition Local Coordination
Committees said in an e-mailed statement. Some 35 soldiers died
in the fighting yesterday, and 13 people were killed in Yarmouk,
the Syrian Observatory said.  Shortages  The Syrian government was trying to restore basic needs to
the citizens of Aleppo, Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi was cited
as saying by the  Syrian Arab News Agency  yesterday during a trip
to the country’s largest city. Al-Halaqi blamed the disruption
of water, electricity and communications services on “armed
terrorist” attacks, the news service said.  The UN’s World Food Programme warned earlier this month
that the escalation of violence in Syria is making it more
difficult to reach the country’s hardest-hit areas. The food-
security situation has “rapidly” deteriorated, with bread and
fuel shortages and infrastructure damage caused by the fighting,
the WFP said.  Assad’s troops have lost a series of battles for barracks,
airfields,  power plants , oilfields and roads across the country
against rebels in the second half of this year. Syrian rebels
overran two military bases outside of Aleppo this month with
support from Islamic militants.  Syria’s civil war is destined for stalemate, with neither
the rebels nor the military able to prevail in the conflict,
Syrian Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa told Al-Akhbar newspaper.
His comments were posted on its English-language website on Dec.
16. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov
and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius have said during the
past week that Assad’s days may be numbered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  