-- U.K. Sport Boosts Boxing Funding, Cuts Swimming for Rio
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-18T16:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-k-sports-body-boosts-boxing-funding-reduces-swimming-for-rio.html
UK Sport  slashed funds allocated to
basketball, handball and swimming in the run-up to the 2016 Rio
Olympics after those sports were unsuccessful at  London 2012 .
Boxing, athletics and equestrianism got a boost.  A record 347 million pounds ($563 million) will be invested
in Olympic and Paralympic sports in the next four-year cycle, an
increase of 11 percent. The rise was announced by UK Sport, the
nation’s elite-sport funding agency.  “There is good news for a significant number of sports,
but it will be painful for some,” the body’s Chief Executive
Officer Liz Nicholl told reporters at a news conference in
London.  UK Sport  received about 313 million pounds from the
government and the National Lottery in the four-year  London 
cycle. Its allocation policy is based on rewarding success.  Basketball, handball, table tennis, wheelchair fencing,
sitting volleyball and wrestling had their funding cut
completely after winning no medals in London.  British swimming had its funding slashed by 15 percent to
21.4 million pounds after it won three medals, compared with a
target of 5-7. Volleyball, which won no medals, will receive
400,000 pounds in the next four years for women’s beach
volleyball only, down from 3.5 million before London.  Boxing Boost  Boxing was boosted by 44 percent to 13.8 million, the
biggest percentage increase of all sports. Boxers, including the
first-ever women’s gold medalist Nicola Adams, achieved the
maximum target of five medals.  Rowing will get 32.6 million pounds, or 19 percent more,
for exceeding its target by three medals. That’s the highest
funding for any sport.  Equestrianism was boosted by a third to 17.9 million pounds
after it won five medals -- one more than targeted -- including
Britain’s first-ever golds in team and individual dressage.
Athletics got a 7 percent lift to 26.8 million pounds.  British athletes finished third in the medal standings at
the London Olympics with 29 golds and 65 overall, the nation’s
best showing since 1908. Its Paralympic team won 120 medals.  Britain wants to become the first host nation “to be more
successful” in the next Olympic cycle, Nicholl said. Host
nations typically win fewer medals in the next games.  UK Sport is aiming for at least 66 medals in Rio, and at
least 121 Paralympic medals, Nicholl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  