-- U.K. Sees Pressure for Carbon Target in Electricity Bill
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-18T16:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-k-sees-pressure-for-carbon-target-in-electricity-bill.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  face a rebellion
within their own party after rejecting proposals to include a
target for cutting carbon in new energy-market legislation.  Tim Yeo , a lawmaker in Cameron’s ruling  Conservative Party 
and chairman of the Energy and Climate Change Committee, seeks
to amend the electricity market bill to impose a target for so-
called decarbonization on power generation. The goal is needed
to give investors security to fund low-carbon energy, he said.  “This would have the support not just of a lot of the
renewable organizations but a number of investors and part of
the industry who would like to see it because it removes an
element of uncertainty,” Yeo said in an interview.  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey , who had planned to set a target
to mostly cut  carbon emissions  from the power industry by 2030,
introduced the legislation without the goal on Nov. 29 following
opposition from Osborne. The chancellor has pushed for gas-fired
generation as a cheaper alternative to low-carbon renewables.  The legislation as it stands, along with a strategy handing
out incentives for natural gas, cast doubt on U.K. commitments
to cut the nation’s carbon emissions in half by 2027, Yeo said.  “The gas strategy reinforced the need to have a carbon
target in legislation,” he said. Yeo plans to seek support for
his amendment from the opposition  Labour Party , as well members
of the ruling Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties.  iPad Age  Britain “risks being left behind” in a green industrial
revolution, he said in a speech at Bloomberg’s London office
today, comparing the country’s reliance on gas with running an
“office using a fax machine in the age of the iPad.”  “The government has made its position clear,” Yeo said.
“The chancellor and the prime minister have been very clear
that they obviously considered this and they rejected it.” An
amendment will be a “hard sell” that may be rejected, he said.  Osborne on Dec. 5 said the government will study tax breaks
for shale gas exploration as it seeks to cut dependence on
imports and hold down energy bills. The same day, the energy
department laid out plans for as many as 30 new gas-fired power
stations with 26 gigawatts of capacity to shore up supply, with
a fifth of current capacity due to close in the next decade.  “Gas has an important role to play, particularly over the
next 15 years,” Yeo said. Yet, with emissions from gas still
“probably over 200 grams” per kilowatt-hour, replacing coal
with gas won’t get the U.K. where it needs to be, he said.  Target 2016  Yeo may seek a “compromise” for power emissions of 50 to
100 grams a kilowatt-hour by 2030. In comparison, the Climate
Change Committee, which advises the government, has recommended
50 grams, while current levels are more than 300 grams, he said.  Under government plans, a decision on a target isn’t slated
until 2016. It also can review its 2023-2027 “carbon budget”
in 2014. Budgets lay out what the U.K. can emit over successive
five-year periods as it strives to meet a requirement under the
2008 Climate Change Act to cut emissions 80 percent by 2050.  A decision on the target should be brought forward to 2014
to coincide with the review of the carbon budget, Yeo said.  “We face now the prospect of the fourth carbon budget
being reviewed in 2014 and two years later we may finally get an
intensity target for electricity,” he said. “That removes
certainty, which is not helpful for investors.” Yeo is non-
executive chairman of hydrogen fuel-cell company  AFC Energy Plc. (AFC)   Davey today told the Energy and Climate Change Committee he
had agreed with other ministers that the decarbonization target
should be set in 2016 because that coincides with the setting of
the fifth carbon budget for the period straddling 2030.  Yeo said the energy bill should spur efficiency, adding:
“They’ve made a statement of intent, which is encouraging.”  The legislation is due for a second reading in parliament
tomorrow, before being scrutinized by a committee of lawmakers.
Yeo plans to suggest amendments when the committee reports back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  