-- BOE Voted 8-1 to Leave QE Unchanged as Euro Risks Receded
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-19T09:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-k-inflation-remains-at-2-7-on-utility-costs-food-prices-1-.html
Bank of England policy makers voted
8-1 to leave their bond-purchase program on hold this month as
immediate risks from the euro area crisis receded and near-term
inflation risks persisted.  David Miles dissented and voted to increase the target for
purchases by 25 billion pounds ($41 billion) to 400 billion
pounds, according to the minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s Dec. 5-6 meeting, published in  London  today. All
nine members, including Governor Mervyn King, voted to keep the
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, a record low.  “The immediate risks emanating from the euro area seemed
less pressing than they had in the summer, and financial-market
sentiment had improved,” the MPC said. “Most members agreed
that developments on the month had done little to alter the
balance of arguments between maintaining and increasing”
stimulus, and the current level of quantitative easing “seemed
appropriate for the present.”  The Bank of England halted  bond purchases  in November and
is relying on its so-called Funding for Lending Scheme to boost
credit and aid the recovery. The MPC said early signs of the FLS
were “encouraging.” Still, it said the economy may shrink this
quarter and surveys pointed to “broadly flat underlying
output” in the near term.  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the
minutes were released. It was trading at $1.6288 as of 9:33 a.m.
in London, up 0.2 percent on the day.  Coupon Transfer  The MPC said preliminary analysis of the fiscal measures
announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in his
economic statement on Dec. 5 “suggested that their impact on
the outlook for growth over the committee’s forecast horizon was
likely to be small.”  The MPC also commented on the chancellor’s arrangement with
the BOE to transfer gilt coupon income from the Asset Purchase
Facility to the government. It said the government’s decision to
reduce treasury bill issuance this fiscal year “implied
slightly less of an easing in monetary conditions in the very
short term” than had it chosen to cut gilt issuance.  The MPC also said that an “early understanding of the
government’s gilt issuance plans for the 2013-2014 financial
year would be helpful for its monetary policy decisions.”  On inflation, the MPC said it is likely to remain above the
2 percent target for the “next year or so,” though should slow
to the goal in the medium term. It noted “substantial risks”
to that outlook, including from “continuing adverse weather”
that could disrupt harvests and push up food prices.  Sticky Inflation  Data yesterday showed  consumer-price growth  remained at 2.7
percent in November. Upward pressure on inflation came mostly
from food and utilities. Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  raised concerns last week that inflation may show
“stickiness.”  Even with that price outlook, Miles saw the case for more
stimulus as “strong.” In his view, the outlook for growth
“seemed a little weaker” and the level of spare capacity meant
more stimulus could “achieve higher output growth without
causing any material inflationary pressure.”  In the minutes, the MPC noted that the “drag from fiscal
consolidation and rebalancing in the periphery was likely to
continue into the medium term.” Recent data pointed to a
“continuing contraction in the euro area, but a stabilization
in global growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  