-- U.K. Plans Review of Future Sub-Hunting Aircraft Needs Next Year
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-18T16:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-k-plans-review-of-future-sub-hunting-aircraft-needs-next-year.html
The U.K. Ministry of Defence will
make a first assessment next year of how to meet future maritime
surveillance needs after the cancellation of the  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) 
Nimrod MRA4 patrol aircraft two years ago.  A study of airborne intelligence needs will deliver initial
findings in April to the Military Capability Board, the ministry
told Parliament’s defense committee. That will lead to some
options being investigated further to decide before 2015 whether
to initiate a formal program, it said.  The U.K. canceled BAE’s Nimrod MRA4 maritime patrol
aircraft as part of the 2010 Strategic Defense and Security
Review after cost overruns and schedule delays, leaving the
country without aircraft to detect enemy submarines. The
shortfall for an island nation has caused concern in Parliament.  “The government fully recognizes the importance of
maritime surveillance to the U.K.,” the ministry said. While
the country “has accepted a capability gap and increased risk
by deleting Nimrod,” the ministry said “other assets, used as
part of a layered approach, can reduce this risk to some degree,
and it remains within tolerable levels.”  Boeing Co. (BA) , which builds the P-8 for the U.S. Navy and
 India , and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , provider of the C-130
transport aircraft, are among the companies that have expressed
interest in a replacement program. Marshall Aerospace, the
Cambridge, England-based aircraft maintenance company, also has
promoted the concept of a C-130 modified for sea-surveillance.  The U.K. has deployed some personnel with units from the
U.S. and other countries to maintain skills in hunting
submarines. That program, called Project Seedcorn, should remain
active until a decision is made on how to replace the Nimrod
capability, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  