-- U.S. Boosts Import Duties on Chinese Wind-Energy Firms
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-18T22:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-s-boosts-import-duties-on-chinese-wind-energy-firms.html
The U.S. increased import duties on
wind towers produced by Chengxi Shipyard Co. and CS Wind Corp.
from preliminary levies imposed earlier this year to prevent the
Chinese-made goods from undercutting the domestic industry.  The Commerce Department today set final tariff rates on the
products after an investigation triggered by a complaint from a
group of U.S. manufacturers including  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  of
Naperville,  Illinois . The punitive measures are meant to counter
government subsidies and to prevent the goods from being sold in
the U.S. below production costs, a practice known as dumping.  The decision coincided with the start of two days of trade
and economic talks between U.S. and Chinese officials in
 Washington . Tensions between the world’s two largest economies
have risen within the past year over government support for
clean-energy products, including solar cells and wind towers.  The department set anti-dumping duties of 47.59 percent on
wind-towers from Chengxi Shipyard and 44.99 percent for Titan
Wind Energy Suzhou Co., both based in  China . The rate for Titan
Wind was more than double its preliminary rate of 20.85 percent,
announced in July. The utility-scale steel towers support the
turbines and engines used in the production of wind energy.  The Chinese unit of South Korea-based CS Wind, along with
Guodian United Power Technology Baoding Co. and  Sinovel Wind
Group Co. (601558) , both based in China, received anti-dumping rates of
46.38 percent, also higher than their preliminary levels. All
other Chinese producers and exporters of the goods received
anti-dumping rates of 70.63 percent. Actual rates will be  about
11 percentage points lower due to accounting adjustments.  Anti-Dumping  U.S. anti-subsidy duties for the Chinese goods will be
21.86 percent for CS Wind and 34.81 percent for Titan. Other
producers and exporters received an anti-subsidy rate of 28.34
percent, an increase above the preliminary tariff announced May
30.  The Commerce Department also announced anti-dumping
penalties of 51.50 percent for CS Wind’s Vietnamese unit, and
58.49 percent for other producers in that country. The rates are
slightly lower than the preliminary tariffs set earlier this
year.  Joining Broadwind in the complaint were Fergus Falls,
Minnesota-based  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries, Katana Summit
LLC, headquartered in Ephrata, Washington, and a unit of Dallas-
based  Trinity Industries (TRN)  Inc. Major producers of wind-energy
gear include  General Electric Co. (GE)  of Fairfield,  Connecticut , and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich.  The U.S. last year imported about $222 million worth of
utility-scale wind towers from China, and $79 million from
 Vietnam , according to the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  