-- S&P 500 Advances to 2-Month High Amid Optimism on Budget
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-18T21:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/u-s-stock-futures-advance-amid-optimism-on-u-s-budget.html
U.S.  stocks  advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level in two months,
amid signs of progress in efforts by President  Barack Obama  and
Republicans to reach agreement on a new budget in  Washington .  An index of homebuilders gained 2.3 percent as confidence
among U.S. homebuilders climbed in December to the highest in
more than six years.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley
rose more than 3.1 percent to pace gains in financial shares.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the most valuable company, added 2.9 percent.  The S&P 500 rose 1.2 percent to 1,446.79 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . It has gained 15 percent so far in 2012. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 115.57 points, or 0.9 percent, to
13,350.96 today. About 7.4 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, 20 percent above the three-month average.  “There is certain optimism that it could potentially be
done before the end of the year and that would be a very
positive sign to the market,” Philip Tasho, chief investment
officer at Alexandria, Virginia-based Tamro Capital Partners
LLC, which manages about $1.8 billion, said in a phone
interview. “Once the solutions are in the rear view mirror in
terms of fiscal policy, we will simply look forward. It’s a blip
in the long-term trend.”  The S&P 500 sank as much as 7.7 percent from its 2012 high
in September as Obama’s re-election set up a budget showdown
with the Republican-controlled  House of Representatives . The
benchmark gauge has  climbed  6.9 percent since its November low
amid optimism a compromise will be reached to avoid more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  Revised Plan  Obama lowered his tax revenue demand by $200 billion and
offered to start tax rate increases at $400,000 in income
instead of $250,000, moving closer to a budget deal with House
Speaker  John Boehner .  The president’s revised plan would raise $1.2 trillion in
taxes in the next decade and cut $1.22 trillion in spending,
said a person familiar with the talks. Obama wants a large
enough debt ceiling increase for the next two years and would
accept a new inflation yardstick that would reduce Social
Security cost-of-living increases, said the person, who sought
anonymity.  Boehner said he will push a budget “plan B” measure that
will include tax increases on income of more than $1 million a
year, while he continues to negotiate with the president.
Obama’s administration and other Democrats immediately rejected
the proposal as inadequate.  ‘It’s Real’  “People have been very fearful to move into stocks and
this might be one of the things to get them go back to stocks,”
Brian Gendreau, a market strategist at El Segundo, California-
based Cetera Financial Group Inc., said in a telephone
interview. The firm has about $20 billion in assets under
management. “We see a pickup in housing. The consumer continues
to spend. The recovery is there, it’s real.”  All  10 groups  in the  S&P 500  advanced today as energy,
technology and financial companies gained at least 1.4 percent.
The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index rose 1.8 percent to the
highest level since July 2011. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average jumped 1.6 percent to the highest level since May.  An S&P index of  homebuilders  rallied 2.3 percent to the
highest level since Oct. 19. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence increased to
47, the highest since April 2006, from a revised 45, the
Washington-based group reported today.  Lennar Corp. climbed 2.4 percent to $39.71. D.R. Horton
Inc. added 2 percent to $20.08 and PulteGroup Inc. gained 3.2
percent to $18.61.  Banks Rally  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
advanced 3.3 percent to $11.36. Morgan Stanley rose 3.2 percent
to $19.12.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, gained 2.9
percent to $533.90. Bank of America said the selloff of the
stock could be overdone. Shares fell 4.4 percent last week as
UBS AG cut its price estimate to $700 from $780, citing concern
that growth may slow for the iPhone and iPad.  At least five analysts have cut their  price targets  for
Apple since Dec. 16, with some saying Apple’s purchases from
suppliers indicate sales of iPhones and iPads, the company’s
largest sources of revenue and profit, may not meet projections.  The reports from  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Pacific Crest Securities,
Mizuho Securities USA, BMO Capital Markets and  Canaccord Genuity 
mark a reversal from earlier this year, when analysts were
racing to issue upbeat predictions, with at least two saying
Apple would top $1,000. Instead, the shares have dropped more
than 25 percent from a September record amid speculation the
iPhone is saturating the market, ratcheting up pressure on Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to introduce a new hit product.  Patent Lawsuits  Separately, Samsung Electronics Co. said today that it will
withdraw patent lawsuits targeting Apple’s use of its technology
in European countries.  Arbitron Inc. (ARB)  rallied 24 percent to $47.03. Nielsen
Holdings NV agreed to buy Arbitron for about $1.26 billion,
adding U.S. radio audience ratings to its television data as
more users listen to and watch programs on the Internet and
mobile devices.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. rallied 4.1 percent to $32.47, the
highest since 2006. The hospital chain was rated overweight, an
equivalent of buy, in new coverage at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  led a decline in stocks of
firearms makers as Cerberus Capital Management LP, the New York-
based investment firm that owns the largest U.S. gunmaker, said
it will put the company up for sale, acting four days after one
of its rifles was used in the Connecticut school shootings that
left 26 people dead.  Prohibited Guns  Cerberus said it will seek to sell Freedom Group Inc. just
hours after California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said he’ll propose
that the state’s public pension funds, the two largest in the
U.S., divest investments in firearm manufacturers that make guns
prohibited under state law.  Smith & Wesson slid 10 percent to $7.79, plunging 18
percent over three days. Sturm Ruger & Co. declined 7.7 percent
to $40.60.  General Electric Co. (GE)  slipped 1.1 percent,  the most  in the
Dow, to $21.69. The world’s largest jet-engine maker may reach
an agreement to buy Avio SpA, an Italian supplier of aerospace
components, from Cinven Ltd. this week, according to two people
familiar with matter. A deal may be valued at about 3 billion
euros ($4 billion), said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because talks are private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  