-- TUI Rises on Hapag-Lloyd, Hamburg Sued Talks: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-12-18T12:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/tui-rises-on-hapag-lloyd-hamburg-sued-talks-frankfurt-mover.html
TUI AG (TUI1)  rose in  Frankfurt  after its
shipping unit Hapag-Lloyd said it is discussing a possible
merger with Hamburg Sued.  TUI shares advanced as much as 2.6 percent and traded up
1.3 percent, or 10 euro cents, to 7.95 euros as of 12:40 p.m.
local time. Hapag-Lloyd, based in Hamburg, is investigating “if
and under what conditions a merger of the two companies would
make sense,” according to a statement from the company today.  TUI Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel, who will be
replaced in February by Friedrich Joussen, has been trying to
focus the company on tourism by putting units such as shipping
up for sale. Earlier this year, the German city-state of Hamburg
increased its stake in Hapag-Lloyd to 37 percent by buying a
part of TUI’s holding. Hapag-Lloyd reported a loss for the first
nine months of 2012 as overcapacity, falling demand and low
freight rates eroded earnings.  TUI will probably support the deal because it would
“crystallize the value of its Hapag stake and could potentially
also be a way of disposing the remaining stake,” Johannes Braun,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As such, it should be taken positively, although a
complete assessment of such a deal depends on financial details
not yet available,” he said.  Hamburg is a member of the Albert Ballin group, which also
includes billionaire shipping magnate Klaus-Michael Kuehne,
Signal Iduna, Hanse-Merkur, M.M. Warburg & Co. and HSH Nordbank
AG, and which in total holds 78 percent of the shares in Hapag-
Lloyd,  Europe ’s fourth-largest container line. TUI owns the
remaining 22 percent.  TUI’s stock has gained 66 percent this year.  Hamburg Sued, which was founded in 1871, is one of the
leading shipping providers in the north-south trades, according
to its website. It is part of the Oetker Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  