-- Hungary Cuts Rate for Fifth Month After Forint Plunges
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-12-18T15:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/hungary-cuts-rate-for-fifth-month-after-forint-plunges.html
Hungary ’s central bank, roiled by
divisions among policy makers, cut the European Union’s highest
 benchmark rate  for a fifth month as policy makers shrugged off
the forint’s plunge to a five-month low.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week deposit rate
to 5.75 percent from 6 percent, the fifth quarter-point cut in
as many months, matching the forecast of all 19 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Policy makers voted for the cut with a “tight
majority” over a proposal for no change, central bank President
Andras Simor said.  Simor, who on Dec. 7 urged the bank to act “much more
firmly” against inflation, which slowed to an 11-month low of
5.2 percent in November, has been outvoted along with his two
deputies in the past four rate meetings by non-executive members
who want to spur an economy battling its second recession in
four years. The forint weakened yesterday amid speculation the
bank may take further policy steps.  The central bank lowered its inflation forecast for 2013 to
an average 3.5 percent, from a projection of 5.8 percent in
September, as a result of the government cutting household
energy prices by 10 percent from January and delaying a rise in
excise taxes. The bank sees the economy expanding 0.5 percent
next year, versus an earlier forecast of 0.7 percent, after an
expected 1.4 percent contraction in 2012, according to the
bank’s updated Inflation Report published today.  Core Inflation  Core inflation , which strips out volatile energy prices, is
seen at 3.5 percent in 2013 and 3.4 percent in 2014, Simor said,
adding that “in my opinion these figures don’t reflect an
improvement in the inflation outlook.”  The updated inflation forecast for 2013 is “an additional
argument to continue rate cuts,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based
economist at Raiffeisen Bank, said in an e-mail today. “In case
we don’t see a more tangible forint weakening, the rate-cut
cycle is expected to continue and we forecast the key rate at 5
percent by end-June.”  The forint dropped 1.6 percent in the past two days and
traded at 288.45 per euro by 4:02 p.m. in Budapest, with traders
and strategists citing reports of government plans to apply
greater pressure for monetary easing among the reasons for the
drop. The weakening pared the forint’s gain this year to 9.2
percent, the second-biggest rise after the Polish zloty.  ‘Fragile’ Confidence  The central bank should ignore temporary forint volatility,
Simor said, adding that the currency’s recent weakening “may
have showed a fragile investor confidence in Hungary.”  The four non-executive policy makers, appointed by Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party in 2011, have pointed to
the resilience of the currency and falling risk premium for
supporting monetary easing. They have also argued that the
inflation rate may drop to the bank’s target in 2014 as cost
shocks from energy and food prices fade.  “Yesterday’s sell-off in the forint to a five-month low
suggests that the markets may not tolerate many further rate
cuts,”  William Jackson , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London , said in an e-mailed report today. With the euro-area
crisis set to escalate next year, the central bank may be forced
to increase rates to defend the forint, he said.  Hungary on Dec. 13 sold 2028 bonds at an average yield of
6.31 percent, the lowest in seven years. Credit-default swaps,
measuring the cost of insuring Hungarian debt against non-
payment for five years, traded at 289 basis points today,
compared with 321 basis points a month ago.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
rates in three months traded at 5.39 percent today. That’s 64
basis points below the three-month Budapest Interbank Offered
Rate, indicating a benchmark rate of 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent
in March.  Regional Trend  Hungary’s rate cuts follow those of central banks in
eastern  Europe , where price growth is slower. The Czech central
bank reduced the main two-week repurchase rate to a record-low
0.05 percent on Nov. 1, almost three-quarters of a point less
than the euro-area benchmark. Czech inflation in November was
2.7 percent from a year earlier.  Central bankers in  Poland , where inflation was within the
bank’s tolerance range last month at 2.8 percent, may cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for a third month in January from 4.25
percent, policy maker  Jerzy Hausner  said Dec. 12. Romania kept
borrowing costs steady at 5.25 percent in November with price
growth at 4.56 percent and  Turkey ’s central bank cut the
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 5.5 percent today.  Rate cuts in countries like Hungary, which are indebted in
foreign currencies, may fail to stimulate growth by risking
 currency depreciation  and fueling inflation, European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in Budapest Dec. 7.  Fiscal or monetary stimulus won’t solve Hungary’s growth
problem, Simor, whose six-year mandate expires in March, said
the same day. He said the government needed to create a
predictable policy environment and agree with banks to ease
their tax burden to stop a decline in lending.  A government policy turnaround, which the  International
Monetary Fund  has also asked for to boost growth and unlock aid
talks more than a year after Hungary asked for a financial
safety net, is unlikely to happen after lawmakers last week
approved a 2013 budget that relies on keeping extraordinary
company taxes businesses blamed for a lack of investment.  That puts Orban, facing elections in 2014, focused on
pressuring the central bank for monetary stimulus after Simor
leaves his job, according to  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. The Cabinet wants a
“new strategic alliance” with the central bank with the change
of leadership, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told state radio
MR1 on Dec. 15.  “Orban will make sure the central bank will be fully
aligned with the government’s policy in 2013, and the reshuffle
in the NBH board will be a decisive step toward that goal,”
Costa said. “This government is poised to ’force’ rates lower
further down in the first quarter” as it looks for a “a lot of
‘help’ from the central bank on the monetary policy side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  