-- Lure More Doctors Into Primary Care With ‘Medical Homes’
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/lure-more-doctors-into-primary-care-with-medical-homes-.html
The Affordable Care Act is expected
to provide health insurance for 34 million Americans who need it
and, if all goes as planned, fix inefficiencies in delivering
medical care. But the new system isn’t yet prepared to deal with
the growing shortage of primary-care doctors.  By 2025, the U.S. will require  52,000 more  nonspecialist
physicians than it has now. This is mainly because there will be
more Americans, especially  older ones . The increased number of
insured people will only worsen the problem.  Projections  suggest
that when that time comes, the U.S. will have at least 35,000
too few general practitioners. And those we have will be badly
distributed, leaving many rural towns and poor urban
neighborhoods underserved.  No simple solution is possible because this predicament is
knitted into American health care -- an insurance-driven,
government-subsidized system in which general practitioners’
time and attention isn’t priced as high as specialists’
surgeries and procedures. As long as medical school graduates
can expect to earn only half as much practicing primary care as
they would in, say, cardiology or anesthesiology, the
specialties will keep luring  75 percent  or more of them away.  This is why it probably wouldn’t help to increase the
number of medical residencies financed by Medicare, as some have
suggested. Such a change wouldn’t necessarily expand the supply
of generalists appreciably, nor ensure that they practice where
they are most needed. From 1979 to 1999, the number of U.S.
physicians per capita  rose 51 percent , but for every one of them
who moved to a low-supply region, four went to places already
teeming with doctors.  Loan Repayment  Nor does the  National Health Service Corps  provide the
whole answer. The NHSC gives scholarships for students in
primary care and as much as $60,000 in medical school loan
repayment for new doctors who work two years in primary care in
underserved communities. That’s a good reward, though obviously
not enough to matter financially over a career or to increase
the basic appeal of general medicine.  How might more new doctors be persuaded to pursue primary
care? One strategy gaining some traction is to transform the
work of general medical care. Many doctors see patients in
isolated offices, putting in long hours, doing their own
paperwork and never communicating with any of the patients’
other providers.  An alternative now being tried in several places across the
country is the “ medical home ” strategy, in which primary-care
doctors work in teams with nurses, nurse practitioners,
physicians assistants and others to take care of every aspect of
a patient’s health, from preventive-care education to treatment
of illness and injury. In return, the team receives a global
payment that amounts to more than they would be paid by adding
up individual fees for services. Bonuses are provided, too, if
the team improves patient care.  The  Capital District Physicians’ Health Plan Inc. , a
nonprofit insurance provider in upstate New York, has dozens of
physician practices now operating on this model. Payments to
doctors in these offices are  40 percent greater  than before --
and even higher for those with sicker patients. At the same
time, cost growth in these practices has been lower than average
for the region, and the patients are using hospitals, emergency
rooms and advanced imaging less.  Medical homes make primary care more appealing by not only
upping the pay but also allowing doctors (and all other team
members) to work at the top of their ability, making their jobs
more satisfying day to day.  Attracting Students  Such a change could keep generalists from retiring early or
entering specialties to escape the grind and, perhaps more
important, attract more students to primary care -- if medical
schools also get with the program.  Standard educational procedure has been for medical
students in their third and fourth years to work in clerkships
in specialty departments of hospitals, spending a month or two
learning the rudiments of urology, ophthalmology, surgery and so
on. By the time they graduate, they have had many mentors who
are specialists, but none who practice general medicine outside
the hospital.  What’s needed are clerkships in community primary care that
give students a strong team experience, and that last as long as
a year, so they can learn the rewards of getting to know their
patients. Studies of this approach are under way, but according
to George Thibault, president of the  Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation ,
which supports research on improving medical education, the
experience so far seems to make students more enthusiastic about
general medicine.  Medical schools should also recruit prospective students
from the neighborhoods and rural communities that lack an
adequate number of primary-care doctors.  The Affordable Care Act includes some funding for
establishing medical homes and for offering education in
community-based clinics. Medical schools and insurance plans
should help push these efforts. As the U.S. health-care system
is transformed in the years ahead, it should become a place
where primary-care doctors thrive.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 