-- Vingroup Pulls Bond Sale Plan, Looks for Equity Investor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-18T12:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/vingroup-pulls-bond-sale-plan-looks-for-equity-investor.html
Vingroup JSC (VIC)  has canceled its U.S.
dollar-denominated bond offering due to higher-than-expected
yields and will consider other options, including pursuing a
strategic investor or a loan next year.  “If we wanted to go ahead before the end of the year, it
would be very expensive,” Le Thi Thu Thuy, the chief executive
officer of  Vietnam ’s biggest property developer, said in an
interview today. “Most investors want to close the books right
now. No one wants to look at a new issue, especially a new
issuer. We’re looking at other options that would be cheaper.”  Vingroup was seeking to sell as much as $300 million of
five-year notes which it could have bought back after the third
year and the bonds were being marketed to yield 12 percent to
12.5 percent, Thuy said. As permission by the country’s central
bank to conduct a bond sale expires Dec. 31, Vingroup was being
forced to rush and pursue a deal at too high a cost, she said.  The sale of notes by Vingroup would have been Vietnam’s
second offering of dollar bonds this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Companies are seeking to raise debt as
the Southeast Asian nation’s property market cools and
incomplete projects risk saddling the country’s banks with a
growing portfolio of non-performing loans. Vietnam’s  economic
growth  is expected to be 5.2 percent this year, the slowest pace
of expansion since 1999.  Vingroup dropped 1.4 percent to 73,000 dong, the lowest
since Dec. 7, on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange today. The
benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  fell 0.1 percent.  Strategic Investor  Vingroup is speaking to “a couple” of potential strategic
investors and would consider selling as much as a 10 percent
stake, equivalent to about $250 million, Thuy said. Another
option could be an international or domestic loan.  Proceeds would be used to complete two high- to mid-end
mixed-use projects in Hanoi and make land payments, Thuy said.
Vingroup will be handing over apartments in those projects to
buyers from January.  “A loan would be much more straight-forward and simpler,”
Thuy said. “A strategic investor would take time. We have to
find the right fit, like looking for a husband or wife. You have
to find someone that will add value to you.”  The  developer , based in Hanoi in the country’s north, is
currently constructing eight mixed-use projects at prime
locations around Vietnam at a total cost of more than $4
billion. The company has about $360 million in short-term
investments, cash and cash-equivalents, Thuy said.  Share Sale  Vingroup will also seek to raise about $300 million via a
share sale in  Singapore  by August to fund its projects. “That
will be important for us to do,” Thuy said.  The company shelved plans to list in Singapore last year
when the city-state’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell 17
percent. Shares of Vingroup are down 6.5 percent this year.  A bond sale may still happen in 2013, depending on market
conditions, and would require approval from the country’s
central bank, Thuy said.  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade ,
the country’s second-largest lender by market value, raised $250
million when it sold 8 percent notes due 2017 in May in its
debut issue in the U.S. currency, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vingroup is rated B+ by  Fitch Ratings , four steps below
investment-grade, and one level lower at B by  Standard & Poor’s .
Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. were helping to manage
its bond sale, a person familiar with the matter has said,
asking not to be named because the details are private.  Government Measures  Thuy anticipates Vietnam’s property market will improve
next year as the government enacts policies to bolster the
industry.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, at a meeting today, called
for measures to resolve difficulties in the real-estate market.
The steps include restructuring property products to meet market
demand, reducing prices, providing products directly to buyers
and filtering out weak real-estate companies, according to a
posting on the government website. The government will discuss
the measures this month.  The retail sector continues to be strong for Vingroup, Thuy
said. Occupancy rates at the high-end Vincom Center A in  Ho Chi
Minh City  are at about 95 percent and rents at the company’s
five shopping centers throughout the country have increased 5
percent to 10 percent annually, she said.  “Looking at next year, we are quite bullish,” Thuy said.
“With the government behind the real-estate market, it will
improve significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  