-- Vingroup Pulls Dollar Bond, Asia Bond Risk Drops to 17-Month Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-12-18T05:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/vingroup-pulls-dollar-bond-asia-bond-risk-drops-to-17-month-low.html
Vingroup JSC scrapped a sale of
bonds in U.S. dollars, citing elevated costs as investors seek
to avoid risk ahead of year-end. Asian issuers stayed away from
the market for a third day even as bond insurance costs fell.  Vingroup had sought to sell as much as $300 million of
five-year notes at a yield of 12 percent to 12.5 percent, Le Thi Thu Thuy, chief executive officer of  Vietnam ’s biggest property
developer, said in an interview today. An index tracking the
cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in  Asia  with
credit-default swaps headed for its lowest close since July
2011, according to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and CMA.  Dollar bond sales from Asia excluding  Japan  have dwindled
in December, which has seen the lowest monthly issuance for four
of the past five full years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Still, offerings of $2.25 billion this month, with
the last transaction on Dec. 13, are already the most for any
December since 2006, the data show.  “Most investors want to close the books right now,” Thuy
said. “If we wanted to go ahead before the end of the year, it
would be very expensive.”  The Hanoi-based developer may raise money through a stake
sale or a loan, Thuy said. A bond sale may still happen in the
next 12 months depending on approvals from the country’s central
bank and market conditions.  Yield premiums on dollar bonds in Asia rose to 262.9 basis
points as of yesterday from a record-low 247.2 basis points on
Oct. 19, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased 0.5 basis point to 109 basis
points as of 9:08 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Credit Agricole SA prices
show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index declined 2 basis points
to 122 as of 12:07 p.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  The benchmark is on course for its lowest since August
last year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped one to 161.25 as of
10:26 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The gauge is
set for its lowest close since April 6, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  