-- Vogue’s Vreeland Curated Glittering Fashion Life: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/vogue-s-vreeland-curated-glittering-life-of-fashion-set-books.html
Assiduously but (very much unlike
her subject) unassertively, Amanda Mackenzie Stuart makes a case
for Diana Vreeland as one of the 20th century’s premier figures.  When you finish reading “ Empress of Fashion ” (Harper,
$35), you’re convinced Cleopatra could not have been more
fascinating.  Mrs. Vreeland, as she was widely known, had a career that
fell into three phases, all of them spectacular: fashion editor
at  Harper’s Bazaar  (1937-62); editor-in-chief of  Vogue  (1963-
71); and special consultant to the  Costume Institute  at the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art (1971 until shortly before her death
in 1989).  Stuart explodes a few myths, including Mrs. Vreeland’s
purported Paris childhood. (She grew up, prosaically, on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan.) To be fair, Mrs. V. called
“ D.V. ,” her witty and epigrammatic 1984 memoir, “faction.”  Stuart is a believer but not a partisan. She thinks  Conde
Nast  had no choice but to fire Mrs. V. from Vogue in 1971. The
magazine was losing money, her budgets were astronomical and she
refused, as she always had, to hear anything she didn’t want to.  But that refusal was also her strength: an absolute faith
in the truth of the imagination, which she had developed as a
defense against a mother who saw her as ugly and disappointing.  Mrs. Vreeland was more than an editor and a curator. She
worshipped inventiveness, “the divine spark,” and celebrated
personal freedom. Her astonishing Vogue spreads and her later
museum shows used fashion to project an entire world view.  Grace Coddington  It’s difficult to imagine Grace Coddington, Vogue’s current
creative director, in the same room with Mrs. Vreeland. And in
fact they never met.  Born in  Wales , Coddington began her career as a model, and
her memoir, “ Grace ” ( Random House , $35), is written with the
cool assurance of someone who long ago got used to being the
prettiest person in the room.  The 2009 documentary “The September Issue” showed her
butting heads with Vogue’s icy editor-in-chief,  Anna Wintour . In
the book she talks frankly about “how much significance Anna
places on willpower trumping feelings.”  She has spent her life among the glitterati, and at 71 she
has no qualms about dishing the brats ( Karl Lagerfeld , Annie Leibovitz) while still respecting their creativity. But she
acknowledges that she’s “barely read two books” in her life,
and her writing is functional at best.  Vogue Pictures  I would have been readier to dismiss her if I hadn’t also
pored over “ Vogue: The Editor’s Eye ” (Abrams, $75), which pays
tribute, via photographs, reproductions of spreads and essays,
to the magazine’s fashion editors.  As with text, an editor’s work is mostly invisible to the
audience -- and it should be. (We register the photographers,
the models, the settings and the clothes.) Yet Coddington’s
narrative-based work stands out.  The book includes Steven Meisel’s groundbreaking 1992
grunge shoot; the  Annie Leibovitz  “Alice in Wonderland”
pictures from 2003; and a stupendous 1991 Arthur Elgort shot of
Linda Evangelista in a tartan coat and a black feathered hat,
high-kicking behind a kilted piper. Coddington engineered them
all.  At the other end of the spectrum, Scott Schuman has been
posting pictures on  the Sartorialist  since 2005. His blog
chronicles great looks on city sidewalks, from street to haute.  The Sartorialist  “ The Sartorialist: Closer ” ( Penguin (PSON) , $30, paper), his
second anthology, testifies to his generous eye, celebrating
some 500 personal styles over a wide range of races, classes and
ages -- but not body types. You won’t find plus sizes here.  Antonio Lopez (1943-87) was the most renowned fashion
illustrator of the 1970s and ’80s. “ Antonio Lopez: Fashion,
Art, Sex & Disco ” (Rizzoli, $65) collects some of his finest
work, along with many of the photographs (featuring his muses
Jane Forth, Donna Jordan and  Jerry Hall ) he made and worked
from.  His ’60s illustrations are bewitchingly psychedelic, but it
was in the ’70s that Antonio (as he always signed himself)
reached full maturity.  His eccentric manner combined highly individualized faces,
quirky perspectives and styling that (thanks largely to his
lifelong partnership with Juan Ramos) is as intense as what you
see in Vogue’s extravagant shoots.  Like those magazine spreads, these drawings create their
own world. With their trust in “the divine spark,” they speak
to the influence of Mrs. Vreeland, which endures long after both
of their deaths.  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 