-- Wal-Mart Probes Mexico License as NYT Reports Bribery
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2012-12-18T15:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/wal-mart-probes-mexico-license-process-as-nyt-reports-bribery.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, said it’s investigating how it got a license
for a store in Mexico as the New York Times reported its local
unit bribed an official to change a zoning map.  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  gave $52,000 to an official to
redraw a 2003 zoning map that would have prohibited commercial
development on a field less than a mile from the pyramids of
Teotihuacan, according to the report. A former lawyer of the
company known as  Walmex (WALMEXV)  cited the incident as he told Wal-Mart
executives of how the unit used bribery, the newspaper reported.  “The allegations contained in the New York Times article
surrounding events in 2003-2004 involving the permitting and
licensing process for a  Walmart de Mexico  store in Teotihuacan,
Mexico, have been part of the company’s ongoing investigation of
potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
we began more than a year ago,” Wal-Mart said in a statement.
“We take these allegations very seriously because, as you know,
we do not accept ethical violations,” Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Duke  said in a message to employees.  Wal-Mart last month said it was investigating possible FCPA
violations in  Brazil ,  India  and  China , in addition to its
bribery probe in Mexico. The inquiries come as  growth  for Wal-
Mart’s international sales slowed to 2.4 percent in the three
months ended October, the slowest quarterly pace in three years,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Walmex fell 1.8 percent to 42.3 pesos at 8:51 a.m. in
Mexico City. The shares had gained 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  Confidential Documents  Wal-Mart shut its investigation of the former Walmex
lawyer’s account of bribery in 2006 even as the company’s
investigators found evidence to support his allegations, the  New
York  Times reported.  “The Audit Committee of the board, comprised entirely of
independent directors, is overseeing the investigation” it
initiated more than a year ago, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart said. “We are also continuing to cooperate with the
 Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
on this matter.”  Walmex had used bribes to skirt regulations on unsafe
construction, the New York Times said, citing its investigation,
which it said used confidential Wal-Mart documents.  The newspaper reported 19 store sites in Mexico were
targets of Walmex’s bribes. Eight bribes totaling $341,000 were
paid in relation to the building of a Sam’s Club in Mexico City
without a construction license, environmental permit or urban-
impact assessment, the New York Times said.  ‘Weakest Moment’  The newspaper identified nine bribes amounting to $765,000
related to the construction of a refrigerated distribution
center in a flood basin north of  Mexico  City. The store in
Teotihuacan involved more than $200,000 of bribes, it said.  “As leaders, we are measured by our weakest moment, so we
can’t have a weak moment in the area of integrity,” Duke said
in the note. “We can have a bad sales day and a good sales day
and hope they average out, but we can’t average integrity. The
only way our company can grow and thrive is for every Walmart
associate to do the right thing – 24 by 7 in  every country  that
we operate in.”  The company has spent more than $35 million on new
processes and procedures, Wal-Mart said in its statement dated
yesterday.  “We are committed to having a strong and effective global
anti-corruption program everywhere we operate and taking
appropriate action for any instance of non-compliance,” Wal-
Mart said. “We recognize that our effort to date is a work in
progress and there is more to be done as we continue building a
world-class FCPA compliance program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  