-- Wells Fargo Buys 35% Stake in Rock Creek Hedge-Fund Firm
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-18T23:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/wells-fargo-buys-35-stake-in-hedge-fund-firm-rock-creek-group.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
bank by  market value , bought a stake in Rock Creek Group LP to
provide more hedge-fund offerings to clients amid a push to
double the asset-management unit within seven years.  The lender purchased a 35 percent stake in the Washington-
based firm and has an option to make a majority investment over
time, Wells Fargo asset-management chief Mike Niedermeyer said
in an interview. Rock Creek oversees about $7 billion as a fund-
of-hedge-fund business, giving clients access to handpicked
hedge funds and  emerging markets , the bank said in a statement,
which didn’t disclose financial terms.  “We view this as one of the fastest-growing segments in
the asset-management business,” said Niedermeyer, whose
business manages $450 billion for customers at San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo. “While it’s of a greater interest to larger
clients, it’s quickly becoming a larger area of focus for
middle-size and smaller endowments, and state pension funds.”  Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf, 59, has sought to
expand businesses that are less likely to be hampered by new
global banking regulations and record-low interest rates. In
April, Wells Fargo announced it would buy Merlin Securities LLC,
a prime brokerage that caters to hedge funds and other clients
with as much as $2 billion in assets.  Client Needs  “Our clients have expressed their desire for increased
alternative investment solutions, and this partnership allows us
to meet those needs,” Niedermeyer said in the statement.  Rock Creek, in addition to picking hedge funds, also has
tools that allow clients to analyze portfolios and stress-test
investments, Niedermeyer said in the interview. The firm has
about 50 employees and is run by Afsaneh Mashayekhi Beschloss, a
former World Bank chief investment officer.  Wells Fargo made the investment through a unit within asset
management that groups together boutique asset managers and lets
them keep their investment processes independent, according to
the statement. The unit is run by Tom Hoops.  Wells Fargo will double its asset-management unit within
seven years by expanding in international markets and investing
in more alternative-asset funds, Niedermeyer said in an
interview earlier this year when the unit managed $444 billion.  The purchase of the Rock Creek stake shows Wells Fargo
“wetting their feet” in alternative-asset managers, said Karl D’Cunha, senior managing director at Madison Street Capital, a
Chicago-based investment bank. Wells Fargo also owns a minority
stake in Overland Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that was started in
January 2010 when the bank decided to segregate a proprietary-
trading group.  Alternative Assets  “They have the capacity to be completely invested in all
sorts of alternative-asset managers but they are very selective
and choosy,” D’Cunha said in a phone interview. “This is a
conservative way to go about it.”  Wells Fargo rose 1.7 percent to $34.96 today in  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 27 percent this year, lagging
the 31 percent advance of the 24-company KBW Bank Index. Wells
Fargo’s market capitalization is about $184 billion.  Rock Creek has grown assets under management by 89 percent
since the end of 2008, when the firm had $3.7 billion of
investors’ money, according to Niedermeyer. Assets could grow to
more than $10 billion by the end of 2013, D’Cunha said.  In 2010, Rock Creek received $200 million to invest for the
New York state pension fund, the third-largest in the U.S. at
the time. The firm lost money for New Jersey’s pension system in
2006 with an investment in Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund
that imploded with wrong-way bets on natural gas.  Employee Owners  Beschloss, who is married to presidential historian Michael Beschloss, and other Rock Creek employees will continue to own
65 percent of the firm. She left the World Bank in 2001 after
managing $65 billion in assets and $160 billion in notional
derivatives exposure, according to the statement.  All of Rock Creek’s clients are qualified institutional
investors, Niedermeyer said. Wells Fargo eventually may seek to
make its strategies available to retail investors, he said.  Wells Fargo asset management caters to institutional
clients such as pensions and endowments, sovereign-wealth funds
and companies. It also offers mutual funds for retail investors
and is separate from the bank’s wealth-management unit, which
houses a retail brokerage and manages funds for individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  