-- Western Balkans at Risk of Social Upheaval on Extended Austerity
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/western-balkans-at-risk-of-social-upheaval-on-extended-austerity.html
Western Balkan nations are facing a
“higher risk” of social unrest as the region’s six economies,
faced with some of  Europe ’s highest jobless rates amid a double-
dip recession, battle to revive growth.  Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina,  Kosovo , Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and  Serbia , where unemployment
ranges from 28 percent to 43.5 percent, need to “redouble their
efforts to accelerate fiscal and structural reforms,” reduce
debt and improve public-sector governance, investment climate
and labor markets, the World Bank said today in its semi-annual
South East Europe Regular Economic Report.  “After two years of deep crisis, a sluggish recovery,
rising unemployment and poverty and a continuing recession”
there is a danger that those countries “are caught in a vicious
circle that reinforces the cycle of long-term austerity, low if
not negative growth, high debt, and even higher risks of social
upheaval,” the bank report said.  The region’s economies will contract 0.6 percent this year,
led by a 2 percent decline in Serbia. Risks to an expected
combined 1.6 percent growth next year “may be formidable” and
“clouds on the horizon for 2013” include the global impact of
the U.S. fiscal cliff as well as the uncertain recovery of the
euro area and high commodity prices.  Bolstering Growth  Improving domestic infrastructure and financing is vital
for the six economies to boost exports, half of which
traditionally end up in western Europe. With “largely exhausted
fiscal space” to bolster growth, except for Kosovo, the
countries need to find other venues to stimulate output amid
slowing credit activity and depressed domestic demand, the  World
Bank  said.  Remittances, which account for an average 10 percent of
gross domestic product, remained “relatively resilient to the
euro-zone crisis” except in Serbia where they sank to 5.8
percent of GDP in 2012 from 9.5 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  