-- Who’s Afraid of the Big, Bad NRA? Congress
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/who-s-afraid-of-the-big-bad-nra-congress.html
What wouldn’t you do to get back one
of the children slain last week in their picture-perfect
elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut ? Nothing that I can
think of.  But nothing is what we’ve done to keep tragedies like this
from happening -- even after fair warning that they would.  After the shooting, we all rally to cope, and not just with
flowers and stuffed animals. Funeral directors are flocking to
Newtown with  their hearses : There aren’t enough of them there
for 27 funerals in one week.  Last weekend, President  Barack Obama  came to Newtown in his
all-too-familiar role as mourner in chief; as  he noted , “This
is the fourth time we have come together to comfort a grieving
community torn apart by mass shootings.” Even when one of its own members hobbled into the well of the House, her brain split
apart by bullets, still Congress did nothing.  Like many Democrats, the president has mostly taken a pass
on gun control. On Friday, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney   said , as  Washington  officials often do, that the day of a
massacre was “not the day to engage in the usual Washington
policy debate.” By Sunday night, apparently, it was, though the
president didn’t get specific; he could barely get through the
names of the 20 children who were killed.  “Are we really prepared to say that we’re powerless in the
face of such carnage, that the politics are too hard?” he
asked. “Are we prepared to say that such violence visited on
our children year after year after year is somehow the price of
our freedom?”  Crazy Politics  The shorter, more depressing answer is yes, we have been
prepared to say that. The longer, more hopeful answer is maybe
we no longer are.  There are still some politicians who won’t tolerate even
the mention of the idea of “gun safety,” the phrase gun-
control advocates use in hopes of having a conversation with
Second Amendment absolutists who believe everyone has the right
to carry 100-round magazine clips. Take away my Uzi, goes the
argument, and pretty soon I’ll be without a rifle to shoot deer.  Politicians aren’t worried about hunters. They’re worried
about the  National Rifle Association , which has the fundraising
and advertising power to defeat them. So we have Representative
Louis Gohmert of  Texas , a Republican,  saying  we need more guns,
while in Michigan  legislation  that would have allowed guns in
day-care centers made it all to the way to Governor  Rick Snyder ’s desk. (He vetoed it.)  The idea is that, had a teacher in Newtown been armed --
wearing a holster with a six-shooter, perhaps, or hiding a
Bushmaster under her desk? -- we would be mourning fewer
children.  It’s a ludicrous solution, arming everyone as if this were
the Old West. There are  more gun shops  in the U.S. than there
are Starbucks. More people die by gunfire in the U.S. than in
any other country.  Yet the NRA continues to get its way, in the states and
with Congress. That’s why the assault-weapon ban lapses. That’s
why there isn’t a law that would ban weapons that can shoot 100
bullets without reloading. That’s why the U.S. attorney general
doesn’t have the power to keep people on the terrorist watch
list from purchasing weapons.  In Washington, we live among cowards who believe that if we
can’t solve the whole problem, we won’t solve any of it. They
blame video games, Hollywood, the mentally ill. True, it’s hard
to stop crazy people with guns. But what about crazy people at
the NRA?  Crazy People  Those, we can do something about. Senator  Joe Manchin , from
the rural, hunting state of  West Virginia , has an A rating from
the NRA. He is a friend of NRA Chief Executive Officer Wayne LaPierre, and he asked LaPierre to come to  Capitol Hill  to talk
face-to-face about changes to our gun laws.  “Taking some weapons away is justified, let’s do it,”
Manchin said. “I’ve been hunting all my life, and I don’t know
anyone who ever had more than 10 clips. It’s not part of the
sport.”  He didn’t get involved in gun-control legislation before,
Manchin said -- but never before have so many 6- and 7-year-olds
been slaughtered at once. “I’m a proud gun owner and member of
the NRA,” he said. “But I’m prouder of being a parent.”  If LaPierre doesn’t accept Manchin’s invitation, it’s
because letting it blow over has always worked for the NRA. If
the past is a guide, weeks from now, LaPierre will go about his
business, pursuing his agenda of getting concealed weapons in
parks, churches and bars.  Still, even if LaPierre doesn’t think this time is
different, some politicians might. Obama, for one, was visibly
changed by what happened in Newtown. Representative John Yarmuth
of  Kentucky , a Democrat,  said  he was ashamed that he has ignored
 gun control .  Granted, we can’t repeal the Second Amendment. There are
things we can do, however. At a minimum we should reinstate the
lapsed assault-weapon ban. Who can vote against that now? There
is  other legislation  that can be pulled off the shelf. And if
it’s too hard to control guns, maybe we can -- as the late
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan recommended almost  two decades
ago  -- increase taxes on ammunition. It might have made a
difference in Newtown.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 