-- Why Top Colleges Miss Great Students
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-12-18T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/why-top-colleges-miss-some-great-students.html
The real crisis in American higher
education is that our best colleges never see a large chunk of
our smartest students.  In an important  recent study , the economists Caroline Hoxby
and  Christopher Avery  found that very few high achievers from
low-income families ever apply to top colleges, and that the
missing applications from these kids largely explain why they’re
underrepresented at our leading universities.  At first glance, poor students’ reluctance to aim for the
 Ivy League  might seem to make sense. After all, there’s no way
the typical low-income family can afford tuition of $50,000 a
year. But in reality, they don’t have to pay anything for these
schools.  Leading private universities such as Harvard, Yale,
Princeton or Stanford work hard to counter the lack of income
diversity on their campuses. In recent years, they have adopted
policies reducing the costs of tuition, room and board for
middle-class and low-income students  all the way to zero .
Qualified students who settle for less-selective colleges often
end up paying more to do so.  Safety Schools  Irrational as it may seem to sell oneself so short, the
behavior is strikingly pervasive. Hoxby and Avery systematically
studied the college applications of all high-achieving students
in the U.S., zeroing in on those who earned at least an A-minus
grade point average and scored in the top decile on college
admissions exams. They found that high-achieving kids from high-
income families applied to colleges much as any good guidance
counselor would recommend, aiming for a few top-tier “reach”
schools, a handful of “match” schools, and one or two “safety”
schools, where admission was pretty much guaranteed.  Similarly qualified students from low-income families
followed a completely different pattern. Most didn’t apply to
any selective college or university, and some didn’t apply to
college at all. Too often, the best schools they approached
should have been their safety schools. They effectively gave up
a chance for upward mobility the day they sent in their college
applications.  The result is that university admissions officers see a
very skewed picture of their potential students. Among
applicants to selective colleges, high-achieving, high-income
students outnumber their low-income peers by 15 to 1, leading
colleges to perceive the latter as a rare species. But this is
wrong. The true ratio of high-income to low-income high
achievers is roughly 2.5 to 1, according to Hoxby and Avery.  Why haven’t the generous subsidies for low-income students
at elite colleges generated a stampede of smart, working-class
applicants?  Some insights  come from analyzing the kids who break the
mold by applying to elite universities. Overwhelmingly, they
tend to live in major cities where they meet other students who
are also high-achieving. These students both share information
and form a critical mass that attracts visits from admissions
officers. Their teachers are also more likely to have attended a
strong university. Many of these low-income students attended
magnet schools, or other feeder schools, which have historically
sent their best students to good colleges. The common
denominator is that low-income students who apply to top schools
typically come from an information-rich environment.  Once they gain admission to a good university, their
educational paths largely parallel those of similarly qualified
students from better-off families. Whatever doubts they might
harbor about their abilities, these students are just as
prepared as anyone for success at selective universities.  Difficult Problem  So how can top universities get more of these kids?
This is a difficult problem for universities to address, because
the students who don’t apply are typically located in rural
areas without other high-achieving classmates. Traditional
recruiting methods, such as sending an admissions officer to
visit the high school or town, aren’t feasible. And their
isolated locations mean that the students can’t easily visit the
schools before applying.  However, an intriguing strand of recent research suggests
that small changes might help. For instance,  one experiment 
showed that completing the Free Application for Federal Student
Aid for low-income families yielded huge increases in college
attendance.  Another study  found that removing the $6 charge for
sending admissions-test scores to a university led to more
students applying to top schools.  It’s a startling fact that such small barriers could be a
stumbling block to socioeconomic diversity on U.S. college
campuses and to economic mobility.  The good news is that the talent is there. Now all we have
to do is tap it.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
 Justin Wolfers  at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 