-- Winston & Strawn Ex-Partner Is Given Time Served in Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-18T19:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/winston-strawn-ex-partner-gets-time-served-in-ken-starr-fraud.html
Former Winston & Strawn LLP ex-
partner Jonathan Bristol was sentenced to time served for
helping launder almost $19 million in financial adviser  Kenneth I. Starr ’s investment fraud.  Bristol, 57, had faced as long as 87 months in prison under
federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, after
pleading guilty last year to a charge of conspiracy to launder
money.  Bristol admitted he’d conspired with Starr to defraud
customers out of more than $18.8 million by accepting money
Starr transferred into two escrow accounts he controlled, then
wiring the funds out to Starr for his personal benefit.  “A non-guidelines sentence is appropriate,” U.S. District
Judge Debora Batts said. “More than one defendant has
contributed” to the crime, Batts said, adding “the court may
apportion liability.”  Batts also ordered Bristol to forfeit $18.8 million jointly
with Starr. She said that Starr, who pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to 7 1/2 years in prison, was ordered to forfeit $30.1
million in May 2011 by the federal judge who was presiding over
his criminal case.  ‘Glamour Appealed’  Before he was sentenced today, Bristol said he’d wanted
Starr’s approval and been swayed by the glamour of Starr’s
celebrity clients he said included photographer  Annie Leibovitz ,
actress  Lauren Bacall  and film director and writer Norah Ephron.  “The glamour appealed to me,” Bristol told the judge. “I
wanted someone to pat me on the head, pat me on the back,” he
said. “Ken Starr did that for me.”  Starr, the New York money manager whose clients also
included actors Sylvester Stallone and  Wesley Snipes , was
sentenced after pleading guilty to defrauding nine celebrities
out of $33.3 million.  Bristol admitted that he allowed Starr to wire funds in and
out of his escrow account, knowing that the funds were proceeds
of Starr’s fraud, prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said.  “I’m sorry about the events that have occurred,” Bristol
said in court before sentencing. “I was wrong. I know I was
wrong and I’m sorry to the victims. ‘‘A lot of this comes from
my choosing a bad client. There was a lot of razzmatazz, a lot
of celebrity.’’  ‘Lost Everything’  His lawyer, Susan Kellman, described her client in court as
a self-made man who left home as a teenager and attended  Amherst
College  and University of Virginia Law School before becoming a
partner at Winston & Strawn. She said he suffers from
depression.  ‘‘He was a man who had nothing, built up everything and
lost everything,’’ she said. ‘‘There is virtually no other
punishment than the pain he has already caused himself from his
excruciatingly bad judgment,’’ Kellman said.  Kellman said that Bristol has also surrendered his license
to practice law in both  New Jersey  and New York.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Bosworth said the funds in
Bristol’s escrow accounts were then wired to Starr for his own
personal use, including Starr’s purchase of a $7.5 million
luxury condominium in Manhattan’s Upper East Side and a legal
settlement.  The case is U.S. v. Bristol, 10-CR-1239, Southern District
of  New York , (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  