-- World Trade Center Workers Show Cancers Without Definitive Link
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-12-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/world-trade-center-workers-may-be-at-higher-risk-for-cancers.html
Rescue and recovery workers exposed
to debris at the World Trade Center after the Sept. 11 terror
attacks may have higher rates of some cancers, though there
appears to be no increase in the disease overall, a study found.  The workers were more likely than the general population to
have multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, and tumors
of the prostate and thyroid, according to a study yesterday in
the Journal of the  American Medical Association . The research,
though, didn’t find an increase in the total number of cancers.  While the finding doesn’t prove a definitive link between
the cancers and toxins, the dust, smoke and particles released
contained known and suspected carcinogens such as asbestos,
silica and benzene, raising public health concerns. The data,
which looked at cases between 2007 and the end of 2008, are
based on a short follow-up time, considering malignancies can
take decades to develop, said  Steven Stellman , a study author.  “We can’t find any specific link to cancer in our study
and World Trade Center exposure, we can only discuss the
plausibility in carcinogenic exposures,” said Stellman, an
epidemiology professor at  Columbia University  in New York, in a
telephone interview. “As time goes on, people get older and
rates of cancer will naturally increase. With time, we will have
more technical statistical power to see if anything is there.”  $1.5 Billion Fund  After months of debate in  Washington  earlier this year,
cancer was added to the list of illnesses covered by the  World
Trade Center Health  Program. The $1.5 billion federal fund
created in 2011 provides medical care for specific symptoms and
illnesses related to exposure at the Sept. 11 disaster sites.
Only one other study has looked at cancer rates in first
responders. That research, published last year in the journal
Lancet, found a 19 percent higher risk for cancer among 10,000
New York City firefighters who worked at the  World Trade Center
site  following the attack.  The cancer treatment costs may total $181 million by 2016,
based on an assumption that members of the fund are 21 percent
more likely to have the disease than the general population,
according to a September report by the National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health.  The study released yesterday found 1,187 incidents of
cancer among a database of almost 22,000 rescue and recovery
workers and 34,000 others exposed to the wreckage that were
enrolled in the World Trade Center Health Registry. Among those
cancer cases, 439 were workers.  Lung Cancer  While some cancers were more common among the rescue and
response workers, others were less frequent. There was a lower
incidence rate of lung tumors than seen in the general
population, a finding that surprised researchers even when
accounting for the fact that firefighters typically have lower
rates of tobacco use, Stellman said.  “Given the relatively short follow-up time and lack of
data on medical screening and other risk factors, the increase
in prostate and thyroid cancers and multiple myeloma should be
interpreted with caution,” researchers said in the study. “The
etiological role of WTC exposures in these 3 cancers is unclear.
Longer follow-up of rescue/recovery workers and participants not
involved in rescue/recovery is needed with attention to selected
cancer sites and to examine risk for cancers with typically long
latency periods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  