-- Euro Falls From 8-Month High on Cliff Talks; Yen Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-19T22:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/yen-stays-lower-versus-dollar-euro-on-boj-stimulus-bets.html
The euro fell from an eight-month
high against the dollar as President  Barack Obama  accused
Republicans of “wasting time” and “posturing” in proposals
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The shared currency earlier strengthened after a German
report showed business confidence was higher than forecast.
 Japan ’s currency was lower against the euro as investors
speculated the nation’s central bank will expand stimulus at a
two-day meeting ending tomorrow. Norway’s krone rose as Norges
Bank kept  interest rates  unchanged.  “Markets are tracking the fiscal cliff news -- markets
have been relatively complacent on the cliff as we’ve seen wide
expectations for a deal to be reached by the end of the year,”
said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in  New York . “German Ifo helped us get to the $1.33 level
on the euro, but with year-end there is limited participation.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3227 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after climbing to the strongest level since April 3. The
common currency rose 0.2 percent to 111.65 yen after reaching
the highest since August 2011. The yen fell 0.2 percent to 84.41
per dollar.  Extreme Moves  Gains in the 17-nation currency were limited as the 14-day
relative strength index versus the dollar rose to 71.2 and
against the yen gained to 80.7. A reading above 70 indicates an
asset’s value may have appreciated too far, too quickly.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 79.351 after falling to
the least since Oct. 18. The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent to
movements in the euro.  Political leaders in  Washington  are debating how to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect in January
unless Congress acts.  The White House is reported to have told business leaders
the budget talks regressed today.  “We’ve been wasting a lot of time” with political
“posturing,” Obama told reporters today. “I remain eager to
get something done.”  The dollar will strengthen to $1.27 per euro by the end of
June, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The greenback
will trade at 83 yen, a separate survey found.  German Sentiment  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 102.4 in December from
101.4 the previous month. That’s the second straight increase
after sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2-year low in October.
Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted a gain to 102.  “There’s an element of year-end position squaring where
people have been underweight the euro, breaking of technical
levels and a couple generally positive developments in  Europe ,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “No matter how equities
perform, we should see the euro move higher today.”  Norway’s currency rose to its strongest since March as the
Norges Bank announced it would keep interest rates a 1.5
percent. The central bank is trying to balance rising housing
prices without strengthening the krone.  The krone gained 0.5 percent to 5.5708 per dollar after
appreciating to the strongest since Feb. 29.  Rand Falls  South Africa ’s rand fell for the first time in four days
after rallying to a two-month high against the dollar. The rand
depreciated 0.4 percent to 8.4840 per dollar.  The seven-day relative strength index for the currency
versus the greenback was at 77, above the 70 level for a fourth
day. A reading of 70 indicates an asset’s value may have
appreciated too quickly and is due for a correction.  The yen dropped for a third day versus the dollar after a
Japanese government report showed the trade deficit widened in
November. Historically, the currency has been considered a safe
haven because the nation is traditionally a world net-creditor.  Japan’s Economy  Exports slid 4.1 percent from a year earlier, the  Finance
Ministry  said in  Tokyo . The median forecast of 23 economists was
for a 5.5 percent decline. Imports rose 0.8 percent leaving a
deficit of 953.4 billion yen, the third-largest on record.  Seventeen of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
Japan’s central bank will ease monetary policy at its meeting.
Newly elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said yesterday he
requested BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa agree to an accord with
a 2 percent inflation target.  Japan’s currency has tumbled 12.7 percent this year, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has
weakened 3.3 percent and the euro has dropped 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  