-- Zain Saudi Gains to 3-Week High After Debt Payment: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-18T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/zain-saudi-gains-to-3-week-high-after-debt-payment-riyadh-mover.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co. of 
 Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  rose to the highest level in more than three weeks
after its Kuwaiti parent company settled a debt on its behalf.  Shares of Saudi Arabia’s third mobile phone provider known
as Zain Saudi gained 3.1 percent to 8.25 riyals, the highest
since Nov. 24, at the close in Riyadh. The stock was the third
 most-traded  by volume on the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index, (SASEIDX) 
which declined 0.2 percent.  Kuwait-based Mobile Telecommunications Co. said Dec. 16 it
paid off $231 billion for its Saudi affiliate to ease the
company’s financial burden. The Riyadh-based phone company is
seeking a fourth extension on $2.6 billion in debt, MEED
magazine reported Nov. 26, sparking an 8.4 percent drop in the
shares that week. The company said in October it was in “very
advanced negotiations” with a syndicate of banks and potential
investors to refinance the Islamic murabaha facility, which was
first due in July.  The payment “alleviates pressure” on  Zain Saudi (ZAINKSA)  as it
negotiates a refinancing agreement, Kristle-Jo I. Sreik, a
Beirut-based equity analyst at Audi Saradar Investment Bank,
said by e-mail. “The facility will be subordinated and hence
will be paid back to Zain Group post-murabaha payment, aiding in
strengthening Zain Saudi’s negotiations with the lenders.”  The company mandated  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) ,  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) ,
 Arab National Bank (ARNB)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to refinance the
debt, two bankers familiar with the matter said in May. Zain
Saudi has posted  full-year losses  since starting operations in
the largest Arab economy in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Riyadh-based company’s  third-quarter loss  widened
to 493 million riyals ($131 million) from 484 million riyals a
year earlier.  The phone company’s shares tumbled 26 percent in 2012,
compared with a 6.9 percent gain for the Saudi index. Seven
analysts recommend investors hold the shares, while three have a
sell rating on the stock and one advises buying it, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  