-- ZTE Seeks Europe, Asia 4G Network Orders to Catch Alcatel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-19T09:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/zte-seeks-europe-asia-4g-network-orders-to-catch-alcatel.html
ZTE Corp. (000063)  said it’s seeking orders
for faster wireless systems in Europe,  Southeast Asia  and  South
America  as China’s second-largest maker of phone- network
equipment  tries to catch Alcatel-Lucent SA in market share.  The company is bidding for fourth-generation Long Term
Evolution equipment contracts with “high-quality carriers,”
said Liang Ming, a manager at ZTE’s 4G business. The Shenzhen,
China-based company plans to increase its global market share
among carriers using the LTE technology to 15 percent to 20
percent next year, he said, without giving this year’s estimate.  “We are in talks with major carriers,” Liang said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday, declining to identify them.
“These carriers do not bear high risks in their finance and
operations.”  ZTE is expanding overseas as China, the world’s biggest
mobile-phone market, hasn’t begun commercial fourth-generation
network service in the mainland. Chairman Hou Weigui this month
said the company aims to be one of the world’s top-three
suppliers of wireless-network equipment in the next two years,
which would mean passing Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens
Networks Ltd., now ranked third and fourth globally.  ZTE “attempts to win share with aggressive pricing and
financing,”  Pierre Ferragu , a London-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mail. The resulting orders are
“most of the time with challenged operators in deep need for
financing, which usually doesn’t turn into good quality
business,” he said.  Stock Rises  Ferragu  rates  ZTE underperform, the equivalent of a sell.  ZTE rose 0.6 percent to close at HK$12.64 in Hong Kong
trading, after earlier gaining as much as 1.6 percent to a two-
month high. The shares have declined 48 percent this year.  The company only lags behind closely held Huawei
Technologies Co. among Chinese suppliers of phone-network
equipment.  ZTE’s bids for 4G contracts include carriers in Malaysia,
Indonesia, Russia, Germany,  Belgium  and Brazil, Liang said. ZTE
won’t take “high-risk” projects, he said. Delayed overseas
contracts led to a 1.95 billion  yuan  ($313 million)  loss  last
quarter.  In the first half of this year, ZTE’s sales of network
equipment ranked behind Huawei,  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , Alcatel-Lucent and
Nokia Siemens Networks, according to Geng Yang, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at BOCI Research Ltd.  China Mobile  ZTE captured 24 percent of equipment orders for the initial
4G trial network of 20,000 base stations built by the state-
owned parent of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , Liang said. As the carrier
expands that trial to 200,000 4G base stations next year, ZTE
plans to maintain or increase its share, he said.  ZTE gained a weapon this month for its pursuit of overseas
orders: The  China Development Bank  gave the company a $20
billion facility that ZTE can use to help finance sales of
equipment and related services abroad, according to a Dec. 4
company  statement .  There were 10 TD-LTE networks that had begun commercial
service in nine other countries as of July, according to the
 Global TD-LTE Initiative , a group founded last year by  China 
Mobile and other network operators to promote the technology.  The number of markets with TD-LTE networks may double or
triple next year, Liang said.  Countries already with commercial TD-LTE service include
Saudi Arabia, Japan, Brazil, the U.K., Poland, Denmark, Sweden,
India and Australia, according to the Global TD-LTE Initiative.
There were 52 TD-LTE network trials around the world as of June,
and more than 26 operators had commercial deployment plans,
 according to  the group.  “LTE networks are expected to roll out on a large scale
next year, and move from developed markets to mid-sized
markets,” Liang said. “This is a very important opportunity
for a company like ZTE.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  