-- Zuma Founder Taps Rolling Stones Chef for London Eatery
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-12-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-18/zuma-founder-taps-rolling-stones-chef-for-london-eatery.html
While Coya isn’t exactly a Latin
version of Zuma, it’s not far off. One of  London ’s most
fashionable restaurants has a baby sister and she’s kicking.  This new establishment of restaurateur Arjun Waney joins a
family that includes Roka, La Petite Maison and the Arts Club,
in addition to the Japanese-inspired Zuma. The food is Peruvian,
a cuisine that is becoming popular in London following the
opening of Ceviche and Lima earlier this year.  Coya is housed in a Mayfair basement that feels as much
like a nightclub as a restaurant. The decor is as elegantly
distressed as the customers, a good-looking crowd who combine
youth and beauty the way I can only manage roly and poly.  All of which is fine in itself. I happily hang out with
rich, handsome people in the hope some of it will rub off on me.
What makes Coya different is the quality of the food: This is
one of my favorite new restaurants of 2012 because the cooking
is so creative and assured.  The chef is an unlikely champion of Peruvian cuisine.
Sanjay Dwivedi is probably best-known in London for his time
heading the kitchen at the Indian restaurant Zaika, yet he has
other claims to fame.  In 1998, he was head chef for The Rolling Stones “Bridges
of Babylon” world tour, and he was also one of the culinary
masters on TV’s “ Iron Chef ,” alongside Judy Joo.  He spent several months in South America learning about
Peruvian food and starting to develop dishes for Coya.  The menu opens with ceviche and its close relative the
tiradito, both involving raw fish marinated in citrus.  Bass Ceviche  There’s a choice of about a dozen and one of the strengths
at Coya is how distinctive each is, from the sea bass ceviche,
with red onions, sweet potato and white corn, through to the
yellowtail tiradito with green chili, coriander and lime.  From there, you move through small dishes, such as
refreshing quinoa, with coriander, mint and pomegranate, and
skewers of meat or vegetables, including ox heart, with parsley
and rocoto chili. There are also barbecue options and a great
dish of Chilean sea bass in rice with lime and chili.  This is priced at 32 pounds ($52) and the cost of a meal at
Coya climbs rapidly once you leave the foothills of ceviches and
tiraditos, which weigh in between 8 pounds and 12 pounds. Spicy
beef fillet, for example, is 32 pounds; rib eye is 29 pounds;
tiger prawns are 27 pounds. Personally, I like to load up on the
front end of the menu and not bother so much with the back end.  While the wine list doesn’t provide any financial relief,
it’s less scary than it might have been. I wouldn’t say this
everywhere, but trust the sommeliers. There are bargains: The
Venus Pinot Gris, Ormoz, Slovenia 2010 -- 32 pounds -- is food-
friendly. I’d like to see more South American wines on the list.  Pisco Sours  One slight complication if you are on a budget is that the
range of fruit-infused pisco sours may loosen your purse strings
before you come close to ordering anything else. My own favorite
pisco sours are the traditional and the pineapple, and that is
the result of some extensive research over four meals.  If you’re feeling frugal, the set lunch is good value at 31
pounds for four courses (26.50 pounds for three) but then I’m
not sure I want to enter a nightclub in the daytime.  Coya is a different kettle of fish from its Peruvian
cousins in London. I enjoy Ceviche for the buzz, provided I can
get a seat at the bar.  Lima  has some very good starters and
beautiful-looking mains, yet I find the food in general too
restrained in seasoning and flavor.  Coya is a bold and beautiful new restaurant with prices to
match. Like Zuma, it is a scene. (There’s even a private
members’ club above the restaurant.) There’s plenty of room in
London for restaurants at all price points. Coya is a great new
addition for those who can afford it.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 100 pounds a head.  Sound level? May get noisy: About 75 decibels.  Inside tip? The bar is lively for a drink after dinner.  Special feature? The menu.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Coya is at 118 Piccadilly, London, W1J 7NW. Information:
 http://www.coyarestaurant.com/  or +44-20-7042-7118.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night and
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 