-- 
L-3 Takeover Brings 21% More Than Valuation Through Asset Sales: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-06-30T03:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/l-3-takeover-brings-21-more-than-valuation-through-asset-sales-real-m-a.html
L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,
whose biggest investor is pushing for the defense company to
dispose of underperforming assets, may extract as much as $2.2
billion more for shareholders in a takeover than a breakup.  L-3’s equity may garner a price tag of $12.9 billion in an
acquisition, based on the median 8.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization offered for
military electronics company deals in the past 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Selling the New York-
based company’s four units separately may generate $10.7
billion, estimates from Lazard Capital Markets LLC show.  Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC said L-3 should
consider selling “underperforming or low-growth, low-margin”
assets to boost shares that returned 21 percentage points less
than rival defense and aerospace companies in the past three
years. While the company would be worth the most in a takeover,
according to Lazard analyst  Michael Lewis , the hurdle is finding
a buyer big enough to swallow the entire portfolio and able to
gain antitrust approval, said Huntington Asset Advisors.  “Certainly considering a sale of the entire company should
be something the board entertains,” said  Timothy Ghriskey ,
chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management in  Bedford
Hills , New York, which manages $2 billion. “Whether a purchaser
would want to take on the whole company might be another
story.”  Jennifer Barton, a spokeswoman for L-3, declined to
comment. Whitworth, 55, also declined to comment.  Activist Investor  Relational, the San Diego-based firm founded by activist
investor Whitworth and David Batchelder in 1996, disclosed an
almost 6 percent stake in L-3 last week, making it the biggest
shareholder.  The investment firm -- which recently pushed for changes at
companies from ITT Corp. to Genzyme Corp. and  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS)  -- said L-3’s shares are undervalued because of its “sub-
optimal” business mix and current strategy, according to a
regulatory  filing . Relational said it’s talked with management
about these issues “from time to time” and that L-3, currently
valued at 10 times net income, would be worth more if it sold or
spun off some assets, potentially to private equity firms.  L-3 has returned 1.1 percent including dividends in the
past three years, compared with a 22 percent return for the 29-
member Standard and Poor’s Supercomposite Aerospace & Defense
Index. The shares jumped 4.7 percent when Relational’s stake was
disclosed June 22, the biggest gain since January.  ‘Do the Math’  “When you do the math, the shares are undervalued,” said
 Howard Rubel , a New York-based analyst at Jeffries & Co. “If you
look at some of L-3’s franchises, the market hasn’t fully
appreciated them.”  L-3 is comprised of  four divisions  that focus on government
services, aircraft modernization, advanced electronic systems
and secure communications and intelligence gathering products.  Relational made a presentation to L-3 months ago, during
which it recommended selling or spinning off divisions including
the government services unit, except for the cyber-security
portion, and the aircraft maintenance and modernization unit,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who declined
to be identified because the discussions were private.  Revenue from government services, which provides
engineering and technical support to U.S. defense agencies, fell
7.2 percent in the last two years to $3.96 billion in 2010 as it
lost contracts, according to the company’s 2010  10-K regulatory
filing . It was the only unit with declining sales during both
annual periods.  Defense Spending  More than 83 percent of L-3’s $15.7 billion in revenue came
from the U.S. government last year.  U.S. defense spending through 2016 is projected to grow no
more than the rate of inflation after climbing 72 percent from
fiscal 2000 to 2008, after adjusting for inflation and including
spending for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to the
Pentagon. In April, President  Barack Obama  proposed $400 billion
in cuts in national security spending by 2023, in addition to
the five-year plan for $78 billion in defense spending
reductions Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  announced in January.  “They had a lot of contracts with the defense departments,
and the budgets may get nicked,” said Ralph Shive, the  South
Bend , Indiana-based manager of the $1.8 billion Wasatch-Large
Cap Value Fund, which includes L-3 shares. “There seems to be
quite a bit of bearishness about the  defense budget .”  Breakup Sale  While government services is underperforming, selling the
whole unit would leave L-3 at a “significant” disadvantage to
rivals that have such offerings, said Lazard’s Lewis, who’s
based in  New York .  Breaking up L-3’s four units and selling them separately
would fetch a total valuation of 7.6 times his estimate for the
company’s combined Ebitda next year, according to an analysis by
Lewis. That equates to $10.7 billion plus $3.6 billion in net
debt and compares with his estimate that selling the company as
one entity would garner an 8.4 Ebitda multiple, or $12.1 billion
excluding net debt.  While he estimates that three of the units would command a
premium, he predicts the government services business would be
sold at a discount.  “If you were to break up the firm into disparate segments,
the value proposition erodes to a potential buyer,” Lewis said.
“They can get a better valuation to their investors. This is
assuming management decides that an exit is in their best
interest. To sell the company all-out, because of the synergies
that L-3 has built into that business, it is more valuable.”  Worth More Whole  L-3’s units are worth more as a whole because its
information technology infrastructure is “intricately
interwoven” throughout the company, Lewis said. A buyer would
have to invest to integrate an individual unit into its system,
he said.  Deals in the military electronics industry in the last 10
years have drawn a median of 8.7 times Ebitda. At that multiple
a takeover of all of L-3 would be valued at $12.9 billion
excluding net debt, based on analysts’ estimates for 2012 Ebitda
of $1.89 billion. That’s 40 percent more than the current market
value of $9.2 billion, and $2.2 billion, or 21 percent, more
than Lazard estimated the pieces could fetch in a breakup.  “Right now the dynamic is that the public market valuations
are at a discount to what an acquirer is paying,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of
Holland & Co. in New York. “It’s not a crazy thing to consider
an acquisition of L-3 would come at a significant premium.”  Highest Valuation  The highest valuation would be realized by first selling
off “non-core or underperforming” contracts within government
services and then finding a buyer for the rest of the company at
an estimated multiple of 9 times next year’s Ebitda, Lewis said.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest defense contractor, could
be a potential buyer for all of L-3 after acquiring U.S.-based
L-1 Identity Solutions Inc.’s counter-terrorism business and
Fairchild Imaging Inc. this year, said  Peter Sorrentino , a
senior portfolio manager at Huntington in Cincinnati, which
manages $14.8 billion, including L-3 shares.  Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for London-based BAE Systems,
declined to comment.  A buyer would need to be in the defense business and have
“the cash,” such as  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  or  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , Ghriskey said.  Robert Ferris, a spokesman for  Morris Township , New Jersey-
based Honeywell, and Rob Fuller, a spokesman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, declined to comment.  L-3 was also one of more than 40 companies that Bloomberg
identified in March that met the acquisition criteria  Warren Buffett  listed in his annual  letter  to shareholders.  Warren Buffett  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with
pretax profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning
power, and “good” returns on equity while employing little or
no debt, according to his report.  The hurdles to any sale would be the company’s size -- an
enterprise value, or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash,
of $12.9 billion -- and antitrust approval.  “A strategic investor in L-3 is not likely because other
large-cap defense companies essentially have plenty of bulk and
they don’t want to have all these services businesses that L-3
has,” said Cai Von Rumohr, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in Boston.
The alternative may be a private equity firm buying up L-3 and
“cutting it up and selling pieces,” which would involve tax
consideration, he said.  As early as October 2010, L-3 Chief Executive Officer
Michael Strianese said the company had begun examining its
portfolio to identify underperforming units.  ‘Extensive’ Review  The company has been doing a “rather extensive” review of
its businesses, Strianese said in an interview on June 20 at the
 Paris Air Show .  “We’re targeting possible action on those businesses where
we see lower growth, lower margin than our composite margins,
lower barriers to entry, and conflicts of interest in services
area,” he said, reiterating that he would update investors about
the conclusions in July.  Despite Relational’s push for change and a potentially
higher value in a takeover, some investors say the company is
better off as is.  “It’s like pulling the fire alarm before there’s even smoke
coming out of the windows,” Huntington’s Sorrentino said. “This
is not a management team that has been a serial underperformer.
Let’s give them a chance to see what they come up with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 