-- 
La Polar Falls After Saieh Says No Decision Yet to Seek Control

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/la-polar-falls-after-saieh-says-no-decision-yet-to-seek-control.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR) , the department
store operator under investigation for consumer loan
irregularities, fell after businessman Alvaro Saieh said he has
not decided yet if he will increase his recently-acquired 10
percent stake in the company.  La Polar fell 9.2 percent to 702.67 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time, ending a two-day winning streak in which it rose 23
percent.  “There was speculation that Saieh would seek a controlling
stake,” Marcelo Barrero, an analyst at Euroamerica Corredora de
Bolsa SA, said in a phone interview from Santiago.  “There is no intention, to date, to acquire control of La
Polar. And if there were in the future, CorpGroup would
communicate it transparently,” Saieh said in a statement sent
last night to the local securities regulator. He is the chairman
of holding company CorpGroup.  Saieh began to buy shares in La Polar through his units
Corpvida SA and Corpseguros SA on March 30, the statement said.
He last bought shares on June 24 and paid 20.8 billion pesos
($45 million), with prices ranging from as high as 2,514 pesos
per share and as low as 484.23 pesos.  “Investors are also taking profits after the recent
gains,” Francisco Errandonea, head of equity research in  Chile 
for Banco Santander SA, said in a phone interview. “The stock
will show a lot of volatility in the next weeks as there are
still too many uncertainties regarding its accounting and the
structure of the company once it comes out of this crisis.”  La Polar will issue cash to compensate customers affected
by its unilateral loan restructurings, the company said in a
statement sent late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  