-- 
Accused Gangster ‘Whitey’ Bulger Gets Court-Appointed Attorney in Boston

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-06-30T20:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/accused-gangster-whitey-bulger-gets-court-appointed-attorney-in-boston.html
Accused  Boston  gangster James
“Whitey” Bulger, arrested last week after 16 years on the run,
won his request for a court-appointed lawyer to represent him.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in federal court in
Boston today approved 81-year-old Bulger’s request to appoint an
attorney for him. J.W. Carney Jr., a  lawyer  with Carney & Bassil
PC, will replace Peter Krupp, who had represented Bulger since
his arrest.  Bugler asked the court last week to appoint an attorney,
arguing that he can’t afford one because the government seized
more than $800,000 from his California apartment after his
arrest last week.  “Our Constitution guarantees every defendant the right to
a fair trial and we’re going to see that he gets it,” Carney
told reporters outside the courthouse.  Prosecutors had opposed the request, saying Bulger may have
hidden assets and that his brother, William, a former
 Massachusetts  state Senate president, might be willing to hire
an attorney to represent him.  Bulger and his girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 60, were
arrested after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , acting on a
tip, lured the fugitive out of a Santa Monica apartment
building.  Bulger was wanted in connection with 19 murders and a
variety of crimes including extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking
and narcotics trafficking. He was one of the FBI’s Top 10 most-
wanted fugitives. The bureau offered a $2 million reward for
information leading to his capture.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawren@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  