-- 
Thailand Stocks: Kasikornbank, PTT Exploration, Sri Trang Agro

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-30T09:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/advanced-info-uob-kay-hian-united-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in  Thailand  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 4:30 p.m. close in Bangkok.  The SET Index rose 8.22 points, or 0.8 percent, to
1,041.48, the highest close since June 6. The gauge dropped 0.6
percent this quarter, the first quarterly decline in two years.
The nation’s financial markets will be closed tomorrow for
banks’ mid-year break.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK)  , Thailand’s third-largest
lender by assets, increased 2.5 percent to 123 baht, the highest
close since May 31. Kasikornbank will report “strong” earnings
growth in the second quarter on an increase in lending and
interest margins, Woraphon Wiroonsri, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock brokerage,
wrote in a note today. Woraphon, who wrote the report after
meeting Kasikornbank executives, reiterated his “buy” rating
on the stock with a price forecast of 148 baht.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  , the nation’s
only publicly traded oil explorer, gained 1.8 percent to 171
baht, the highest close since June 14. Crude rose for a third
day, erasing declines since the  International Energy Agency 
announced the release of emergency stockpiles on June 23.  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl (STA)  , the nation’s biggest
publicly traded rubber producer, climbed 1.9 percent to 26.25
baht. Rubber futures in  Tokyo  advanced for a third day.  Siamgas & Petrochemicals Pcl (SGP)  , the country’s
second-largest supplier of liquefied petroleum gas, or LPG, rose
2.3 percent to 17.9 baht, the most since June 10. The government
will raise prices of LPG for industrial use from tomorrow to
help reduce the burden of subsidies on the budget, Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 