-- 
African Leaders to Snub NATO Libya Campaign From Dictator’s Luxury Resort

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-30T15:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/african-leaders-to-snub-nato-s-libya-campaign-from-qaddafi-s-luxury-resort.html
African leaders scorned the
international campaign against  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi from the
luxury of an  Equatorial Guinea  resort built by a president who
imprisoned critics in the run-up to their bi-annual summit.  Equatorial Guinea’s leader, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo,
oversaw today’s  African Union  summit at a purpose-built 580
million-euro ($841 million) resort near the capital of his oil-
rich nation, where the  World Bank  says three-quarters of the
population earns less than $2 a day.  Obiang, who came to power after overthrowing his uncle in
1979, now presides over an organization that is taking the moral
high ground as it looks for a peaceful end to Qaddafi’s rule.
Leaders demand the North Atlantic Treaty Organization halt its
bombing campaign in Libya, while AU Commission head Jean Ping
yesterday accused the  International Criminal Court  of pouring
“oil on the fire” by issuing an arrest warrant for Qaddafi.  “The interventions for human rights are nowadays causing a
massive scourge to mankind,” Obiang said during the opening
ceremony. Countries and organizations outside  Africa  “should
not intervene in the solutions of Africa’s problems without a
consensus from Africa.”  Political activists, students and migrants were  detained 
ahead of the summit as the government pledged to ensure
“perfect security,”  Human Rights Watch  said in a June 22
statement, citing local monitors and opposition groups.  ‘Bit of Betrayal’  “You see a lack of consistency and a bit of betrayal in
what the AU espouses toward governance,” said Festus Aboagye,
an analyst at the Institute for Security Studies in  Pretoria .
“We see the AU paying lip service” to human rights.  As president of sub-Saharan Africa’s fourth-biggest oil
producer, Obiang has overseen an oil boom that brought  gross
domestic product per capita  to $34,680, on par with the U.K.,
according to the United Nations Development Programme. Yet, most
of the 660,000 population remain mired in poverty.  Obiang lavished millions of dollars on a new conference
center and resort for today’s summit. Each head of state is
housed in their own Tuscan-style villa overlooking a seaside
complex built for the meeting and reached by a six-lane highway
that bypasses Malabo, a town of 150,000 people. The local
population is barred from the site, called Sipopo village.  Deplorable  “We deplore the human rights abuses,” Henry Bellingham,
the U.K.’s Minister for Africa and the  United Nations , said in a
June 28 interview in Malabo. “We made it absolutely crystal
clear that in order for Equatorial Guinea to take its place in
the world community, that they’ve got to have proper governance,
they’ve got to treat the opposition fairly.”  That didn’t stop the African Union from electing Obiang as
its leader in January, replacing President Bingu wa Mutharika of
Malawi. Obiang didn’t respond to an interview request. Mutharika
was preceded by Qaddafi, who helped win influence in the
continent by setting up a $5 billion Libya Africa Investment
Portfolio in 2006.  “When the population doesn’t have water and electricity,
this kind of extravaganza is political exhibitionism,” Fabian
Nsue Nguema, a human rights lawyer, said in an interview in his
Malabo apartment, where the lack of running water forces him to
line up buckets to clean himself. “To us, he looks like just
another Qaddafi.”  Sustainable Development   African presidents will later discuss “Accelerating Youth
Empowerment for Sustainable Development,” the summit’s official
theme, under a five-tier crystal chandelier in an air-
conditioned hall that allows the guests to call waiters on
personal touch-screens.  AU Commission head Ping said the youth-led uprisings in
North Africa, such as Libya’s, were fueled by the lack of
opportunities for young people. “It is imperative that the
discussions on the theme result in concrete measures to take
better care of the needs of African youths,” Ping said.  “The outward image is about youth and development, but
look at the waste and excess around this summit,” according to
Nsue, who said he spent five months in jail in 2002 for
criticizing a wage increase for state functionaries.  Only 10 countries ranked below Equatorial Guinea on
Transparency International’s 2010 list of  global corruption
perceptions .  Obiang, who survived coup attempts in 2004 and 2009, won 95
percent of the vote in a November 2009 election that human
rights groups say was neither free nor fair.  “Obiang is very keen to get more international kudos,”
Patrick Raleigh, an analyst for the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit, said in an interview. “His reputation is
mud, but he’s got quite a lot of respect for staying in power
for so long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Malabo at   fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 