-- 
Lagarde Signals to IMF Staff More Power for Emerging Markets

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-30T23:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/lagarde-signals-to-imf-staff-more-power-for-emerging-markets.html
Christine Lagarde  signaled that as
the new head of the  International Monetary Fund  she will follow
through on a promise to increase the stature of emerging-market
nations at the global lender.  Lagarde, speaking to IMF staff in a video message,
distanced herself from her previous role as French finance
minister and indicated she would advance efforts to give more
voting power to countries such as China and  Brazil , according to
a transcript obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday. Her five-year
term begins on July 5.  “The transformations that have taken place in relation to
governance for instance, must be pursued, must be continued, so
that the fund does belong to its 187 members,” Lagarde, 55,
said. “I am not the director of a particular group of
countries. I am the director of the entire institution.”  In the course of an election-style campaign that took her
to Brazil,  China  and the  Middle East , Lagarde promised to boost
the clout of developing nations at the IMF. In doing so she
garnered endorsements from emerging economies as well as
European Union countries and the U.S.  Lagarde was selected over Agustin Carstens,  Mexico ’s
central bank governor. Emerging markets failed to rally around a
candidate from among their ranks, after calling for an end to
 Europe ’s six-decade lock on the position.  Candidate Lagarde  As a candidate, Lagarde also said she would push for quick
implementation of a 2010 agreement that makes China the third-
strongest voice in the organization and gives more say to
nations such as  South Korea . The 2010 agreement also weakens the
influence of advanced European economies, which pledged to
reduce the number of seats they hold on the IMF’s 24-person
executive board.  “I am very concerned that we can enrich the institution as
much as we can by using diversity as an asset,” Lagarde said,
according to the transcript of the video message. “Gender,
geography, academic background, culture -- all that diversity
should actually be mixed so well that it produces this
unbelievable intellectual talent that you together can
produce.”  Women accounted for 45.5 percent of the IMF’s staff and
21.5 percent of its managerial jobs at the end of 2010,
according to the organization’s annual diversity report, which
also called the number of employees from emerging-market
countries “unacceptably small.”  Lagarde is the first woman to head the IMF. She replaces
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned after his arrest last month
on charges that include attempted rape. He has pleaded not
guilty.  “I know that recent events have not been particularly
pleasant for any of you nor for the institution as a whole,”
Lagarde said to IMF staff, without mentioning Strauss-Kahn by
name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  