-- 
Thai Contenders Pledge to Respect Election Outcome

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-03T12:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/thai-contenders-pledge-to-respect-election-results-as-vote-nears.html
(Corrects description of company in 16th paragraph
in story published July 1.)  Thailand’s leading contenders in an
election two days from now will make their final appeals to
voters at dueling rallies in Bangkok tonight as all sides
affirmed the intention to abide by the results.  Polls show Pheu Thai, a party comprising allies of exiled
former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , is poised to win a fifth
straight election, ahead of Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s
Democrats. The last three victories for Thaksin-linked parties
were overturned through court decisions and a coup, an option
Army Chief Prayuth Chan-Ocha signaled yesterday that he opposed.  All parties must accept that “who gets the majority vote
will have the right to form the government,” Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister and Pheu Thai leader, told
reporters yesterday. Abhisit, campaigning in Bangkok, said he
foresaw no problems after the vote “as everyone has to respect
the rule of law.”  A smooth outcome may reassure investors who sold Thai
stocks last month on concern a disputed result would lead to a
repeat of violent clashes that claimed more than 100 lives after
the 2007 election. While polls show Pheu Thai may win the most
seats, it remains unclear whether the opposition party will
secure an outright majority and avoid legal challenges or
military intervention, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The political turbulence has had an impact on the
underlying economy and a degree of stability is becoming
increasingly crucial going forward,” Goldman economist Mark Tan
wrote in a report yesterday.  No Military Intervention  Thai inflation held near a 32-month high in June after food
prices increased, the Ministry of Commerce said today. The Bank
of  Thailand  last month raised the nation’s benchmark interest
rate for the fourth straight time to 3 percent, and signaled
further increases may be needed to curb rising prices.  General Prayuth pledged yesterday that the military would
be neutral. Thailand has had 10 coups since 1932, the latest in
2006 against Thaksin, who has remained politically active from
overseas since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power three
years ago.  “In the past, when the country’s problems can’t be solved
and the army came out to solve it, that wasn’t right,” Prayuth
told reporters. “We have to move forward under a democratic
path without any chaos.”  Stocks, Currency  Concerns of post-election violence helped knock 3 percent
off the benchmark SET Index in June, the biggest monthly drop
since January, with state-owned Thai Airways International Pcl
losing 18 percent. Thailand’s baht fell 1.4 percent in that
time, declining two months in a row for the first time since the
end of protests a year ago that claimed 91 lives.  Thailand’s financial markets are closed today for a public
holiday.  Election laws require candidates to halt campaigning at 6
p.m. tomorrow through election day, with violators facing a
10,000 baht ($326) fine and six months in prison. About 100
police officers will monitor comments made on about 1,000
websites, including Twitter and  Facebook , according to spokesman
Prawut Thavornsiri.  About 70 percent of Thailand’s 67 million people are
eligible to vote on July 3, with polls closing at 3 p.m. and
unofficial results announced after 8 p.m., according to Election
Commission spokesman Paiboon Lekprom. The agency will certify
winning candidates within 30 days, after which Parliament will
meet to pick a prime minister.  Extra Ballots  The  Asian Network for Free Elections , the only foreign
group monitoring the polls, expressed concern that an excessive
number of extra ballots were printed in violation of Thailand’s
election laws. The  Election Commission  also has “too wide” a
latitude in sanctioning candidates, said Damaso Magbual, one of
the lead members of the organization.  The law is “a little bit vague” on the criteria for
disqualifying candidates, he told reporters yesterday. “This
should really be defined so that it is not used as a tool of
repression.”  Pro-Thaksin parties have won at least 49 percent of seats
in the past four elections. If they fail to win a majority, they
will need to rely on smaller parties that won 17 percent of the
vote in 2007 to form a government.  Pheu Thai “should be able to form a workable coalition”
if it wins more than 235 seats, or 47 percent in the 500-member
 House of Representatives , according to  Vriens & Partners , a
Singapore-based political risk firm.  Margin of Victory  “The margin of Pheu Thai victory will be of great
importance in determining the reactions of key players,” Vriens
& Partners said in a pre-election report. A thin margin means
“the military will be tempted to intervene as it did in 2008,
pressuring smaller parties to renew their alliance with the
Democrats.”  A poll released June 19 by the Bangkok-based Suan Dusit
Rajabhat University showed Pheu Thai with 52 percent of the vote
and the Democrats with 34 percent.  Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after
coalition members and defectors abandoned Thaksin when a court
disbanded his party for election fraud. The decision came amid a
seizure of Bangkok’s airports by Thaksin’s opponents that
disrupted trade and stranded thousands of tourists.  Both parties are pledging minimum wage increases, cash
handouts to the elderly and price support for farmers in a bid
to woo poorer voters in the north and northeast that account for
more than half of the population. Voters in the regions have
stayed loyal to Thaksin after he gave them affordable health
care and cheap loans.  “My dad misses Thailand and the Thai people, and we all
miss him,” Pintongta Shinawatra, Thaksin’s daughter, said while
campaigning yesterday. “This is all we talk about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  