-- 
Thai Pension Fund to Double Bond Investments as Equities Slump Before Poll

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-30T02:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/thai-pension-fund-to-double-overseas-bond-investments-after-equity-slump.html
Thailand ’s  Government Pension Fund ,
which manages about $16 billion of assets, plans to double its
investments in overseas bonds after political tension ahead of
the July 3 election eroded returns on domestic equities.  The country’s third-biggest money manager aims to raise its
holdings in foreign debt securities to 10 percent of total
assets by the end of this year, up from 5 percent, said
Sopawadee Lertmanaschai, the agency’s secretary general. It cut
investments in shares of Thai companies to about 9 percent from
10 percent, she said.  “The strategy will be to shift some investments from risky
assets such as equities to safer securities such as foreign
bonds,” Sopawadee said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Politics will continue to hamper any rally in the Thai stock
market.”  The SET Index has lost 1.4 percent this quarter, following
eight straight quarterly gains, as overseas investors withdrew
$520 million from Thai shares amid concerns the election will
revive a political rift. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG advised investors this month to reduce holdings.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party is facing
a challenge in the elections from the opposition Pheu Thai
party, led by the sister of Thailand’s former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Pheu Thai has the lead in opinion polls after
pledging to raise minimum wages, extend tax incentives and
guarantee rice prices for farmers.  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. Demonstrations
by Thaksin’s supporters against Abhisit’s government last year
left more than 90 dead.  Diversification  U.S. Treasuries headed for the largest quarterly gain in a
year as a slowing economy and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
boosted demand for the safest assets.  U.S. debt  returned 2.8
percent since the end of March, the most since the second
quarter of 2010, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “We will focus on investing in only foreign debt
securities with investment-grade rating amid financial problems
in Europe,” said Sopawadee. “We need to diversify our
investments to generate higher returns than the domestic bonds,
which offer very low yields now.”  The pension fund, which manages retirement savings for
about 1.2 million state employees, had a return of 37.2 billion
baht in 2010, a 46 percent increase from the previous year,
according to a  statement  on its website. The gain was boosted by
investment in domestic equities as the benchmark SET Index
surged 41 percent in 2010, it said.  The fund has about 70 percent of assets invested in local
bonds, said Sopawadee. Other assets include office buildings and
alternative investments, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  