-- 
AIG Oversight Extended, Five Years After Spitzer Accord

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-30T13:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/aig-oversight-extended-again-five-years-after-spitzer-accord.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer seeking an exit from U.S. ownership, was told by
regulators to extend the period of oversight imposed as part of
a $1.64 billion fraud settlement in 2006.  Therese Pritchard’s term as independent consultant
overseeing AIG has been extended through the end of the year,
she said in an interview late yesterday. Her duties were set to
expire today, according to the insurer’s regulatory filings.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is working to
distance AIG from legal disputes under previous leaders and
restore confidence in the company as he seeks private capital to
replace government bailout funds. The New York-based insurer
disclosed a weakness in accounting for credit-default swaps in
2008 and said in February that a shortfall in reserves led to a
charge of about $4 billion.  AIG “was the frontrunner in the crisis that occurred,”
Phillip Phan, professor at the Johns Hopkins Carey Business
School in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview. “That
doesn’t allow them complete freedom yet, until they can be sure
that the corporate governance has been put in place.”  Pritchard’s term was extended to document how AIG
implements so-called best-practice recommendations, according to
a person familiar with the matter. She’s scheduled to complete
the last stage of monitoring, said the person, who declined to
be identified because there has been no public statement about
the firm’s progress on the requirements.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, declined to comment. Joseph Norton, a
spokesman for AIG, didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment.  Fraud Settlement  AIG agreed to hire the consultant, acceptable to the SEC,
for a three-year term as part of a 2006 fraud  settlement  with
regulators including then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , who accused the company of rigging bids, duping
shareholders and underfunding workers’ compensation pools. The
consultant was assigned to make recommendations for improving
the insurer’s regulatory compliance and internal auditing.  AIG’s size and complexity, even after winding down
derivative bets and selling assets to help pay down its bailout,
may have contributed to the SEC backing a longer term, said
Roddy Boyd, author of “Fatal Risk: A Cautionary Tale of AIG’s
Corporate Suicide.”  “They’re very much of the view that this has been an
under-regulated company that you can never have enough eyeballs
or hands on,” said Boyd.  Justice Department   James Cole , now the nation’s No. 2 Justice Department
official, was appointed as AIG’s independent consultant in 2005
after the insurer agreed to pay $126 million to settle SEC
allegations it helped clients such as  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC)  inflate profits. The monitoring duties were expanded
after the Spitzer accord. The job is now held by Pritchard, a
partner at Bryan Cave LLP, where Cole previously worked.  Cole was confirmed as the U.S. Justice Department’s deputy
attorney general this week after President  Barack Obama 
appointed him during a recess in December. Senate Republicans in
May blocked a vote to confirm Cole after criticizing his
approach to terrorism and his AIG role. The insurer was bailed
out in 2008 after misjudging the risk of losses from investments
tied to subprime mortgages.  The rescue swelled to $182.3 billion, and the U.S. Treasury
Department retains a 77 percent stake after both the government
and AIG sold shares in May. AIG said it would use $550 million
in proceeds from the offering to compensate investors including
pension funds for stock declines dating to Spitzer’s probe.  Stock Slump  AIG has plunged more than 95 percent since the end of 2005
on the New York Stock Exchange. The insurer has declined 40
percent this year through yesterday, the worst performance in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The company advanced 7 cents to
$29.21 in composite trading at 9:31 a.m.  Benmosche became CEO in 2009 and resolved legal disputes
that year with former CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who was
forced out during the Spitzer probe. The insurer agreed to
reimburse as much as $150 million in legal fees for Greenberg
and ex-Chief Financial Officer Howard Smith.  AIG said in a regulatory filing last month that the
consultant’s term was extended to June 30 of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  