-- 
Thais Face Prison for Twitter, Facebook Campaigning on Election Day-Eve

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-06-30T05:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/thais-face-prison-for-twitter-facebook-campaigning-on-election-day-eve.html
Thai candidates and their supporters
face jail time if caught campaigning on social media websites
 Twitter  or Facebook on the evening before the July 3 election,
police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said.  Thai law forbids campaigning after 6 p.m. on the night
before the vote until midnight the next day, with offenders
facing a 10,000 baht ($326) fine and six months in prison. Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  and Yingluck Shinawatra, who heads
the main opposition Pheu Thai party, both plan to hold final
campaign rallies tomorrow night.  “We have to monitor what the candidates say and do,”
Prawut said by phone, adding they could be disqualified if
violating the law. About 100 police officers are ready to
monitor about 1,000 websites, he said. Alcohol sales will also
be banned nationwide in that time.  Abhisit’s Democrat party, seeking its first election win
since 1992, is trailing Pheu Thai in opinion surveys. A win for
Yingluck’s party would be the fifth straight in elections dating
back to 2001 for allies of her brother, former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra .  Polls open at 8 a.m. on July 3 and close at 3 p.m. The
Election Commission plans to announce unofficial results after 8
p.m., according to spokesman Paiboon Lekprom.  The commission can punish candidates found guilty of
cheating with either a “yellow card,” making them stand in a
re-run by-election, or a “red card” that disqualifies them for
one year, he said. About 70 percent of  Thailand ’s 67 million
people are eligible to vote.  A poll released June 19 by the Bangkok-based Suan Dusit
Rajabhat University showed Pheu Thai with 52 percent of the vote
and the Democrats with 34 percent. Of the 500 parliamentary
seats up for grabs, 375 are chosen in districts and 125 through
proportional representation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  