-- 
Paris Makes Woody Swoon, Gives Roman the Creeps: Peter Rainer

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/majestic-paris-makes-woody-swoon-gives-polanski-the-creeps-peter-rainer.html
Woody Allen’s “Midnight in Paris”
offers a swoony vision of the City of Light, full of romance
and magic. In the “The Bourne Identity,” where Matt Damon
races through the streets in a red Mini Cooper, the city is
fraught with tension and danger.  Paris in the movies has always been special. Sometimes,
it’s a valentine, other times a maze.  In a bygone era, Paris was often created on a backlot in
Hollywood. Or  France .  One of those oldies is Marcel Carne’s “Les Enfants du
Paradis” (1945), a masterpiece about a 19th-century theatrical
troupe that was filmed almost entirely on the largest studio set
in French history. (Because it was shot during the Nazi
occupation, starving extras often stole food from the set.)  The recreation of the “Boulevard du Crime” theater
district ran almost a quarter mile. It was worth every inch, if
only for the scene where Arletty’s mysterious street woman
Garance tells Pierre Brasseur, “Oh, Paris is such a big
place.” Brasseur, playing a great romantic actor, responds,
“No, Paris is very small for those, like us, with such a grand
love.” Balzac would have loved this film.  Especially in the 1950s, there was a slew of Hollywood
musicals where Paris was a confectionary fantasy.  Vincente Minnelli’s “An American in Paris” (1951)
featured Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron -- she also starred as a
wistful courtesan in Minnelli’s Paris-based “Gigi” (1958) --
in a blissful pas de deux by the Seine underneath the Pont Neuf.  ‘Funny Face’  Stanley Donen’s “Funny Face” (1957), another film with
music by George Gershwin, stars Fred Astaire as a Richard
Avedon-like high-fashion photographer and  Audrey Hepburn  as a
beatnik bookseller. (Hepburn also co-starred with Cary Grant in
Donen’s Parisian thriller “Charade” (1963), the best Hitchcock
movie that Hitchcock never made.)  Speaking of musicals set in Paris, remember that Allen made
a less-than-stellar one -- “Everyone Says I Love You’ (1996) --
where Goldie Hawn dances in mid-air beneath the arches of  Notre
Dame  and sings “I’m Through With Love.”  Billy Wilder’s “Irma la Douce” (1963), adapted from a stage
musical, stars Shirley MacLaine as a happy hooker. The film’s
red-light district is, at best, pink.  Much underrated is Martin Ritt’s “Paris Blues” (1961), a
love story about expatriate jazz musicians featuring  Paul Newman , Joanne Woodward, Sidney Poitier and Diahann Carroll.
The real star, however, is Duke Ellington’s hot jazz score.  Hiding From Nazis  Paris isn’t always synonymous with romance in the movies.
Francois Truffaut’s “The 400 Blows” (1959), starring Jean- Pierre Leaud as a sensitive juvenile delinquent, shows off a
distinctly unglamorous landscape of rundown alleyways and
amusement parks.  It gives a far more evocative view of Paris than Truffaut’s
studio-bound period piece, “The Last Metro (1980), where
Catherine Deneuve plays an actress hiding her Jewish husband in
a theater basement during the Nazi occupation of Paris.  Jules Dassin’s “Rififi” (1955), is a gritty noir about a
jewelry heist in the Place Vendome district. Bernardo Bertolucci’s great “Last Tango in Paris” (1972), starring
 Marlon Brando  and Maria Schneider as fated sex partners, is a
romance only in the most despairing sense.  Godard’s ‘Breathless’  In  Roman Polanski ’s “Frantic” (1988), the urban beauty of
Paris is rendered creepily impersonal.  Jean-Luc Godard ’s
“Alphaville” (1965) uses the city’s urban landscape to create
a futuristic anonymity. And the Paris of Godard’s “Breathless”
(1960), with Jean Seberg hawking the International Herald
Tribune on the Champs Elysee, is as iconic as Jean-Paul Belmondo’s Bogie snarl and fedora.  I’m not overly enamored of Jean-Pierre Jeunet’s “Amelie”
(2001), starring Audrey Tatou as a shy waitress. It can’t match
Louis Malle’s “Zazie dans le metro” (1961) as a high-speed
Parisian fantasia. But there’s no denying it makes you want to 
hang out in Amelie’s Montmartre and sip espresso at the Cafe des 
Deux Moulins.  I much prefer Richard Linklater’s romantic classic “Before
Sunset” (2004), where characters played by Ethan Hawke and
Julie Delpy reunite in Paris after a one-night stand nine years
earlier.  Best of all is Albert Lamorisse’s “The Red Balloon”
(1956), which made me want to be a balloon and float high above
the fabled city’s roofs, towers and domes.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  