-- 
Alaska Plans Largest 2011 Oil Lease Sale, Seeks Federal Action

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-30T19:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/alaska-plans-largest-2011-oil-lease-sale-seeks-federal-action.html
Alaska ’s plan to lease land for oil
and gas production in October may exceed any other sale in the
U.S. this year, said Dan Sullivan, the state’s  natural resources 
commissioner.  Governor Sean Parnell, a Republican, called for federal
action to increase domestic crude output. “It’s time to unlock
and unleash American resource potential,” he said in a webcast
from Alaska made available today in  Washington .  The state of Alaska plans to sell oil and gas leases for
14.7 million acres in the  Beaufort Sea , on the North Slope and
in the North Slope foothills. The state wants to push more
petroleum through the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, the state’s
oil and gas division said on June 9.  Alaska oil production has declined every year since 2002,
according to the U.S.  Energy  Department, because of lower output
from fields including  Prudhoe Bay , operated by  BP Plc (BP/) , and
Kuparuk, operated by  ConocoPhillips. (COP)  Production in May averaged
615,348 barrels a day, according to the  Alaska Tax Division .  The 800-mile (1,287-kilometer) pipeline is scheduled to
operate until 2035 and may close after that as production ebbs,
 Richard Newell , head of the Energy Information Administration,
said on Feb. 3. The Trans Alaska Pipeline runs from Prudhoe Bay
on the North Slope to Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in
the U.S.  An oil producer drilling straight down on state leases and
tapping a reservoir that stretches into federal waters will have
the right to drain the entire pool, said Sullivan, who was in
Washington today to promote the October sale.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which purchased oil leases in
federal waters off the Alaskan coast in 2005 and 2007, hasn’t
started drilling because the Environmental Protection Agency and
 the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement  haven’t granted the necessary approvals. Sullivan
said today he wasn’t sure whether permits for drilling on state
lands will be issued by federal or state regulators.  The Obama administration plans to sell oil and natural-gas
leases in Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve by the end of the
year, the Interior Department said on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  