-- 
Malaysian Central Bank Governor Says Bank Mergers Would Be Good

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-30T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/malaysia-s-zeti-says-bank-consolidation-would-be-good-for-nation.html
Bank Negara  Malaysia  Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said consolidation among banks would be good for the
country and help integrate its financial system with other
emerging economies.  “We do envisage there will be future consolidations,”
Zeti said in an interview in London yesterday. “If two or three
large banks merge in our financial system, I think it is good
for Malaysia as we venture into our next phase of development in
our financial system where we become more integrated with the
rest of the world.”  Her comments come days after  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and
 Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s two biggest banks, scrapped
rival talks to acquire  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , ending ambitions to
create  Southeast Asia ’s biggest lender. Local banks are seeking
expansion amid intensifying competition as the central bank
grants more licenses to international lenders including Bank of
China Ltd.  “There will be more financial centers in emerging
economies that will be highly connected with each other and this
is important because it will lead to the better intermediation
of funds across borders,” she said. “If we are going to
participate in that, we do need to have a few larger banks.”  Zeti said in April that the central bank will let market
forces decide how many local lenders remain in the country
should there be consolidation. Asked yesterday if RHB should
seek a new partner, she said the issue is “entirely up to
RHB.”  Speaking on the sidelines of a conference hosted by the
Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum and Lafferty
Group, Zeti said the terms and conditions of any consolidation
will be driven entirely by the private sector, though the
central bank will set some parameters, one of which is that any
transaction shouldn’t “weaken the institution.” The financial
industry should support the real economy, not the other way
round, she said.  Zeti also said the central bank has “other priorities”
than consolidation on its agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  