-- 
Malaysian Rare-Earth Plant Delayed on Safety

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-06-30T09:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/malaysian-rare-earth-plant-delayed-on-safety.html
Lynas Corp.’s Malaysian rare-earth
refinery may be delayed by a government review that called for
higher safety standards, further limiting supply of rare earths
as  China  curbs exports.  Lynas suspended its shares from trade today will meet the
requirements, Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Curtis told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today, adding that the refinery may be
commissioned by the end of this year and in production by the
second half of 2012. The Sydney-based company had planned to
complete the plant in September, it said on June 20.  China, which accounts for more than 90 percent of global
output of rare earths used in flat screen televisions and hybrid
cars, slashed export quotas last year pushing prices to records.
Once in operation, Lynas’s project may account for about 39
percent of the world’s supply outside of China.  “Any project delays will just make the minerals more
valuable and send prices higher,” Peter Strachan, who heads
Perth-based independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said by
phone from Perth. “You would have expected Lynas to have ticked
all the boxes and done all the appropriate feasibility,
environmental and regulatory work.”  Lynas needs to implement the recommendations to get an
operating license, which could take as long as two years,
Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria, secretary-general of the Southeast
Asian nation’s international trade and industry ministry, told
reporters. The review was prompted after residents protested to
mark their concern about radiation and contamination.  Rival Boost  The probe helped boost shares in rare earths rival Arafura
Resources Ltd. The Perth-based company, planning to start
producing the metals at its Nolans project in  Australia  in 2013,
closed 8.2 percent higher at 73 Australian cents at the 4:10 p.m.
end of trading in Sydney.  The panel appointed by the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  found no breach of radiation standards, the government
said in a statement today. Even so, the Australian mining
company must satisfy 11 conditions, covering matter including
environmental monitoring and long-term waste management, Sta
Maria said.  “Until this is done, the status quo remains: there will be
no importation of raw materials into the country, and no
operational activities will be allowed on site,” said a joint
statement from International Trade and Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  and Maximus Johnity Ongkili, minister of science,
technology and innovation.  Biggest Refinery  The plant, which would be the world’s biggest refinery for
rare earths, has been plagued by environmentally hazardous
construction and design problems, the New York Times reported
today, citing internal memos along with current and former
engineers on the project.  “We don’t know where New York Times got their source and
story from,” Curtis said. “There is no engineering issue in
the plant and we know the plant is safe. We have and will meet
the standards that have been outlined by  Malaysia  and also the
IAEA. For Lynas, safety and the community comes first and we
will not forego that for financial gains.”  The Mount Weld operation in  Western Australia , which will
supply ore for the Malaysian plant, may produce 22,000 metric
tons of rare earth oxide by 2014 when demand is forecast to
exceed supply by 20,000 tons a year, according to Lynas. China
may account for 36 percent of supply by 2015, down from a
forecast 65 percent in 2013, it said.  Its shares have fallen 3.9 percent this year, compared with
a 2.9 percent decline in the Australian benchmark index.  China Restrictions  Prices of rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements that
are also used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod music players, have more than
doubled since the first quarter. China has further restricted
rare-earth mining, while cutting exports to conserve resources
and protect the environment.  Local residents and non-governmental organizations have
lobbied to stop Lynas from operating the plant because of
concern over radiation. Risks arising from the project outweigh
economic gains, Fuziah Salleh, a local member of parliament,
said on April 22.  Lynas wants to tap growing global demand for rare earths.
The company picked Malaysia’s Pahang state as location for its
refinery because of an existing industrial site with ample power
and chemicals supply and availability of skilled labor.  Protests over the past three months, including a march on
Parliament and the Australian High Commission in  Kuala Lumpur ,
took place following leakages at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant in  Japan  after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami.  A follow-up review should be conducted over the next one to
two years, IAEA said in its report.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 