-- 
Ally Subpoenaed, Public-Fund Swap Advisers, Ireland: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-30T12:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ally-subpoenaed-public-fund-swap-advisers-ireland-compliance.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto and
home lender that got a $17.2 billion bailout, said it received
subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission relating to how it handled
home loans.  The  Justice Department  is seeking information for an
investigation of potential fraud related to “the origination
and/or underwriting of mortgage loans,” Ally said yesterday in
a  filing . The SEC subpoena is in connection with mortgages
placed in securitization trusts, the Detroit-based lender said.
The subpoenas were received this month, the company said.  Ally, 74 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department also
said it will record a second-quarter cost of about $100 million
to cover losses suffered by trusts that bought its mortgages. A
separate April settlement with federal regulators investigating
shoddy mortgage practices will also cost between $30 million and
$40 million each year through 2013, according to the filing.  Ally, run by former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executive Michael
Carpenter, is among the five largest U.S. mortgage originators
and servicers.  “We are working closely with the Department of Justice and
the SEC to deliver the requested information within the required
timeframes,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The disclosures were in an  update  to the prospectus,
initially filed in March, for the company’s planned public share
offering. The share sale has been delayed until equity markets
improve, a person familiar with the plans said earlier this
month.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Proposes Fiduciary Duty for Public-Fund Swap Advisers  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will seek
comment on a rule that would require swap dealers advising
pension funds, endowments and municipalities to place the
interests of such investors above their own.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to propose a rule
that would impose the fiduciary duty as part of business-conduct
practices for swap dealers advising so-called special entities.
Dealers would also have to “reasonably believe” the investors
have an independent representative capable of evaluating risks,
according to an SEC fact sheet released in Washington.  The Dodd-Frank Act called on regulators including the SEC,
which oversees security-based swaps, to crack down on abuses in
sales to states, cities and school districts after swaps pushed
Jefferson County, Alabama, to the brink of bankruptcy. The
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees swaps tied
to  interest rates , has already proposed a similar rule.  The SEC will seek public comment through Aug. 29 on the
rule, which would also require dealers to provide counterparties
with material information about swaps, including risks and
conflicts of interest. Dealers would have to provide information
on daily valuations and determine whether recommendations to
clients meet suitability standards.  Basel Regulators Said to Scrutinize Banks’ ‘Flawed’ Risk Models  Global banking regulators are moving their attention to
disparities in the way firms measure the riskiness of their
assets on concern lenders may be using their internal models to
mitigate rules aimed at making them boost capital.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed on June
25 to make systemically important financial institutions hold
core Tier 1 capital of as much as 9.5 percent of total risk-
weighted assets. Now regulators are preparing to assess how
banks set risk weightings amid criticism firms’ calculations are
inconsistent, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The internal ratings rules determine how much capital banks
should set aside to cover assets such as mortgages, derivatives
as well as consumer and corporate loans. The riskier the asset,
the higher weighting it attracts and the more capital a bank is
required to allocate. That affects the profitability of trading
and investing in those assets for the lender.  Firms use their own internal models to decide how much
capital to assign based on their own view of those assets
defaulting. The models aren’t disclosed and banks can reach
different risk weightings for the same assets, regulators and
analysts say. Regulators are considering a peer-review process
to help assess comparable assets are being calculated
consistently. A spokesman for the committee declined to comment.  For more, click here.  HKMA Says Banks Can Meet Stricter Capital Rules, Apple Reports  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  said banks in the city would
be able to meet requirements if the regulator set higher capital
rules, Apple Daily reported, citing Deputy Chief Executive
Arthur Yuen. The authority has worked with more than half of the
banks in the city to ensure they can comply regulatory
requirements, Yuen said, according to the Chinese-language Hong
Kong newspaper.  Fed Board Approves 21-Cent Cap on Debit-Card Swipe Fee  The  Federal Reserve  Board votes to approve a 21-cent cap on
debit-card transaction fees, a less severe limit on banks and
payment networks than previously proposed.  Fed governors voted for the fee cap under rules the central
bank was required to write under last year’s Dodd-Frank Act. The
cap, which was increased from the 12-cent per transaction
proposal released for comment in December, would still reduce
costs for retailers, who pay an average 44 cents per transaction
under the current system.  For the video, click here.  For more, see Courts section, below.  Compliance Action  Anglo Irish, Irish Nationwide Win EU Approval for Closure Aid  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society won European Union approval for Irish government aid to
help pay for their closure.  The  European Commission  authorization allows the banks to
be merged and wound down over the next 10 years to compensate
for state guarantees and some 34.7 billion euros ($50 billion)
in capital injections to cover losses on property loans.  Ireland may spend as much as 100 billion euros to solve
Europe’s worst banking crisis, including 29.3 billion euros
injected into Anglo Irish, which was nationalized in 2009 as
loan losses soared. The country, forced into an international
bailout in November, is struggling to convince investors its
debt is sustainable after the collapse of a domestic real-estate
bubble in 2007.  The Brussels-based commission is responsible for checking
whether government subsidies to companies harm competition in
the 27-nation EU.  Greek Parliament’s Vote Paves Way for Aid Payment, Juncker Says  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that the Greek parliament’s vote to pass the first
part of an austerity plan paves the way for payment of the next
aid installment from euro-area governments and the International
Monetary Fund.  Approval of the 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) plan sparked
optimism that Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will be
able to stave off a default for his debt-laden nation. Euro-area
finance ministers meet on July 3 in Brussels for talks on
releasing the fifth tranche of aid from last year’s 110 billion-
euro bailout for Greece.  Juncker called on the Greek opposition to support the
government “in these grave and crucial times for Greece.”  U.K. Prosecutors to Assist U.S. on Wealth Fund Bribery Probes  U.K. prosecutors are assisting the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on inquiries involving financial
institutions and whether bribes were paid in transactions with
sovereign wealth funds.  The Serious Fraud Office, which prosecutes corruption and
white collar crime in Britain, has been contacted by the U.S.
regarding the probes, SFO Director Richard Alderman said in an
interview yesterday. He did not specifically identify companies.  The SEC is examining whether transactions with Libya’s
sovereign fund may have violated bribery laws, the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier this month, citing people it didn’t
identify. SEC officials are reviewing documents including those
related to a $50 million fee  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay the Libyan fund to help recoup losses, the newspaper said.
The payment was never made, it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and Goldman Sachs are among banks that
held funds for the Muammar Qaddafi-controlled Libyan sovereign
wealth fund, London-based advocacy group  Global Witness  said
last month.  HSBC spokesman Jezz Farr declined to comment, and Goldman
Sachs spokeswoman Fiona Laffan declined to immediately comment.  U.K. Treasury Begins Payout to Equitable Life Policyholders  The U.K. government will begin paying compensation to
 Equitable Life Assurance Society  policyholders today, Treasury
minister Mark Hoban said.  A three-year program will see 500 million pounds ($800
million) distributed in the coming year and 1.5 billion pounds
paid in total, Hoban said in a statement released by his office
in London. The  Treasury  plans to contact all policyholders
within a year and priority for early payment will be given to
the oldest and the estates of those who have died.  Equitable Life struggled to stave off collapse after the
House of Lords ruled in 2000 it couldn’t abandon promises to
policyholders to pay bonuses it could no longer afford. The
ruling left the company with a 1.5 billion-pound hole in its
accounts, forcing it to cut policy payouts to customers in the
U.K. and more than 15,000 in other European Union countries
including Ireland and Germany.  Courts  Citigroup Settles With Lehman Europe Over $2.5 Billion in Assets  Citigroup Inc. and Lehman Brothers International Europe
reached a settlement over assets valued at more than $2.5
billion that were held for the collapsed investment bank by
Citigroup in a number of countries.  Citigroup agreed to immediately begin transferring assets
held in custody for LBIE, which it held while determining how it
was affected by Lehman’s collapse,  PricewaterhouseCoopers ,
Lehman’s U.K. administrator, said in a statement. Both parties
will drop all claims against each other, PwC said.  Before going into administration, LBIE and New York-based
Citigroup entered into “a large volume” of agreements related
to over-the-counter derivatives, stock lending, repurchase
transactions, prime brokerage and trading arrangements, both on
behalf of the banks and for third parties, LBIE said.  LBIE’s former parent company,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , collapsed in September 2008, filing the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history. LBIE, based in London, is in administration in
the U.K.  Philippines’ High Court Orders SEC to Investigate PLDT Ownership  The Philippines’ Supreme Court, in a 41-page decision,
ordered the  Securities and Exchange Commission  to investigate
 Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  on possible violation of
the constitutional cap on foreign ownership.  Ten of 13 justices who voted said the term ‘capital’ refers
only to voting stocks or common shares and not the total
outstanding capital stock comprised of common and preferred or
non-voting shares, according to the order released yesterday.
“The SEC is directed to apply this definition of the term
capital in determining the extent of allowable foreign
ownership” in PLDT, the court decision said.  JPMorgan’s $153.6 Million SEC Settlement Approved by Judge  A New York federal judge approved a $153.6 million
settlement by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  of allegations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that the bank misled
investors in a mortgage securities transaction just as the
housing market was starting to plummet, according to court
records.  JPMorgan doesn’t admit or deny allegations in the
complaint, and will pay a civil penalty of $133 million, plus
$18.6 million repayment of its profits and $2 million in
interest, according to papers signed by Judge Richard M. Berman
in Manhattan court today. Of the payments, $126 million will be
for investors who bought notes in a product called Squared CDO
2007-1.  The order also states that JPMorgan and its employees are
barred from making money by “means of any untrue statement of a
material fact or any omission of a material fact” or engaging
in any transaction which “would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon the purchaser.”  The case is In re U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
v. JPMorgan Securities LLC; 11-cv-04206; Southern District of
New York (Foley Square).  BofA Agrees to $8.5 Billion Settlement, Sees Quarterly Loss  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, agreed to pay
$8.5 billion to resolve claims made by bondholders including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  over soured mortgages. The lender rose as much as
4 percent in New York trading.  The settlement will contribute to a second-quarter loss of
$8.6 billion to $9.1 billion, or 88 cents to 93 cents a share,
the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said yesterday in a
statement. Bank of America also said it will add $5.5 billion to
a liability reserve for future loan-repurchase demands in the
quarter and post $6.4 billion in other charges including legal
costs and a writedown of mortgage-unit goodwill.  Investors, which also include the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, demanded in October that Bank of America repurchase
home loans that had been packaged into bonds by Countrywide
Financial Corp., which it acquired in 2008. The settlement
covers 530 mortgage trusts with an original loan balance of $424
billion, or about half of the bank’s so-called private-label
deals, the bank said yesterday.  The actions reduce uncertainty about future costs from
defective Countrywide mortgages, Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said on a conference call. The firm
won’t need to sell shares to pay for the settlement, and it may
take two quarters to regain capital depleted by the deal,
Moynihan said.  The company’s board met June 28 to discuss the settlement,
which still needs court approval.  For more, click here.  Bid to Block Debit Card Swipe Cap Denied by Appeals Court  TCF Financial Corp. (TCB)  failed to persuade a U.S. appeals court
to block a federal regulation capping the fees the biggest U.S.
banks can get from retailers for processing debit-card
transactions.  The St. Louis-based U.S. Court of Appeals yesterday, in a
unanimous nine-page ruling, upheld an April decision by U.S.
District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol that the lender hadn’t shown
it was likely to prevail on its claims the cap is
unconstitutional.  The swipe-fee cap, to be set by the Federal Reserve,
applies to all U.S. banks with at least $10 billion in assets.
The measure, sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an
Illinois Democrat, was as an addition to last year’s Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul legislation.  “No legal prohibition exists against TCF fully recouping
the costs of its debit-card services by assessing customer
fees,” the three-judge appeals court panel said today.  Swipe, or  interchange , fees are set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the biggest electronic-payment networks, which
collect the money and remit it to card-issuing member banks.  In a June 21 letter to Piersol, attorneys for the
government told the court that the Federal Reserve, at a meeting
yesterday was scheduled to “consider and vote” on the final
regulation. The board yesterday set the top rate for the largest
banks at 21 cents.  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux
Falls). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  For more, see Compliance Policy section, above  Comings and Goings  Lloyds to Cut 15,000 Jobs as It Unveils U.K.-Focused Strategy  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, will cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs by an additional
1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) as it withdraws from overseas
units and increases its U.K. focus. The shares soared the most
in more than a year.  The savings will result from cuts to management functions,
by centralizing some roles and by withdrawing from more than 15
of its 30 overseas units, the London-based bank said in a
statement issued before its presentation to investors in London.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  today said it would cut 700 posts.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 47, said the
bank must become “leaner, more agile and more responsive” to
customer needs.’’ He made the remarks today in a conference call
with journalists outlining his first strategic review since he
took the job in March.  British banks, including Lloyds, HSBC and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , are
reviewing their operations and trimming profitability targets as
regulators enforce higher capital requirements to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. Horta-Osorio told
parliamentarians last month that the 41 percent government-owned
lender still had “substantial” problems and would take three
to five years to turn into a “great bank.”  Lloyds had already pledged 2 billion pounds of savings
annually following its purchase of HBOS Plc three years ago,
which has so far resulted in about 27,000 job losses.  The company received a taxpayer-funded bailout of more than
20 billion pounds. Horta-Osorio said the step was necessary to
get the bank “back on its feet” and profitable and to pay
taxpayers’ money back.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  