-- 
Amazon Deforestation Rates Double as Farmers Anticipate Pardons

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-01T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/amazon-deforestation-rates-double-as-brazil-weighs-bill-to-pardon-farmers.html
Deforestation rates in the Amazon,
the world’s biggest  rain forest , more than doubled in May as
Brazilian farmers become more confident they’ll be granted
amnesty for illegal logging.  Almost 268 square kilometers (66,200 acres) of protected
rain forest were cut down in May, up from 110 square kilometers
a year ago, the National Institute for Space Research said in an
e-mailed statement.  Brazil  lawmakers are considering a bill that alters its
forestry code and would forgive farmers who illegally cleared
trees. The possibility that the government may ease these
restrictions is encouraging more logging, said Marcio Astrini,
coordinator of forest campaigns for Greenpeace International’s
Brazil unit. That would hamper international efforts to fight
global warming by protecting trees that absorb  greenhouse gases .  “Brazil’s been reducing its deforestation for the last
five years and this bill comes along and now it shoots up,”
Astrini said yesterday by phone. “There is only one reason why
deforestation is increasing: it’s called the forestry code,”
which may be changing.  The bill was approved by Brazil’s lower house May 24 by a
410-63 vote. The Senate has not yet voted on it and President
 Dilma Rousseff  has vowed to veto the legislation if it does
pass.  If the bill is approved in its current form, farmers won’t
have to replant trees that were illegally cut prior to July
2008, an estimated 30 million hectares (74 million acres),
according to a  study  by government research agency  Instituto de
Pesquisa Economica Aplicada . That’s about the size of the
 Philippines . Under Brazil’s current forestry code, penalties for
illegal logging include fines and a requirement to replant
trees.  Illegal Logging Increasing  Some farmers are stepping up their illicit activities in
the hope the government “will hand out further amnesties in the
future,” or won’t be able to discern which trees were cut after
the 2008 deadline, according to Fabio Alves, a specialist for
Brasilia-based IPEA.  About 35 percent of forests cleared in May were in Mato
Grosso, Brazil’s biggest soy-producing state, according to Sao
Jose dos Campos-based National Institute for Space Research.  The world’s highest deforestation rates are in Togo, which
lost 5.75 percent of its forests a year from 2005 through 2010,
according to a report released in June by the International
Tropical Timber Association. The rate in Brazil was 0.42
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  