-- 
Anglo American Says Mining-Tax Increases Risk Loss of Investment

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-06-30T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/anglo-american-says-mining-tax-increases-risk-loss-of-investment.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said governments seeking to raise taxes
and royalties on mining risk losing investment in the industry.  “Governments tempted to move in this direction convince
themselves that necessary mining investments in their countries
will continue unabated, despite the imposition of such arbitrary
changes,” Carroll told an industry function today in London.
“They are wrong. International businesses have choices to make
between investment opportunities in different jurisdictions.”  Nations including Tanzania, Ghana and Namibia are studying
plans to raise taxes on mining amid soaring commodity prices.
Australia, the biggest exporter of coal and iron-ore, sparked an
industry backlash last year with a proposed 40 percent tax on
resource profits before scaling the level back to 30 percent.  “Countries which maintain stable and fair fiscal regimes
will inevitably be more attractive investment destinations than
those that do not,” Carroll told the Melbourne Mining Club in
 London , according to a copy of her speech.  She also warned against calls for states to nationalize
mines, saying the development and operation of assets is best
carried out by corporations. South African mine production may
fall as investors are put off following a call from the youth
wing of the ruling African National Congress to nationalize the
industry, Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. said June 28.  “In some parts of the world there is a danger that it will
again become the conventional wisdom that nationalization of
mining assets is a path to prosperity,” Carroll said. “I have
said it before, I will say it again, and I urge all of you to
join me in saying it: ‘Nationalization does not work.’”  The ANC agreed in September to study the demands of  Julius Malema , leader of the youth arm.  South Africa  is the biggest
producer of platinum, chrome and manganese. It produces gold and
is the biggest supplier of coal to European  power plants .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  