-- 
Maple Group Faces Own Hurdles for TMX After Blocking LSE Bid

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-30T20:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/maple-group-faces-its-own-hurdles-for-tmx-after-blocking-lse-bid.html
The 13 Canadian banks, pensions and
insurers that thwarted  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s bid for
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  face their own challenges in buying the country’s
main equity and derivatives exchanges.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., made up of  companies 
including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,
still needs to win over TMX management and shareholders, while
convincing antitrust regulators that its proposed near monopoly
on  stock trading  won’t stifle competition.  While the promise of more money and an exchange controlled
by Canadians was enough to derail LSE, it will do nothing to
sway competition authorities who have increased inquiries into
other industries this year. Maple also must convince  investors 
to sell shares to its offer to get at least 70 percent of TMX
stock by its Aug. 8 deadline. No vote has been set for a bid.  “It’s not a slam dunk,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chairman
and chief executive officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, whose firm owns TMX shares and backed the LSE bid.
“The challenge to Maple is going to be regulatory approval
because you have massive concentration.” He added that there
would be “13 companies controlling the exchange, and those
companies are significantly conflicted.”  Maple plans to combine the Toronto Stock Exchange with
Alpha Group, a bank-owned platform, joining venues that handle
about 86 percent of the nation’s equity trading. In the U.S.,
the world’s largest capital market, competition is spread across
13 exchanges.  Not Enough Support  The London and Toronto exchanges said yesterday they won’t
proceed with their proposed C$3.32 billion ($3.44 billion)
merger, saying they didn’t get support from TMX shareholders
controlling at least two-thirds of the company before a meeting
scheduled for today.  TMX shares fell 0.9 percent to C$43.80 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. Maple has offered C$50 a share, with as much as 80
percent of the payment in cash. Following the collapse of the
LSE transaction, Toronto-based TMX said it will consider
alternatives, including remaining independent.  TMX’s board rejected Maple’s bid when it was first
announced in May, and later said it was not “superior” to
LSE’s all-stock agreement. TMX CEO  Thomas Kloet  said yesterday
that his company will “reassess” the Maple bid “without the
LSE Group standard of a superior offer on the table.”  Kloet told reporters today after TMX’s annual investor
meeting in Toronto that his company still has “a myriad of
possibilities available.”  Own Business Plan  “We, first off, like our own business plan and our own
growth strategy opportunities,” Kloet said. “We will look at
all opportunities in front of the company, including the Maple
offer.”  Luc Bertrand, a Maple spokesman and the former deputy CEO
of TMX, said yesterday that the group hopes to meet with the
board of the Toronto-based company.  “We genuinely believe Maple’s vision represents the best
way forward for TMX Group and the Canadian capital markets,”
Bertrand said in a statement.  The bank and broker group must seek antitrust approval from
Melanie Aitken,  Canada ’s  Commissioner of Competition , who has
recently probed parts of the country’s airline, telephone and
real estate industries. This week, Aitken objected to a proposed
joint venture between United Continental Holdings Inc. and its
Star Alliance partner Air Canada, saying it would monopolize 10
routes and hurt competition.  ‘Significant Hurdle’  TMX’s Kloet called the competition approval “a significant
hurdle” during today’s press conference.  Caldwell and CI Financial Inc. Executive Chairman William Holland said the Maple proposal will give banks and brokerages
too much influence over trading in the nation.  “I just don’t want Maple to have any regulatory powers,”
Holland said yesterday in a telephone interview. Toronto-based
CI is the largest investor in TMX, according to Bloomberg data.  The group includes Toronto-Dominion,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Fonds de Solidarite FTQ, Manulife,
Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital Markets Inc. and  GMP
Capital Inc. (GMP)   Stephen Jarislowsky, ranked the 28th-richest person in the
country by Canadian Business magazine, endorsed Maple’s bid on
June 24 and said it’s better than the LSE agreement because it
prevents foreign ownership.  “We’ve been colonized by the Brits for hundreds of
years,” Jarislowsky said yesterday. “We don’t need to be
colonized again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  