-- 
Apollo Climbs After Earnings Beat Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-01T20:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/apollo-new-student-enrollment-continues-quarterly-decline-2-.html
     July 1 (Bloomberg) --  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the
University of Phoenix and the biggest U.S. for-profit college,
rose 6.4 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market after quarterly
earnings and revenue beat analysts’ estimates.  Apollo gained $2.78 to $46.46 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Profit excluding one-time items for the three months ended May
31 was $1.45 a share, beating the $1.34 average estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue of $1.24 billion was
higher than the $1.2 billion average estimate.  Under pressure from the  Education Department  to cut drop-
outs and student debt, the University of Phoenix has begun
allowing students to try out courses before signing up. While
the program has hurt new enrollment, Apollo showed confidence in
its strategy to sign up students who are likely to stay in
school longer by reaffirming its forecast for the current and
next fiscal years, said  Peter Appert , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco .  The forecast suggests that “management feels the past
quarter is the worst in the current cycle in terms of declines
in new enrollment,” Appert, who rates the shares “neutral”
and doesn’t own them, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“The fact that starts have bottomed may mean that there’s light
at the end of the tunnel.”  Apollo’s shares have risen 18 percent this year, more than
the 11 percent gain on the Bloomberg For-Profit Education Index
of 13 companies.  New enrollment in the period dropped 41 percent from a year
earlier, Phoenix-based Apollo said. It was the fourth
consecutive quarter of declines.  Orientation  Apollo last year began offering a program called University
Orientation that allows students to monitor courses, helping
them determine their commitment to college work. The company
expects new enrollment and retention rates to increase in the
next fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer  Brian Swartz  said on a
call with analysts and investors.  Apollo sees signs that more students are prepared to stick
with their degree programs, said Greg Capelli, Apollo’s chairman
and co-chief executive officer, on the call. The proportion of
new students signing up for higher degree-level programs, such
as bachelor’s degrees, is rising, and company data suggest that
more students are finishing their first courses, he said.  Revenue Forecast  Apollo repeated a revenue forecast of $4.65 billion to
$4.75 billion for the year ending in August and $4 billion to
$4.25 billion for the next year. Quarterly net income was $212.4
million, or $1.51 a share. Net income rose 18 percent from
$179.3 million, or $1.18 a share, a year earlier, when the
company set aside $132.6 million to cover the costs of a
shareholder lawsuit.  Net income included items such as a tax benefit of $9.6
million from the resolution of a dispute with the  Internal
Revenue Service  regarding payment deductions and a $2 million
charge related to a securities lawsuit, Apollo said.  As much as 90 percent of for-profit colleges’ revenue comes
from U.S. student grants and loans. The Education Department
released a rule package on June 2 called “gainful employment,”
which is designed to restrict funds to schools whose graduates
have the most difficulty repaying their loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  