-- 
Apple Stock Poised for Worst First Half Since 2008 as Growth Seen Slowing

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-30T21:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/apple-has-worst-first-half-since-08-as-investors-await-iphone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares dropped 3.5
percent this month, capping their worst first-half performance
in three years, as investors await new products and fret that
rivalry from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will slow growth.  The shares, down 7.6 percent from a record $363.13 on Feb.
16, haven’t performed this poorly in the first six months of a
year since 2008, when the worst recession since the Great
Depression swamped the stock market.  Investors, already grappling with Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs ’s medical leave, say they are wary of the stock amid
evidence that Google is gaining ground in smartphones. It’s also
been more than a year since Apple entered the tablet market with
the iPad, and the next iteration of the iPhone isn’t due until
September. That’s left shareholders hankering for new products
to propel the stock, even though profit has risen more than 75
percent in the past two reported quarters.  “They are so successful in their execution that they need
the next huge thing to make the stock actually rally,” said
 Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet
Advisors, which manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California .
“You’ve got to know what the next goldmine is going to be.”  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose $1.63 to
$335.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today. The shares have
declined 3.7 percent since Jan. 14, the last trading day before
Jobs, who’s battling a rare form of cancer, said he was taking
his third medical leave since 2004.  ‘Only One Jobs’  “There is only one Steve Jobs; there’s nobody that can
replace him,” said Walter Price, managing director of RCM
Capital Management, which owned 2.96 million Apple shares as of
March 31, after selling more than 820,000 shares.  Apple, the second-largest company in the S&P 500 behind
Exxon Mobil Corp., has been one of the surest bets for investors
over the past several years. It nearly quadrupled through the
end of last year from Jan. 8, 2007, the day before Jobs
introduced the iPhone. It’s up from a split-adjusted $5.48 on
Sept. 16, 1997, the day Jobs returned to Apple after his ouster
in 1985.  Large investors that have reduced their stakes in Apple
this year include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Janus Capital Group
Inc. (JNS)  and Wellington Management Co.  Given the gains in Apple’s share price so far, it’s
inevitable that the pace of increase will slacken, said  Giri Cherukuri , the head trader for  OakBrook Investments , which
manages $2.5 billion, including Apple shares.  Hard to Move  “It’s hard for a stock of that size to move a lot at this
point,” Cherukuri said. “For it go up 50 percent or double
would be hard to imagine.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Apple’s ascent will undoubtedly resume, according to
analysts, who on average predict that the shares will climb to
$457.08 in the coming months. At least 50 analysts have “buy”
ratings on the stock, and none of those tracked by Bloomberg
recommends selling.  The gap between Apple’s stock price and analysts’
predictions reached a record $141.92 on June 20, according to
Bloomberg data.  So far this year, Apple has underperformed the broader
market. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  has risen 7.2 percent,
while the  S&P 500  is up 5 percent. The Nasdaq Composite Index
has climbed 4.6 percent this year.  New IPhone  Apple, which introduced the iPad 2 in March, may get a
boost from the next version of the iPhone, due for release by
the end of September, as well as demand for electronics in the
year-end shopping season. Recent stock declines have created an
investment opportunity, said Michael Binger, a  fund manager  at
Thrivent Asset Management.  “We’ve been buying,” said Binger, whose firm has about
$73 billion in assets under management, pointing to the iPad’s
dominant position in the market. “All the competing products
coming out don’t hold a candle to it.”  Even as investors fret about handsets running the Android
operating system, some analysts predict it will be Google that
may be in trouble.  Android will see market-share declines in the U.S. as
customers move to a new model iPhone, especially subscribers of
 Verizon Wireless , which added Apple’s handset earlier this year,
according to Needham & Co. analyst  Charlie Wolf . In March, the
iPhone accounted for 29.5 percent of the U.S. market, up from
17.2 percent in December, he said in a report this month.
Android accounted for 49.5 percent, down from 52.4 percent in
December.  Worldwide Gains  Still, Android is expected to maintain its leadership
position globally. It’s projected to account for 38.9 percent of
the worldwide market this year, compared with 18.2 percent for
Apple, according a  report  from research firm IDC.  The company’s financial results also will provide a boost,
said  Ryan Jacob , chairman of Jacob Asset Management. Apple’s
profit is projected to jump 66 percent to $5.4 billion in the
third quarter, which ended June 25, according to the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales are predicted
to grow 57 percent to $24.7 billion.  Given that rate of growth, Apple’s stock price is
“perplexing,” Jacob said. “There are a lot of minor concerns
with Apple, but to me they are all extremely minor.”  Apple also has outperformed other big technology companies,
whose stocks have sputtered even amid profit and sales growth.
Google, whose profit rose 30 percent last year, has slipped 15
percent this year, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , whose profit jumped 29
percent last year, is down 6.8 percent.  “I can’t remember valuations ever being as low as they are
now for major large-cap technology,” Jacob said.  That’s not enough for some investors, who say the best days
for Apple investors may have passed.  “It was easy until recently,” RCM Capital’s Price said of
investing in Apple. “Now I think it’s hard to know if the stock
is going to outperform the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  