-- 
Marathon Petroleum to Go Public With Valero-Like $14 Billion Valuation

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/marathon-petroleum-to-go-public-at-14-billion-valuation-as-gasoline-jumps.html
Marathon Petroleum Corp. is set to
debut on the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow as the second-
largest U.S. independent oil refiner after surging gasoline
prices drove a year long rise in refining stocks.  Marathon Petroleum is being spun off from parent  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO)  amid growing investor demand for companies that can
capitalize on gasoline prices that rose at twice the rate of
crude oil in the past 12 months, said Sam Margolin, an analyst
at Dahlman Rose & Co.  The refiner is valued at $14.7 billion in unofficial
trading permitted by exchanges to help investors gauge demand,
on par with the largest independent refiner, Valero Energy Corp.,
which has twice the fuel-making capacity. Marathon Petroleum is
poised to capture higher margins thanks to upgrades at plants
that account for half the company’s oil processing, said Jacques Rousseau, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC.  “It’s seen as a new name in a group of companies that have
run up aggressively in the past year, and people think it’s an
opportunity to buy a stock that doesn’t have a chart showing a
year’s worth of massive gains behind it,” said Margolin in a
telephone interview from New York.  Marathon Oil Chief Executive Officer Clarence Cazalot in
January revived a plan to split off the refining division after
years of frustration that the fuel-producing unit was a drag on
the value of the company’s more profitable crude and natural-gas
business. Cazalot, a former exploration chief at Texaco Inc.,
canceled the original spinoff in February 2009 after the global
financial collapse deflated equity markets.  Asset Sales  Since then, Marathon Oil has sold off $1.9 billion in
refining, storage, pipeline and retail assets, including a plant
in Minnesota, and hundreds of convenience stores. The margins
earned in the U.S. from processing crude into fuels during that
time almost tripled as the recession ended and energy demand
rebounded.  Since assuming the top job at Marathon Oil when it was spun
off by U.S. Steel Corp. in 2002, Cazalot, 60, has quadrupled net
income and expanded the company’s search for oil and gas to Iraq,
Indonesia and Poland. On June 1, the company agreed to pay $3.5
billion to Hilcorp Resources Holdings LP for Texas leases that
may add the equivalent of 100 million barrels of crude to its
reserves by the end of this year.  As a result of the transaction, Cazalot raised his
production-growth estimate through 2016 to 5 percent to 7
percent a year from a previous forecast of 3 percent to 5
percent.  Shares Lag  Marathon Oil posted share price gains averaging 7 percent
for the past five years, lagging Los Angeles-based Occidental
Petroleum Corp. and Anadarko Petroleum Corp. of The Woodlands,
Texas, which rose 17 percent and 10 percent a year, respectively.
Neither Occidental nor Anadarko engage in refining.  Marathon Petroleum’s margins probably will widen starting
in late 2012 after the completion of a $2.2 billion upgrade to
the company’s Detroit refinery that will boost its ability to
process cheaper crude, RBC’s Rousseau said in a telephone
interview.  The Detroit project will increase the refinery’s capacity
to handle heavy crude from Canada’s oil sands to 100,000 barrels
a day from 20,000 barrels, Rousseau said. Heavy Canadian crude
sells for 20 percent to 30 percent less than the lighter types
of oil from the Gulf Coast that the Detroit refinery currently
primarily runs, he said.  Rousseau, who has an outperform rating on Marathon
Petroleum, estimates the Detroit upgrade will add $1 to Marathon
Petroleum’s annual per-share earnings. He expects the shares to
reach $50 within a year.  “There’s a lot to like with this story,” Rousseau said.  Refining Consolidation  As a stand-alone refiner, Marathon Petroleum will have more
volatile earnings than its parent because retail fuel markets
tend to fluctuate seasonally, said Ted Harper, an asset manager
at Frost Investment Advisors in Houston, who helps manage about
$6.8 billion. Frost Investment is a subsidiary of Cullen/Frost
Bankers Inc. which held 23,797 Marathon shares as of a March 31
filing.  “They may need to smooth out their earnings stream,”
Harper said. Marathon should expand its refining base through
acquisitions, or add to its logistics business, which includes
the largest U.S. barge fleet, he said.  The U.S. refining industry has consolidated in the past six
years as fuel makers, faced with soaring crude costs, cut
operating expenses and shed their least-efficient plants. The
transactions have included Valero’s 2005 acquisition of Premcor
Inc., Western Refining Inc.’s purchase of Giant Industries Inc.
in 2007, and Holly Corp.’s planned merger with Frontier Oil
Corp., which is expected to close tomorrow.  Texas City  Marathon Petroleum may seek to buy BP Plc’s Texas City
refinery near Houston, the biggest U.S. plant ever to be sold as
a single asset, said Neil Earnest, practice leader of merger’s
and acquisitions at Muse, Stancil & Co., a consulting firm in
Dallas.  BP’s Texas City refinery is the third-largest in the U.S.
by virtue of 475,000 barrels of daily crude-processing capacity,
according to Bloomberg data. The plant is larger than anything
in Marathon’s refining portfolio and would provide the ability
to export diesel to South America, Earnest said.  BP will have to lower its $2.9 billion asking price for the
Texas City refinery before Marathon Petroleum could afford it,
said Mark Sadeghian, senior director of energy at Fitch Ratings
in Chicago.  Marathon Petroleum will trade under the symbol MPC on the
New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 