-- 
Marcus Criticizes South African Reserve Bank Shareholder Over Harassment

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-30T12:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/marcus-criticizes-south-african-bank-shareholder-for-harassment.html
South Africa ’s Reserve Bank has
spent 385 hours responding to queries from shareholder  Michael
Duerr , some of which contained abusive language and amount to
harassment, Governor Gill Marcus said.  The central bank has received 60 e-mails and other
correspondence running into more than 160 pages from Duerr,
requiring information on the bank’s operations, Marcus said at
the ordinary general meeting in  Pretoria  today. Duerr, a German
national who holds about 5 percent of the bank’s shares,
dismissed Marcus’s criticism, which he said was “slander.”  Duerr and a handful of other shareholders have been pushing
for greater influence over the bank and its board, which in turn
accuses them of trying to profit from their shares and
compromising the bank’s independence.  “Apart from the tone, language, unfounded allegations and
abuse contained in his correspondence, there have been no less
than 61 demands often stipulating responses expected within
hours,” Marcus said. “We can only conclude that harassment
appears to be the actual intention.”  Duerr has regularly disrupted the central bank’s
shareholder meetings. In 2009, he clashed with former Governor
Tito Mboweni, attending the annual meeting barefoot and dressed
in traditional Bavarian shorts called lederhosen. At today’s
meeting, he made at least five interjections.  Disruption  Marcus was also disrupted today by shareholder Arthur
Boetcher, who claimed the  Reserve Bank  owed him billions of
rands and declared himself governor, Marcus his deputy and Duerr
a board member. Marcus thanked him for the comment and didn’t
respond further.  South Africa’s Parliament last year approved legislation
aimed at protecting the independence of the central bank and
limiting the amount of influence private shareholders can wield
over its operations.  The Reserve Bank is one of nine central banks around the
world that have private investors. The shareholders in South
Africa’s central bank are allowed to own a maximum of 10,000
shares that entitle them to 50 votes at annual general meetings.
They receive a fixed dividend of 10 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Johannesburg at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  