-- 
Ex-AMD Employee Longoria Will Plead Guilty, His Lawyer Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-30T18:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/mark-longoria-to-plead-guilty-in-new-york-today-his-lawyer-says.html
Mark Anthony Longoria, a former
employee of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  arrested in December in
an investigation of  insider trading , will plead guilty today,
his lawyer said.  Longoria, 45, of Round Rock, Texas, is to appear before
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York this afternoon. His
lawyer,  Jonathan Marks , said in a telephone interview that his
client would plead guilty. He declined to comment further. Marks
said in March that Longoria was in plea talks with prosecutors.  Longoria is accused of giving inside information about AMD
to clients of  Primary Global Research LLC , a consulting company
in  Mountain View , California, that provides experts to
investors.  He was one of four people arrested in December in a
nationwide federal investigation of illegal hedge fund trading.
The probe was done by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and prosecutors in
the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  More than a dozen people have been charged by Bharara’s
office since November in cases tied to so-called expert
networking firms. The consulting firms match  hedge funds  with
industry experts who provide market advice. A broader U.S. probe
has implicated hedge funds, banks and insiders at technology
companies.  Fraud, Conspiracy Charges  Longoria, James Fleishman, Walter Shimoon and Manosha
Karunatilaka were charged with fraud and conspiracy and face as
many as 20 years in prison on the most serious counts, Bharara’s
office said.  Fleishman faces trial later this year before Rakoff.
Karunatilaka, a former account manager at Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., pleaded guilty in May to sharing nonpublic
information about the firm with Primary Global clients.  Prosecutors have repeatedly filed requests with the court
seeking adjournments in prosecuting both Shimoon and Longoria.  In court papers filed June 6, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Antonia Apps sought a delay in the case of Shimoon, saying
prosecutors and his lawyer “have had conversations regarding a
possible disposition of this case.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Francis granted the request
until July 6, 2011. Shimoon’s lawyer,  Henry Mazurek , declined to
comment.  Guilty Plea  A fifth man, Daniel DeVore, formerly a supply manager at
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , was arrested in the same investigation and pleaded
guilty Dec. 10 to  wire fraud  and conspiracy to commit securities
and wire fraud, according to prosecutors.  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with Primary Global, was
convicted June 20 of  securities fraud  and conspiracy in New
York.  An SEC suit filed in February against Longoria, a former
supply chain manager for Sunnyvale, California-based AMD,
accused him of providing inside information about the chipmaker
from 2007 to at least 2009, including information about sales,
revenue and profit margins, before the company released the
data.  Longoria had access to sales figures and obtained
information about quarterly revenue and profit margins from
another employee who worked in the company’s finance department,
according to the SEC suit.  Longoria was paid $300 an hour for providing the
information, and he received more than $130,000 from January
2008 to March 2010, the suit says. AMD’s code of conduct
requires the company’s employees to keep non-public information
confidential, the suit says.  The criminal case is U.S. vs. Shimoon, 10-mj-02823, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 