-- 
ARM Holdings Investors Beat Analysts in Stock Value Divide

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-01T16:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/arm-holdings-investors-beat-analysts-in-divide-over-stock-value.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K. designer
of chips that power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, is dividing investors
and analysts more than any other company in the benchmark  FTSE
100 Index. (UKX)  So far, shareholders are the winners.  ARM is the index’s best performer over the past six months,
12 months, 18 months, two years and three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts are more negative on the
stock than on any other in the index, based on the proportion of
“sell” recommendations, the data show.  “Analysts have got it completely wrong,” George O’Connor,
an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London who put a “sell”
rating on the stock in September, said in an interview.
“Investors are right. ARM is at the pivotal point of a changing
industry and is enjoying this window of opportunity.”  ARM’s technology dominates the market for processors that
run smartphones. Sales of the devices jumped 72 percent last
year to  297 million units , according to  Stamford , Connecticut-
based market research firm Gartner Inc. That helped ARM more
than double 2010 earnings to 86 million pounds ($137.5 million).  The shares have more than doubled over the past year,
compared with a 21 percent gain in the FTSE 100 Index. Over the
past three years, the stock has surged by more than seven times
compared with a 5.7 percent increase in the index, boosting
ARM’s market value to 7.9 billion pounds.  ‘Nice Business’  Over that period, ARM has gained more than twice as much as
every other company in the index, except for financial adviser
 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) , which more than quadrupled. ARM gained
5.5 pence, or 0.9 percent, to 593.5 pence in  London  trading.  “We got it right because we felt we understood the
business model,” William Fries, manager of the $30.4 billion
Thornburg International Value Fund, said in an interview. “A
small piece of every handset is a nice business.”  The increase in the share price means that ARM is currently
trading at 61 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, making it more expensive than any
of its competitors.  “It is expensive, but the opportunities are more real than
they have ever been,” Nick Hyslop, a London-based analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  with an “outperform” rating on the stock,
said in an interview. “It would be a brave person to bet
against ARM being successful in computing.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software maker, said
Jan. 5 that Windows 8, its operating system due to be released
next year, will be able to run with ARM-designed chips.  Sell Ratings  Fourteen, or 42 percent, of the 33 analysts rating the
Cambridge, England-based company recommend investors sell the
shares, according to Bloomberg data. That’s the highest
percentage of such ratings in the FTSE 100 Index. Nine companies
in the index, including Imperial Tobacco Group Plc,  Land
Securities Group Plc (LAND)  and Fresnillo Plc have no “sell” ratings
from any analyst, Bloomberg data show.  Ten analysts rate ARM a “buy” and nine have a “hold”
recommendation. Most analyst “sell” ratings on ARM are based
on the stock’s valuation, rather than a poorer outlook for the
company, said Fries. His fund acquired ARM shares about two
years ago and held 31.7 million shares, or 2.4 percent of the
company, as of March 1, filings show.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which is based in
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , owns 65.9 million shares in different
funds on behalf of clients, making it ARM’s fourth-largest
investor, Bloomberg data show.  U.S. Owners  Eight of ARM’s 10 largest investors are U.S.-based fund
managers. Janus Capital Group Inc., which owns 72.9 million
shares, or 5.4 percent, is the largest investor, according to
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  ARM Chief Financial Officer Tim Score declined to comment
on the share price performance or ratings by analysts.  ARM was created in 1990 from a venture with Cupertino,
California-based Apple, according to the company’s website.
Founded as Advanced RISC Machines, ARM was spun out of Acorn
Computer Group Plc, which made personal computers.  The U.K. designer now sells its chip blueprints and
receives royalties from shipments of semiconductors. A total of
1.85 billion processor chips with ARM’s designs were shipped in
the first quarter, the company said on April 27.  “The winners of one phase have not always translated into
the winners of the next phase,” said O’Connor, who doesn’t plan
to change his rating. “At some point the valuation argument
will win out. In the end, valuation anomalies don’t exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 