-- 
Martin Amis Ex Recalls Acid Trip, Swinging Parents, Cote d’Azur

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/martin-amis-ex-recalls-60s-acid-trip-randy-parents-cote-d-azur-books.html
Don’t be misled by the title of Gully
Wells’s beguiling memoir, “ The House in France .” While it does
feature an evocative chunk of Provencal real estate, the book’s
true focus as it flits between swinging ‘60s  London , bohemian
Oxford and  New York ’s British expatriate community is not a
place but a person: the house’s owner, Dee Wells, the author’s
mercurial mother.  La Migoua was little more than a shack at the wrong end of
the Cote d’Azur when the American-born Wells bought it in 1962.
By then, she had already served as a sergeant major in the
Canadian army, lived in Paris, wed and jilted a dashing
diplomat, moved with their only child, Gully, to London and
launched a career as a journalist.  She had also managed to maneuver  A.J. “Freddie” Ayer , the
celebrated philosopher and notorious womanizer, into marriage.
The home this couple built for young Gully buzzed with ideas,
love and visiting luminaries like Isaiah Berlin, Stephen Spender
and Alan Bennett.  There are cameos, too, from White Russian royals, an
American Indian chief from  South Dakota  and even Bobby Kennedy.
Yet it is Dee who dominates the book.  At her best, Wells writes, her mother was more fun than
anyone. That didn’t make her easy to live with. Curse-filled
rages, for instance, were only partially mitigated by a capacity
for kindness that stretched to setting out water for thirsty
wasps.  Off to Oxford  “Take a chance” was Dee’s mantra; naturally, Gully became
“the prissiest, most conservative girl in all of swinging
London.” That changed just in time for her to go to Oxford and
fall madly in love with a velvet-pants-wearing Martin Amis,
marking the start of an on-and-off romance that would endure for
almost a decade.  They did acid on the lawn of Exeter College and played at
domesticity. Amis dedicated his first novel, “The Rachel
Papers,” to Wells in 1973. She can’t resist mentioning that
Amis borrowed her description of his mouth -- “shaped like a
crinkle-cut chip” -- and used it in another novel.  This is Wells’s first book, and she writes with a confident
lightness of touch. The same sanguine, modest sensibility that
saw her through her unconventional childhood is what provides
its considerable charm.  Boldfaced names never feel dropped, even when they belong
to boxing champ  Mike Tyson  and a teenage  Naomi Campbell  (I won’t
spoil the scene’s comedy with a precis). Descriptions of
Provence’s bounty during annual trips to La Migoua -- figs ripe
to bursting, fat bunches of fragrant herbs -- are kept to a
refreshing minimum.  Dark Times  There is darkness here, too. A low point in Wells’s
childhood was being sent to a classmate’s Spanish-themed
birthday party dressed as a peasant protesting Franco. Her half-
brother, Nick Ayer, had an altogether tougher time. Twelve years
her junior, he was on hand to witness the tempestuous
disintegration of his parents’ marriage.  Inexplicably attractive to women, Freddie Ayer was almost
entirely unable to process other people’s emotions with his
fabled brain. (Wells calls him an “Aspergian snail.”) This
unfortunate combination made him an unconscionable philanderer,
though he finally found himself in trouble when he fell hard for
Vanessa Lawson, whose husband, Nigel, would later become
 Margaret Thatcher ’s Chancellor of the Exchequer.  Not to be outdone, Dee took up very publicly with an
American fashion designer,  Hylan Booker , and wrote a bestselling
roman a clef, “ Jane .” As divorce loomed, Nick was left to
drift into a serious drug habit.  Move to New York  Meanwhile, Gully Wells married, moved to New York and
became a mother. Later, she was hired as an editor at Conde Nast
Traveler by Harold Evans.  Wells seems to have inherited her mother’s joie de vivre,
but not her penchant for risk-taking or her caustic streak. She
acknowledges cliches, and then delights in them nevertheless,
whether it’s her first experience of love with Amis or a night
of Sinatra and champagne at a travel agents’ convention in
 Egypt . Her unapologetic sunniness may be a loyal daughter’s
gentle rebellion against the exacting expectations that drove
her smart, acerbic mother.  “The House in  France ” is published by Knopf in the U.S.
and Bloomsbury in the U.K. (307 pages, $26.95, 16.99 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 