-- 
Stocks Advance as Greek Concern Eases; Dollar, Treasuries Fall

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-30T21:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/asian-stocks-euro-advance-as-greek-default-concern-eases-treasuries-gain.html
Stocks rose, giving the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index its biggest four-day gain since September, and
the Dollar Index posted its fourth straight loss after the Greek
parliament supported a European bailout and a measure of U.S.
business activity improved. Treasuries fell.  The  S&P 500  rose 1 percent to 1,320.64 at 4 p.m. in New
York, trimming its quarterly drop to 0.4 percent. The MSCI All-
Country World Index jumped 1.3 percent. The Dollar Index slid
0.4 percent as the euro climbed to the highest level in nearly
three weeks against the U.S. currency. The 10-year Treasury
yield increased five basis points to the highest level this
month, while the Greek yield added six basis points. Corn and
wheat tumbled. Oil advanced 0.7 percent to a two-week high.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  gained approval
today from lawmakers to implement his 78 billion-euro ($113
billion) package of budget cuts and asset sales after winning
parliamentary backing yesterday for the bill.  Germany ’s biggest
banks and insurers and the government agreed on a proposal to
reinvest money from maturing debt holdings into new Greek bonds
through 2014. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.
said its business barometer unexpectedly rose in June.  “There are nice things coming together,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells
Capital, which oversees $340 billion. “Europeans are kicking
the can down the road a bit further. It seems that the  Greece 
situation is closer to being put on the back burner. The bottom-
line is whether or not we recover from the soft patch. Most
reports indicate that the economic softness has been only
temporary.”  Quarterly Loss  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 countries
lost 1.5 percent in June including the reinvestment of
dividends, resulting in the first quarterly loss in a year. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index
slumped 0.6 percent through yesterday, while another index
showed Treasuries fell 0.1 percent. The S&P’s GSCI Total Return
Index of 24 commodities declined 5.3 percent, pushing prices
down in the quarter for the first time in a year.  The S&P 500 fell 1.8 percent in June for its second
straight monthly decline, amid concern about the European debt
crisis and weaker-than-expected economic data. The benchmark
index for U.S. stocks has still gained 5 percent for the first
half of the year on government stimulus measures and better-
than-estimated company profits.  Caterpillar, 3M  The Dow Jones Industrial average erased its losses for the
quarter, posting a 0.8 percent advance for the three months as
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  climbed
at least 1.8 percent today. U.S. equities rallied as investors
gravitated toward industries tied to economic growth.
Industrial, raw-materials and technology shares gained the most
among 10 groups in the S&P 500 today.  Stocks extended their gains after  consumer confidence  rose
to the highest level in 10 weeks, as falling gasoline prices
provided relief to Americans contending with 9.1 percent
joblessness, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.1 percent, trimming its
loss for the quarter to 1.1 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rose 1.3 percent, paring a quarterly drop to 0.6 percent.  The euro, which beat 15 of 16 major currencies in the first
half, rose 0.5 percent to $1.4502. It touched the highest level
in almost three weeks on prospects the  European Central Bank 
will increase  interest rates  next week to curb inflation. The
U.S. currency weakened against 13 of its 16 counterparts, losing
0.3 percent versus the yen. The dollar has declined against all
but  South Africa ’s rand in the first six months of the year.  Treasuries Slide  The 10-year Treasury note slid for a fourth straight day,
its longest losing streak since February, as the  Federal Reserve 
prepared to conclude a $600 billion program of debt buying,
known as quantitative easing, or QE2. The benchmark’s yield
gained five basis points to 3.16 percent.  The difference in yield between Greece’s 10-year bond and
benchmark German bonds edged up one basis point to 1,332 basis
points. The spread reached a record 1,543 basis points, or 15.43
percentage points, on June 17. The yield on the 10-year Spanish
bond declined 13 basis points, with the similar-maturity Italian
yield seven basis points lower.             Corn futures tumbled
4.6 percent, the most since November, and wheat plunged 8.9
percent to an 11-month low as the government reported U.S. grain
acreage and inventories that topped estimates by analysts.  Oil Rally  Crude oil climbed 0.7 percent to $95.42, adding to a two-
day rally of 4.5 percent and recouping all of the losses since
the  International Energy Agency  said June 23 that members would
tap emergency reserves. The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities
fell 0.4 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 1.2 percent,
paring its second-quarter decline to 2.1 percent.  China ’s CSI
300 Index rose 1.5 percent as BYD Co., the automaker part-owned
by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., jumped 41 percent
on its trading debut in Shenzhen.  South Korea ’s won strengthened
0.5 percent against the dollar as industrial production growth
beat economists’ forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  