-- 
ASR Plans to Create a $1.6 Billion Real Estate Fund to Sell Dutch Assets

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-06-30T15:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/asr-plans-to-create-a-1-6-billion-real-estate-fund-to-sell-dutch-assets.html
ASR Nederland NV, the insurer
acquired in 2008 by the Dutch state to help bail out Fortis Bank
NV, plans to sell most of its 1.1 billion euros ($1.6 billion)
of stores and shopping centers by setting up a fund.  The Utrecht-based insurer, the third largest in the
Netherlands, transferred 210 properties to its new ASR Dutch
Prime Retail Fund and hired  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  to find
investors in the fund, according to a statement today. ASR plans
to keep 20 percent of the fund, which will be run by its ASR
Real Estate Investment Management unit.  ASR has owned real estate assets directly for more than 100
years and the sales mark the start of a plan to invest outside
the Netherlands and to place its money in property indirectly.
The company started with the sale of its retail properties
because of demand from investors, who have been attracted by the
resilience
of rental incomes they generate and of the buildings’ values.  “The launch is a strong signal to the market of our future
ambitions,” said Dick Gort, chief executive officer of ASR
REIM, the company’s property asset-management unit, which owns
or manages 4 billion euros of buildings. ASR hasn’t decided yet
on how the sale proceeds will be reinvested, he said.  ASR plans to follow with more specialist funds to reduce
its other holdings in Dutch offices, residences and farmland,
Gort said in a telephone interview.  The company shift in strategy coincides with changes in
 capital requirements  for European insurers and as the Dutch
government prepares ASR for sale. The Solvency II proposals
require insurers to set aside more money in case of a collapse
in the value of properties they own directly. This makes
investing in funds, publicly traded real estate companies and
real estate loans more attractive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  