-- 
Athens Violence Shouldn’t Deter Visitors, Minister Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-30T13:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/athens-violence-shouldn-t-deter-visitors-minister-says-1-.html
Greek Culture and Tourism Minister
Pavlos Yeroulanos said scenes of violence in  Athens  yesterday
during the second day of a strike in opposition to the
government’s 78 billion-euro ($113 billion) medium-term fiscal
plan didn’t reflect the reality of the situation.  “These events, although unfortunate, were local and do not
represent in any way everyday life in the city,” Yeroulanos
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Visitors in Athens
continue to enjoy a secure and tranquil environment and a very
vibrant cultural experience.”  Crowds of more than 20,000 people marched through Athens
over the past two days as Greece’s two biggest union groups held
a 48-hour strike as lawmakers debated and voted on the medium-
term fiscal plan in parliament. A debate on the accompanying
implementation law, with technical details on the measures, will
be voted on by the chamber today.  Lawmakers yesterday needed the protection of riot police
who deployed tear gas in violent clashes with hooded protesters
throughout the day. Over 148 people, including 49 police
officers, were injured, according to telephone messages from the
 Greek police  and the health ministry.  Tour operators, conference organizers and other visitors
are canceling trips to  Greece  after ports and airports were
halted by the strike and violence broke out in Athens, Athens-
based  Kathimerini  newspaper reported.  Yeroulanos said no other Greek cities were affected by the
violence yesterday and that transportation and sites are
operating normally now, according to the statement.  Tourism accounts for about 16 percent of Greece’s gross
domestic product, according to the London-based  World Travel and
Tourism Council .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  