-- 
Audi’s $310,000 Convertible Supercar Targets Ferrari to Outshine BMW: Cars

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-30T22:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/audi-s-310-000-convertible-supercar-targets-ferrari-to-outshine-bmw-cars.html
Audi AG (NSU)  is taking aim at Ferrari SpA
with a convertible version of the R8 GT supercar, as the
Volkswagen AG unit hones a high-end sporty image in its quest to
overtake  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as the luxury-car leader.  The R8 GT Spyder, Audi’s most expensive series production
car, boasts carbon-fiber in the front and rear spoilers to
reduce weight and help the car accelerate to 100 kilometers (62
miles) per hour in 3.8 seconds. Priced from 207,800 euros
($301,300), the model costs more than Ferrari’s California and
the Mercedes-Benz SLS roadster, underscoring Audi’s ambitions.  “Audi is pursuing its campaign for the top luxury slot
with heart and soul,” said Wolfgang Meinig, head of the
Bamberg, Germany-based FAW Research Center for the Automobile
Industry. “They have steadily enhanced their product portfolio
and are engaged in refining the top end of the range.”  The open-top version of the R8 GT is part of Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Stadler’s strategy to topple BMW by
2015. Because of the higher margins of luxury cars, Audi is
critical to parent  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s efforts to surpass Toyota
Motor Corp. in sales and profit by 2018. Audi accounted for 47
percent of VW’s profit last year, while selling 18 percent of
the group’s vehicles.  Stadler will today complete a two-day presentation to
Audi’s top management, where he lays out a plan to capture the
lead by further expanding the model lineup, two people familiar
with the matter said. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based manufacturer
intends to increase its product range to about 60 models by 2020
from 37 now, the people said, speaking on condition that they
not be identified because the talks are private.  New Models  Under consideration is the A9, a two-door coupe based on
the A8 flagship, one of the people said. The model would compete
with Mercedes’s $113,150 CL and mark a further expansion of
high-end offerings, which typically have better profit margins.
Last year, the manufacturer introduced the A7 Sportback and
updated the A8 to compete with Mercedes’s S-Class and BMW’s 7-
Series. Audi’s lineup starts with the 15,800-euro A1 subcompact.  Audi needs to regain ground, with BMW widening its lead
this year. Boosted by the revamped X3 sport-utility vehicle and
5-Series sedan and wagon, the BMW brand sold 20,000 more cars
than Audi in the first five months, compared with a gap of
10,500 a year earlier.  Backed by the expanded model lineup, Audi will target sales
of 2 million vehicles a year by 2020, up from a goal of 1.2
million this year and 1.5 million in 2015, the people said. The
target would match BMW’s aim of selling at least 2 million cars
by 2020. Esther Bahne, a spokeswoman for Audi, declined to
comment on the carmaker’s future model policy.  Limited Production  Competitors aren’t sitting idly by. Stuttgart-based
Mercedes is building a factory in  Hungary  to support the rollout
of four compact models, which will challenge Audi’s A3 for
younger drivers. BMW, based in Munich, is developing a new line
of front-wheel drive models and is rolling out the “i”
electric-car sub-brand.  Audi will limit production of the R8 GT Spyder, which is
largely assembled by hand, to 333 cars, Joachim Radde, head of
 sports cars  at Audi’s high-performance Quattro division, said in
an interview. The car, which is hitting the market less than a
year after the coupe, will be available to order starting in
August. The line will likely sell out by year’s end, Radde said.  “The R8 GT Spyder will be a boon to both image and
margins,” Radde said by phone from Audi’s headquarters.
“There’s demand for such top-of-the-range vehicles, and we’re
paying heed to that.”  ‘Extravagant Models’  Audi, which has sold all 333 of the coupe version, will
begin deliveries of the soft-top Spyder in December. The car’s
10-cylinder engine powers it to a top speed of 317 kilometers
per hour. The starting price is 16 percent more than the
179,400-euro Ferrari  California  and 6.5 percent more than the
195,200-euro Mercedes SLS roadster.  “The introduction of such extravagant models help Audi
raise selling prices,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the
Center of Automotive Management at the University of Applied
Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach,  Germany . “The image-enhancing
effects are huge.”  The new Audi hits the market at the same time as the
Mercedes SLS roadster, which could be ordered from June 1. The
soft-top version of the gull-wing supercar is also largely hand
made. Its eight-cylinder, 571-horsepower engine takes about
three hours to assemble, spokesman Pietro Zollino said.  Supercar Competition  Mercedes relies on reinforced aluminum to reduce the car’s
weight and help the roadster nearly match the performance of the
gull-wing version, which accelerates to 60 miles per hour in 3.7
seconds and has a top speed of 197 miles per hour, Zollino said.  BMW is following a different supercar strategy and will
introduce the i8, which combines electric motors and a
combustion engine, after rolling out a battery-powered city car
in 2013. The hybrid supercar will have its entire frame woven
from light-weight carbon fiber. It doesn’t have a direct
competitor to the R8 GT.  “Audi is progressing rapidly in its endeavor to close the
gap on BMW,” said Bratzel. “The R8 GT Spyder is rounding off a
product range that’s very comprehensive already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  