-- 
Australia’s Home Price Slump Pits Local Bank Bulls Against Foreign Bears

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-07-01T07:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/australia-home-price-drop-pits-local-bulls-versus-foreign-bears.html
Australian home prices in 2011 have
fallen the most in three years, pitting local banks which say
the drop will be short lived against overseas investors betting
it’s the start of an overdue rout.  The nation’s four biggest lenders, which account for about
87 percent of outstanding mortgages, are forecasting prices will
be underpinned by a housing shortage,  population growth  and an
economy boasting near full-employment. Overseas investors say
high debt, unaffordable homes and rising interest rates could
cause home prices to tumble as much as 40 percent.  Government handouts to new home buyers helped  Australia 
avoid the rout seen in the U.S., U.K. and Irish property markets
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 triggered the worst global recession since World War II.
Prices surged in the past two years, leaving Australia with the
developed world’s costliest homes, highest interest rates and
among its most indebted households.  “Australia stands out as the one developed housing market
that didn’t have a meaningful correction,” said Ben Jarman, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “The thinking
among market bears is that surely that domino has to fall as
well, particularly when you saw a very strong year for price
growth in 2009 and 2010.”  The median home price in the nation’s eight capital cities,
where two-thirds of the population lives on less than 0.5
percent of the country’s land mass, was A$470,000 ($503,000) in
May, according to Brisbane-based property researcher RP Data.
That compares with $169,588 in the U.S. in April, according to
real estate website Zillow.com.  Mortgage Delinquencies  Australian home prices slid 1.7 percent in the first
quarter from three months earlier, the biggest drop since the
third quarter of 2008, government data in May showed. Prices
fell 0.3 percent in both April and May, according to RP Data.  Demand for mortgages, which account for about 63 percent of
banks’ outstanding loans in Australia, slowed in April to the
weakest annual growth rate since data began in 1977. Home loans
more than 30 days late hit a record 1.79 percent in the first
quarter,  Fitch Ratings  said on May 26, and “low-doc” loans
that were more than 30 days overdue climbed to 6.74 percent.  Fitch conducted a stress test of Australian banks last year
in response to overseas investors’ concerns about the
sustainability of home prices. Moody’s Investors Service cut the
nation’s four-largest banks’ credit ratings by one level in May,
saying their dependence on wholesale debt markets, rather than
deposits, made them vulnerable to confidence swings.  Doom & Gloom?  Marc Faber , publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report,
last month urged investors to short-sell  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  shares, citing excessive household leverage
and an overvalued property market. Faber, who made the call in
Barron’s  Mid-Year Roundtable , didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment for this story.  Philip Chronican, Australia chief executive officer at ANZ
Bank, said on June 2 that of the approximately 800,000 home
loans held by the lender, only about 100 are facing repossession.
Melbourne-based ANZ Bank, Australia’s third-biggest lender by
market value, has A$155 billion of outstanding home loans,
according to data from bank regulator the  Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority  yesterday.  About 1.7 million U.S. homes were in the foreclosure
process and expected to be put on the market as of April,  Santa
Ana , California-based real estate information company CoreLogic
Inc. said June 22.  Banks’ Discipline  John Taylor , founder of FX Concepts LLC, the world’s
largest currency-hedge fund, says Australia’s banks, which
remained profitable throughout the financial crisis without
government bailouts, are now overextended and will cut back on
credit, helping spark a recession.  “Banks sailed through 2008 like the rest of us were all
idiots,” New York-based Taylor said. “They’re not looking as
pretty now.”  The nation of 22.5 million has the most unaffordable
housing in the English-speaking world, Illinois-based consulting
company  Demographia  said in January, with the median Australian
home costing 6.1 times gross annual household income, compared
with 3 times in the U.S. Debt in Australia is equal to 155
percent of household disposable income, according to central
bank  data , compared with 133 percent in the U.S.  before the
crisis .  Converted Bear  Jack Foster, global head of real estate at Franklin
Templeton Investments, said he’s switched from a bearish view on
Australia’s housing market as the resilience shown by
Australia’s banks following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers 
convinced him a slump is unlikely.  “It was hard to believe, given the weakness in so many
housing markets around the world, that Australia wouldn’t
suffer,” said New York-based Foster. “But what I missed was
the discipline of the banks,” which raised down payment
requirements and avoided reliance on loan securitization.  John Kim, an analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets in
 Melbourne , said there is a speculative problem for residential
investment properties driven by the “negative gearing” tax
structure. Property investors in Australia can claim tax
deductions on losses from property investments and offset those
against other income, encouraging property purchases that
otherwise don’t make economic sense. Kim said Australian home
prices could fall 15 percent in a worst-case scenario.  Australia has the highest  interest rates  in the developed
world after seven increases from October 2009 to November 2010.
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said last month
the bank will likely need to raise interest rates and is
weighing  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis against a forecast
pickup in domestic growth and inflation.  ‘Time Bomb’  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Boston-
based Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., last year called the
Australian housing market a “time bomb” set to blow when rates
climb. Grantham declined to comment for this article.  Gerard Minack , global developed markets strategist at
Morgan Stanley, has said  house prices  are as much as 40 percent
overvalued. Bank of America Merrill Lynch forecast last month
that home prices will drop 10 percent from their June 2010 peak.  “The thought of higher rates continues to impact household
sentiment and is likely to keep growth subdued over the near
term,” Matthew Davison, research analyst at Merrill Lynch in
Melbourne, wrote in the June 8 report.  New home sales in May fell 0.2 percent from the previous
month, according to the Housing Industry Association.  Rob Brooker, head of Australian economics and commodities
at Melbourne-based National Australia Bank Ltd., said the “soft
patch” is temporary. Prices will climb 3 percent to 5 percent
over the next two years, driven by an investment boom, he said.  Mining Boom  National Australia accounts for more than A$166 billion of
mortgages, APRA data shows. Australia’s fourth-biggest lender by
market value is currently seeking to grow its mortgage loan book
by undercutting interest rates and scrapping fees.  The Australian government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion next fiscal year as companies including BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 miner, expand output to meet
demand from  China  and  India .  “There is a tendency for people overseas to extrapolate
their experience of their own market to the Australian market,
without really understanding the strength of our economy, the
strength of demand, our connection to China and their growth
story and the shortage of housing here,” Brooker said.  FX Concepts’ Taylor said Australia’s dependence on China,
its biggest trading partner accounting for about 25 percent of
exports, may soon be a drag, rather than boost, as Beijing
attempts to cool the economy.  Rate Increases  “This is the beginning of a recessionary period for
Australia and housing will be one of the markets to get hit,”
Taylor said in a telephone interview.  James McIntyre, an economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest mortgage provider, said income
growth, and low unemployment of 4.9 percent, will support the
housing market. McIntyre forecasts “subdued” growth for
housing over the next year as the central bank raises interest
rates to contain inflation. The mortgage book of Sydney-based
Commonwealth Bank, including its BankWest unit, totals more than
A$297 billion, APRA data shows.  Matthew Hassan, senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
said higher interest rates will in some ways support, rather
than dent, home prices. He argues that higher rates will curb
property development and exacerbate a shortage of homes that
stands at 228,300 dwellings according to the government’s
 National Housing Supply Council ’s estimates.  Supply Side  “As long as rates stay above average, demand will be
suppressed, but supply will also be suppressed,” said Sydney-
based Hassan. He said he predicts a “patchy market.”  Westpac’s home loans total A$279 billion, APRA data shows,
making it Australia’s second-biggest provider of mortgages.  Mike “Mish” Shedlock, an investment adviser at Sitka
Pacific Capital Management, who publishes the  Global Economic
Analysis  blog, says such shortage claims are “pure nonsense.”  “We heard the same thing in the U.S.,” Sonoma,
California-based Shedlock, who predicts Australian home prices
will decline by as much as 40 percent, said in an e-mail.
“There is always a perceived shortage at the market top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  