-- 
Australian Manufacturing Expands for First Time in Four Months

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-30T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/australian-manufacturing-expands-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
Australian manufacturing expanded in
June for the first time in four months, propelled by new orders
even as the local currency holding near a record-high
constrained exports, a private report showed.  The manufacturing index climbed to 52.9 from 47.7 in May,
the first time since February it has been above the 50 level
that signals expansion, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
today.  The nation’s factories have been lagging behind the  mining
industry , which is expanding to meet Chinese demand for raw
materials and pushing the job market near a level the government
views as full employment. The Australian dollar reached $1.1012
on May 2, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  “The positive result, particularly the lift in new orders,
is good news for a sector that has been weak for some 12
months,”  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the
industry group, said in a statement. “The sector confronts some
formidable headwinds in the form of the high dollar, rising
energy costs and constraining  interest rates  unlikely to abate
any time soon.”  The currency’s strength has allowed  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  to keep the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent, the highest level in the
developed world, since November. The central bank has said
higher rates are likely to be needed “at some point” to
contain inflation.  GDP Contraction  Australia’s gross domestic product shrank 1.2 percent in
the first quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the
northeast slashed coal exports, a June 1 government report
showed.  The index’s reading on wages rose 2.6 points to 61.9 and
inventories surged 8.4 points to 52.8, today’s report showed.
Supplier deliveries climbed 0.3 point to 51.2.  A gauge of employment rose 3 points to 49.4 in June, and
new orders surged 6 points to 54.6, the report showed. The
production measure soared 7.8 points to 54.7.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  