-- 
Australia’s Mineral Wealth Must Benefit People, Parkinson Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/australia-s-mineral-wealth-must-benefit-people-parkinson-says.html
Australia ’s Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said the nation’s mineral wealth must benefit people
and not just companies and their shareholders, joining the
debate on mining tax in the country.  “It is critical society receives an appropriate return on
assets, rather than value being captured solely by the
Australian and foreign shareholders of the companies that sell
the assets,” Parkinson, who also sits on the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia board, told an Economic Outlook conference in
Melbourne yesterday.  Australia’s top economic official spoke on the issue after
the nation’s Greens Party this week urged Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to increase the mining profit tax to 40 percent from the
proposed 30 percent. The government plans to introduce its laws
in the third quarter of this year and needs the Greens’ support
in both houses of parliament.  “When we sell resources and energy, we are selling non-
renewable assets; yes, we have large supplies, but it is still
the case that once sold, those assets cannot yield any further
return for Australia’s citizens,” Parkinson said.  He said the economy, facing challenges from an ageing
population and climate change, would enjoy “solid” growth with
rising living standards.  China ’s impact on the economy would be
“sustained and they will be profound,” Parkinson added.  China,  India   Demand for Australian resources is being driven by China
and India, two economies that account for more than a third of
the world’s population. Australia, the world’s biggest coal and
iron ore shipper, recorded its biggest  trade surplus  last year,
with exports exceeding imports by A$16.8 billion ($18 billion).  Parkinson said the government needed to tighten fiscal
policy following the budget’s forecast of a return to surplus in
the year ending June 30, 2013.  “Once we are back in surplus, we are at full employment
and we have gone through the global financial crisis recovery,
we should be running tighter fiscal policies,” Parkinson said.  Gillard’s administration is trying to reduce the need for
higher borrowing costs for consumers and businesses. The
government said in May it will end 23 years of spending growth
to help ease inflation pressure and support the return to a
 budget surplus .  The central bank has held the cash-rate target at 4.75
percent for the past six meetings, the longest pause since 2007,
to help Queensland state recover from torrential rains and a
cyclone. A report last month showed gross domestic product
shrank in the first quarter by the most in 20 years as the
natural disasters slashed exports.  Australia will cut its benchmark rate by October, according
to cash-rate futures contracts on the  Sydney Futures Exchange .
As recently as June 15, the contracts signaled a 28 percent
likelihood of an increase.  Parkinson took over as the nation’s top economic official
in December, leaving the previous post as head of the Department
of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency. Prime Minister Gillard
wants to start an emissions trading system from next July,
starting with a fixed price per ton of pollution before moving
to open trading as early as 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in  Melbourne  at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  