-- 
Auto Sales at 12 Million Rate Slowed by Missing Inventory: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-30T20:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/auto-sales-at-12-million-rate-slowed-by-missing-inventory-cars.html
U.S. auto sales probably rebounded
in June after a slowdown in May, a recovery limited by shortages
of vehicles from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. that led
some would-be consumers to put off buying.  June light-vehicle deliveries, to be released tomorrow, may
have run at a 12 million seasonally adjusted annual rate, the
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be an increase from 11.8 million in May, when sales set
the slowest pace in eight months, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Toyota and Honda, having lost production after the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake March 11 near Japan, may each report sales
declines of 13 percent, while deliveries by U.S. automakers
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  may rise at least 12
percent. Persistent unemployment and a depressed housing market
are hurting new-vehicle demand, analysts said.  “The first issue is still going to be inventory and the
lack thereof for Toyota and Honda,” said George Magliano, a New
York-based economist for IHS Automotive. “The second issue, and
it’s becoming an annoying issue and a concern until we see it
change, is the soft patch in the economy. The housing numbers
still stink, and you’ve got issues with jobs and confidence.”  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May.
Confidence among U.S. consumers in June fell to a seven-month
low, and the percentage of consumers planning to buy a new
vehicle within six months fell to 3.1 percent, the lowest since
December, the  New York  based Conference Board said this week.
The percentage of consumers planning to buy a home within six
months slid to 3.7 percent, also the lowest since December.  Toyota Inventories Bottom  Inventories bottomed this month at Toyota, the world’s
largest automaker, said  Bob Carter , group vice president of U.S.
sales. Vehicle production at the Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker’s North American plants will return to normal in
September, Carter said June 16.  Toyota is among members of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association shifting domestic output to weekends
from July to September to spread out energy use and help avert
blackouts. Domestic Japanese production in May fell 31 percent
to 489,723 vehicles, the group said on its website today.  Don Mushin, general manager of Toyota of Hollywood near  Los
Angeles , said this week his dealership had 80 cars on the lot,
compared with 350 to 400 in normal times.  “We’re losing a little bit of our business to the
domestics, or people are on the fence waiting for us to get more
inventory,” Mushin said in a telephone interview. The
dealership had five Prius hybrids, which usually accounts for
about half of sales, in stock earlier this week, he said.  Cutting Profit  Honda, the second-largest Japanese automaker by U.S. sales,
forecast a 63 percent decline in full-year profit on June 14,
citing output of key models such as the Civic that the company
says should normalize by November. The sales declines for Toyota
and Tokyo-based Honda are the average of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, may report an 18 percent
increase in deliveries, the average estimate of seven analysts.
Paddock  Chevrolet  in Kenmore, New York, the largest  Chevrolet 
store in the state, had a weaker month for truck sales in June
than May, owner Duane Paddock said in a telephone interview.  “June started off briskly but has slowed down,” Paddock
said last week. “Car sales were consistent but our truck
business was definitely soft. What is alarming is that we’re not
seeing the truck and SUV traffic we have been seeing.”  Average U.S. gasoline prices dropped 26 consecutive days
through June 28 to $3.54 a gallon for regular unleaded,
according to AAA. Prices peaked at $3.99 on May 4, the highest
level since July 2008.  Ford Trucks  Sales for Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, may have
gained 12 percent, the average estimate of seven analysts.
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s truck sales may have dropped a
second-straight month after 17 consecutive increases, according
to auto-pricing website Edmunds.com.  Deliveries of smaller cars such as Ford’s Fiesta and Focus
and GM’s Chevrolet Cruze have helped the two manufacturers gain
share from competitors, said Jessica Caldwell, a  Santa Monica ,
California-based analyst at Edmunds.com.  “The market would be a lot lower overall if we did not
have a lot of offerings from the domestic brands that are fuel
efficient,” Caldwell said in a telephone interview.  Pickup sales are rebounding from market-share lows in
April, although they may still lose market share this month from
a year earlier, Ford sales analyst  George Pipas  said yesterday
in Dearborn,  Michigan . Greater availability of models such as
the Focus and Fiesta, which have fallen to 20-days supply, will
help industry sales rebound in the second half, he said.  GM rose 6 cents to $30.36 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Ford climbed 37 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $13.79.  Chrysler Products Improve  Chrysler may lead U.S. automakers with a 26 percent
increase in sales, according to the average of five analysts’
estimates. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker is getting
a boost from new models such as the Chrysler 200 and Fiat 500,
which starts a national marketing campaign on July 4.  “Their products have improved and the consumer acceptance
of those products have been growing at a pace faster than we
have anticipated,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of
industry trends at TrueCar.com in Santa Monica,  California .  Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-biggest carmaker, may
report a 25 percent increase in deliveries for June, the average
of four estimates. Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan may outspend
Ford this month on incentives, according to TrueCar.com data.  “They’ve really been in a deal-oriented state for quite
some time,” Edmunds’ Caldwell said.  The light-vehicle sales rate in June may be just below 12
million,  J.D. Power  & Associates said today in a statement.
Deliveries slowed in the third week of the month, the  Westlake
Village , California-based forecaster said.  Light-vehicle sales climbed to 11.6 million in 2010 from a
27-year low of 10.4 million in 2009. Deliveries still were 31
percent fewer than the 16.8 million annual average from 2000 to
2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from June 2010, unadjusted for the difference in selling
days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate, or
SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  June had 26 selling days, one more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 