-- 
Mayer Brown to Open Singapore Office for Arbitration and Financing Work

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-06-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/mayer-brown-to-open-singapore-office-for-arbitration-and-financing-work.html
Mayer Brown LLP, the Chicago-based
 law firm  with 1,700 lawyers, will open an office in Singapore
focused on arbitration and financing as the city aims to create
a “multibillion dollar” market resolving cross-border disputes.  Kevin Owen, head of the construction and engineering
practice at the firm’s Asian practice Mayer Brown JSM, will move
to Singapore from  Hong Kong  to helm operations in the Southeast
Asian city, according to an e-mailed statement today. The office
will open in the fourth quarter.  Mayer Brown’s expansion into Singapore comes as the city
state seeks to raise the economic contribution of its legal
services market and help sustain the growth in the financial
industry. Law Minister K. Shanmugam said in March that Singapore,
which allowed six foreign law firms to practice local corporate
law in 2008, may issue more such licenses.  Mayer Brown’s Singapore office “will further enhance our
ability to serve client needs in one of the world’s key
financial centers,” said Herbert Krueger, the firm’s chairman.  The Singapore office will be Mayer Brown’s eighth in  Asia ,
where it has about 300 lawyers.  Alastair MacAulay, a Hong Kong-based partner and shipping
finance lawyer, will also spend time in the Singapore office 
with several associates.  Singapore has handed out tax incentives to law firms and
built infrastructure to help attract companies including Philip
Morris International Inc., the world’s largest publicly traded
tobacco company, to resolve their corporate disputes there.  Singapore’s legal services industry contributed S$1.59
billion ($1.3 billion), or 0.6 percent, to the nation’s economy
in 2009, according to the law ministry. That’s a 6 percent
increase from S$1.5 billion a year earlier.  There are  96 foreign law practices , which can advise on
international law, in  Singapore  as of June 1, according to the
Attorney-General’s Chambers website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  