-- 
Taylor Wimpey Says First-Half U.K. Home Sales Declined, Prices Increased

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-30T08:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/taylor-wimpey-says-first-half-u-k-home-sales-declined-prices-increased.html
Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , Britain’s second-
largest homebuilder by volume, said first-half home sales in the
U.K. fell by 5 percent as banks restricted mortgage lending.  The London-based company said it sold about 4,550 homes in
the six months through June 30 compared with 4,804 a year
earlier. Average prices rose to about 170,000 pounds ($274,000)
from 168,000 pounds. The order book accounts for 79 percent of
the company’s annual sales target, Taylor Wimpey said in a
statement today.  There have been “small incremental improvements” in
mortgage lending, Chief Executive Officer Peter Redfern said on
a conference call. “We don’t expect to see a massive sea change
either positive or negative, but there are things that are
moving it slowly in the right direction, like first-buy
direct.”  Homebuilders will help first-time buyers get less expensive
mortgages through first-buy direct, a state-backed, 500-million
pound plan to lower down-payments to about 5 percent of a home’s
value. Taylor Wimpey plans to offer 1,200 homes through the
government plan.  “We don’t see it as a universal panacea,” Redfern said.
“Do they in isolation resolve any issues in the mortgage market
and kick the housing market off in a positive direction? No,
they’re not designed to.”  Britain faces a housing shortage of about 1 million homes
by 2015, with  London  affected the worst, according to Savills
Plc, a London-based property broker.  Mortgage advances fell 10 percent to 33 billion pounds in
the first quarter from three months earlier, the Financial
Services Authority said June 21. U.K. house prices fell for a
second month in June as the growth in the supply of properties
for sale outpaced demand, according to Hometrack Ltd., a London-
based property researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 