-- 
Bacteria From Dutch Poultry Linked to Superbugs in People, Scientists Find

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-30T07:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bacteria-from-dutch-poultry-linked-to-superbugs-in-people-scientists-find.html
Bacteria on raw poultry meat in the
Netherlands may be a source of superbugs in people, according to
a study that suggests the use of antibiotics in food animals is
causing life-saving drugs to lose their potency.  Multidrug-resistant bacteria were found in 80 percent of
raw chicken bought from grocery stores in the southern
Netherlands. When the researchers compared the germs with
specimens collected from hospital patients, they found the
predominant resistance genes were identical.  The findings, reported in the July edition of the journal
 Emerging Infectious Diseases , indicate drug-resistant bacteria
in food are leading to harder-to-treat infections in people.
While human use of antibiotics in the Netherlands is among the
lowest in  Europe , the country is one of the region’s biggest
users of the medicines in farm animals, the researchers noted.  “The Netherlands provides a good setting to monitor spread
of drug resistance from an animal reservoir into the human
population,” Ilse Overdevest, a physician in the microbiology
laboratory at St. Elisabeth Hospital in Tilburg, and colleagues
wrote.  Their research focused on a genetic component in bacteria
that causes resistance to a range of antibiotics, including a
class known as third-generation cephalosporins. These medicines,
which include Sanofi’s Claforan and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Fortaz,
are used to treat bacterial meningitis, pneumonia as well as
some infections caused by E. coli and other so-called Gram-
negative bacteria.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  makes a similar product, called
 Excede , for use in cattle, swine and horses.  Death Risk  Hospital patients infected with a bacterium resistant to a
third-generation cephalosporin typically stay five days longer
than those without the resistant bugs. They are also 2.5 times
more likely to die within a month of being infected, according
to a 2010 study in the Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.  In the Dutch study, 262 samples of fresh chicken, beef,
pork and ground meat were tested for drug resistance. Of 71
chicken samples tested, 80 percent carried bacteria producing an
antibiotic-destroying enzyme known as ESBL. In comparison, ESBL-
producing bacteria were found in fewer than 12 percent of the
other meat types.  When rectal swabs were tested from 876 patients, the
researchers found 4.9 percent of people harbored ESBL-producing
bacteria in their bowels.  Among E. coli samples collected from patients in the
Netherlands, resistance to third-generation cephalosporins
increased to 4.3 percent in 2009 from 0.1 percent in 2000,
according to data compiled by the  European Antimicrobial
Resistance Surveillance Network .  Chicken Source  ESBL contamination of retail chicken meat in the
Netherlands is a “plausible source” of the increase in
multidrug-resistant infections in people, the authors said.  “Most samples of retail chicken meat contain transmissible
drug resistance genes in bacterial species that are part of the
normal human intestinal flora,” they said. “This finding may
have a profound effect on future treatment options for a wide
range of infections.”  The Netherlands is trying to reduce the volume of
antibiotics used in food-animal production, Christianne Bruschke,
the nation’s chief veterinary officer, said in an e-mail today.
The government aims for a 20 percent reduction from 2009 levels
this year, with a 50 percent cut targeted by 2013, she said.  “There is an increasing abundance of evidence showing
superbugs such as ESBL E. coli are in the foods we eat and
people get serious infections with them,” said Peter Collignon,
head of infectious diseases at  Australia ’s Canberra Hospital,
who serves on a World Health Organization panel studying
antibiotic resistance in the food chain. “It’s time we banned
the use of antibiotics in food animals that cause superbugs to
develop and spread.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  