-- 
Bair Says Lawmakers Should Fund Regulators, Confirm Nominees

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T18:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bair-says-financial-system-at-risk-without-tools-to-implement-dodd-frank.html
U.S. lawmakers could harm the
financial system if they fail to give regulators money and power
to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in testimony for a Senate hearing.  “The work they have ahead of them is considerable,” Bair
said today in remarks prepared for the Senate Banking Committee.
“Without proper funding and, where needed, the confirmation of
qualified leadership, the result could be needless uncertainty
about the regulatory environment and failure to instill
confidence in our financial markets and institutions.”  In her last scheduled appearance on  Capitol Hill  before
stepping down as FDIC Chairman July 8, Bair called on lawmakers
to support agencies writing rules for financial products ranging
from complex derivatives traded by the world’s biggest banks to
the fees charged to retailers when consumers use debit cards.  Implementing rules for the wind-down of systemically
important financial institutions and strengthening bank capital
and liquidity requirements are the FDIC’s highest regulatory
priorities, Bair said in her prepared remarks. She challenged
those who have questioned the agency’s authority under Dodd-
Frank to require more disclosure from firms deemed too-big-to-
fail, as part of its new resolution authority.  “I believe the skeptics underestimate the benefits of
having so much more information about these institutions in
advance, as well as the authority to require, if necessary,
organizational changes that better align business lines and
legal entities before a crisis occurs,” she said.  Bair also called for more action to right the real estate
market, and urged supervisory agencies to continue scrutinizing
large mortgage servicers who reached a settlement with banking
agencies after they acknowledged mishandling home foreclosures.  “The enforcement orders do not preclude additional
supervisory actions or the imposition of civil money
penalties,” she said.  Bair will step down after serving as FDIC chairman for five
years. Martin Gruenberg, the agency’s vice-chairman, has been
nominated by President  Barack Obama  as Bair’s successor. He will
serve as acting chairman pending Senate confirmation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  