-- 
Uganda Shilling Posts Biggest Gain Since 2008 on Dollar Sales

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-30T15:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bank-of-uganda-sells-dollars-to-curb-currency-volatility-1-.html
Uganda ’s shilling surged the most in
2 ½ years against the dollar after the central bank sold
foreign-exchange to halt the currency’s decline to another 18-
year low.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest coffee producer
strengthened as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since November 2008, and was trading 3.4 percent higher
at 2,590 per dollar by 6:36 p.m. in Kampala, the capital. The
shilling is the best performer worldwide against the dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have intervened with a significant amount to deal with
the volatility in the market caused by a speculative bubble,”
Stephen Kaboyo, director of financial markets at the Bank of
Uganda, said in a phone interview today. “We cannot let the
currency go that way.”  The Bank of Uganda has sold dollars at least three times
this month to stabilize the shilling. The currency weakened as
inflation surged to a 17-year high of 16 percent in May amid
higher food and fuel prices. Price-growth slowed to 15.8 percent
in June, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics said today.  Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile said on June 16 the
central bank “shall not hesitate to enter the market to stem
speculation” in the domestic  currency trading . The central
bank’s foreign reserves currently stand at 5.62 trillion
shillings ($2.17 billion), according to the bank’s website.  ‘Excess Liquidity’  Today, the central bank also tightened liquidity by
“mopping up excess Uganda shillings,” leading to an increase
in domestic money-market  interest rates , Elliot Mwebya, director
of communications at the central bank, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “The central bank stands ready to intervene should it
detect any more speculation,” Mwebya said. The bank “does not
defend a particular rate as long as it is in line with economic
fundamentals.”  Uganda, East Africa’s third-biggest economy and the
continent’s second-largest coffee producer, is scheduled to
become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  is expected
to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin. The
country has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil, with about
1 billion barrels in proven reserves, according to Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 