-- 
Banker Pay Rules in EU Create Unlevel Playing Field With U.S., Mercer Says

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-06-30T10:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/banker-pay-rules-create-unlevel-playing-field-.html
European banks are at a competitive
disadvantage in employee compensation compared with their U.S.
counterparts because of the different rules imposed by
regulators, according to human-resources consultant Mercer.  The “unlevel playing field” is caused by the different
U.S. and  Europe  approaches to deferred bonuses, Mercer said in
an e-mailed statement today. About 88 percent of European
companies surveyed have long-term incentive stock awards
depending on performance conditions compared with 50 percent in
the U.S., it said.  “Put simply, you’re currently more likely to receive your
bonus payouts in the U.S. than you are in Europe,” said Mark
Hoble, a partner who leads Mercer’s U.K. executive-compensation
unit. “Although most deferrals are delivered in stock, they
remain based on service in the U.S. As long as an employee
remains at the company for three to four years, they will
receive their shares.”  European Union regulators approved laws to discourage
incentives for excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits
on cash payouts and the size of bankers’ bonuses. As much as 60
percent of a bonus payout for risk-takers and senior managers
must be deferred for three years, and half of the remaining
amount must be in the form of shares.  “Globally, there is a patchwork approach in the regulation
of financial-services remuneration,” said Vicki Elliott, a
senior partner who runs Mercer’s global financial-services human
capital consulting team. “On one hand, the European approach
has produced more consistency in compensation program design. On
the other it has caused some changes that will cost companies
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  