-- 
Bank of America Opposes Arizona AG’s Bid to Interview Ex-Workers

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bank-of-america-opposes-arizona-ag-s-bid-to-interview-ex-workers.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  opposes a
request by the Arizona attorney general’s office to interview
former employees as part of a state lawsuit against the bank
over mortgage modifications.  The state is seeking court approval to conduct interviews
with non-management former employees without bank attorneys
present so it can “fully investigate” Bank of America’s
practices, according to court papers.  Bank of America argues such interviews are prohibited and
asked the court to prevent the attorney general from
“maneuvering around Arizona’s discovery and ethical rules,”
according to court papers filed June 27.  In its lawsuit, Arizona accuses Bank of America of
misleading homeowners who were seeking loan modifications,
saying the bank “repeatedly has deceived” borrowers about the
process, according to the complaint.  “It is crucial that the state be permitted to interview
former employees without the presence of defendants’ counsel so
that these witnesses can speak freely and without interference,
and the state can carry out its investigation and discover the
truth,” the office said in court papers.  Arizona  said it has reason to worry the bank will interfere
with the interviews if not conducted outside the presence of
bank attorneys. The state pointed to claims made in court papers
by an official with the U.S. Housing and Urban Development
inspector general’s office that Bank of America “significantly
hindered” an investigation into bank practices.  In its response to the state, Bank of America denied it had
interfered with the investigation, saying those claims are “an
incomplete and misleading picture” of the bank’s interactions
with the inspector general’s office.  Between Oct. 20 and Feb. 9, the bank produced more than
55,000 pages of documents to the inspector general’s office,
according to a court filing by a bank attorney. The office also
interviewed at least 18 bank employees in October and November
and participated in 15 depositions of current and former
employees between February and June. The bank attorney, Laura
Hussain, said in court papers it was her understanding that the
depositions were conducted by the  Department of Justice .  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp., CV2010-
033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County.  Editors: Stephen Farr, Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 