-- 
Barnes Bay, Viceroy Anguilla Owner, Told to Revise Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-30T21:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/barnes-bay-viceroy-anguilla-owner-told-to-revise-its-plan-for-turnaround.html
Barnes Bay Development Ltd., owner
of the  Viceroy Anguilla Resort & Residences  on the British West
Indies island of  Anguilla , must revise its turnaround plan
before its reorganization outline can be approved, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today told lawyers for the resort that the revisions were needed
after creditors objected to their treatment and demanded more
information.  The company’s disclosure statement, the description of the
plan, drew about eight objections from creditors who made
deposits to purchase units at the resort. The creditors objected
to the way Barnes Bay’s proposal split deposit creditors, owed
about $52.8 million, into three groups whose recoveries ranged
from 15 percent to as much as 50 percent.  “They are picking and choosing” without disclosing the
grounds for allocating different recoveries, Donald Detweiler, a
lawyer representing one group of deposit creditors, told Walsh
at the hearing. He argued that his clients should be in the
group receiving a higher payout.  The company’s restructuring plan is based on a July 27
auction with an affiliate of Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Starwood Capital Group LLC as the lead bidder. The plan gives
all deposit creditors the option of taking cash, closing on a
residence with their deposit applied to the purchase price, or
pursuing legal action.  Recovery Range  One group would recover 50 percent, a second group 25
percent and the third about 15 percent if they elect to receive
cash. Creditors who choose to buy a smaller unit may not get 100
percent of their deposit applied, Charlene D. Davis, a lawyer
for another group of the creditors, said.  Should creditors decide to downgrade from their original
unit, “the lender reserves the right to deny a purchase if the
net price is less than $750 per square foot,” said Kevin Nystrom, Barnes Bay’s chief restructuring officer.  Walsh said the creditors can challenge their classification
by July 22. Barnes Bay will have until Aug. 1 to respond.  Barnes Bay, based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , listed
about $531 million in assets and about $462 million in debt as
of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents.  The project was expected to take two years to complete when
construction began in 2005, at an estimated cost of about $144
million. Expense projections more than doubled by January 2007
to $327 million, according to court documents.  The Starwood affiliate bought the company’s $370 million in
secured loans in October, court documents show. The loan was
purchased for between $117 million to $122 million, according to
court testimony. It also provided the resort owner with as much
as $12.5 million in financing for the bankruptcy.  The case is In re Barnes Bay Development Ltd., 11-10792,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 