-- 
Basel Seeks to Curb Banks’ Risk From Rogue Traders, Fraud

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-30T16:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/basel-seeks-to-curb-banks-risk-from-rogue-traders-fraud-1-.html
Banks should bolster their defenses
against losses caused by rogue traders, client fraud and other
so-called operational risks, global regulators said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  endorsed updated
principles on how banks should protect themselves from risks not
directly linked to lending or market movements, the group  said 
today on its website.  The measures add to beefed up capital and liquidity rules
to toughen regulation of banks following the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. Rogue traders such as  Jerome Kerviel  at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and Nick Leeson at Barings Plc
can also wreak havoc on individual institutions, said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at economics research group Bruegel.  “Barings was killed by operational risk, and Societe
Generale came very close to a near-death experience in 2008,”
Veron said in a phone interview from Brussels.  “Does operational risk generally cause systemic crises?
No. But it can have a major impact on individual institutions
when things go wrong,” said Veron.  Today’s changes build on rules from 2004 that require
lenders to hold reserves against risks including natural
disasters, computer hacking, systems failures, theft, fraud and
unauthorized trading.  Banking System  “Supervisors expect banks to continuously improve their
approaches to operational risk management,” the Basel group
said in a statement. The committee “desires to promote and
enhance the effectiveness of operational risk management
throughout the banking system,” it said.  Banks should have “close monitoring of adherence” by
staff “to assigned risk limits or thresholds,” the Basel
committee said.  Lenders engaging in mergers and acquisitions should ensure
that deals don’t lead to weakened risk management, the Basel
group said.  “Mergers and acquisitions resulting in fragmented and
disconnected infrastructure, cost-cutting measures or inadequate
investment can undermine a bank’s ability” to manage its
operational risks, the committee said.  The Basel group approved plans on June 25 forcing lenders
whose collapse would roil the global economy to hold as much as
2.5 percentage points in additional core capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anthony Aarons
at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 