-- 
Belgium Seeks Commitment From Banks on Greek Rollover Amount

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-06-30T13:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/belgium-seeks-commitment-from-banks-on-greek-rollover-amount.html
The Belgian government is seeking a
commitment from the nation’s biggest banks and insurers on the
amount of Greek debt they would roll over as part of a new
bailout package, Belgian National Bank Governor Luc Coene said.  The talks, led by the  Finance Ministry  in Brussels, aim for
an agreement in principle on the rollover amount, with the exact
terms of the accord to be fixed in the next few days, Coene said
today. The country’s three biggest financial institutions are
involved in the talks, he said.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  is Belgium’s biggest owner of Greek  government
bonds , with holdings of 4.27 billion euros ($6.2 billion) at the
end of last year, according to its 2010 annual report. Ageas,
the majority owner of Belgium’s biggest life insurer, reported
Greek sovereign-debt holdings of 1.83 billion euros at the end
of March and  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  said it held 600 million euros of
Greek government bonds as of March 31.  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers agreed with the
government on a proposal to roll over their Greek debt, Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today. The firms are committing
to providing financing for a Greek aid package, while a draft of
the proposal left open how much debt would be rolled over and
under what conditions, people familiar with the plan said.  Belgian financial institutions will have to decide on a
single option for the rollover, said Coene, who also sits on the
European Central Bank’s Governing Council.  French Proposal  Under a French proposal, private bondholders would agree to
roll over 70 percent of their maturing debt into new 30-year
Greek bonds with the principal on the new debt guaranteed
through  Greece  investing in zero-coupon bonds of similar
maturity. Under a second option, investors would roll over 90
percent of their debt into new five-year bonds with no
guarantee.  “I think one option will be the only workable solution
because if you have banks preferring a five-year rollover and
insurers choosing a reinvestment of 25 to 30 years it would
become too difficult to work it out,” Coene said today at an
event in Brussels.  Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said today in
Paris that the rollover plan needs to be a “level playing field”
and should be the same for banks, insurers and other
bondholders.  “There will be no reduction of nominal debt under the
rollovers,” Coene said. “This will just be about getting Greek
debt redemptions out of the way.”  Ulrike Pommee, a spokeswoman for Dexia, was not immediately
available to comment. Kathleen Steel, a spokeswoman for  Ageas (AGS) ,
and Viviane Huybrecht, a spokeswoman for KBC, also weren’t
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  