-- 
BG Doubles Reserves Estimate of Brazil Santos Basin Raising Output Plans

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bg-group-doubles-reserves-estimate-of-santos-basin-in-brazil.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, doubled its estimate of reserves
and resources in the Santos Basin in Brazil, bolstering plans to
increase production. Shares rose.  BG estimates the fields hold about 6 billion barrels of oil
equivalent net to the company, with potential for as much as 8
billion barrels, it said in a statement today. It increased the
previous estimate of 3 billion barrels after drilling wells and
starting oil production last year.  “This is clearly positive but we also want to see the
split between the existing fields,” Peter Hutton, a London-
based director of energy research at RBC Capital Markets, said
by phone. “Doubling the reserves would add in an implied nearly
two pounds” to BG’s reserves value.  BG, based in Reading, climbed 4.7 percent to 1,414 pence in
London trading, its biggest gain since Jan. 31.  BG along  with partners   Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Galp Energia
SGPS SA (GALP)  and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  plan to pump 2.3 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day by 2017 off Brazil after they committed to
a $13 billion investment program last year, BG’s Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Chapman  said in February.  The partners are developing Lula, former Tupi, Carioca,
Guara, Cernambi and Iara fields.  Galp rose 6.5 percent to 16.45 euros in Lisbon. Repsol
gained 3.2 percent at 23.94 euros in Madrid.  ‘Solid Progress’  “Solid progress with the fast-track development program
will see gross installed production capacity rising steadily,”
Chapman said in the statement. “This, alongside progress with
major ventures in Australia, the U.S. and across our global
portfolio.”  The partners plan to deploy 13 floating production, storage
and offloading vessels, or FPSOs, off  Brazil  to extract oil and
gas. They plan to recover about 750 million barrels of oil
equivalent per module, BG  said  in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  