-- 
BofA Accord May Lead to Mortgage-Principal Writedowns, Bill Clinton Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-30T22:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bill-clinton-says-bofa-accord-may-lead-to-principal-writedowns.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s accord with mortgage-bond investors may
give more “underwater” borrowers a chance to cut the amount
owed on their home loans.  “You’d relieve the anxiety of countless Americans who
would know they could hold onto their homes,” Clinton, 64, said
in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s  Al Hunt .  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets, agreed
this week to pay $8.5 billion to bondholders who said they were
duped into investing in defective mortgages. The deal calls for
specialized servicers to manage some of the highest-risk loans,
an arrangement that Clinton said could lead to debt reductions
and avert foreclosures.  So-called sub-servicers “are often very effective at
effecting principal-reduction modifications,” said  Laurie Goodman , an analyst at Amherst Securities Group LP, which
specializes in fixed-income assets such as mortgage bonds, in a
note yesterday. Bank of America, which was blamed by regulators
for mishandling foreclosures and modifications, may hand over
loans in groups of less than 30,000 to the smaller firms.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment. Kevin Heine of Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., the debt’s trustee, also declined to comment.
 Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the bondholder group, didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Leaders at some of the biggest mortgage lenders have
opposed cutting homeowner debts. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has said principal reductions may
be unfair and difficult to implement.  ‘Hard to See’  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, CEO of Bank of America, said in
April that “we do not see broad-based principal reduction as a
sound policy decision” for the country.  “It’s hard to see how we could justify reducing principal
for many delinquent customers who represent a small portion of
borrowers, but not for the vast majority of our customers who
have stayed current on their loans,” he said in the prepared
text of a speech.  There is “enormous potential” to reduce the drag of U.S.
housing on the economy if aspects of the Bank of America
settlement are applied to the entire industry, Clinton said. The
government could give an incentive to have that happen, he said.  “What I would like to see happen is some system set up to
have the same thing done that they did because of this lawsuit,
voluntarily, that encompasses everybody else,” Clinton said.  ‘More Aggressive Program’  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency yesterday
 ordered  U.S. national banks to review their foreclosure
practices to ensure they are following rules set out in an April
settlement with the largest mortgage servicers. Widespread
principal reduction has been a goal for state attorneys general
who, along with the  Justice Department , are in settlement talks
with servicers over botched foreclosures.  “There is growing talk in  Washington  about solving the
mortgage crisis by starting a more aggressive program than has
ever been done before by writing down loan balances, starting
with troubled banks,” said David Lykken, president of Mortgage
Banking Solutions, an Austin, Texas-based consulting firm.  Previous government efforts to cut mortgage debts have
faltered. In all, banks wrote down principal on fewer than 5,000
loans in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the OCC.  The Home Affordable Modification Program, created by the
U.S. Treasury Department in 2008, pays lenders and servicers to
rewrite loan terms for borrowers who can’t make their current
mortgage payments. The program’s goal of preventing 3 million to
4 million foreclosures “has been repeatedly redefined and
watered down,” the Congressional Oversight Panel for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program said in December.  Home-Equity Loans  Many borrowers have second mortgages from lenders who may
benefit by blocking a loan modification. Writing down a first
mortgage can wipe out collateral backing second mortgages, such
as home-equity loans.  Foreclosures and underwater borrowers have weighed on the
economy, depressing  home prices  and blighting neighborhoods.  By unclogging the housing market, “you lift not only an
economic, but a psychological burden off of the homeowners and
the banks,” Clinton said. “And we’re free to start lending
again, we’re free to engage in normal economic activity.”  Clinton, a Democrat, won the presidency in 1992 and was re-
elected four years later.  The Bank of America settlement was designed “to minimize
the impact of future economic uncertainty and put legacy issues
behind us,” Moynihan said June 29. Bank of America announced
more than $20 billion in costs tied to the real estate slump,
including the settlement sum and additions to reserves to
resolve other disputes.  Moynihan agreed to pay the $8.5 billion to avoid
repurchasing faulty loans placed into $424 billion of bonds.
About $106 billion of that total either defaulted or are
“severely delinquent,” and $203 billion has been paid off,
Bank of America said in a presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 Hson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  