-- 
BJ’s Wholesale Sued by Investor Over Proposed $2.8 Billion Takeover Price

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T18:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bj-s-wholesale-sued-by-investor-over-proposed-2-8-billion-takeover-price.html
     June 30 (Bloomberg) -- BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) , the third-
largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, was sued by an investor
claiming its proposed $2.8 billion takeover price is “grossly
inadequate”.  Leonard Green  & Partners LP is acquiring the company at a
“substantial” discount to its true value and BJ’s directors
locked up the deal by agreeing to “impermissible” deal-
protection devices, lawyers for shareholder Maxine Phillips said
in the complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court.
Phillips is seeking to represent all BJ’s shareholders in her
bid to bar the deal.  Directors “have effectively placed a cap on BJ’s corporate
value at a time when the company’s stock price was recovering
from the recent economic decline,” lawyers for Phillips said in
the complaint.  Under the agreement, Leonard Green and  CVC Capital Partners 
will pay BJ’s investors $51.25 in cash for each share they hold.
The takeover gives the firms BJ’s 190 wholesale clubs in 15 U.S.
states for a valuation of about 7.1 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Cathy Maloney, a spokeswoman for BJ’s, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the complaint.  Leonard Green, which manages about $9 billion, has taken
part in at least five retail deals in the past year including
offers for J. Crew Group Inc. and fabric seller Jo-Ann Stores
Inc. BJ’s is the No. 3 warehouse-club chain after  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Sam’s Club.  The case is Maxine Phillips v. BJ’s Wholesale Club, CA6623,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  