-- 
BofA, Goldman Among Banks Bracing for Cuts as Trading Slows

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-30T19:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bofa-goldman-among-banks-bracing-for-job-cuts-as-trading-slows.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among financial firms cutting more than
1,300 workers in an effort to trim expenses and match revenue as
equity and bond trading slows.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank, cut about 60
positions in its equity-sales and trading division this month,
said two people with knowledge of the decision. Goldman Sachs,
the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, plans to eliminate 230
jobs in New York starting in September, according to a filing
the firm submitted to the state’s Department of Labor.  The firms join  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
which are cutting investment-banking workers as they grapple
with reduced revenue from buying and selling securities. Fixed-
income trading revenue at U.S. banks probably dropped 30 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three-month period,
while equities trading fell 15 percent,  Keith Horowitz , a
Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in a report last week.  “From a sales and trading perspective, the results will be
ahead of last year’s second quarter, but below the seasonally
strong first quarter,” Bruce Thompson, Bank of America’s
finance chief, said yesterday in a conference call with
analysts.  U.S. financial-industry jobs dropped to 7.61 million in
May, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. They fell for
the fourth straight year to an average of 7.63 million in 2010,
about 8.4 percent below the 2006 peak.  Jobs Lost  The jobs being cut may not return, Richard X. Bove, an
analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, wrote in a note today. Large
banks face higher costs and “inhibited” growth by new  capital
requirements  and regulations including overdraft-fee limits and
proprietary-trading bans, he wrote.  “The banks are reacting to these new constraints on their
activities by shrinking, sending jobs and business functions
overseas, and beginning to cut employment in this country and
more specifically New York,” Bove wrote.  Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest Swiss lender, is
planning to cut more than 600 jobs in its investment bank,
including more than 100 in the London office, while Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc is paring about 200 jobs at its
investment-banking unit in the U.K. and Europe, according to
people briefed on the firms’ plans.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, said today it will cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs by
an additional 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) by 2014.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, will also cut about 700
employees who offer advice on financial products in branches, a
person briefed on the talks said today.  Barclays Cuts  Barclays Capital, the investment-banking unit of London-
based Barclays, eliminated 100 jobs in June, according to people
with knowledge of the firm’s plans. Barclays said in April that
pretax profit at its investment bank fell 33 percent as revenue
from fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading tumbled.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , sought
to trim its least-productive employees around the world with its
cuts, said the people. The equities division employs about 2,500
globally, one of the people said.  Goldman Sachs, which didn’t identify what kinds of jobs it
will be eliminating between Sept. 26 and March 31, cited
economic reasons for the cuts, according to the filing.  In a separate  filing  this week,  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  notified the New York state labor department of plans to
start cutting 124 jobs in its treasury-services operations
lockbox. The cuts will take place in stages beginning July 1 and
continue through March 31, the filing said. Spokesmen from the
banks declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 