-- 
Moynihan’s 2-Cents-on-Dollar Mortgage Offer Faces Hurdle

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-30T18:49:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bofa-must-overcome-skepticism-on-2-cents-on-the-dollar-mortgage-bond-offer.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s effort to
move past the soured mortgages that Countrywide Financial Corp.
packaged into securities may hinge on whether a judge agrees
that the world’s largest bond buyers struck a generous-enough
deal for all investors.  The lender, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, is seeking to
pay $8.5 billion, or 2 percent, to avoid repurchasing faulty
loans placed into $424 billion of bonds, an offer supported by a
group of 22 bondholders including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. in an  agreement  announced yesterday.  “Two cents on the dollar is an absolute joke,” said  Bill Frey , head of investment and brokerage firm Greenwich Financial
Services LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , who advises mortgage-
securities investors. Frey lost a suit to Countrywide last year
in which he said the company’s agreements with state attorneys
general to modify loans unfairly penalized bondholders.  The accord is the largest yet by Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  to resolve disputes with
firms that said they were duped by misrepresentations such as
overstated property values or inflated borrowers’ incomes. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank fell 17 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $10.97 at 2:17 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading after jumping 3 percent yesterday.  ‘Not Out of the Woods’  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the debt’s trustee, is
seeking approval from a New York state judge for the deal, which
would apply to bondholders beyond the 22 firms in the talks. BNY
Mellon said in a court document that the agreement is
“reasonable,” considering the legal defenses Moynihan could
mount if the trustee sought the $11 billion that its analysis
showed could be justified.  The bank is “not out of the woods,” said Chris Gamaitoni,
a Compass Point Research and Trading LLC analyst, in a note to
investors. The $8.5 billion sum is a “starting point and will
likely increase meaningfully after the court hears arguments
from other invested parties” to as high as $26.5 billion.  Bank of America Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson,
asked on a conference call yesterday whether other bond
investors could derail the deal, cited the consensus among firms
including BNY Mellon, BlackRock and Pimco.  “We have 22 of the largest institutional investors in the
world that have gone through this in a fair level of detail,”
Thompson said. New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara R. Kapnick yesterday set a hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  ‘Severely Delinquent’  The settlement would compensate investors, who continue to
hold the bonds, at about 8 percent of the $106 billion in loans
that have either defaulted or are “severely delinquent.” The
rest of the $424 billion has either been paid off or remains
outstanding. The ratio compares with the 10.7 percent the  bank 
paid to government-controlled mortgage investor Freddie Mac in
settling similar claims over loans, according to presentations
by the company.  “It certainly feels cheap to me,” said Richard D’Albert,
co-chief investment officer at Seer Capital Management LP, a New
York-based hedge fund overseeing about $400 million, and the
former head of securitized products at Deutsche Bank AG.  Investors outside the group may be concerned that companies
who signed on have “significant business dealings with BofA and
might not be interested in aggressively pursuing a settlement,”
said Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-based litigation consultant
who worked on mortgage-repurchase cases.  Spokespeople for New York-based BlackRock and  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, declined to comment.
Representatives of  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
TIAA-CREF, which are also in the group, declined to comment.  ‘Huge Institutions’  “The testament to the value of the settlement is that
there are 22 huge institutions that worked over a year to
achieve it and are standing up publicly to say they support
it,” said  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer at Houston-based Gibbs &
Bruns LLP who represents the group.  The potential cash payment to investors represents only one
part of the deal, with Bank of America also agreeing to
strengthen its management of outstanding loans and to pay
penalties if the servicing falls short, Patrick said. The
servicing changes are “extraordinarily valuable and important
and could not be achieved through litigation,” she said.  Fannie Mae   The regulator for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  was “pleased”
the deal calls for the bank to turn over high-risk loans to
specialized servicers at its own expense, said Corinne Russell,
a spokeswoman. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  is reviewing
whether the settlement makes sense for the companies, which
bought bonds created by Countrywide in addition to its
mortgages, she said.  Bank of America also agreed to cover losses where it can’t
foreclose because of documentation mistakes.  BNY Mellon said that litigation challenges from Bank of
America could include attempts to avoid responsibility for the
liabilities of Countrywide, which it purchased in 2008. Cases
involving its “successor liability” have had “mixed”
results, Patrick said.  The proposed deal was “the result of extensive
negotiations” and BNY Mellon believes it is “in the best
interests of the trusts,” said Kevin Heine, a spokesman.  The settlement won’t preclude investors that invested in
Countrywide mortgage bonds when they were initially sold from
pursuing separate claims alleging bad disclosures and fraud.  Allstate  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the insurer that sued Countrywide over $700
million of debt on such grounds, “continues to pursue
aggressively all of its rights and remedies,” Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  While such suits can have larger payouts, they can be
harder to win than cases seeking to force loan repurchases under
bond contracts, according to Gradman, the consultant.  Patrick, the bondholder group’s lawyer, said the settlement
is beneficial for investors because it would bring to an end the
dispute over deals involving more than 700,000 loans.  “We did a calculation at one point that if you had to
litigate every loan over time, it would take as much as 10
years,” she said.  Eleven limited liability companies with variations of the
name Walnut Place signaled in a court filing yesterday in a
separate case that they may oppose the agreement.  ‘Behind its Back’  “Walnut Place did not have sufficient time before this
filing to study the implications of the proposed settlement,”
according to a footnote in the document filed in New York State
Supreme Court. “In brief, however, Walnut Place strenuously
objects to any purported ‘settlement’ made behind its back.”  Walnut Place sued Countrywide in February over mortgage
bonds. The entities are seeking to win money for all investors
in their mortgage-bond trusts, which were created out of $2.8
billion of loans and are included in the potential deal. They
said in February that BNY Mellon “unreasonably failed” to sue
Bank of America to force it to repurchase loans. Typically, only
trustees can file suits on behalf of the trusts.  Owen Cyrulnik, a lawyer for the investors at  Grais &
Ellsworth LLP , declined to comment or identify the Walnut Place
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  