-- 
BofA, Citigroup, JPMorgan, Health-Care Law, TCF in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-30T12:51:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bofa-citigroup-jpmorgan-health-care-law-tcf-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  filed
a court petition seeking approval of an $8.5 billion settlement
with Bank of America Corp. over residential mortgage-
securitization trusts.  BNY Mellon made the filing yesterday in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan as trustee of 530 residential
mortgage-securitization trusts established from 2004 to 2008.
Investors claimed that Countrywide Home Loans Inc. and other
sellers breached agreements.  The agreement requires Bank of America, the parent of
Countrywide, or Countrywide, or both, to pay $8.5 billion into
the trusts, with amounts based on past and expected future
losses associated with the loans in each.  “This settlement resolves a significant portion of the
Countrywide private label securitization exposure and it allows
us to put this matter behind us and focus on running our
business,” Jerome Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America,
said in an interview.  Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan yesterday set a hearing on the settlement for Nov.
17.  Bank of New York Mellon is to give notice of the accord to
investors in the mortgage-backed securities, mortgage companies
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, ratings companies, bond insurers
including Ambac Assurance Corp. and MBIA Insurance Corp., and
underwriters including Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  While individual agreements govern each securitization, all
contain representations that the mortgage loans conform to
underwriting guidelines and conform to their descriptions in
investor disclosure documents, the petition says. The loan
documents also include servicing obligations, it says.  “A substantial dispute has arisen concerning the sellers’
alleged breaches of representations and warranties in the
governing agreements, and the master servicer’s alleged
violations of prudent servicing obligations,” the petition
says.  Institutional investors, whose current holdings are in the
tens of billions of dollars, according to the filing, include
Blackrock Financial Management Inc., Pacific Investment
Management Company LLC, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.,
Goldman Sachs Asset Management LP, Trust Co. of the West, and
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Citigroup, Lehman Europe Settle Over $2.5 Billion in Assets  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Lehman Brothers International Europe
reached a settlement over assets valued at more than $2.5
billion that were held for the collapsed investment bank by
Citigroup in a number of countries.  Citigroup agreed to immediately begin transferring assets
held in custody for LBIE, which it kept while determining how it
was affected by Lehman’s collapse,  PricewaterhouseCoopers ,
Lehman’s U.K. administrator, said in a statement. Both parties
will drop all claims against each other, PwC said.  “This is by far the largest single deal we have undertaken
and easily the most complex to negotiate and then structure,
given the sheer scale of the legacy relationship between
Citigroup and LBIE,” Paul Copley, a PwC restructuring partner
who led the negotiations, said in the statement.  Before going into administration, LBIE and New York-based
Citigroup entered into “a large volume” of agreements related
to over-the-counter derivatives, stock lending, repurchase
transactions, prime brokerage and trading arrangements, both on
behalf of the banks and for third parties, LBIE said.  LBIE’s former parent company,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , collapsed in September 2008, filing the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history. London-based LBIE is in administration in the
U.K. Citigroup and LBIE have “taken steps” to return assets to
clients that were held by Citigroup during the administration,
according to the statement.  “We have worked closely with the administrators of LBIE
and their team for many months to ensure that the arrangements
between Citigroup and LBIE were resolved amicably and in a
manner which fairly reflected the interests of both parties,”
Citigroup spokesman Jeffrey French said in an e-mailed
statement.  Lehman Brothers Holdings said in a court filing in New York
yesterday that it reached a deal with bondholders, led by hedge
fund Paulson & Co., and derivatives creditors including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley on a $65 billion liquidation
plan.  JPMorgan’s $153.6 Million SEC Settlement Approved by Judge  A New York federal judge approved a $153.6 million
settlement by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  of allegations by the
Securities and Exchange Commission that the bank misled
investors in a mortgage securities transaction just as the
housing market was starting to plummet, according to court
records.  JPMorgan doesn’t admit or deny allegations in the
complaint, and will pay a civil penalty of $133 million, plus
$18.6 million repayment of its profits and $2 million in
interest, according to papers signed by Judge Richard M. Berman
in Manhattan court yesterday. Of the payments, $126 million will
be for investors who bought notes in a product called Squared
CDO 2007-1.  The order also states that JPMorgan and its employees are
barred from making money by “means of any untrue statement of a
material fact or any omission of a material fact” or engaging
in any transaction which “would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon the purchaser.”  The case is In re U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
v. JPMorgan Securities LLC; 11-cv-04206; Southern District of
New York (Foley Square).  Raymond James to Pay $300 Million in Auction-Rate Settlement  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  will pay $300 million to
clients who bought auction-rate securities, moving to resolve
regulators’ claims that the firm misled investors about risk
before the market froze three years ago.  Raymond James agreed to repurchase securities from
customers whose holdings have been unavailable since the $330
billion market collapsed in February 2008, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the  North American Securities
Administrators Association  said yesterday in separate releases.
The firm will also reimburse interest costs for some clients who
took loans from the firm, the regulators said.  “Raymond James improperly marketed and sold ARS to
customers as safe and highly liquid alternatives to money market
accounts and other short-term investments,” Eric Bustillo,
director of the SEC’s regional office in Miami, said in a
 statement .  Federal and state regulators have sanctioned banks
including Citigroup Inc., UBS AG,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Deutsche Bank AG for selling them as safe, cash-like investments
before credit markets froze. Auction-rate securities are
typically municipal bonds, corporate bonds and preferred stocks
whose rates of return are reset periodically through auctions.  “I am pleased we are able to resolve this issue and
provide liquidity to clients who continue to hold ARS in their
portfolios,” Raymond James Chief Executive Officer Paul Reilly
said in a statement.  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler in Plea Talks, U.S. Says  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  broker  Eric Butler , convicted
in 2009 of fraudulently selling subprime securities to corporate
clients that cost investors more than $1.1 billion in losses, is
in plea talks to resolve pending charges, a prosecutor said.  “We’re in discussion, plea negotiations, to resolve these
matters,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Spector told U.S.
District Judge Paul G. Gardephe yesterday in Manhattan.  A federal appeals court this month threw out Butler’s
securities-fraud conviction at a federal trial in Brooklyn,
saying the court was the wrong venue for the charge. At the same
time, the appeals court upheld convictions for conspiracy to
commit wire fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud.  Butler still faces wire-fraud counts in federal court in
New York. Spector said yesterday the charges were refiled in
Manhattan, in the Southern District of New York, after Butler’s
lawyers challenged the charges on grounds of venue.  Brooklyn is in the Eastern District of New York. Butler
worked in the Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s office in Manhattan.  “We gave the defendant an opportunity to resolve all of
these charges in one forum in the Eastern District,” Spector
said. “They chose to force the case to be brought here. They
made that choice, and it should be resolved here.”  Butler’s lawyer, Steven F. Molo, argued that the wire-fraud
charges stemmed from the same conduct for which Butler had been
convicted in Brooklyn and shouldn’t have to face retrial in
Manhattan.  “Not only are the government sore losers, they’re sore
winners,” Molo said. “They brought these counts in the Eastern
District for the same scheme. I find this to be frankly an
extraordinary waste of the Department of Justice’s time and
money.”  Gardephe agreed to adjourn the case until July 25 to allow
both sides to file papers to support their position.  Molo and Spector declined to comment on the plea
negotiations after the conference.  Butler and his co-defendant Julian Tzolov were charged with
conducting what prosecutors said was an illegal scheme in which
they falsely told clients their products were backed by
federally guaranteed student loans and were a safe alternative
to bank deposits or money-market funds.  The case is U.S. v. Butler, 1:09-cr-00685, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bid to Block Debit Card Swipe Cap Denied By Appeals Court  TCF Financial Corp. (TCB)  failed to persuade a U.S. appeals court
to block a federal regulation capping the fees the biggest U.S.
banks can get from retailers for processing debit-card
transactions.  The St. Louis-based U.S. Court of Appeals yesterday, in a
unanimous nine-page ruling, upheld an April decision by U.S.
District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol that the lender hadn’t shown
it was likely to prevail on its claims the cap is
unconstitutional.  The swipe-fee cap, to be set by the Federal Reserve,
applies to all U.S. banks with at least $10 billion in assets.
The measure, sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an
Illinois Democrat, was as an addition to last year’s Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul legislation.  “No legal prohibition exists against TCF fully recouping
the costs of its debit-card services by assessing customer
fees,” the three-judge appeals court panel said yesterday.  Swipe fees, or  interchange , are set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the biggest electronic-payment networks, which
collect the money and remit it to card-issuing member banks.  In a June 21 letter to Piersol, attorneys for the
government told the court that the Federal Reserve, at a meeting
that day, would “consider and vote” on the final regulation,
which hasn’t yet been set.  TCF National Bank, a Sioux Falls, South Dakota-based unit
of TCF Financial, filed the lawsuit last year, naming as lead
defendant U.S. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and including Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen, four Fed governors and Acting Comptroller
of the Currency John Walsh.  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux
Falls). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Southern Union Investors Sue to Block Energy Transfer Buyout  Southern Union Co. (SUG) , a natural-gas pipeline operator that is
the target of buyout offers, was sued by investors who contend
they aren’t getting enough for their shares in a $4.2 billion
bid by  Energy Transfer Equity LP. (ETE)   Executives of Houston-based Southern Union didn’t properly
shop around for higher bids for the energy company and
structured the Energy Transfer deal in a way to discourage other
offers, officials of  KBC Asset Management NV , a Southern Union
investor, said in suit filed in Delaware yesterday.  “The company’s public shareholders will not receive
adequate or fair value for their Southern Union common stock,”
under Energy Transfer’s bid, lawyers for the fund said in the
 Delaware Chancery Court  suit. Investors would get partnership
units worth $33 each under the offer.  The suit comes almost a week after Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Williams Cos., another natural-gas provider, made an unsolicited
$4.86 billion all-cash bid for Southern Union. The offer values
Southern Union at $39 a share. That’s $6 a share, or about $750
million, more than the June 16 sale price announced by Southern
Union and Energy Transfer.  Energy Transfer’s officials said June 28 that Southern
Union directors are violating the buyout agreement by discussing
the bid with Williams’s executives. Southern Union said they
aren’t breaching the contract with the talks, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  John Barnett, a Southern Union spokesman, didn’t return
calls for comment yesterday on the shareholder suit.  The KBC suit is KBC Asset Management NV v. Southern Union
Co., 6622, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.) The Septa suit
is Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority v.
Southern Union Co., 6615, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.)  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Managing Director Faces Prescription Forgery Charge  Bradley H. Jack, a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
managing director, was arrested in Connecticut by police who
charged him with attempting to pass a fake prescription for
Oxycontin and Ritalin.  Jack, 52, is accused of using a forged prescription at a
Fairfield CVS pharmacy June 24 for 12 pills of the painkiller
Oxycontin and nine pills of Ritalin, a drug used to treat
attention deficit disorder, said Lt. James Perez of the
 Fairfield Police Department .  A store employee followed the suspect outside the pharmacy,
watched him get into a black Range Rover and drive away, Perez
said June 28 in a telephone interview. The employee reported the
license plate number of the vehicle to police, who traced it to
two residences -- one on Sasco Hill Road in Fairfield and the
other on North Avenue in Westport, according to Perez.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
investment banking from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment banking relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
said Richard Fuld, Lehman’s former chief executive officer, in
June 2005.  Bradley Jack, when approached at his Westport property,
said he hasn’t “been in business in five years” and that
stories about his arrest have “some misunderstanding.”  “I can’t comment on anything about that,” Jack said when
asked about the arrest. “It’s my personal life.”  Jack referred questions to a Norwalk, Connecticut attorney,
William A. Pelletreau, who didn’t return messages left at his
office after business hours. Robert Satti, a state’s attorney in
Bridgeport, declined to comment on the case.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Oracle Opposes HP Bid to Seal Court Records in Contract Suit  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  asked a judge to reject an attempt by Hewlett-
Packard Co. to seal court filings in the computer company’s
breach-of-contract lawsuit against the software maker’s decision
to end support for a product.  Lawyers for Redwood City, California-based Oracle contend
officials of Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard
overreached when they sought to have filings sealed in a suit
over Oracle’s announcement that it would no longer support its
database software on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use
the Itanium chip.  “Oracle asks the court to make clear now that this
litigation will take place in the sunshine,” the company’s
attorneys said in a filing yesterday in state court in  San Jose ,
California.  Hewlett-Packard sued Oracle earlier this month claiming the
software maker went from partner to “bitter antagonist” by
breaching agreements with the biggest personal computer maker.
The suit cited Oracle’s hiring of Hewlett-Packard’s former Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hurd as one of the acts that soured the
companies’ relationship.  The computer maker’s executives also alleged Oracle
officials used “strong-arm tactics” to force customers to
“shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own server
hardware.” Oracle said in March it would no longer support its
database software on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use
the Itanium chip, made by  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Hewlett-Packard has asked a California judge to seal
filings in its suit because they reveal confidential
information, including details of a settlement of litigation
over Hurd’s defection, Oracle’s lawyers said in yesterday’s
filing.  Hurd left Hewlett-Packard in August after a company probe
determined he violated its standards of business conduct in
connection with a woman who served as one of the company’s
contractors. The panel didn’t find Hurd had violated the
company’s sexual-harassment policy.  Oracle’s lawyers noted in yesterday’s filing that the
settlement of litigation over Hurd’s hiring already has been
made public and there’s no basis for sealing filings detailing
it.  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp.,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  For more, click here.  Massey Faked Reports Ahead of 2010 Fatal Mine Blast, U.S. Says  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  managers pressured coal miners to
fabricate safety reports to mislead inspectors before the 2010
West Virginia mine explosion that killed 29 people, federal
investigators said.  Kevin Stricklin, the assistant administrator of coal at the
 U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration , said his agency’s
investigation of the April 2010 blast found duplicate books on
daily mine operations. On several occasions in the months before
the blast, the books didn’t match, he said. One set told
inspectors there were no serious issues while internal reports
revealed many hazards, he said.  “Managers were aware that chronic hazardous conditions
were not recorded,” Stricklin said at a briefing for families
of victims who died in the explosion, which was the worst U.S.
mining disaster in 40 years. “Management pressured examiners to
not record hazards in the books.”  Massey agreed in January to be acquired by  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion.  Ted Pile , an Alpha spokesman,
said the company would look at the agency’s conclusion as part
of a separate probe of the fatal blast.  “We heard this information for the first time from MSHA at
the same time everyone else did,” Pile said in an e-mail.  Stricklin said Massey managers had to countersign books at
the Upper Big Branch mine and knew that the hazards, from low
air flow to high levels of explosive gas, went unreported.  A West Virginia investigator said in a report last month
that Massey is to blame for the fatal explosion at the mine. An
investigation by Massey concluded that the explosion was beyond
its control, and was a naturally occurring event caused by an
inundation of natural gas.  MSHA plans to complete its own investigation this fall.  “This explosion could and should have been prevented by
the mine operator,” Stricklin said.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Obama Health-Care Overhaul to Be Appealed to Supreme Court  A U.S. appeals court upheld President Barack Obama’s
health-care reform act, setting the stage for a request that the
Supreme Court review claims that the law violates the
Constitution.  The Cincinnati-based Court of Appeals voted 2-1 yesterday
to reject a challenge to the legislation by the Ann Arbor,
Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center, a Christian-based public
interest law firm, which contended Congress exceeded its power
in imposing the individual mandate.  “Not every intrusive law is an unconstitutionally
intrusive law,” Jeffrey Sutton, the first Republican-appointed
judge to back the law in litigation across the country, said in
his opinion.  Yesterday’s federal appeals court ruling was the first to
address the constitutionality of Obama’s signature legislative
accomplishment.  Robert Muise , who argued the case for the Thomas
More center in Cincinnati, said by phone that his group will ask
the high court to take the case.  “This case ultimately needs to be decided by the U.S.
Supreme Court,” Muise said, adding that his organization will
file its petition for review as quickly as possible.  Two other appeals courts have heard arguments on challenges
to the health-care overhaul and the high court may wait for
their rulings before getting involved.  Sutton, an appointee of Republican President George W.
Bush, joined Judge Boyce Martin, named to the bench by President
Jimmy Carter, in the majority.  Sutton is a former law clerk to Antonin Scalia, the
conservative U.S. Supreme Court justice who wrote this month’s
opinion rejecting a nationwide gender-bias suit against Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. Scalia once  called  Sutton “one of the very best law
clerks I ever had.”  As a lawyer, Sutton  persuaded  the high court to limit
Congress’s power by shielding states from suits under federal
age-bias and disabilities laws.  The  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , signed into
law by Obama in March 2010, is intended to create the first
near-universal U.S. health-care coverage program.  The statute bars insurers from rejecting coverage for
people who are already sick, and from imposing limits on
lifetime costs.  It also requires almost every American resident to have
health insurance starting in 2014 or to pay a tax penalty.  Opponents of the act, including the Thomas More center’s
Muise, have argued the mandate exceeds the regulatory powers
given to Congress under the U.S. Constitution.  The Cincinnati case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama,
10-2388, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
(Cincinnati).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Facebook Claimant Ceglia’s Lawyer Exodus Prompts Delay Bid  Facebook Inc. claimant  Paul Ceglia  asked a U.S. court to
delay his lawsuit claiming half the holdings of the company’s
co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, as Ceglia seeks to reconstruct his
legal team.  Most of Ceglia’s lawyers, from the firms DLA Piper LLP and
Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, filed papers June 28 in
federal court in Buffalo, New York, saying they were quitting
less than three months after joining the case.  On the eve of a hearing requested by Facebook, which claims
the case is a “fraud on the court,” Ceglia asked the judge
yesterday for a three-week postponement. He said he wants to
allow a new lawyer, Jeffrey A. Lake of San Diego, to become
familiar with the case and to permit Ceglia to hire new lead
counsel.  “We’ve been very impressed with the all firms we have
interviewed,” said Paul Argentieri, of Hornell, New York,
Ceglia’s original attorney. “The directive from our client was
clear: find a firm with the resources, experience, and legal
horsepower to handle a case of this magnitude. But above all,
find someone who will not be intimidated by the defendant.”  DLA Piper, which has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries, is one
of the biggest law firms in the world. The Lippes Mathias
lawyers representing Ceglia included former New York Attorney
General Dennis Vacco. DLA Piper and Vacco declined to say why
they were withdrawing from the case.  Ceglia claims he and Zuckerberg signed a contract in 2003
that made them equal partners when Zuckerberg launched Facebook
the following year. Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, is
valued at as much as $71 billion, according to Sharespost.com,
an online marketplace for investments in companies that aren’t
publicly traded.  Facebook and Zuckerberg claim the contract is a fake and
have called Ceglia a con man in court papers. Facebook has asked
a Buffalo judge to issue an order seizing Ceglia’s computers and
requiring him to turn over an original contract and e-mails.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  