-- 
Emerging-Market Consumer Slowdown Looms for Priciest Stocks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-01T10:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bric-consumer-slowdown-looms-for-stocks.html
Emerging-market consumer stocks are
trading at record-high valuations relative to global equities
even as slowing demand from  Russia  to  Brazil  curbs earnings at
the world’s fastest-growing companies.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Consumer Staples Index is valued
at 19 times profit estimates, 57 percent more than the MSCI All-
Country World Index and the biggest gap since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in January 2006. The last time the premium
climbed above 50 percent, in August 2010, the consumer measure
trailed the global gauge by 16 percentage points in six months.  Investors snapped up stocks of retailers and food producers
in emerging markets last quarter because their profits are
sheltered from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a drop in U.S. hiring.
Now, shoppers in the biggest developing nations are curbing
purchases as  interest rates  rise. Retail sales growth in China
and Brazil slowed in the second quarter, while the pace of
Indian car purchases slipped to a two-year low and disposable
income in Russia declined for a fifth month in May.  “Investors are better off avoiding the direct consumer
sectors,” said Emil Wolter, the Singapore-based head of Asian
equity strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “There are
a number of clouds overhanging the staples especially, which are
at quite a significant premium to the broad market.”  The MSCI emerging-market index of food, beverage and
household products companies gained 6.1 percent since the end of
March, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Consumer Discretionary
Index of clothing retailers, real-estate companies and
automakers increased 7.9 percent.  Lovable Lingerie  The MSCI All-Country Index of stocks in developing and
advanced countries slipped 0.8 percent as U.S. payrolls growth
dropped to the slowest pace in eight months and speculation
increased that  Greece  may default.  Lovable Lingerie Ltd. of Mumbai surged 71 percent last
quarter and is valued at 50 times earnings, twice the average of
global producers of fashion accessories and  luxury goods .
Brazil’s Cia. Hering, maker of Hering brand apparel, trades for
5.2 times sales, the highest on record relative to the Bovespa
Index, after the company climbed 18 percent in Sao Paulo
trading.  OAO Magnit, Russia’s biggest food retailer, advanced 2.7
percent in  London  and trades for 25 times estimated earnings, a
record premium to the  Micex Index. (INDEXCF)   Want Want China Holdings
Ltd. (151) , the country’s largest maker of rice cakes and flavored
milk, jumped 24 percent in  Hong Kong  and is valued at 36 times
profit, three times more expensive than the  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index.  Earnings Slow  Lovable Lingerie shares sank 0.9 percent in Bombay, while
Magnit shares traded in London dropped 3 percent as of 11:16
a.m. in the U.K. Want Want shares weren’t traded as Hong Kong
markets were shut for a holiday. The MSCI staples index rose 0.2
percent while the discretionary gauge gained 0.5 percent,
matching the 0.5 percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  Developing-nation staples companies boosted earnings at an
annual pace of 19 percent during the past five years and makers
of discretionary goods increased profits by 22 percent, two of
the three top growth rates among 20 industry groups in emerging
and developed markets, data compiled by Bloomberg and MSCI show.  The expansion slowed this year. Earnings in the staples
index rose 11 percent in the first quarter, down from a 37
percent pace during the final three months of 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The discretionary index had a 6.3
percent drop in profits, compared with 17 percent growth in the
fourth quarter, the data show.  Beating Estimates  Emerging-market consumer companies, along with utilities,
are the only industries among 20 groups where analysts predict
profit growth will cool during the next five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and MSCI.  “We’re looking at the cheaper areas of the market,” said
Ingrid Baker, who helps oversee $661 billion as an Atlanta-based
emerging-markets money manager at Invesco Ltd. and has
“underweight” holdings of consumer staples companies.  The stocks may keep climbing because most of the companies
are beating analysts’ expectations, according to Martial Godet
of BNP Paribas Investment Partners. Earnings in the MSCI
emerging-market consumer indexes topped projections by about 1.4
percent on average during the first quarter, compared with an
8.6 percent miss for the broader MSCI emerging-market gauge,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Middle Class  “There might be some stocks to avoid because valuation is
stretched, and as sectors they are not cheap, but they are
delivering and have some positive earnings surprises,” said
Godet, the London-based head of emerging markets investments at
BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which oversees about $70
billion in developing nations.  Data showing weaker spending growth in some emerging
markets hasn’t derailed the long-term trend of rising incomes
and demand for discretionary goods, said RBC Global Asset
Management’s Philippe Langham. Developing nations will account
for 93 percent of the global “middle class” by 2030 -- up from
56 percent in 2000 -- and half of a projected 800 million new
middle-income consumers may come from  India  and  China , according
to Citigroup Inc.  “We see wage convergence with the developed markets as
having a long way to go and an increasing proportion of income
in the emerging-market world is being spent on discretionary
items,” said Langham, who manages the $872 million RBC Emerging
Markets Fund from London.  Car Sales  Retail sales growth in China declined in April and May,
averaging 16.6 percent this year versus 18.6 percent in the
second half of 2010, according to government reports. Brazilian
sales declined 0.2 percent in April from the previous month, the
first drop in a year. Russians’ real disposable income fell 7
percent in May from a year earlier, the biggest retreat since
August 2009. Car sales growth in India dropped to the slowest
pace since May 2009, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said last month.  Telecommunications stocks are a cheaper way for investors
to bet on the long-term advance in emerging-market wages as
spending increases on mobile services, according to RBS’s
Wolter.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Telecom Services Index trades at
12 times analysts’ earnings estimates, a 38 percent discount to
the staples gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The telecom
index has 4.1 percent dividend yield, the highest of any
industry group in emerging markets and almost double the 2.2
percent yield for staples.  More Creative  Internet stocks that retreated last quarter may offer
buying opportunities for investors seeking exposure to consumer
demand, according to Thornburg Investment Management’s Lewis Kaufman.  MercadoLibre Inc. (MELI) , the Buenos Aires-based online
auction site that dropped 4.6 percent in U.S. trading since the
end of March, may increase earnings by an average 33 percent in
the next three to five years, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s good to look past the classic index definitions,”
said Kaufman, whose Thornburg Developing World Fund topped 94
percent of peers this year and owned shares of MercadoLibre at
the end of April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “You
can be a little more creative in getting that exposure to the
emerging-markets consumer in names that are still very much out
of favor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 