-- 
Bullard Says Fed’s Extended Period Pledge for Rates Difficult to Prolong

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bullard-says-qe2-shows-fed-has-clout-even-with-rates-near-zero.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the Fed’s pledge to keep  interest
rates  low for an “extended period” represents the longest
duration it can signal for holding down borrowing costs.  “I just don’t think it’s a viable option to say we’re
going to go to a super extended period,” of low rates, Bullard
said to reporters today in St. Louis. “We’ve already said
‘extended period,’ and it’s harder to promise anything even
further out.”  The Federal Open Market Committee’s $600 billion asset
purchase plan ends today, and Fed officials are discussing how
long to wait before tightening policy. One of the “core ideas”
to further stimulate the economy, without undertaking additional
asset purchases, is to somehow lengthen the central bank’s
current interest-rate commitment, Bullard said.  For now, the Fed has “gone on pause, we have to gather
more information” to ensure that the economy will strengthen
during the second half of the year, he said at his regional
bank’s conference on quantitative easing.  “If the economy is not performing well the committee
should consider taking additional action,” Bullard said, adding
that “the situation today is very different from” the months
before the Fed started its second round of bond buying in
November.  “Inflation has picked up fairly substantially,” Bullard
said, and the central bank’s record $2.87-trillion balance sheet
“could turn into a lot of inflation if we don’t play our cards
right going forward.”  First Signal  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first signaled the central
bank may undertake additional bond purchases at an Aug. 27
speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Since that speech, the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has risen 26 percent. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note rose to 3.16 percent from 2.64 percent on
Aug. 27.  Bullard, 50, has led the St. Louis Fed since 2008. Fed
presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Bullard next
voting in 2013.  The impact from the Fed’s purchases on the economy will
probably take six to 12 months to emerge, Bullard said.  “Real effects are difficult to disentangle because other
shocks hit the economy in the meantime,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  St. Louis  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  