-- 
Bumi, Energi Mega, Medco, Tiga Pilar: Indonesia Equity Preview

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-06-30T01:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/bumi-energi-mega-medco-tiga-pilar-indonesia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  rose 0.4 percent to 3,830.27.
The market was closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Energy companies: Crude oil had the biggest two-day rally
in seven weeks, advancing 4.6 percent to $94.77 a barrel in  New
York  yesterday. PT Energi Mega Persada (ENRG IJ), Indonesia
second-largest listed oil company, fell 2.4 percent to 200
rupiah. PT Benakat Petroleum Energy (BIPI IJ) rose 1.8 percent
to 111 rupiah.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI IJ): China Investment Corp. has
asked Bumi to pay its debt in cash if the Indonesian coal
producer exercises an option to settle the $600 million it owes
ahead of schedule in October,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported, without
saying where it got the information. Bumi President Director Ari
Saptari Hudaya confirmed the company had requested a cash
payment, the report said. Bumi, the nation’s largest coal
producer, fell 0.8 percent to 3,000 rupiah.  PT Medco Energi Internasional (MEDC IJ): The country’s
biggest listed oil company expects to raise $550 million through
bank loans and bond sales this year to help fund expansion
plans, Investor Daily  Indonesia  reported, citing Finance
Director Syamsurizal Munaf. Medco was unchanged at 2,350 rupiah.  PT Tiga Pilar Sejahtera Food (AISA IJ): The company has won
a tender to acquire a plant and the brand of a snack product
owned by an overseas company, Investor Daily Indonesia reported,
citing Yulianni Liyuwardi, corporate secretary at the Indonesian
instant-noodle maker. The acquisition may contribute about 250
billion rupiah ($29 million) to Tiga Pilar’s annual revenue, the
report said. Tiga Pilar rose 1.6 percent to 650 rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  