-- 
U.S. Businesses Grow, Consumer Confidence Gains in Sign Growth May Pick Up

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-30T20:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/business-activity-in-u-s-expanded-in-june.html
Businesses in the U.S. unexpectedly
expanded at a faster pace in June and  consumer confidence 
reached a 10-week high, signs that economic growth may pick up
in the second half of the year.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer climbed to 61.1, exceeding the highest forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from 56.6 in May. Readings greater than
50 signal expansion. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose
to minus 43.9 from minus 44.9.  Stocks climbed for a fourth day as the Chicago group’s
figures indicated manufacturing is rebounding after a lull
brought on by parts shortages tied to the March earthquake in
Japan. The data underscore the view of  Federal Reserve  policy
makers that the first-half slowdown will prove “temporary,” as
fuel prices become less of a burden for companies and consumers.  “The headwinds from the supply-chain disruption might have
started to ease,” said Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at
RDQ Economics LLC in  New York . “We’ll see a pickup in economic
growth in the second half.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1 percent to
1,320.64 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, also helped by the
Greek parliament’s support for a European bailout. Treasuries
declined, pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to
3.16 percent from 3.11 percent late yesterday.  Economists called for the Chicago barometer to drop to 54,
according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.
Estimates of the 54 economists surveyed ranged from 49.5 to
58.5.  Orders, Production  The purchasing group’s gauge of new orders climbed to 61.2
in June from 53.5, while the production index increased to 66.9
from 56. Measures of employment, backlogs and inventories eased
this month.  Stronger manufacturing may help the labor market rebound in
coming months. More Americans than forecast filed first-time
applications for  unemployment benefits . Jobless claims dropped
by 1,000 to 428,000 last week, the Labor Department said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 420,000 claims,
according to the median estimate.  The claims figures may be influenced by earlier-than-usual
auto plant shutdowns. Carmakers that have had difficulty getting
parts from Japan may be using the period as an opportunity to
retool for new models.  As facilities close, the increase in the number of workers
filing for unemployment claims may be distorting the
government’s figures, economists such as Joe LaVorgna at
Deutsche Bank Securities LLC said.  Regional Reports  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  Today’s figure is at odds with regional factory reports
from Philadelphia and New York that showed  Japan ’s earthquake-
related supply shortages kept working their way through the
economy this month.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s index showed
manufacturing in the region shrank in June for the first time in
nine months, while the New York Fed’s report showed a
contraction at factories this month as the so-called Empire
State measure dropped to the lowest level since November.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s monthly national
factory index probably also declined in June, reflecting a
slower pace of expansion, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed before the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
figures tomorrow.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials announced last week they will maintain record
monetary stimulus to support the economy after completing a $600
billion bond-purchase program that was scheduled to end today.  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly” than policy makers had expected,
according to a Fed statement on June 22. “The slower pace of
the recovery reflects in part factors that are likely to be
temporary,” such as supply chain disruptions stemming from the
Japanese disaster in March and the jump in gasoline prices
earlier this year.  Retail fuel costs that have dropped 11 percent from a 2011
high of $3.99 per gallon are relieving stress on Americans’
pocketbooks. Lower prices at the pump are soothing consumers
coping with a cooling labor market that’s restraining incomes
and spending.  The Bloomberg confidence survey showed all three components
advanced. An index of consumers’ views of the economy increased
to minus 79.2 last week from minus 80.1. The gauge of personal
finances rose to minus 5.5 from minus 7.6 the prior week. The
buying climate measure was little changed at minus 46.9, the
best showing since January.  Consumer Spending  “Falling retail gasoline prices, which should free up
approximately $42 billion in discretionary income, likely
bolstered the outlook of consumers,” said  Joseph Brusuelas ,
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. Cheaper fuel “may
provide needed support for consumer confidence.”  Stronger sales in emerging markets are benefiting
manufacturers such as Glenview, Illinois-based  Illinois Tool
Works Inc. (ITW)   China  is a “very rapidly growing area for us,” Chief
Executive Officer David Speer said on a conference call with
investors on June 14.  Brazil  also is “an economy that’s got
lots of interesting growth prospects and it’s an economy you
definitely have to be in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  