-- 
Buy Mexico Put Options as Stocks May Fall ‘Dramatically,’ BNP Paribas Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-30T04:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/buy-mexico-put-options-as-stocks-may-fall-dramatically-bnp-paribas-says.html
Investors should buy bearish Mexican
 stock options  at record-low levels because the equities may
slide “dramatically” as the  Federal Reserve  ends its stimulus
and Europe struggles with its debt crisis, BNP Paribas SA said.  Anand Omprakash, a New York-based equity derivatives
strategist, recommended buying September $55 puts to sell the
 iShares MSCI Mexico Investable Market Index Fund (EWW) , which rose 1.8
percent to $62.20 yesterday in the U.S. The options are
“inexpensive” after the ETF’s implied volatility, the key
gauge of option prices, for at-the-money options expiring in
three months fell to a record low of 19.76 yesterday, he said.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC index has retreated 5.1 percent this
year as worse-than-estimated U.S. reports on jobs and
manufacturing fueled concern that the economic recovery is
slowing. Latin America’s second-biggest economy, which sends 80
percent of its exports to the U.S., grew 2.4 percent in April,
the least since December 2009 and below the median forecast for
an expansion of 3 percent in a Bloomberg survey, the national
statistics agency said on June 28.  “Mexican equities could be at risk if the current ‘soft
patch’ in the  U.S. economy  persists” through 2011 or causes a
recession, Omprakash wrote in a report. “The Mexican economy is
heavily dependent on the strength of the U.S. economy.”  The end of the second round of so-called quantitative
easing in the U.S. this month, a possible U.S. credit downgrade
or default with a breach of the U.S. debt ceiling, the European
sovereign debt crisis and tensions in the  Middle East  could all
cause a selloff of Mexican stocks, according to the note.  “A lot of investors are concerned by the various crises
that are transpiring right now,” Omprakash said in a telephone
interview. “All four of these crises combined make an argument
for hedging pretty compelling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net . 