-- 
Canada April Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/canada-april-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the April GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product was unchanged in April
after increasing 0.3% in March. Both the goods-producing
and the services sectors remained unchanged in April.  Significant increases were recorded in mining of metal
ore and coal. Retail trade, the public sector,
construction and utilities also advanced. However, this
growth was offset by declines in manufacturing and, to a
lesser extent, in wholesale trade and the finance,
insurance and real estate sector. Transportation services
were unchanged.  Metal ore and coal bolster mining  Mining rose 1.0% in April, primarily on the strength of
copper, nickel, lead and zinc mining. Coal mining also
contributed to this growth. Support activities for mining
oil and gas extraction continued to advance. Overall, oil
and gas extraction was down 0.3%, as a reduction in
natural gas production outweighed higher production of
crude petroleum.  Motor vehicle and parts production leads the decline in
manufacturing  Manufacturing decreased 0.7%, with most of the decline
concentrated in the production of durable goods. The 6.9%
decrease in motor vehicles and parts production was mostly
due to supply disruptions as a consequence of the tsunami
in  Japan . This decrease, combined with lower production of
aerospace products, led to a 4.7% reduction in
manufacturing of transportation equipment.  Manufacturers of furniture and related products,
printed products and electric equipment also cut back
production. Conversely, manufacturing of machinery,
notably of mining and oil and gas machinery, and of food
products increased.  Retail trade up, wholesale trade down  Retail trade increased 0.5% in April after declining
1.2% the month before. Increases were registered at
furniture and home furnishings stores, new and used car
dealers as well as at clothing and accessory stores. In
contrast, activity at building material and garden
equipment and supplies stores was down.  Wholesale trade decreased 0.5% in April. Wholesalers of
motor vehicle and parts, petroleum products and building
materials reported declines. Conversely, wholesaling of
food, beverage and tobacco products as well as of personal
and household goods and of machinery and equipment
increased.  Construction activity edges up  Construction edged up 0.1% following the 0.9% increase
in March. Engineering and repair work grew while
residential construction declined on account of decreases
in single dwellings, renovations and apartments.  The output of real estate agents and brokers decreased
4.4%, reflecting lower home resale activity in most
provinces.  Finance and insurance sector continues to decline  The finance and insurance sector fell 0.4%. The
decrease was attributable to declines in the volume of
personal and business loans and deposits at financial
institutions, as well as in the volume of trading on the
 stock exchanges . Activity at insurance carriers fell 0.5%.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as their reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and aggregate are obtained from a chained
volume index multiplied by the industry's value added in
2002. For the 1997 to 2007 period, the monthly data are
benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes of
GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2008, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are the industry
output and input prices of 2007. This makes the monthly
GDP by industry data more comparable with the expenditure-
based GDP data, chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2010. For more information
about monthly GDP by industry, see the National Economic
Accounts module on our website 
(www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  