-- 
Canada April Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/canada-april-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's employment, earnings, and hours report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees
increased 0.7% from March to $876.44 in April. Compared
with April 2010, average weekly earnings were 3.5% higher.  The 3.5% growth in average weekly earnings during the
12 months to April was attributable to a number of factors
in addition to wage growth, such as changes in the
composition of employment by industry, by occupation and
by level of job experience.  The average number of hours worked per week, which can
also contribute to growth in average weekly earnings, was
unchanged from April 2010 at 32.9 hours.  Average weekly earnings increased in every province in
the 12 months to April. Growth was well above the national
average in Saskatchewan, Alberta and Newfoundland and
Labrador. The slowest growth was in Prince  Edward Island .  Growth in average weekly earnings was above the
national average of 3.5% in 6 of the 10 largest industrial
sectors, led by health care and social assistance and
manufacturing. The slowest growth in earnings occurred in
construction and retail trade.  In the 12 months to April, average weekly earnings
increased by 6.9% to $817.54 in health care and social
assistance. This sector has had one of the most consistent
upward trends in earnings and payroll employment since
2001, when the comparable data series began (see the
"Sector profile" section of this release).  The second fastest growth in average weekly earnings in
the 12 months to April occurred in manufacturing, where
earnings increased by 6.3% to $989.66. Growth in this
sector was particularly notable in industries such as
beverage and tobacco product manufacturing; petroleum and
coal product manufacturing; fabricated metal product
manufacturing; and printing and related support
activities.  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings was
also above the national average in some smaller industries
such as information and culture (+7.5% to $1,104.46) and
arts, entertainment and recreation (+5.2% to $583.55).
Weekly earnings in information and culture have been
rising since July 2010, particularly among motion picture
and sound recording industries; telecommunications; and
data processing, hosting and related services. In arts,
entertainment and recreation, earnings have been
increasing since May 2009, mainly in amusement, gambling
and recreation industries.  Average weekly hours worked  Average weekly hours fell 0.3% from March to April.
Compared with April 2010, the average workweek was
unchanged at 32.9 hours.  Notable year-over-year increases in average weekly
hours worked occurred in health care and social assistance
(+3.1%), information and culture (+2.9%) as well as
finance and insurance (+2.7%). At the same time, there
were declines in other sectors, mainly construction (-
2.2%) and transportation and warehousing (-2.2%).  In mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction,
average weekly hours fell 1.7% to 40.0 hours, but this was
still the highest of all sectors.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  In April, non-farm payroll employment increased by
29,600 from March. On a year-over-year basis, the number
of non-farm employees rose by 242,800 (+1.7%).  The monthly non-farm payroll employment increase in
April occurred in a number of sectors, with the largest
gains in manufacturing; accommodation and food services;
and health care and social assistance.  The fastest year-over-year growth (+14.9%) occurred in
mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction, where
payroll employment rose by 27,200. Growth in this sector
was driven by gains in support activities for mining and
oil and gas extraction in  Alberta .  In construction, payroll employment rose by 2.9%
(+23,800), the second largest year-over-year increase.
This growth was spread across most provinces and occurred
mainly in heavy and civil engineering construction and
specialty trade contracting.  Sector profile: Health care and social assistance  From time to time, this release profiles an industrial
sector with a notable trend in earnings, hours or
employment. The profile for April 2011 examines the health
care and social assistance sector because of its
consistent trend of faster-than-average growth in earnings
and employment, a trend that has spanned many years.  More than 1.6 million employees work in health care and
social assistance, making it the second largest sector
after retail trade. Hospitals account for the largest
share (35%) of employees in the sector, followed by
ambulatory health care services (26%); this latter group
includes offices of physicians, dentists and other health
practitioners as well as out-patient care centres. Another
22% of the sector's employees work in nursing and
residential care facilities, while 17% work in social
assistance.  In contrast to most other sectors, health care and
social assistance has seen its share of total payroll
employment increase steadily since 2001, when the
comparable data series began. Currently, the sector
accounts for 11% of total employment, up one full
percentage point from 2001.  This sector is one of the few that recorded growth in
payroll employment during the 2008-2009 economic downturn,
as its number of employees increased by 3.1% between
August 2008 and August 2009. During the same period, the
number of payroll employees fell 3.4% in the remaining
sectors of the economy.  For most of the past decade, health care and social
assistance posted year-over-year increases in average
weekly earnings. In the 12 months to April 2011, earnings
in this sector increased by 6.9%, well above the national
average of 3.5%.  Average weekly earnings of $817.54 in the sector were
below the national average of $876.44. However, across the
health care and social assistance industry groups, average
weekly earnings ranged from $612.97 for those working in
social assistance to $992.03 for those working in
hospitals.  In the 12 months to April, average weekly earnings
increased 9.1% to $677.34 in nursing and residential care
facilities and advanced 8.2% to $835.00 in ambulatory
health care services. Both gains exceeded the sector
average.  Part of the 12-month growth in weekly earnings in
health care and social assistance was attributable to a
3.1% increase in weekly hours, which averaged 30.3 hours
in April.  Average weekly hours in this sector have been on an
upward trend since October 2009. Despite the increase in
April, the average number of hours worked in the sector
was more than two hours below the national average of
32.9.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is
a business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key
objective is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of
earnings, the number of jobs and hours worked by detailed
industry at the national, provincial and territorial
level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates
from its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a
household survey whose main objective is to divide the
working-age population into three mutually exclusive
groups: the employed (including the self-employed),
unemployed and not in the labour force. This survey is the
official source for the  unemployment rate  and collects
data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all those
in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological
differences, estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do
differ from time to time. However, the trends in the data
are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as "other employees" category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses which could not be
classified to a North American Industrial Classification
System code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses which could not be classified to a North
American Industrial Classification System code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  Changes in average earnings can be influenced by a
number of factors. Changes in the level of earnings, the
number of payroll employees, and the number of hours
worked can have an impact. Other factors could include
compositional changes over time, such as changes in the
proportions of full-time and part-time work; proportions
of casual, senior and junior employees; the occupational
distribution within and across industries; and in the
distribution of employment between industries. Such
effects may apply differently within different provinces
and territories, and over time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  