-- 
Canadian Stocks Advance as Greek Default Concern Diminishes

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-30T19:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/capital-power-snc-lavalin-xinergy-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a fourth
day, trimming the biggest quarterly drop since 2008, as energy
producers and financial shares advanced on speculation  Greece 
will avoid defaulting on its debt.  Manulife Financial Corp.,  Canada ’s largest insurer,
increased 3 percent after Germany’s biggest banks and insurers
and government agreed to reinvest money from maturing debt
holdings into new Greek bonds.  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , an oil and gas
producer with operations on five continents, climbed 2 percent
as natural gas futures rallied. Contract electronics
manufacturer  Celestica Inc. (CLS)  gained 5.3 percent after a Deutsche
Bank analyst raised her rating on the shares.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 55.93
points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,244.87 at 2:24 a.m. in Toronto,
extending its weekly gain to 2.4 percent. The S&P/TSX has
advanced this week as Greek lawmakers voted yesterday to approve
an austerity package.  “There was likely some anxiety going into that Greek
vote,” said Gareth Watson, vice president of  investment
management  at Richardson GMP Ltd. in Toronto, which oversees
about C$16 billion ($16.6 billion). “We’re just kind of
carrying through today.”  The S&P/TSX retreated 6.6 percent this quarter through
yesterday, the most since the fourth quarter of 2008. The stock
benchmark declined as data on U.S. unemployment and
manufacturing trailed economists’ forecasts, concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensified and crude oil fell 9.1 percent.  Draft Proposal  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers and its government
have agreed on a draft proposal to reinvest money from maturing
Greek debt into new bonds, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in Berlin today.  Seven of eight S&P/TSX banks and Canada’s three largest
insurers rose after the German agreement. Also today,  Statistics
Canada  reported gross domestic product was unchanged in April.
Most economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a decline.  Manulife Financial Corp.,  North America ’s fourth-largest
insurer, gained 3 percent to C$16.94. Toronto-Dominion Bank,
Canada’s second-biggest lender by assets, advanced 0.9 percent
to C$81.59. Sun Life Financial Inc., the country’s No. 3
insurer, increased 1.9 percent to C$28.82.  The S&P/TSX Energy Index climbed for a fourth day after
U.S. natural gas inventories fell more than analysts estimated
last week. Nexen, which operates on five continents, rose 2
percent to C$21.56.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , Canada’s fifth-largest
energy company, gained 1.6 percent to C$36.  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM) , which operates in North America, the  North Sea  and
 Indonesia , advanced 1.9 percent to C$19.68.  Corn Supplies  Fertilizer producers retreated after the U.S. Agriculture
Department said U.S. corn inventories totaled 3.67 billion
bushels on June 1, surpassing all 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts.  Farmers planted about 92.3 million acres of corn, topping
the USDA’s estimate from earlier this month of 90.7 million
acres. Corn fell the most allowed on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, dropped for the first time
in six days, losing 1.3 percent to C$54.43.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , an
agricultural-products retailer and fertilizer producer, declined
1.9 percent to C$83.99.  Rubicon Minerals Corp. (RMX) , which explores for gold in Canada,
slumped 9 percent to C$3.24 after plunging 24 percent yesterday
as the company increased its cost estimates for its Phoenix Gold
Project. Catherine Gignac, a Toronto-based analyst at NCP
Northland Capital Partners Inc., cut her rating to “sector
perform” from “sector outperform” today.  Copper Rises  Among other mining stocks,  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,
Canada’s second-largest publicly traded copper producer,
increased 3.1 percent to C$139.78 as the metal added to an
eight-week high.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a mining company controlled by Moscow-
based ARMZ Uranium Holding, rose for a second day, gaining 6.4
percent to C$2.66 two days after closing at a 12-month low.  Celestica rallied 5.3 percent to C$8.43 after Sherri Scribner, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, boosted her rating on the
share to “buy” from “hold.” The stock plunged 23 percent
this quarter through yesterday as its largest customer, Research
In Motion Ltd., sank 49 percent.  Power-plant owner  Capital Power Corp. (CPX)  slumped 3.8 percent,
the most intraday in 23 months, to C$25.01, after saying it will
sell 8 million shares at C$25.10 a share.  Consumer Discretionary  An index of consumer-discretionary stocks in the S&P/TSX
advanced after analysts in a Bloomberg survey said U.S. auto
sales probably rebounded in this month.  Magna International Inc. (MG) , Canada’s largest auto-parts
maker, climbed for an eighth day, the longest streak in 25
months, rallying 1.7 percent to C$52.29.  Linamar Corp. (LNR) , the
second-biggest parts manufacturer in the country, rose 3.9
percent to C$21.81.  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B) , Canada’s largest cable and
satellite television provider by subscribers, gained 1.5 percent
to C$21.91 a day after reporting earnings that surpassed
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  