-- 
Casino Boosts Stake in Pao de Acucar After Merger Proposal With Carrefour

-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 
2011-06-30T03:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/casino-increases-stake-in-pao-de-acucar-after-merger-proposal.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  raised
its stake in Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar
to 43.1 percent after the Brazilian retailer proposed a merger
with rival  Carrefour SA (CA)  in the South American country.  The Saint-Etienne, France-based grocer acquired 16.1
million preferred shares of Pao de Acucar, equivalent to a 6.2
percent stake, according to a letter received by Pao de Acucar
and sent to Brazil’s securities regulator yesterday. The
purchase doesn’t change control of Pao de Acucar by the holding
company through which Casino and the Diniz Group share command
of the Brazilian retailer, the letter said.  Brazilian billionaires Andre Esteves, the 42-year-old chief
executive officer of Banco BTG Pactual SA, and Pao de Acucar
Chairman Abilio Diniz, 74, are proposing to merge Carrefour’s
 Brazil  assets with the local retailer. The deal, backed by an
injection of as much as 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) from a
Brazilian  state bank , may prevail over a 2005 accord that would
give Casino control of Pao de Acucar in 2012.  Casino, which had a 37 percent stake in Pao de Acucar as of
June 16, described the proposal as “hostile” and said the
proposal is a “long-standing, illegal planned financial
transaction.”  Diniz said yesterday in an interview with Brazil’s Globo TV
that Pao de Acucar has done nothing illegal and that Casino must
analyze the proposal “without emotion.”  Pao de Acucar rose as much as 12 percent in  Sao Paulo 
trading yesterday, then fell to close 3.1 percent lower at 71.00
reais. Carrefour advanced 2.4 percent to 28.11 euros in Paris,
while Casino gained 3.9 percent to 64.60 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net . 