-- 
Chile Central Bank Was Unanimous on June Rate Decision

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-30T13:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/chile-central-bank-was-unanimous-on-june-rate-decision-1-.html
Chilean policy makers were unanimous
on raising the benchmark interest rate to 5.25 percent from 5
percent at their June 14 meeting, according to the minutes of
the meeting published today on the central bank website.  Chile ’s central bank on June 14 slowed the pace of rate
changes to a quarter-point after three straight months of half-
point increases, matching the estimate of 16 of 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers discussed keeping the rate
unchanged at 5 percent during this month’s meeting, according to
the minutes.  Policy makers likely will continue to increase lending
costs, which are approaching so-called neutral levels that would
neither stimulate nor constrict economic growth and consumer
prices, bank President Jose De Gregorio said in a paper
published June 22 on the central bank website.  “The neutral rate in an open economy doesn’t just depend
on internal factors like its long-term growth rate,” he wrote.
“The world is going through a period of low  interest rates  and
it’s probable that in the short term the neutral interest rate
could be somewhat below what previous estimates indicate.”  Neutral rates used to be 5 percent to 6 percent before the
U.S. held lending costs near zero percent, central bank board
member Enrique Marshall said in a May 27 speech in Santiago.  Interest Rate Swaps  Chile two-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’
views of future rate decisions, rose to 5.67 percent at 8:56
a.m. New York time from 5.66 percent yesterday. Two-year
breakeven inflation, increased to 3.39 percent from 3.38 percent
over the same period.  Chile’s growing labor market could continue to exacerbate
consumer price pressures in  South America ’s fifth-largest
economy, the central bank said in its June monetary policy
report. The bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus 1 percentage point over 24 months.  “The labor market should be followed with special
attention to avert the incubation of inflationary pressures,”
according to the report.  Chile’s jobless rate in the three months through May was
7.2 percent, up from 7 percent through April, the National
Statistics Institute said in a report today. The median estimate
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for unemployment to
rise to 7.1 percent through May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  