-- 
China Yurun Shares Extend Rebound as Short Sellers Cut Bets

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-06-30T08:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/china-yurun-shares-extend-rebound-as-short-sellers-cut-bets-1-.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  climbed
for a second day in Hong Kong trading, extending its rebound
from a record plunge as short sellers cut bets and the meat
producer said it expects government subsidies to continue.  Yurun rose 5.8 percent to HK$21.90 as of the 4 p.m. close
of trading in Hong Kong, extending its gain over the past two
days to 13 percent. China’s second-biggest listed meat
processor said yesterday its “government subsidies are
expected to be sustainable.”  The pork producer’s stock plummeted a record 20 percent on
June 27, when short-selling volume almost quadrupled from June
23 to 21.8 million shares, according to Bloomberg data. The
volume of shares being sold short, a strategy that involves the
sale of borrowed stock to profit from an expected decline, fell
to 10.9 million shares yesterday, according to the data.  The  Hong Kong  government is monitoring hedge fund
speculation, The Standard newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified government source. Ernest Kong, a spokesman for
the city’s Securities and Futures Commission, declined to
comment when reached today over the phone.  Next Magazine, a Hong Kong Chinese-language publication,
yesterday reported that Yurun Chairman Zhu Yicai personally
owns a hog farm in Anhui province that doesn’t have any stock.
Yurun issued a statement late yesterday calling the report
“deplorable.” It said Zhu’s closely held business “has no
relationship with the listed group,” which is mainly a hog
slaughterer and meat processor.  Zhu’s Farm  Yurun slid 31 percent over the four days through June 28,
wiping about $2 billion off its market value, amid speculation
Muddy Waters LLC would issue a negative report on the company.
The Hong Kong-based short seller’s allegations of accounting
irregularities have sparked selloffs at Chinese companies
including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)   Yurun’s 14-day relative-strength index, which measures how
rapidly prices have advanced or declined, was at 22.1 on June
28 and 29.8 the following day. Some investors see a reading of
less than 30 as a signal to buy.  Credit Suisse Group AG issued a report yesterday
maintaining its “outperform” rating on the stock.  A farm in Xiao county, a four-hour drive from Anhui’s
capital of Hefei, didn’t have any pigs, Next reported, citing
staff visits. A sign said it belongs to a company controlled by
Zhu and his wife, it said.  Profit Margin  A plant in Taihe county, also in the same province and
owned by Zhu and his wife, appeared to be under construction
even as local government documents showed it as having been
completed in 2008, according to the report.  Yurun said in its statement yesterday that its strategy is
justified by growth. Capacity utilization on Dec. 31 was almost
70 percent, a “relatively optimal” level, and slaughtering
volume increased 54 percent on year, it said.  Muddy Waters  wouldn’t say whether it issued a report on
Yurun or was working on one.  “We take pains to keep our research activities
confidential, and a widespread market rumor would either
represent a significant failure on our part, or is false,”
Carson Block, a Muddy Waters founder, said in an e-mail June 28.  Yurun’s gross profit margin had a “slight decrease” in
the first five months of 2011, according to a filing to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange. Sales gained “significantly” in the
period up to May 31, compared with 2010, on higher hog prices
and greater slaughtering volume, it said.  The company’s profit has increased eightfold to HK$2.7
billion in the five years through 2010 on sales that have
increased fivefold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yurun is  China ’s second-biggest listed meat processor,
trailing Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  