-- 
China Red Cross Says Accounting Errors Caused Irregularities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-30T10:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/china-red-cross-says-accounting-errors-caused-irregularities.html
The Red Cross Society of  China 
denied misusing funds after auditors found it overspent 4.2
million yuan ($650,000) on medical training dummies.  The group said in a June 28 statement that spending
irregularities cited in a report by China’s  National Audit
Office  were the result of accounting mistakes.  The findings have fuelled criticism of the fact that
China’s Red Cross and other charitable groups in the country,
which are mostly government-run, are not required to disclose
their finances, said Deng Guosheng, director of the NGO Research
Center at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing.  “The public don’t trust such philanthropic organizations
due to a lack of transparency,” Deng said in a telephone
interview. “There’s no specific law in China that requires the
 Red Cross  association to disclose information. You can’t find
regular financial data on its website.”  Branches of the Chinese Red Cross have their own bank
accounts and receive funds from local governments, Deng said.
They can also take donations from the public, he said.  The Chinese Red Cross is making efforts to become more
transparent, Zha Huiqin, director of the association’s finance
department, said in a telephone interview. It will start an
online tracking system that lets donors see how their money is
spent, she said.  The Chinese Red Cross is a member of the  International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.  Francis
Markus, an IFRC spokesman in Beijing, declined to comment.  On June 27, the National Audit Office released a report
saying the Chinese Red Cross exceeded a 12.3 million-yuan budget
to buy medical training dummies by 4.2 million yuan, or 34
percent.  The Red Cross said public donations were not spent,
according to a  statement  on its website. In a separate statement
yesterday, it blamed the overspending on “irregular accounting
practices” and pledged to abide more closely by accounting
rules.  --Emma Dong. Editor: Nicholas Wadhams,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Emma Dong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 edong10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  