-- 
Christie Weighing Veto of Democrats’ $30.6 Billion Budget

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-30T15:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/christie-weighing-veto-of-democrats-30-6-billion-budget-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said a $30.6 billion spending plan passed by Democrats is out of
balance with revenue and threatened to veto it. Such a move may
put the state on a path toward a government shutdown.  The budget approved by lawmakers yesterday along party
lines is $1 billion more than the first-term Republican wanted.
New Jersey’s constitution requires a plan to be in place by
midnight, the start of the fiscal year. A veto would give
lawmakers less than 24 hours to cobble together a new plan or
override the governor.  “The Democratic budget passed today by the Senate and the
Assembly is unconstitutional,” Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said in an e-mail late yesterday, with “hundreds of
millions of dollars in spending that is unsupported by
constitutionally certified revenue.”  Christie may use a so-called line-item veto to prune
individual spending provisions of the budget or veto the whole
thing, sending it back to the Legislature for a do-over,
Drewniak said.  While trimming the budget would allow him to enact it
immediately, seeking changes and re-approval of the plan may
touch off a process that stretches past the deadline. Doing so
would raise the possibility of a shutdown, said Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat who chairs the budget committee.  “I’d give it even odds,” said  Peter Woolley , a pollster
and political scientist at Fairleigh Dickinson University in
Madison. “They’re already risking one and it’s the 11th hour.”  ‘Potential Shutdown’  The governor was elected on a pledge to restrain growth in
property taxes, the highest in the nation. In his first year, he
cut $10 billion of spending, including money for schools and
cities. This week he signed legislation raising government
workers’ pension and health-care contributions.  “If he does it, he owns the potential government
shutdown,” Sarlo said, referring to a Christie veto.  The last one was in 2006, when then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a
Democrat, ordered non-essential government operations including
casinos, the lottery and parks closed for a week, after an
impasse over a sales-tax increase. Christie last year signed an
executive order that would keep  Atlantic City ’s 11 betting
parlors open amid a shutdown.  “It’s more of a political threat, though with this
governor, you can’t bank on anything,” said  Patrick Murray , who
teaches politics at  Monmouth University  in  West Long Branch .
“It would be a very tough political sell if he vetoed the
budget as a whole and there was a shutdown of government.”  Democratic Legislature  Christie said on June 28 that aides were preparing a list
of items he planned to strike from the spending plan. While
Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly, 47-33,
those numbers are short of the two-thirds majority needed to
override a veto on a party-line vote. All 120 legislative seats
come for election this year.  Both chambers passed a separate bill that would levy an
income-tax surcharge on earnings over $1 million, to raise
additional money for schools. Christie pledged to veto it.  Sending the budget back to lawmakers may require a special
legislative session and increase the likelihood of missing the
deadline, according to Senator Kevin O’Toole, a Republican on
the budget committee.  “I have no doubt we’ll have a phalanx of lawyers down here
trying to figure out exactly what that means” if Christie
vetoes the full plan, said Assemblyman Gary Schaer, a Democrat
on the budget committee. If there’s a shutdown, “the question
then of course will be, who gets the blame?” he said.  ‘Violating the Law’  Republicans echoed Christie in saying the Democrats’ plan
fell short of being balanced.  “It can’t be any clearer that they are violating the
law,” Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Republican from Westfield,
said outside the Senate chambers during debate on the bill. The
budget the Democrats passed is “based on phantom revenues.”  Republicans are “hiding behind the constitution,”
Majority Leader Barbara Buono, a Metuchen Democrat, said on the
Senate floor. “They are hiding behind revenue estimates so they
can avoid serious debate on policy issues in this budget.”  Revenue Estimates  Christie said June 24 that the state would have $30.3
billion in revenue next fiscal year, or $300 million less than
the amount in the Democrats’ budget. Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff said in May that revenue will top Christie’s initial
budget projection by about $511 million, while Democrats figured
on $800 million extra in their plan.  The Democrats’ measure would increase funding for schools
by $1.1 billion over the proposal Christie outlined in February.
 New Jersey ’s  Supreme Court  in May ordered the state to boost aid
to the poorest districts by at least $500 million, ruling that
the governor’s cuts underfunded the systems.  Democrats also seek to direct $50 million in additional
funding to police in high-crime cities, restore $1 million for
women’s health care and expand the state’s earned-income tax
credit for the working poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  