-- 
Christie Said to Plan Line-Item Veto to Trim Democrats’ New Jersey Budget

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-30T19:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/christie-said-to-plan-line-item-veto-to-trim-democrats-new-jersey-budget.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
will cut individual spending items from the $30.6 billion budget
sent to him by the Democratic-led Legislature yesterday,
according to three people with knowledge of the decision.  Christie, a first-term Republican, may announce the
decision within an hour, said the people, who are government
officials and declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about it. They declined to say what
Christie would cut.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie,
declined to comment.  Using the so-called line-item veto would allow Christie,
48, to sign the budget into law before the midnight deadline and
avoid a government shutdown, said  Patrick Murray , who teaches
politics at  Monmouth University  in  West Long Branch . Lawmakers
could try to override his changes later.  “Politically, this was the only move for Christie,”
Murray said. “Democrats knew Christie would have taken the
blame for a shutdown, not them.”  The budget approved by lawmakers yesterday along party
lines is $1 billion more than Christie wanted. New Jersey’s
constitution requires a plan to be in place by the July 1 start
of the fiscal year.  Christie has the option of vetoing the budget altogether,
sending it back to lawmakers with proposed changes, or cutting
individual items while signing it. The first two options would
have given lawmakers hours to cobble together a new plan or
override the governor, and put the state on a path toward a
government shutdown.  2006 Closure  The last time it happened in  New Jersey  was in 2006, when
then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat, ordered non-essential
operations including casinos, the lottery and parks closed for a
week, after an impasse with lawmakers from his own party over a
sales-tax increase. Christie last year signed an executive order
that would keep  Atlantic City ’s 11 gambling halls open amid a
shutdown.  Republican lawmakers and Christie said the Democrats’
spending plan for the next fiscal year was out of balance with
revenue, a violation of the state constitution. The proposal
includes “hundreds of millions of dollars in spending that is
unsupported by constitutionally certified revenue,” Drewniak
said in an e-mail late yesterday.  Line Items  Christie said on June 28 that aides were preparing a list
of items he planned to strike from the spending plan. While
Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly, 47-33,
those numbers are short of the two-thirds majority that would
have been needed to override a veto on a party-line vote. All
120 legislative seats come up for election this year.  Both chambers passed a separate bill yesterday that would
levy an income-tax surcharge on earnings over $1 million, to
raise additional money for schools. Christie pledged to veto it.  Christie said June 24 that the state would have $30.3
billion in revenue next fiscal year, or $300 million less than
the amount in the Democrats’ budget. Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff said in May that revenue will top Christie’s initial
budget projection by about $511 million, while Democrats figured
on $800 million extra in their plan.  The Democrats’ measure would increase funding for schools
by $1.1 billion over the proposal Christie outlined in February.
New Jersey’s  Supreme Court  in May ordered the state to boost aid
to the poorest districts by at least $500 million, ruling that
the governor’s cuts underfunded the systems.  Democrats also sought to direct $50 million in additional
funding to police in high-crime cities, restore $1 million for
women’s health care and expand the state’s earned-income tax
credit for the working poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  