-- 
Cirque Brings Flying Spider-Woman to Radio City: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-30T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/cirque-s-zarkana-brings-flying-spider-woman-to-radio-city-jeremy-gerard.html
Web-scampering arachnids and a high-
flying Spider-Woman are prominent in “Zarkana,” Cirque du
Soleil’s faltering attempt to lure New York audiences out of the
tent and into a theater.  At Radio City  Music Hall , there’s no cirque and no soleil.
Nightmarish imagery, lots of screeching music and blinding
lights add a grating layer of punkish silliness -- Cirque’s
stock-in-trade -- to some heart-in-mouth acts of athletic
derring-do.  At one point during the trapeze act, a vaguely female
spider-like creature flew overhead, across the vast expanse of
Radio City’s gilded orchestra. It wasn’t exactly Spider-Man
versus the Green Goblin, though it lasted several minutes longer
than the vaunted battle scene playing a few blocks away.  Cirque du Soleil dresses up circus acts and sideshow
curiosities in the clothes of  Pop Art . It has become a global
franchise with permanent installations in apt spots like  Las
Vegas . While the tent shows have done well on New York’s
Randall’s Island, last year’s attempt to move onto the stage --
“Banana Shpeel,” at the Beacon Theatre -- was a humiliating, $20
million fiasco for Cirque founder Guy Laliberte.  Master Juggler  “Zarkana” isn’t as bad as “Banana Shpeel,” and the sheer
size of the Music Hall lends a certain grandeur to what is
essentially high-end vaudeville. The show opens with Maria
Choodu, a master juggler, and the show’s limitations are evident
from the outset. No matter how any balls she can keep in the
air, she’s still just one lone figure working a stage the size
of  Rhode Island .  If writer and director Francois Girard is telling a story
(“chaos and craziness give way to festivity and love regained,”
according to the program), it’s lost in horrid amplification and
the offkey singing of an unidentified ringmaster, rendering
every lyric unintelligible (doubtless a good thing).  When “Zarkana” gets down to the business of stopping our
hearts for a few beats, it’s awesome. Trapeze artists soar,
tightrope walkers precariously pile on top of one another, two
brothers defy gravity on what appears to be the world’s biggest
Wheel-O. There’s also some deadly clowning.  You won’t find sawdust or peanuts, let alone the weird
contortionists that used to give Cirque its quirky zing. It’s
freak-free. Maybe that’s a good thing, too.  Through Oct. 8 at 1260 Sixth Ave. Information: +1-866-858-
0008;  http://www.ticketmaster.com 
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 