-- 
Colorado, Minnesota Courts Throw Out Suits Disputing Retiree Benefit Cuts

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-30T21:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/colorado-minnesota-state-courts-toss-retiree-pension-benefit-cut-lawsuits.html
Colorado and Minnesota state judges
threw out lawsuits by retired public employees who challenged
reductions in their benefits, ruling state pension funds have
the legal right to alter some post-retirement terms.  In separate rulings yesterday, Judge Robert S. Hyatt in
Denver and Judge Gregg E. Johnson in St. Paul rejected claims by
the former workers that they had a right to specific cost of
living adjustments.  Hyatt said that while the plaintiffs had a contractual
right to their pensions, they didn’t have a right to “the
specific COLA formula in place at their respective retirement,
for life without change.” Johnson said Minnesota retirees
didn’t have a constitutionally protected property interest in
COLA increases.  Public pensions lack from $700 billion to more than
$3 trillion they will need to pay for all the benefits promised
in coming decades, depending on the assumptions used to
calculate the obligations. Those shortfalls have contributed to
credit-rating cuts to borrowers including Cook County, Illinois,
New Jersey and Pittsburgh, and fostered speculation about
looming debt defaults by cities and states.  Plunging Revenue  States and municipalities have been targeting employee
pension benefits, seeking to save money as diminished revenue
forces spending cuts on schools and public safety.  While almost two-thirds of U.S. states have curbed employee
benefits or raised required contributions for retirement and
benefit plans, the measures have typically affected current
workers rather retirees, said Keith Brainard, research director
for the National Association of State Retirement Administrators,
a trade group for pension funds.  “Other legislatures might consider the legal experience in
Colorado and Minnesota in considering possible changes to their
benefit structure,” he said.  Attorney Stephen Pincus, whose Pittsburgh firm represented
the retirees in both lawsuits, said he and his clients are
discussing whether to appeal.  While the trial court decisions don’t create legal
precedent, other courts or politicians may look to them,  Pincus 
said.  Lawmakers ‘Emboldened’  “State legislatures may be emboldened by the decisions,”
said Pincus, a partner in Stember Feinstein Doyle & Payne LLC,
“Courts may look at these at least as a roadmap that they want
to follow.”  Johnson heard arguments in the case at a May 22 hearing
where Pincus said he’d been unable to find another case where a
court sanctioned cuts to “the vested benefits of a group of
retirees.”  The cuts violate guarantees in state and federal
constitutions against the government taking property without
just compensation, his Minnesota clients claimed.  Assistant Attorney General Rita Coyle Demeules, arguing the
cuts should be upheld, told the judge at the hearing that
pension terms for active employees were also altered to spread
the burden.  “The benefits they cite are future and speculative,” she
said.  Ben Wogsland, a spokesman for Minnesota Attorney General
Lori Swanson, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment.  The Colorado workers claimed the cuts breached contractual
guarantees in the state and U.S. constitutions and deprived them
of property.  Strengthened Finances  Colorado Attorney General John Suthers said the decision
will help shore up the finances of the Colorado Public
Employees’ Retirement Association, or PERA, a pension system
relied upon by 441,000 current and retired public emloyees.  “This ruling represents a step toward long-term solvency
for the PERA retirement fund,” he said in a statement after the
rulings were announced yesterday.  The Colorado case is Justus v. State of Colorado, 10-01589,
District Court for Denver City and County, Colorado (Denver);
The Minnesota case is Swanson v. State of Minnesota, 10-05285,
Ramsey County, Minnesota, District Court, Second Judicial
District (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at   wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 