-- 
Colombia’s Exito Plunges on $1.4 Billion Offering, Uruguay Purchase Plan

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-06-30T20:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/colombia-s-exito-plunges-on-1-4-billion-offering-uruguay-purchase-plan.html
Almacenes Exito SA (EXITO) ,  Colombia ’s
biggest publicly traded retailer, fell the most since 2008 after
saying it plans to raise as much as $1.4 billion by selling new
shares and may purchase a stake in Uruguayan supermarkets from
majority shareholder  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA. (CO)   Medellin-based Exito fell 5.8 percent to 24,500 pesos at 4
p.m. New York time, the biggest decline since October 2008.  “Investors with Exito in their portfolio are betting a
share issuance would come at a discount,” Angelica Dominguez,
analyst at brokerage Bolsa y Renta, said in a phone interview
from Medellin. “They’re saying ‘I’ll sell my shares now and buy
back later at a discount.’ ”  The sale would come after two other publicly traded
Colombian companies sold new shares at a discount this year.
 Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores (AVAL) , Colombia’s biggest financial
holding company, issued $1.1 billion of shares in April and
Grupo Nutresa offered $295 million this month, both at discounts
of more than 10 percent.  Exito would likely follow the trend to attract investors,
especially if it seeks to sell the full $1.4 billion in Bogota,
Dominguez said. The company did not say whether it plans to
issue the shares in Colombia or abroad.  The retailer disclosed the share sale plan in a filing with
Colombia’s securities regulator yesterday, in which it also said
it may buy a controlling stake in Disco and Devoto supermarkets
through the purchase of holding company Spice Investment
Mercosur.  Uruguay Supermarkets  The purchase would include 53 supermarkets in Uruguay with
consolidated sales expected to reach $770 million this year,
Casino, of Saint-Etienne,  France , said in a statement today.  Casino, which said it holds a 54.8 percent stake in Exito,
called the acquisition a “major step towards the
internationalization of Exito” that will allow for synergies.  While the market may welcome Exito’s plans to expand
abroad, investors may initially see the move as a seemingly
“costly” purchase in a market that is small by Colombian
standards, with a population less than a tenth of Colombia’s,
said Jairo Agudelo, an analyst at Celfin Capital.  “We were always concerned that Exito only did business in
Colombia,” said Agudelo, “What we never expected was that it
would seek growth in Uruguay.”  Exito shareholders are to vote on the share issuance and
transaction at a July 6 meeting. Barclays Bank PLC and JPMorgan
advised Exito on the merger.  Casino Control  Casino, France’s second-biggest grocer with a quarter of
its sales in  Latin America , said it will maintain control of
Exito by buying enough shares in the capital increase to
maintain a majority stake. The transaction would boost Exito’s
earnings per share from the first year and not impact Casino’s,
the company said.  The Exito share sale and acquisition are not related to
developments in  Brazil , the company said. Casino stepped up a
battle with French rival  Carrefour SA (CA)  for control of its
Brazilian venture, Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar, by buying more shares in the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  