-- 
Colombia Peso Volatility Falls as Traders Bet on Central Bank Intervention

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-06-30T20:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/colombia-peso-volatility-falls-as-traders-bet-on-central-bank-intervention.html
Traders are cutting bets for swings
in the Colombian peso on speculation policy makers will put the
brake on a rally that’s made the currency the best performer in
emerging markets this quarter.  Implied volatility on three-month options for the peso
versus the dollar, which reflect expectations for fluctuations
over the next three months, dropped 10.7 percent since March 2
to 11.09 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
measure’s lowest level since April 28.  The peso gained 5.7 percent this quarter after foreign
direct investment in the first five months of the year jumped to
the highest level in at least a decade and interest-rate
increases sparked flows into bonds. Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday that  Colombia  will keep fighting
against gains to protect jobs at exporters. The peso is within 1
percent of a three-year high of 1,753.2 per dollar reached last
month.  “Traders have 1,750 in their head” as a level policy
makers will defend, said Felipe Campos, head analyst at Alianza
Valores SA brokerage in Bogota. “Volatility drops as the market
approaches a psychological level.”  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 1,770.77 per dollar at 4:10
p.m. New York time. The currency will weaken to 1,795 by year-
end, according to the median forecast of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Leading Gains  The peso is leading gains this quarter among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, bolstered by $4.94
billion in mining and energy investment in the first five months
of the year. Colombia is opening up unexplored swathes of the
country to expand oil production to as much as 2 million barrels
a day in 2020, from 923,000 currently. The oil and mining
industries accounted for 86 percent of the $5.78 billion foreign
investment in the year through May, the  central bank  said.  Inflows into stocks and bonds jumped eight-fold to $841
million in the five months through May from a year earlier,
following increased demand for the country’s financial assets
after  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings upgraded Colombia to investment grade this year and the
central bank lifted  interest rates .  Colombia’s central bank raised the overnight lending rate
1.25 percentage points this year to 4.25 percent from a record
low 3 percent as policy makers seek to curb inflation pressures
amid accelerating domestic demand.  Overseas Fund  In a bid to ease the peso’s rally, Echeverry said in April
that the government would create an overseas fund with as much
as $1.2 billion from dollars bought in the local market through
the end of 2011, and forgo repatriating funds from abroad for
the rest of the year. Since Sept. 15, the central bank has
bought a minimum of $20 million daily in the  currency market ,
and plans to keep up the purchases until at least Sept. 30.  The central bank will probably extend the daily dollar
purchases through the end of the year, said  Camilo Perez , the
head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA.  Central bank general manager Jose Dario Uribe said in a May
27 interview that he was “very satisfied” with the effect of
the bank’s dollar-buying program in holding back peso gains.  Press officials at the central bank and  Finance Ministry 
declined to comment.  Policy makers may also seek to limit foreign borrowing,
which almost doubled in the first five months of this year,
Perez said. Such loans fuel gains in the peso when borrowers
bring dollars into the country and buy the local currency.  Overseas loans jumped to $3.9 billion in the year through
May, up from $2 billion a year earlier, according to the central
bank.  ‘Verbal Intervention’  While the costs of imposing controls on investment inflows
outweigh the benefits for Colombia at the moment, conditions may
change in the future, Uribe said in the May interview.  Comments such as Uribe’s constitute “verbal intervention”
and have made it difficult for the peso to advance beyond 1,750
per dollar, said Juan Nicolas Garcia, a currency trader at HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Colombia unit.  “The fact that everyone is talking about that level shows
that it has worked,” Garcia said. “We’ll see increased
pressure from exporters and the government ramping up its verbal
intervention” as the peso approaches the key level, he said.  Optimism  Greece  will avoid a default after the nation’s
parliament approved austerity measures may lead to more demand
for higher yielding emerging-market assets, including the
Colombian peso, said Francisco Chaves, an analyst at Bogota-
based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.  The peso reached a two-week low of 1,797.40 on June 16 as
concern about Greece prompted investors to drop emerging-market
currencies and seek safer assets such as U.S. Treasuries.  ‘More Time’  Colombia is unlikely to announce new efforts to curb the
peso just because it strengthens past 1,750, Chaves said.  “The government will probably give it more time before
announcing new measures,” Chaves said. “A couple of months
isn’t enough.”  He forecasts the central bank’s and government’s dollar
purchases will push the peso to weaken to 1,800 by year-end.  Rising investment flows into the South American nation will
continue to put pressure on the peso to appreciate, according to
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . She forecasts the peso will end
this year between 1,700 and 1,750.  “There is a political sensitivity” to a stronger peso,
said Cattan-Naslausky. “It’s going to be a tough fight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  