-- 
Communists Embrace In-The-Black Over Red Book as Party Is 90

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T08:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/communists-embrace-in-the-black-over-red-book-as-party-turns-90.html
For a 90-year-old,  China ’s  Communist
Party  is hanging with a young crowd.  The organization that has ruled China since Mao Zedong’s
forces won a civil war in 1949 added 1.24 million university
students as members last year, an 8.2 percent increase from
2009. Founded 90 years ago today to build a socialist Utopia for
the laboring classes, the party has become a ticket to elite
jobs in government and state-owned businesses that offer
security, power and a path to wealth.  “I joined because it’ll help when looking for jobs,” said
Ling, a 24-year-old student at Beijing’s  Renmin University  who
declined to be identified by her full name because of concern
that she faces retribution from the government. “Getting a
government job is so hard, but if I got an offer I’d definitely
jump for it. My second choice would be state-owned companies.”  She isn’t alone.  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and PetroChina Co. are
among the biggest companies in an expanding state sector that is
the preferred career route for graduates, according to a survey
of 200,000 students published last week by  chinahr.com , an
online recruitment website started in 1997 that counts almost 25
million registered job seekers. Of the 50 most-favored
employers, only 10 are foreign companies, it said.  “Young people do sign up for material reasons,” said
Willy Lam Wo-lap, an adjunct professor of history at  Chinese
University of Hong Kong . “The party’s all about loyalty.
Although it’s never made explicit, being a member is certainly a
plus for pursuing careers in government or the state sector.”  Rejected Candidates  Thirty-one percent of the 80.3 million signed-up members of
the Communist Party at the end of last year were officials or
worked for government agencies or companies, according to the
 Organization Department , the party unit that vets candidates for
posts from university presidents to provincial political bosses.  Of the more than 21 million people who applied to join the
party last year, 85 percent were rejected.  “For most Chinese students it would be cool” to join the
party “because they belong to an elite group,” said Shirley,
24, a mainland Chinese student studying at  Hong Kong  Baptist
University who declined to give her full name because of fear of
persecution and who said she has no interest in being a member.
“Power is the biggest motivation. In the government there will
be a lot of connections between power and money.”  Government Stake  The  government’s stake  in state-owned enterprises was
valued at 6.29 trillion yuan ($973 billion) at the end of 2009,
the latest data available. The holdings in companies like
Beijing-based China Mobile, the world’s biggest phone company by
subscribers, and PetroChina, the No. 2  oil company , jumped from
5.43 trillion yuan a year earlier.  “We have great responsibilities on our shoulders,”
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said in an anniversary speech today
in Beijing. He urged party members to “keep in mind their
historic missions, remain modest and prudent, guard against
arrogance and rashness, and maintain the style of plain living
and hard struggle.”  The market share of the state-owned economy is expanding,
said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist for Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  This “could have negative impacts on China’s growth rate
in the long run” by discouraging entrepreneurship and reducing
competition, and increasing “crony capitalism,” he said.  Graft among party members may undermine social stability,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  told the State Council at a March meeting,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  At this year’s March gathering of the National People’s
Congress, China’s legislature, Wen pledged to narrow the wealth
gap by reining in property prices and inflation that have
squeezed the poor, even as the number of billionaires swells.
Data compiled by Hurun, a Shanghai-based group that tracks
China’s rich, indicate there were at least 38 NPC delegates with
assets of greater value than those of the wealthiest U.S.
congressman.  To mark the party’s birthday, a 15-meter (50-foot) high
hammer and sickle has been erected in Beijing’s Tiananmen
Square, while banners bearing slogans like “Adherence to the
Leadership of the Party” festoon bridges.  Famous Quotations  It wasn’t for about four decades after the party’s founding
that Mao’s famous book of quotations, known as The Little Red
Book, was published. Among his  sayings : “The socialist system
will eventually replace the capitalist system; this is an
objective law independent of man’s will.”  In a bid to appeal to younger people, Chow Yun-fat and Andy Lau are among actors starring in “ Beginning of the Great
Revival ,” which charts the party’s foundation in 1921.  At the Shanghai IFC Palace Cinema, demand for “Great
Revival” has eclipsed that for the four other films showing,
including DreamWorks Animation’s “ Kung Fu Panda 2 .”  “Ticket sales are very hot,” said Sheng Quan, the
cinema’s manager. “About 70 percent to 80 percent of seats were
block-booked by companies several weeks ago.”  Star Appeal  Mao Xiao, 32, who works at Shenzhen-based Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co., said the movie’s stars were the main lure. “I also
think it will improve my understanding of our country’s past,”
she said. “I joined when I was 18, and now we can see China’s
made great progress under the party’s leadership.”  The age profile of the Communist Party is getting younger.
At the end of last year, 24.3 percent were under 35, from 23.7
percent in 2009.  Young people are “joining because of their love for and
faith in the party,” said Zhang Zuying, vice director of the
School of Marxism at the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences  in
Beijing. “Having said that, times have changed and they have
different views on practical issues.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  