-- 
Construction Stocks in Mid-Cycle U.S. Recovery May Outperform

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/construction-stocks-in-mid-cycle-u-s-recovery-may-outperform.html
Companies that specialize in
engineering and construction may be poised to outperform as
demand accelerates for new bridges, power generators and oil and
gas refineries in the third year of the U.S. recovery.  Aggregate demand, “the driver of their business,” doesn’t
start to rebound “until the expansion is well afoot,” said
Andrew Wittmann, a former engineer who is now an analyst at
 Robert W. Baird  in  Milwaukee . The lag is caused by “the timing
of the construction cycle, which can require several years for
approval, planning and design.”  Project backlogs -- or commitments for future work -- at
all major U.S. publicly-traded engineering and construction
companies rose 3 percent in the quarter ended March 31 from the
prior period, according to a June 21 report by Wittmann and
other researchers at Baird. This marks the third consecutive
quarter of growth and is similar to the rebound that began in
the fourth quarter of 2003 following three months of
contraction, Baird’s data show.  Backlogs may grow 2.8 percent in the period ending today,
according to a proprietary model Baird developed of forward-
looking indicators. This bodes well for  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,  Jacobs
Engineering Group Inc. (JEC) ,  Quanta Services Inc. (PWR)  and other companies
that benefit when the U.S. moves into the middle and late stages
of a recovery, Wittmann said.  “If you don’t believe the economy is going to ‘double-
dip,’ we recommend increasing allocations to engineering and
construction stocks,” said Wittmann, who predicts they will
outperform industrial shares.  ‘Very Opportune’  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Construction and
Engineering Index has fallen 1.3 percent since Dec. 31, 2010,
while the S&P Supercomposite Industrials Index has risen 5.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Now is a “very opportune time” to invest in these stocks,
particularly companies that specialize in oil- and energy-
related services and do business in  emerging markets , said Andy Kaplowitz, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  A robust pipeline of projects is building, and backlogs
should increase during the next year as customers ramp up
 capital spending , said Kaplowitz, who has covered engineering
and construction companies since 2006 and maintains
“overweight” ratings on Fluor, McDermott International Inc.,
Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. and Foster Wheeler AG.  “This is very much a confidence-driven sector, and
confidence to spend on large infrastructure projects increases
only when the economy is definitively in a recovery,” he said.  Manufacturing Index  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
peaked at 61.4 in February and has since  fallen  to 53.5 in May.
Even with the decline, it has remained above 50 for 22
consecutive months. That’s more than halfway through an average
of 31 months for U.S. expansions since 1960 -- suggesting a
transition into more-moderate, “mid-cycle” growth, according
to Baird’s report.  The ISM index will likely “hover” in a range between 52
and 55 as the economy shifts, according to  Tom Porcelli , chief
U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York. “We’ve
passed the peak in manufacturing activity; it can’t stay at the
levels we saw during the initial stages of the recovery.” June
data will be released tomorrow.  U.S. gross domestic product grew 5 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2009 after the 18-month recession ended the previous
June. Since then, it has averaged 2.6 percent. That
“choppiness” has meant a slower rebound in some parts of the
engineering and construction industry, Kaplowitz said.  ‘Extremely Challenging’  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW) , a  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based builder of
 power plants , lowered its fiscal-year revenue guidance to as
much as $6.5 billion from an estimated $7.2 billion after
reporting lower-than-expected third-quarter revenue of $1.49
billion on June 28. The company had $19.7 billion in backlogs
for the period ended May 31, down 3 percent from the prior year.  “This was an extremely challenging and disappointing
quarter,” Chief Executive Officer James M. Bernhard said in a
statement.  The number of projects still will grow as customers gain
confidence in the recovery’s endurance, Kaplowitz said. In the
meantime, many businesses are actively pursuing global revenue
diversification. The total backlog for Irving, Texas-based
Fluor, the largest publicly traded U.S. construction and
engineering company, grew 45 percent to a record $37.2 billion
in the quarter ended March 31 from a year earlier, Chief
Executive Officer David Seaton said on a May 5 conference call.  Future Commitments  More than three-quarters of the total was for non-U.S.
business, with future commitments tripling in the Asia-Pacific
region and rising 42 percent in the Americas.  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM) , based in  Los Angeles , raised its
fiscal-year earnings guidance to as much as $2.40 a share from
as much as $2.35 a share, citing “an improving global business
environment and our exposure to high-growth emerging and
natural-resource-rich markets,” Chief Financial Officer Michael Burke said in a May 5 statement.  Asian and Latin American economies in particular will grow
“materially faster” than developed countries in the next few
years as their productivity improves and populations expand,
according to  David Hensley , director of global economic
coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Emerging markets are free of “structural headwinds” that
constrain growth and also benefit from government policies that
are “quite supportive” of expansion, he said.  Globalization provides a “cushion” as aggregate demand
continues to improve, Wittmann said. A majority of engineering
and construction companies only recently began reporting
sequential increases in their backlogs, suggesting further gains
are likely in the second quarter and beyond, he said.  “This is usually an indication the cycle has some duration
to its recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in  New York  at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  