-- 
Copper Climbs to Two-Month High on Optimism Greece Won’t Default on Debt

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-30T06:57:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/copper-set-for-second-quarterly-decline-on-concern-global-growth-may-slow.html
Copper climbed to a two-month high,
set for its first monthly gain in four, after  Greece  passed
austerity measures needed to secure financial aid, easing
concern of a default that may destabilize the banking system.  Three-month copper on the  London  Metal Exchange gained for
a third day, rising as much as 0.5 percent to $9,369.50 a metric
ton, the highest price since May 3. The metal last traded at
$9,365 by 2:46 p.m. in Singapore, up 1.6 percent in the past
month on optimism demand in China, the world’s largest metals
user, will improve.  Aluminum and nickel also joined an advance in stocks and
other commodities including oil as the euro rose to a three-week
high against the dollar on prospects the European Central Bank
will raise interest rates next week to cool inflation.  “The weaker  U.S. dollar  and passing of austerity measures
by Greece’s parliament boosted sentiment and demand
expectations,” Lachlan Shaw, an analyst at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, wrote in an e-mail today.  The dollar dropped for a fourth day against a six-currency
basket including the euro before reports forecast to show
European consumer price gains accelerated in June while business
activity in the U.S. cooled. European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet said June 28 policy makers are in “strong
vigilance mode.”  Copper on the Comex in  New York  rose as much as 0.6 percent
to $4.2495 a pound, while metal for September delivery on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange gained as much as 2.5 percent to
69,750 yuan ($10,789) a ton.  Inventories in LME warehouses in  South Korea , Singapore and
Malaysia, the locations nearest to  China , dropped for a ninth
day yesterday to 182,025 tons. Stockpiles have fallen 4.3
percent in the past two weeks.  Quarterly Performance  Copper is still heading for a second quarterly drop, on
concern higher consumer prices may slow growth from China to
 Europe , thus reducing demand for industrial metals.  “Inflation is a problem that isn’t going to go away in the
near term and central banks around the world will have to start
tightening, which will drain the liquidity that helped push
prices up in recent years,” said Liang Haisan, an analyst at
Citic Newedge Futures Co.  Central banks around the world are weighing inflation
against slowing growth after accelerating food costs pushed
consumer prices higher. China has paused for 12 weeks in raising
 interest rates , the longest gap since increases began in
October, as officials gauge the economy’s strength amid the debt
crisis in Europe.  South Korea today cut its growth forecast while raising its
inflation estimates after global demand weakened and energy
costs climbed. The economy will expand 4.5 percent this year,
down from a previous estimate of 5 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
said today. Inflation is expected to rise 4 percent this year,
exceeding an initial 3 percent target.  Aluminum in London climbed 0.2 percent to $2,537 a ton and
nickel gained 0.7 percent to $23,225 a ton. Zinc and lead were
little changed at $2,317.27 a ton and $2,636.75 a ton
respectively, while tin fell 0.2 percent to $25,800 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  