-- 
Corporate Debt Sinks Most in 13 Months on Growth Concerns: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-30T22:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/corporate-debt-sinks-most-in-13-months-on-growth-concerns-mexico-credit.html
Mexican corporate bonds are slumping
the most in 13 months as slowing growth in  Latin America ’s
second-largest economy prompts investors to shun debt sold by
companies from Cemex SAB to Grupo Famsa SAB.  Corporate dollar debt fell 1.26 percent in June, the
biggest monthly loss since May 2010, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. Bonds sold by Brazilian companies were little changed in
June, while Russian corporate notes slid 0.59 percent.  Mexico’s economy grew 2.4 percent in April, the slowest
pace since December 2009, amid faltering export demand from the
U.S., the Latin American nation’s biggest trade partner. Average
corporate borrowing costs jumped 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, in June to 6.40 percent, according to
JPMorgan. Rising yields led Cemex, the largest cement maker in
the Americas, to scrap a $650 million bond sale on June 23.  “ Mexico  continues to be directly affected by the  U.S.
economy , and you aren’t seeing a solid recovery in the U.S.
economy yet,” Alvaro Gonzalez, an emerging-market credit
analyst at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities Llc in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “This is obviously impacting some
industries in Mexico.”  The average yield on Mexican government dollar bonds fell
three basis points in June to 4.73 percent, according to
JPMorgan.  Yields on Cemex’s bonds due in 2020 climbed 70 basis points
in June, the biggest monthly increase since the securities were
sold in May 2010, to 9.47 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The U.S. economy is the Monterrey-based company’s
biggest foreign market. Cemex spokesman  Jorge Perez  didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Growth Outlook  The yield on Grupo Famsa’s notes maturing in 2015 jumped 26
basis points in June, the first monthly increase since the
furniture retailer issued the bonds in July, to 8.47 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hernan Lozano, a
spokesman for Famsa, based in Monterrey, Mexico, declined to
comment.  Federal Reserve officials last week cut their 2011 and 2012
growth forecasts for the U.S. economy, the destination for about
80 percent of Mexico’s exports. The world’s biggest economy will
expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from
April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based on the
median range of projections.  Greece  Concerns  “We had negative manufacturing and housing data coming from
the U.S. and that has reduced somewhat the economic outlook in
Mexico,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Mexico’s corporate debt will rebound as concern eases
regarding the chance Greece will default, driving up the demand
for higher-yielding assets, said Omar Zeolla, an emerging-market
credit analyst at RBS Securities Inc. in Stanford,  Connecticut .  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday clinched
enough votes to pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed
at meeting European Union aid requirements and staving off
default for his debt-laden nation.  “After the vote in Greece, the market will get better,”
Zeolla said in a telephone interview. “The rebound after Greece
could bring some Mexican corporates to try the new-issue market
and it should improve the performance of Mexican corporates.”  Mexican corporate bond offerings in overseas markets have
totaled $8 billion this year, down 49 percent from the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 4 basis points to 107, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points
to 125 basis points at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to JP
Morgan.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 11.7135 per  U.S. dollar . It’s
down 1.2 percent in June, the worst-performing currency in Latin
America.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January fell 3 basis points to 4.94 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate in
February. Mexico is the only major Latin American country to
keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year. Policy makers
said in a statement after their decision to keep  interest rates 
at a record low 4.5 percent on May 27 that there was a
“moderation in the pace” of the expansion.  “Mexico is more linked to global growth and in particular
U.S. growth, and that’s where there has been uncertainty,”
 Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  