-- 
Countrywide Must Still Face MBIA Fraud Claim, New York Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-30T18:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/countrywide-must-still-face-mbia-fraud-claim-ny-court-rules.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and its
Countrywide Financial Corp. unit must face a fraud claim brought
by bond insurer MBIA Insurance Corp., an appeals court ruled.  The New York court today upheld an April 2010 trial-court
denial of Countrywide’s motion to dismiss the claim against it
in the 2008 suit. MBIA alleges that Countrywide fraudulently
obtained insurance on billions of dollars of mortgage-backed
securities.  MBIA claims the lender falsely represented loan-to-value
ratios, debt-to-income ratios and borrowers’ FICO scores;
provided prospectuses that falsely represented loans were made
in compliance with Countrywide’s underwriting standards; and
offered false, misleading or inflated ratings for the loans,
according to the decision.  “Because MBIA alleges misrepresentations of present fact,
and not future intent, made with the intent to induce MBIA to
insure the securitizations, the fraud claim survives,”
Associate Justice Rosalyn H. Richter wrote.  MBIA contends that if it had known the representations were
false, it would never have guaranteed the notes and suffered
losses. As a result of defaults, MBIA alleges, it has been
forced to make billions of dollars in claims payments on the
insurance agreements, according to the decision.  The appeals court also upheld the dismissal of a negligent-
misrepresentation claim in the case. It dismissed entirely a
claim for breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing,
which the lower court narrowed.  Bank Statement  “We continue to believe MBIA is a sophisticated counter-
party that cannot sustain a fraud claim, and we continue to have
the ability to raise that point with the court at the summary-
judgment phase,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, said in an e-mailed statement.  Norton added the bank is pleased the appeals court
confirmed the dismissal of the negligent-misrepresentation claim
and dismissed the good-faith and fair-dealing claim.  MBIA spokesman  Kevin Brown  said in an e-mailed statement
that the insurer was pleased the appeals court “upheld MBIA’s
right to pursue fraud claims against Countrywide, particularly
in light of the growing public recognition of fraud and
misrepresentations perpetrated by Countrywide and other industry
participants.”  The MBIA-Countrywide case isn’t part of the $8.5 billion
proposed settlement by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America with investors in Countrywide Financial mortgage debt,
according to Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of  New York 
Mellon, the trustee for securities in the proposed deal.  The appeal is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home
Loans Inc., New York State  Supreme Court , Appellate Division,
 First Department  ( Manhattan ). The lower-court case is MBIA
Insurance v. Countrywide, 6028245/2008, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  