-- 
Countrywide Bond Investors May Get 9% of Mortgage Losses in ‘Game Changer’

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/countrywide-bond-investors-may-get-9-of-mortgage-losses-in-game-changer-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
payments of $8.5 billion to investors in Countrywide Financial
Corp. mortgage bonds would equal about 9 percent of expected
losses on the underlying loans, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG and Nomura Securities International Inc. analysts.  The deal represents “a potential game changer” for
investor attempts to get compensation for mortgages that never
matched their promised quality, and would affect bonds with
$91.5 billion of projected lifetime losses, Credit Suisse
analysts includingChandrajit Bhattacharya said in a report.
Nomura forecasted losses of $92 billion to $100 billion for the
securities, which had $424 billion in initial balances.  Subprime-mortgage bonds jumped after Bank of America’s
proposed settlement was announced yesterday. The debt had
plunged since May as the  Federal Reserve  auctioned home-loan
bonds once owned by American International Group Inc., helping
to spur losses across broader credit markets earlier this month.  The mortgage  accord  was hammered out between  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America; 22 investors including
 Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.; and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the securities. The
trustee will seek to apply the terms to mortgage debt not held
by the bondholder consortium, thereby affecting a broader group
of investors.  Bank of New York asked a New York state court yesterday to
sanction the agreement, which would be followed by an assessment
of losses on individual loan pools. A firm hired by the trustee
will then help to determine amounts paid on specific bonds.  “We expect that it will take at least five to seven months
before settlement payments can be made,” Nomura analysts
including Paul Nikodem wrote in a report yesterday.  Swap Index  A Markit ABX credit-default swap index tied to subprime-
mortgage bonds rated AAA when issued in 2006 jumped to 49.5
yesterday, compared with the 15-month-low of 46.4 reached June
24, according to London-based administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which signals the levels investors may pay for
subprime bonds in cents on the dollar, had fallen from a two-
and-a-half year high of 62.7 in February. The index had more
than doubled from a record low 28.7 in June 2009.  The settlement over debt sold by Countrywide, which Bank of
America bought in 2008, would compensate investors at about 8
percent of the $106 billion in loans that have either already
defaulted or are now “severely delinquent.” An additional $115
billion of mortgages remain outstanding, according to a
 presentation  by the bank.  Lobby for Payouts  The final amount owed may be “meaningfully” higher as
some investors lobby for greater payouts, according to Chris Gamaitoni, a Compass Point Research and Trading LLC analyst.  Breaches of sellers’ so-called representations and
warranties average about 65 percent to 70 percent on the various
defaulted-loan pools reviewed by Urbandale, Iowa-based Barrent
Group, according to Richard Barrent, its president.  Sellers have agreed to buy back 40 percent to 50 percent of
that amount and most of the rest has become “impasse loans,”
which remain in dispute, he said. The securitized loans studied
by his firm on behalf of bondholders and insurers often
represent an “adverse selection” with especially large losses,
he added.  National Economic Research Associates, a New York-based
consulting firm, will be hired to determine probable loan losses
for pools that are part of the Countrywide agreement. Individual
deals are set to receive a share of the $8.5 billion equal to
the transactions’ portion of total forecasted losses.  Realized Losses  The money will be treated as so-called subsequent
recoveries in determining how it will to be shared among the
various tranches of individual deals, according to RBS
Securities Inc. analysts Paul Jablansky and Ying Wang wrote in a
report yesterday.  That treatment means “the settlement would increase the
amount of interest payable to securities that have taken
realized losses at the expense of more senior securities that
have not yet taken such losses,” the  Stamford , Connecticut-
based analysts said.  The deal would be “positive” for classes of Countrywide
mortgage-bond deals currently receiving payments, according to
the New York-based Credit Suisse analysts. It will particularly
help “senior mezz” pieces of option adjustable-rate-mortgage
bonds and “penultimate” AAA tranches of subprime debt, they
said.  The New York-based Nomura analysts predict that the
payments will have the “greatest yield impact” on so-called
second- and third-pay senior subprime classes and current-pay
Alt-A tranches.  “The settlement will affect other deal tranches through
potentially higher interest payments and/or lower total
writedowns,” they said. “In addition, any potential write-up
of previously written down subordinate tranches could have a
meaningful impact on mezzanine” credit-default swap positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  