-- 
Croatia Wraps Up European Union Talks, Targets Entry in 2013

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-30T17:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/croatia-wraps-up-european-union-talks-targets-entry-in-2013.html
Croatia wrapped up European Union
entry talks, passing a milestone on its route from the ruins of
 Yugoslavia  to the club of advanced western economies.  The country today completed negotiations on the final four
of 35 EU policy areas and set a target of becoming the bloc’s
28th member in the middle of 2013.  Its acceptance into the EU came 20 years and five days
after it broke away from Yugoslavia, at the start of a decade of
civil wars whose legacy continues to hobble the economy of
southeastern  Europe .  “Croatia’s accession will give a powerful signal to the
peoples of the western Balkans,” EU Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule told reporters in Brussels. “Provided that
conditions are met, the door to the European Union is open.”  Slovenia, which declared independence the same day, is the
only ex-Yugoslav republic in the bloc. Serbia, the region’s
largest country, trails the rest in embracing the EU after a
decade of postwar isolation.  Progress toward the EU has lifted  Croatia ’s benchmark
Crobex stock index by 5.7 percent this year. Ten-year Croatian
bonds yield 5.85 percent, on a par with  Poland  and only 40 basis
points more than Spanish bonds.  The final round of talks required Croatia to show it is
ready to uphold EU standards for fighting corruption,
maintaining an independent justice system and policing monopoly
behavior on the free market.  “Because of the talks, Croatia is today a better place for
all its citizens,” Foreign Minister Goran Jandrokovic said.
“The reforms are irreversible, and the efforts cannot be turned
back.”  Next Step  The next step is the signing of the entry treaty in
December, followed by parliamentary ratification in Croatia and
all 27 EU countries. A single veto would derail membership.  Croatia will be able to tap almost 700 million euros ($1
billion) of European infrastructure and farm aid in the second
half of 2013, with bigger subsidies coming later.  Under pressure from the Netherlands, the EU reserved the
right to postpone the entry date in the event that Croatia slips
up in enforcing EU rules, especially on corruption.  EU officials are watching the case of former Prime Minister
Ivo Sanader, now awaiting extradition from  Austria  on suspicion
of abuse of power.  Croatia must deliver “a sustained track record of
substantial results based on efficient, effective and unbiased
investigation, prosecution and court rulings in organized crime
and corruption cases at all levels,” according to a draft EU
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  