-- 
Sharapova Returns to Wimbledon Final With Straight-Set Win Against Lisicki

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-30T16:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/czech-petra-kvitova-defeats-azarenka-to-advance-to-first-wimbledon-final.html
Former champion  Maria Sharapova 
defeated German wild-card Sabine Lisicki to return to the
Wimbledon final.  The Russian, who took the 2004 title when she was 17, won
6-4, 6-3 on Centre Court today. She’ll play Petra Kvitova, who
defeated fourth-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  in the first semifinal,
in two days.  Sharapova, the fifth seed, reached the semifinals at the
 French Open  this month, losing to eventual champion  Li Na .
Sharapova, 24, has reached the final in  London  without dropping
a set.  “It’s amazing to be back in the finals of Wimbledon, it
has been awhile,” Sharapova said in a televised interview.
“She played really well, and I did quite the opposite” at the
start of the match. “It was tough, I had to stay focused.”  Sharapova lost her first service game, with two double
faults. After saving a break-point that would have given the
German a 4-0 lead, Sharapova held serve and broke back in the
following game. Lisicki dropped her serve at 4-4 as she sent a
ground stroke long. After Lisicki saved a set point with a drop
shot, Sharapova won the first set with her first ace.  In the second set, Sharapova went up by two breaks at 3-0
when Lisicki hit a backhand into the net as rain started to
fall. Sharapova dropped serve with her 10th double fault, then
broke back with powerful ground strokes that forced the German
into mistakes.  13 Double Faults  Leading 4-1, Sharapova held serve in the longest game of
the match, fending off three break points. Serving for her
second Wimbledon final at 5-2, Sharapova lost the game on her
13th double fault. She wrapped up the match in the next game
when Lisicki sent a ground stroke long.  Lisicki had four double faults and no aces, compared with
two aces for Sharapova.  The 21-year-old Lisicki hit the fastest serve of the
women’s tournament at 124 miles per hour (199kph), as she ousted
Li in the second round, saving two match points. The German,
ranked 62nd in the world, had 44 aces in her first five matches.  Lisicki reached the quarterfinals two years ago and missed
last year’s Wimbledon with an ankle injury that kept her away
from the tour for five months. She earned a wild-card entry from
the All  England  Club this year after winning a grass-court event
in Birmingham, England, this month.  Highest Earner  Sharapova is the world’s highest-earning female athlete,
getting more than $24 million a year in endorsement income.
She’s won $15.2 million in prize money in her career, 30 percent
more than the three other semifinalists in this year’s
tournament.  Kvitova is “a really tricky player,” Sharapova said.
“She’s a lefty, she plays really good tennis.”  Kvitova became the first Czech woman to reach the finals
of Wimbledon since Jana Novotna in 1998 by beating fourth-seeded
Victoria Azarenka of Belarus 6-1, 3-6, 6-2.  Watched by actor  Robert Redford  from the royal box, the No.
8-seeded Kvitova won the first set in 27 minutes, producing 13
winners and three unforced errors. The momentum shifted in the
second set, when Azarenka broke as Kvitova made several unforced
errors.  “I can’t say anything,” Kvitova, 21, said in a televised
interview. “I don’t believe that I am in the finals of
Wimbledon.”  Kvitova, who trains at the same Czech club as last year’s
men’s runner-up,  Tomas Berdych , broke at her first opportunity
in the third set and went up 4-1 after saving two break points.
She won when Azarenka double-faulted on match point.  Kvitova had 40 winners, compared with nine for her
opponent. Azarenka converted one of eight break points.  “I’m so happy my serve was so good in the third set,”
said Kvitova, who won 73 percent of the points when her first
serve landed in. Azarenka was successful 60 percent of the time.
“Grass is my favorite surface.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  