-- 
Delta Seat Cut May Go Beyond 4% Plan as Airlines’ Gains Slow

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-06-30T20:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/delta-ceo-says-corporate-bookings-have-increased-at-least-10-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  may reduce
seating capacity after the peak summer travel season beyond a
planned 4 percent as carriers including larger rival  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  report slowing revenue growth.  “You continue to look and tweak it and make changes,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in an interview
today after the airline’s annual meeting in New York. Delta will
“continue to match capacity to the demand curve,” he said.  Delta reiterated its 4 percent seat-cut plan target in a
 regulatory filing  this week, saying most of the pullback would
be through a 10 percent to 12 percent reduction on trans-
Atlantic routes. That would reverse previous growth in the
region for the Atlanta-based airline.  A second-quarter gain of 10 percent in Delta’s unit revenue
was “slightly softer” than the unpublished estimate of  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in New York, according to a
note to clients. United said last week that its revenue for each
seat flown a mile rose no more than 4 percent in June, trailing
the 15 percent gain in May.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  said unit revenue rose about
5 percent in the quarter, lagging behind Keay’s estimate of 7.6
percent.  New-Jet Decision  Anderson reiterated plans to make a decision on a narrow-
body jet order before the end of this year, probably sometime
between the Labor Day and Thanksgiving U.S. holidays.  Delta has said it plans to order 100 to 200 planes, plus
options for 200 more, with deliveries starting in 2013. The
company’s fleet had been mostly  Boeing Co. (BA)  airplanes until the
2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines added Airbus SAS jets.  Delta fell 3 cents to $9.17 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 22 percent
in the past year.  Anderson said travel demand in the U.S.,  Latin America  and
 China  is “strong” and sales in Japan are recovering after the
earthquake and tsunami earlier this year.  “The weakness tends to be in Europe,” he said.  Yields, or the average fare for each mile flown, are rising
by at least 10 percent, Anderson said. Corporate bookings also
are up more than 10 percent from a year earlier, even as broader
economic indicators such as gross domestic product forecasts
“aren’t what you’d like them to be.”  Delta, the world’s second-largest airline after Chicago-
based United, plans to trim jobs as it lowers capacity, and has
offered buyouts and early retirement to 55,000 employees in the
U.S. Anderson said he expects to get “a sizable number” of
takers, without providing a specific figure.  Previous voluntary retirement and buyout offers have been
successful at Delta. In June 2008, the company cut 4,000 jobs
through similar methods, double the number it initially
targeted, and more than 2,000 workers accepted buyouts in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in  New York  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 