-- 
Democrats Push Offshore Corporate Tax Changes in Debt Bill

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-06-30T20:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/democrats-push-offshore-corporate-tax-changes-in-u-s-debt-reduction-bill.html
The second-ranking Democrat in the
Senate and the top Democratic tax writer in the House want to
use a deficit-reduction package to make it more difficult for
companies to defer U.S. taxation on income earned elsewhere,
while President  Barack Obama  remains silent on the issue.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois and Representative
Sander Levin of Michigan said a deficit-reduction bill should
end what they call tax breaks that lead companies to ship jobs
overseas. That typically means limiting companies’ ability to
delay taxes on profits earned outside the country until the
money is brought home. Durbin said he presented the idea to
Obama at a meeting yesterday.  “I’ve done that before,” he said in an interview in
Washington today.  Obama included in his fiscal 2012 budget plan $133 billion
in international tax changes, including limits on deferral. He
didn’t mention the proposals during a news conference yesterday
when he called for higher taxes on  oil companies , hedge fund
managers, corporate jet owners, millionaires and billionaires.  Obama frequently mentioned the proposal on the campaign
trail in 2008 and 2010; he stopped using the phrase in speeches
after Republicans took control of the  House of Representatives .
White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  declined to comment today.  Business Opposition  Business groups have long opposed changes that would make
it more difficult to defer income earned outside the U.S. They
say such changes would hurt U.S. companies’ ability to compete
in foreign markets against companies that pay tax only in that
country.  Executives from companies including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  have asked Congress to switch to a
territorial tax system in which profits earned outside the U.S.
would be subject to minimal or no taxation.  “The notion that we would cut back deferral is going in
the complete opposite direction from what is the clearly
emerging consensus of where our corporate tax system ought to
be,” said Kenneth Kies, a tax lobbyist at the Federal Policy
Group in Washington, whose clients include  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   The administration is pushing Congress to include revenue-
raising provisions in a bill that would raise the federal debt
ceiling before Aug. 2, the date when the Treasury projects that
U.S. borrowing authority under the current $14.3 trillion debt
limit will expire. Republicans, who control the House and have
the votes to block proposals in the Senate, say no tax increases
should be included.  ‘Playing with Fire’  In a statement issued after Obama’s news conference
yesterday, Levin listed as his priorities deferral, removal of a
tax benefit for oil and gas companies and a provision that would
raise taxes on the carried interest of private-equity managers.  “Republicans are playing with fire and have a stark
choice: They can adhere to rigid ideology and risk the nation’s
economy or they can accept a balanced approach that includes
closing tax loopholes,” he said.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, one of the
Democrats’ negotiators in the deficit talks led by Vice
President  Joe Biden , said on Bloomberg Television June 24 that
Democrats were offering Republicans a menu of tax proposals.  “We have certainly looked at deferral in the past because
we want to stop rewarding companies for shipping jobs
overseas,” he said. “We think we should be shipping American
products overseas. But we haven’t been demanding that.”  ‘Formal Contacts’  Durbin also said today that Senate Democratic leaders made
“formal contacts” with business leaders today “to tell them
about the seriousness” of the deadline to strike a deficit-
reduction agreement and to enlist their help.  “I’m hoping that the business community will finally stand
up and say to the Republican leaders: ‘This is serious,’” he
said. “Aug. 2 isn’t something we can toy with. If -- in the
middle of July -- 30 bond traders up in  New York  decide this may
not pass, we’re going to see an impact on our economy and on
 interest rates , and it will be devastating. We cannot wait for
that to occur.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  