-- 
Dendreon Wins Final Medicare Coverage Decision on Prostate Cancer Drug

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-30T21:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/dendreon-wins-final-medicare-coverage-decision-on-prostate-cancer-drug.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s prostate cancer
medicine Provenge should be covered by the U.S. health plan for
the elderly and disabled, regulators said, confirming a proposal
from March.  The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services issued a final
 ruling  today saying the $93,000 treatment is “reasonable and
necessary” for men with advanced, prostate tumors resistant to
hormone therapy who have minimal or no symptoms. The decision is
in line with prescribing information for the drug approved in
April 2010.  Medicare reimbursement is critical for Seattle-based
Dendreon as three-quarters of the men approved for Provenge are
eligible for the government health plan because they are ages 65
or older. The ruling is the second catalyst in as many days for
the company after the Food and Drug Administration yesterday
cleared a new manufacturing plant in  Los Angeles .  “CMS gathered comments and feedback and we do not expect
material change to the fundamental conclusion, which is that
Provenge is medically necessary and clinically beneficial for
patients,”  Michael Yee  and  Jason Kantor , analysts from RBC
Capital Markets in  San Francisco , said yesterday in a note to
clients. They have an “outperform” rating on the shares.  Dendreon rose $1.45, or 3.7 percent, to $40.89 at 5:03 p.m.
in extended trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after closing
down $1.06, or 2.6 percent. The shares have fallen 29 percent
from a peak of $55.43 on May 3 on reimbursement and supply
concerns.  Drug Program  Provenge will be covered as a drug under Medicare’s Part B
program when it’s administered in a doctor’s office or hospital
outpatient department, the agency said. Analysts such as  Mark Schoenebaum  of ISI Group in  New York  said earlier today that
reimbursement may be lower if Provenge was covered as a service
or supply rather than a drug.  The Baltimore agency that regulates Medicare began its
review of Provenge last June after regional contractors voiced
concerns about potential use beyond the approved patient
population. Medicare coverage will help sales of Provenge reach
$2.09 billion by 2014, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Provenge is the first medicine that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as it would a virus. The
 therapy  involves extracting white blood cells from a patient,
mixing them with vaccine components and delivering the
combination as an infusion. The one-time treatment lasts one
month with three doses, each given two weeks apart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 