-- 
Denmark’s FSA Says Biggest Banks Not at Risk After Bail-Ins

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-30T10:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/denmark-s-fsa-says-biggest-banks-not-at-risk-after-bail-ins.html
Denmark’s financial regulator said
the country’s biggest banks have enough capital to withstand the
fallout from a spate of failures amongst regional lenders as
creditors balk at  Europe ’s toughest bank resolution laws.  “It is our strong belief that the amount of lending
between banks does not constitute a substantial loan-loss risk
to the bigger banks if we are to see more defaults,” Ulrik Noedgaard, the director general at the Copenhagen-based
Financial Supervisory Authority, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Last week’s failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S, which had about
$1.4 billion in deposits, triggered senior creditor losses for a
second time since Amagerbanken A/S’s February collapse. Since
then, the Copenhagen Interbank Offered rate reached a 20-month
high while credit-default swaps on senior debt sold by Danske
Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender, yesterday hit the highest
since 2009. Moody’s Investors Service last month downgraded six
Danish banks, including Danske, citing an absence of state
support and warned long-term funding costs will rise.  “The bigger banks are putting the crisis behind them after
having done the necessary write downs'' and boosting capital,
Noedgaard said. “That will not be altered by a group of small 
and mid-sized lenders having funding problems.”  Shares Gain  Danske Bank shares rose 2.7 percent to 94.30 kroner at
12:17 p.m. in Copenhagen. Shares of Jyske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s
second-biggest lender, gained 2.1 percent to 200.40 kroner,
while the No. 3 bank, Sydbank A/S, advanced 0.7 percent to
114.20 kroner. The 49-member Bloomberg Index of European
financial stocks rose 0.6 percent.  Danske Bank in March issued 20 billion kroner ($3.9
billion) in shares. The extra equity will bring the bank’s Core
Tier 1 capital ratio to about 12.4 percent of risk-weighted
assets from 10 percent, it said on May 10. The bank has seen a
“marginal” increase in debt funding costs since Amagerbanken’s
failure, Chief Executive Officer Peter Straarup said last month.  Fjordbank Mors said last week the FSA gave it a June 26
deadline to meet a 16 percent solvency requirement after deeming
the lender’s 9.7 percent too low. It sought state aid on June 24
after announcing it would be unable to raise the extra 700
million kroner needed to meet the regulator’s demands. The
failure cost the Danish Depositors Guarantee Scheme 1.3 billion
kroner, representing a 460 million-krone loss before tax for
Danske Bank, according to an estimate by Nordea Markets analyst
Simon Christensen. The loss will shave about 5 percent of the
bank’s 2011 net profit, he said.  Market ‘Spooked’  “Though the big banks are not directly exposed, the way”
the bank resolution package “is set up, investors worry if
there are more costs hidden if more banks collapse,” said Nick Davey, an analyst at UBS Ltd. in  London .  He says the FSA’s handling of Denmark’s latest bank failure
unsettled markets. The difference between Cibor and Euribor held
at the widest in two months today, at 5.8 basis points.  “What got people spooked in this instance was a question
of solvency, not of liquidity,” Davey said. “If you go in
overnight and, as the Danish FSA did, increase the write-down
requirements and solvency needs of a bank, you create a massive
solvency challenge rather than a liquidity issue.”  Denmark’s fourth-largest lender, Spar Nord Bank A/S, said
June 28 it isn’t approaching bond investors outside the Nordic
country because the “dust hasn’t yet settled” after
Amagerbanken’s failure more than four months ago.  Government Measures  The government is considering how to ensure that investors
outside Denmark don’t punish the country’s bank industry for its
bankruptcy laws, Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen said,
according to Reuters Finans. Mikkelsen’s spokesman Erik
Ljunggren didn’t respond to phone calls seeking confirmation.  The Borsen newspaper today reported that a majority of
lawmakers would reject any new bank guarantee that put taxpayer
funds at risk. The government is mulling a proposal that would
allow it either to purchase bad bank debt to commercial
construction and agriculture or to buy bonds that banks need to
repay their creditors if they’re acquired, Denmark’s biggest
newspaper Jyllands-Posten reported today, without saying how it
obtained the information. The latter option would encourage bank
mergers, the newspaper said.  The state winding-up unit, Financial Stability, said late
yesterday it recalculated losses triggered by Amagerbanken’s
failure and now expects creditors will be able to recoup 84.4
percent of their holdings, versus an earlier estimate of 58.8
percent. Fjordbank Mors holders of senior, unsecured claims face
a 26 percent loss, Financial Stability said.  “Fjordbank Mors is bad news for the market,” Noedgaard
said. “In the end, markets will decide if the bigger Danish
banks will see their funding affected by what happened to
Fjordbank Mors and Amagerbanken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  