-- 
Derek Jeter’s Rehab Stop Making Trenton Thunder Baseball’s Hot Ticket

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-06-30T18:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/derek-jeter-s-rehab-stop-making-trenton-thunder-baseball-s-hot-ticket.html
Derek Jeter ’s first steps back
toward 3,000 career hits should take place this weekend before a
sellout crowd, about 60 miles down the  New Jersey Turnpike  from
his usual home in the Bronx.  The  Trenton Thunder , the Double-A affiliate of the  New York
Yankees , have sold out the July 2 night game in anticipation of
Jeter starting a rehabilitation assignment.  Jeter, the Yankees’ 37-year-old shortstop and captain,
hasn’t played since straining his right calf on June 13 and is
six hits shy of 3,000 for his Major League Baseball career.  Though the Thunder haven’t been notified that Jeter will be
with the team this weekend, Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said yesterday that in the best-case scenario, Jeter
would begin his assignment in Trenton against the Altoona Curve,
probably with the third game of the four-game series that begins
tonight.  “Just based on the speculation, we are standing-room-only
for Saturday night, and Sunday is getting close already,”
Thunder spokesman Bill Cook said today in a telephone interview.
“Overnight here especially, we’ve seen a lot of tickets move.”  Trenton’s 6,150-seat Mercer County Waterfront Park has
averaged 5,277 fans a game this season, Cook said. This
weekend’s games will have increased security to match the
demand, he said.  “For a guy of Jeter’s stature, obviously, security is a
concern,” Cook said. “With the big crowd, we’ll ramp up
everything for an event like these are going to be.”  Set to Move  Jeter worked out today in Tampa,  Florida , and said he was
set to play.  “I feel a lot better,” Jeter said on the Yankees’
website. “I’m ready to get out of (Tampa) now.”  Jeter told the  Associated Press  he would be with the
Thunder on July 2 and 3, then rejoin the Yankees on July 4 for
their road series against the  Cleveland Indians .  There is no protocol or timetable for the Yankees notifying
the Thunder when Jeter’s assignment will begin, Cook said, and
Yankees spokesman Jason Latimer said in a telephone interview
that the major-league club had no announcement on the
shortstop’s next move  On the Yankees’ website, Cashman said Jeter had “tested
pretty good” through yesterday’s workouts.  “If all goes well, he could be looking at a rehab
assignment as early as Saturday,” the general manager said.  The largest baseball crowd in the history of Waterfront
Park also was drawn by a Yankee star on a short-term assignment.  Clemens’ Draw  An appearance by  Roger Clemens  with the Thunder in 2007,
when he was coming out of retirement during the season,
attracted a crowd of 9,134. Jeter’s rehab assignment from a
shoulder injury in 2003 drew the second-, fourth- and fifth-
largest crowds, and Cook said it was too early to tell if the
shortstop’s latest visit could top the mark.  “With Clemens, we had so much more notice, but these
tickets are flying right now, so who knows,” he said.  Jeter was hitting .260 with two home runs and 39 runs
scored before the injury. This is his first stint on the
disabled list since his shoulder injury eight years ago. The
Yankees captain has begun running bases and taking ground balls,
manager  Joe Girardi  said in a press conference yesterday.  “He’s definitely going in the right direction,” Girardi
said. He added that Jeter’s calf “was not full strength.”  The Thunder play in the Eastern League and are 46-32, one
game behind the first-place New Hampshire Fisher Cats, a Toronto
Blue Jays affiliate, in the Eastern division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  