-- 
Derivatives Watchdog Should Streamline Quest for 51 Rules: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-30T04:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/derivatives-watchdog-should-streamline-quest-for-51-rules-view.html
Gary Gensler , the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. partner now heading the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission , has never been a dawdler. So it was
unnerving to see the CFTC miss a major deadline for its biggest
project: redefining derivatives markets to prevent a repeat of
2008-style mayhem.  The CFTC says it now needs until year-end to finish
regulations that had been due in mid-July. Outside experts, such
as Stanford University finance professor  Darrell Duffie , think
longer delays are likely. Meanwhile, Republican opposition is
mounting, as seen by Kentucky Senator  Mitch McConnell ’s recent
declaration that “anything we can do to slow down, deter or
impede” the regulators’ agenda would be “good for our country.”  The senator is wrong: The CFTC’s rule-making efforts are
needed to tame the largely unregulated market for over-the-
counter derivatives, where $300 trillion of contracts trade in
the U.S. alone. Such markets remain highly opaque; information
about transaction prices, trading volume and collateral is
scanty or outdated. Although it’s not unreasonable to ask for
six more months, the CFTC should enact its core ideas by the end
of this year. Fine-tuning can come later.  It’s important to remember that the upheaval of 2008,
involving credit-default swaps tied to the U.S. housing market,
could happen again. Back then, after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
couldn’t make good on its swaps obligations. Only a $182 billion
federal infusion kept AIG’s woes from wrecking other firms, and
the global economy.  Ambitious Road Map  The CFTC’s road map so far is ambitious and intricate,
involving 51 proposals. In some cases, the agency is trying to
write such a detailed script for how markets should work that it
isn’t leaving enough room for participants to sort out what
structures will work best. As potential market participants
(including Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News)
have pointed out in comment letters, allowing more flexibility
could help get to the finish line faster.  To improve trade execution, for example, the CFTC is trying
too hard to model new derivatives exchanges -- they go by the
balky term “swap execution facilities” -- on existing stock and
futures exchanges. Swaps aren’t like stocks, or even exchange-
listed futures. Many are custom-made for one company; some are
contracts that last decades and rarely change hands. More
important, there are few if any retail investors to protect in
the swaps markets.  Flexible Approach  The  Securities and Exchange Commission , which shares
authority with the CFTC over swaps regulation and has vast
institutional knowledge about what makes a successful exchange,
has adopted a more flexible approach for the instruments under
its jurisdiction. The SEC’s rules would allow creative new
market structures to emerge, instead of a one-size-fits-all
regime.  To improve price transparency, a worthy model already
exists: the  TRACE  reporting system for corporate bonds. Set up
in 2002, the Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine provides
details of corporate bond deals within 15 minutes. Posting bond
prices on the website of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority effectively restrains bond dealers from charging
excessive markups to customers. A 2006 academic study concluded
that trading costs declined by about 50 percent, saving $1
billion a year.  A similar system could provide swaps prices within minutes
of a deal’s completion. This would help lower costs for
corporate customers, which use derivatives to offset the risk
that  interest rates , commodity prices or exchange rates might
move against them.  Global Regulator  The CFTC is also caught up in a protracted tussle about
registration rules for U.S. banks’ foreign branches. The Dodd-
Frank financial reform law doesn’t provide a clear roadmap for
who should oversee, say, a derivatives transaction written in
 London  between the British arm of Citigroup and an Irish unit of
Google. To prevent derivatives business from gravitating to
countries with the laxest rules, the thinking went, some CFTC
rules might need extraterritorial reach.  Yet closer coordination with non-U.S. regulators may be a
more practical way of making sure standards stay high worldwide.
That would avoid legal headaches that arise when the U.S. tries
to impose its rules on other countries.  Market regulation is always a work in progress. Long delays
at the CFTC wouldn’t just leave market participants in limbo;
too slow a pace also opens the door for politicians to hobble
the commission itself. Worse, allowing the perfect to be the
enemy of the good risks another AIG-style crisis.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 