-- 
Deutsche Bank Leads French Market With Nomura, JPMorgan as Stock Sales Ebb

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-30T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/deutsche-bank-leads-french-market-with-nomura-jpmorgan-as-stock-sales-ebb.html
Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. were catapulted to top equity
underwriters in  France  this year, the first time they’ve headed
the list in at least 12 years, thanks to one deal.  In the year’s largest stock transaction in France, the
three banks helped sell about 1.15 billion euros ($1.66 billion)
of Legrand SA shares for private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. and Paris-based Wendel.  The outlook for stock sales is gloomy as investors are
spooked by the Greek debt crisis and a rash of French sales
completed in 2009 leaves few deals ready to be brought to the
market. Two French initial public offerings were canceled this
year by companies citing poor market conditions.  “Investors are sitting on their hands and don’t really
want to get involved in the market right now,” said Sylvie Sauton, head of equity capital markets for France at JPMorgan in
London. “A lot of IPOs haven’t performed well so investors have
found it difficult to make money on the deals. It’s better for
companies to wait and come back at a later stage.”  Deutsche Bank was No. 10 in the French market in first half
of last year, while Nomura and JPMorgan didn’t rank among the
top 18.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which was the top underwriter
of French equities in the first half in 2010, tumbled to the No.
11 spot, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
is still No. 1 for global and European equity sales this year.  Wilting Market  Companies raised 2.84 billion euros in share sales, equity-
linked issues and rights offerings in France in the first six
months, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with 24.8
billion euros in the first half of 2001 and 11.85 billion euros
in the first half of 2009.  “There’s not a large enough number of candidates in France
mature enough to do IPOs now,” said Valery Barrier, Paris-based
managing director responsible for  equity capital markets  in
France for Deutsche Bank. “Candidates are few and the market is
volatile. IPO activity in France is nonexistent.”  The German market has fared better. The number of IPOs that
were priced in  Germany  in the first half rose to 11 from five in
the same period last year.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 7.2 percent from its high
for this year on Feb. 17 as  Japan ’s earthquake caused the
biggest nuclear accident since Chernobyl, U.S. economic data
trailed forecasts and concern deepened that  Greece  may default
on its debt. The index has fallen for the past eight weeks.  Canceled IPOs  The Bloomberg European IPO Index, which measures the
performance of stocks during their first publicly traded year,
has declined more than 30 percent in 2011 as Pandora A/S, a
Danish jewelry maker, slid more than 50 percent and  Flybe Group
Plc (FLYB) , the U.K.’s biggest domestic airline, fell 42 percent.  There were 16 equity and equity-linked issues in France in
the first half, down from 25 in the same period last year. The
number of announced IPOs in France doubled in the first half to
14 over the same period last year, Bloomberg data show. The
number of priced deals, however, fell to six.  Last month, Cie. de Saint-Gobain pulled its $1.1 billion
IPO of its packaging unit Verallia and  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  in March
delayed the offering of its Canal Plus France stake. JPMorgan
had been a bookrunner on both deals.  Saint Gobain, Europe’s biggest supplier of building
materials, pulled its offering on June 20 because of market
conditions. The move came five days after Verallia’s competitor
Owens-Illinois Inc. cut its forecast for profit margins.  ‘Distortion’  Lagardere, France’s largest publisher, postponed the sale
of Canal Plus France shares in March. A month earlier, people
with knowledge of the matter said the company may raise more
than 1.35 billion euros from the IPO.  In the Legrand deal, Nomura, Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan
sold shares through accelerated book building to institutional
investors. The block trade gave each bank about 14 percent share
of the market.  “There wasn’t one single big transaction last year, so
there wasn’t the same distortion,” said Alasdair Warren,
Goldman Sachs’s London-based head of ECM for Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa . “Most people look at the French and Benelux
markets together, and Goldman was involved in two of the three
largest deals this year.”  Goldman Sachs was the global coordinator on a 490 million-
euro rights offer by  Belgium ’s Nyrstar and the main adviser on
the 2.1 billion-euro spinoff of Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal’s
Aperam stainless-steel unit.  Market Outlook  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA had the next biggest piece of the pie
in France after Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and Nomura, with a
market share of 10 percent and five equity and equity-linked
transactions. The Paris-based bank was ranked second at the end
of the first half last year and finished the year in the first
position with 17 percent of the market and 15 issues.  “Our objective is to remain in our top spot position,”
said Laurent Morel, global head of ECM at Societe Generale
Corporate & Investment Banking in Paris. “The competition is
intense, but I’m confident. We have a team dedicated to small
and mid-cap deals in France, which helps us to keep a high level
of activity in this domestic market.”  The top 17 underwriters for French sales have handled six
equity-linked deals, seven offerings of additional shares and
three IPOs so far this year, according to Bloomberg data.  The outlook for this year’s market will depend on the
outcome of Greece’s sovereign debt crisis, the bankers said. The
Greek government is trying to push through austerity measures
that are critical to ensure the cash-strapped nation can tap
loan payments from last year’s 110 billion-euro rescue.  “Things will be very quiet until September,” said Jerome Renard, managing director and co-head of the European equity
capital markets team at Nomura in  London . “The rest of the year
will depend on the evolution of the macro environment and news
flow over the summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 