-- 
Disaster Victims Enjoy Cleanup Reprieve on U.S. Holiday Weekend

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e ,   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   T o m   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-30T14:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/disaster-victims-enjoy-cleanup-reprieve-on-u-s-holiday-weekend.html
There will be fireworks this
 Independence Day  in Joplin,  Missouri .  The city is going ahead with its “Rockin’ 4th of July”
event north of downtown with double the normal fireworks, even
as Fire Chief Mitch Randles has banned pyrotechnics in an eight-
mile (12 kilometer) swath devastated by a May 22 tornado because
of the “overwhelming amount of combustible material,” said
Lynn Onstot, a spokesman.  “It doesn’t mean that we still don’t have a big mess to
clean up,” said  J. Friedel , pastor of  St. Peter the Apostle
Catholic Church , in a telephone interview from Joplin. “What it
does mean is that it’s not all drudgery in the midst of the
mess, and there’s life even in the midst of the suffering.”  The nation’s annual birthday celebration will also provide
a respite from disaster recovery in Vicksburg,  Mississippi ,
which suffered its worst flooding since 1927 last month, and in
Alabama, where April 27 tornadoes killed 243 people, injured
more than 2,200 and destroyed or damaged about 23,000 homes.  In Joplin, the toll from one of the deadliest tornadoes in
U.S. history reached 156 on June 22 after Grace M. Sanders died
from her injuries, according to the city. The twister destroyed
8,000 building units and damaged about a third of the city of
50,000, Onstot said.  President  Barack Obama  has authorized 90 percent federal
funding for debris removal through Aug. 7 from the area hit
hardest, the city said. That area is 2,700 acres, or about three
times the size of  New York City ’s Central Park, and about 25
percent of the estimated 3 million cubic yards of rubble left by
the tornado has been removed so far, Jay Field, a spokesman for
the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, said in a June 27 e-mail.  Long Recovery  The cost of the damage may reach $3 billion, and while
there is only debris in some areas, about 200 storm-damaged
businesses have reopened, said Rob O’Brian, president of the
 Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce .  “I don’t think anyone is diminishing the fact that this
will be a long recovery,” O’Brian said in a telephone interview
from Joplin. “But I think just the progress in the first month
has been very encouraging.”  In Vicksburg, about 214 homes and 45 businesses are being
replaced or renovated after the  Mississippi River  exceeded flood
stage for 75 days, Fire Chief Charles Atkins said. Among the
hardest-hit areas was the Kings neighborhood in north Vicksburg,
where dozens of homes were submerged, said Victor Gilliam,
director of the Kings Community Empowerment Center.  After the Flood  “A few people have moved back into homes, but the majority
are just cleaning, repairing and deciding what to do,” said
Gilliam, 49, whose home in the neighborhood had six feet of
water. “Many people are relocating or tearing down their homes
and planning to put in a mobile home.”  Flood waters came within four inches of topping levees
stretching into central Mississippi without major breaches,
marking a huge victory for the Delta region, said Peter Nimrod,
chief engineer for the Mississippi Levee Board. Levee failures
would have caused more than 1 million acres of mostly
agricultural land to flood, he said.  While the Mississippi hasn’t tallied statewide damage
estimates, the most severe flooding occurred near Tunica and
Vicksburg, said Jeff Rent, spokesman for the Mississippi
Emergency Management Agency.  Tarps and Backhoes  In  Alabama , blue tarps, backhoes, dump trucks and debris
remain the dominant features of the state’s post-tornado
landscape. The house where Marvin Williams lived for 31 years in
the Drift Track neighborhood in Birmingham’s Pratt City
community was nothing but a mound of rubble last week.  On a recent visit to extract tools from the wreckage,
Williams, a disabled auto repairman, said he and his wife,
Deborah, would like to rebuild. The obstacle is financing.  “We didn’t have any insurance and our credit was kinda
messed up,” said Williams, who added that he couldn’t get a
loan from the  Small Business Administration .  The 56-year-old said another option might be Habitat for
Humanity, or a loan program from the city. Until then, he and
his wife and stepdaughter plan to live in an apartment.  With a $30,200 grant from the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency , they’ve already bought furniture and a used Chevrolet
Tahoe, though Williams said those items matter little in the
grand scheme.  “Even if we can’t replace everything, we’re still doing
good,” he said. “We’re living.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  