-- 
Walt Disney Among 62 U.S. Companies to Land Family-Firm Fireworks Waiver

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/disney-joins-zambelli-in-landing-family-firm-fireworks-waiver.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  is among 62
companies getting a break from U.S. limits on truck-driver work
hours that’s intended to help communities put on Independence
Day fireworks shows.  The rule waiver allows Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S.
Inc., based in Lake Buena Vista,  Florida , and other operators of
July 4 displays to keep drivers on duty more than the federal
maximum of 14 hours a day, according to a June 28 notice in the
Federal Register.  “We have a very narrow window of opportunity to do our
business,” said Julie Heckman, executive director of the
 American Pyrotechnics Association , a Bethesda, Maryland-based
trade group for fireworks operators. “We don’t get July 5.”  Disney is the only publicly traded company getting an
exemption. Most others are small, family-owned businesses that
rely on seasonal workers to make the shows happen, Heckman said.  The  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration , which
grants the exemptions, gave them to nine companies for the first
time. Disney and 52 others had them renewed.  One company on the list,  Zambelli Fireworks  of  New Castle ,
 Pennsylvania , has staged fireworks displays in New York harbor,
Mt. Rushmore, major league baseball games and state fairs,
according to the company website. It’s producing July 4th
celebrations in Philadelphia, Phoenix,  Cleveland ,  Kansas City ,
 Missouri  and 16 other cities.  Sandy McStay, a Zambelli spokeswoman, referred questions to
the pyrotechnics association.  Disney ‘Flexibility’  The association sought exemptions for all members who
wanted one, Heckman said. Some companies that don’t put on shows
asked to be included on the industry request, “just in case”
they needed to exceed the 14-hour workday, Heckman said.  Referring to Disney, she said, “We don’t know why they’re
on the list. There are some companies on this request that don’t
even need it.”  Disney shoots off fireworks daily at its Magic Kingdom,
Epcot and Disney’s Hollywood Studios theme parks in its resort
complex outside  Orlando , Florida.  “As an APA member, the exemption gives us flexibility
during a period when we’ve added shows for the July 4 holiday,
but at this point we’re not planning to use it,” Andrea Finger,
a spokeswoman for Walt Disney World Resort, said.  Finger declined to say how many trucks or drivers the
company uses for the displays or how many fireworks are
consumed.  In its original request for special treatment, in 2004, the
pyrotechnics group argued that without exemptions, fireworks
operators would have to hire more than one driver to get
deliveries set up in time for July 4, which would be
“economically prohibitive for these companies.”  Safety Advocates  The truck drivers, who must be trained in shipping
hazardous materials, also set up displays for many fireworks
companies, Heckman said. The duty-time exemption allows drivers
to deliver and set up in several communities, Heckman said.  Drivers still aren’t allowed to exceed the maximum 11 hours
a day behind the wheel. The exemption lasts from June 28 through
July 8.  Costs would double if additional drivers had to be hired,
so a town now spending $7,500 would have to spend $15,000,
possibly making shows unaffordable or forcing communities to
hold them before July 4, Heckman said.  Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, a Washington-based
alliance of insurance companies and consumer groups, argued in
2009 that the fireworks industry hadn’t backed up its assertions
about scheduling difficulties. Research shows that the riskiest
period for drivers is after they’ve been doing other work
outside the truck and then return to the wheel at the end of the
workday, said Henry Jasny, vice president and senior counsel.  ‘Extremely Limited’  “You’re forcing these drivers to drive in high-risk
situations when they’re tired at night, when they’re carrying
hazardous materials,” Jasny said. “That’s a problem.”  The fireworks industry argued there have been no reported
accidents since the Transportation Department first granted an
Independence Day exemption in 2004.  Including Disney on the exemption list is a “glaring
error,” Jasny said. “That raises the question about how many
of these companies are really doing what APA is claiming.”  The motor-carrier administration, which regulates truck
safety,  agreed with the fireworks industry’s contention that
there are a limited number of suitably trained hazardous-
materials drivers available, said Duane DeBruyne, an agency
spokesman.  “The period immediately before, and immediately after the
4th of July, is the one with the greatest demand,” DeBruyne
said. “This exemption is extremely limited -- both in practice
and in duration.”  Helping America Celebrate  A typical driver would be on the road early in the morning,
when traffic is light, set up during the day, help manage the
show, and then return the fireworks truck back to the company at
the end of the show, the agency said in the Federal Register. If
bound by the 14-hour workday, truckers carrying loads of
explosives might have to park their rigs in public overnight,
the agency said.  Hiring extra drivers for the July 4th period might add $150
per day in costs, or $1,500 to $1,800 for work that takes
several days, said Felix Grucci Jr., executive vice president of
Fireworks by Grucci in Brookhaven,  New York . The company will
use about 100 trucks carrying 8,000 to 10,000 boxes of fireworks
in all during the holiday period.  “Exemptions help the industry, and when it helps the
industry it helps America celebrate the Fourth of July,” Grucci
said. “If we’re not paying attention to safety, we’re out of
business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 