-- 
Dodgers Said to Tell Monitor Not to Interfere With Team’s Operations

-- B y   S t e v e   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-01T04:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/dodgers-said-to-tell-monitor-not-to-interfere-with-team-s-operations.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers warned the
monitor appointed by  Major League Baseball  to oversee the team
not to interfere with its operations, saying in a letter he
would be violating a bankruptcy court order, a person familiar
with the document said.  The letter cited a routine order in all bankruptcy cases
known as the automatic stay, which temporarily halts lawsuits
while a company tries to reorganize under court protection,
according to the person, who has seen the letter and wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about it.  In April, Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said he was
appointing a representative to oversee the team’s business and
day-to-day operations because of “deep concerns regarding the
finances and operations of the Dodgers.” He later named Thomas Schieffer, former president of the  Texas  Rangers, as the team’s
monitor.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Selig
rejected owner  Frank McCourt ’s proposed television-rights deal
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. The team may start trying to find
a buyer for their future cable TV rights “very soon,” Dodgers
attorney Bruce Bennett said yesterday in an interview.  A successful auction of the future rights would keep
McCourt in control of the team and allow it to exit bankruptcy,
said attorney Thomas Salerno, who represented the  Phoenix
Coyotes  in its bankruptcy court fight with the  National Hockey
League .  Current Contract  The bankrupt team’s current contract with Fox includes an
agreement that the Dodgers “shall not solicit offers from or
negotiate with any person or entity (other than Fox Sports) for
cable television rights with respect to any future games at any
time preceding Nov. 30, 2012,” according to court records. In
court papers the current owner of cable rights is known as Fox
Sports Net West 2 LLC.  The contract with Fox “could be a stumbling block,”
Douglas G. Baird, a  University of Chicago  law professor
specializing in bankruptcy, said in an interview. “It’s going
to be something they have to navigate around.”  The Dodgers “will endeavor to avoid breaches and mitigate
damages” related to the current Fox Sports agreement, Bennett
said in an interview June 28. An auction overseen by the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  will not necessarily breach the Fox agreement,
Bennett said.  Confidential Deal  Fox Sports considers their current television-rights deal
confidential, attorney Paul Laurin told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin Gross June 28 during the Dodgers’ first bankruptcy court
hearing. Laurin didn’t return a call for comment. Chris
Bellitti, a spokesman for Fox, did not return a call for
comment.  Holding an auction and entertaining competing bids without
support from Fox Sports may be difficult, bankruptcy attorney
Bryan Krakauer, with the law firm Sidley Austin LLP, said in an
e-mail.  “If the debtors presently have positive net worth, it may
be difficult to justify any breach of the Dodgers’ existing
media contract, which would create a large damage claim and
possibly wipe out equity and dilute general creditor
recoveries,” Krakauer said.  Krakauer represents the bankrupt newspaper publisher,
Tribune Co., and helped design the sale of that company’s
controlling stake in the Chicago Cubs baseball team.  MLB Rules  Major League Baseball will argue that it has a right to
approve a new TV contract under its rules, Salerno said. Similar
legal arguments were made in the cases of the Phoenix Coyotes
and the  Texas Rangers , the only other teams to fight their
leagues in bankruptcy court, he said.  In the Coyotes case, the National Hockey League won,
convincing a judge to reject a sale that would have moved the
hockey team to  Canada . In the Texas Rangers case, the judge
approved a sale to MLB’s preferred buyer, although he issued an
important warning that could apply to the Dodgers case, Salerno
said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge D. Michael Lynn in  Fort Worth ,
Texas, ruled that he had authority to overrule the league should
the owners fail to consider a competing bidder in “good
faith.”  That good faith standard would apply to the league’s
opposition to a sale of the Dodgers TV rights, Salerno said.  A successful auction would fix the Dodgers’ temporary cash
crunch and provide money McCourt can use to try to settle a
battle with his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, for control of the team.
The Dodgers said in court papers that the original Fox Sports
deal would have provided $55 million of the $100 million Jamie
McCourt had agreed to accept should she lose her divorce court
fight for half the team.  Expedite Reorganization  “A trial on ownership rights actually might expedite the
reorganization as Ms. McCourt has made it clear that the club
should be sold and she likely will have an ally in MLB if things
move in this direction,” bankruptcy attorney Kristopher Hansen
said in an e-mail.  Laura Davis Jones, a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, declined to
comment.  On June 28, the Dodgers won court approval to use as much
as $60 million of a bankruptcy loan after agreeing to remove a
deadline that would have required an auction within six months.
Major League Baseball opposed the deadline.  The league’s main goal at the hearing was to stop the
Dodgers from trying to auction the broadcast rights, MLB lawyer
 Tom Lauria  said. Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  on June 20
rejected a proposed deal with News Corp.’s Fox Sports, leaving
the Dodgers unable to make payroll, the team said.  Financial Stability  McCourt said the 17-year agreement, valued by him at about
$3 billion, would have assured the team’s financial stability.  Although the deadline has been removed from the loan terms,
the team still has the right to propose an auction while under
court protection, Bennett said.  The rejected Fox Sports agreement included a $385 million
loan, of which $211.5 million was to go toward the team’s
operations and working capital, according to court papers.  Baseball said it was withholding approval of a new TV
contract until completing an investigation into the club and its
finances. On June 20, Selig said he was rejecting the
transaction, saying in a statement that it “would have the
effect of mortgaging the future of the franchise to the long-
term detriment of the club and its fans.”  Uncertain Future  The legal fights mean the Dodgers can’t be certain about
their future, Hansen said.  “Due to the pressure that Ms. McCourt can exert over Mr.
McCourt” and the non-bankrupt holding companies, the Dodgers
“may not have enough time to play out the auction option,”
Hansen said.  “I don’t know that the Dodgers know what the endgame to
their case is,” he said in an interview.  The Dodgers listed assets of as much as $1 billion and debt
of as much as $500 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  