-- 
Dunkin’ Said to Seek About $500 Million in Initial Offer

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-30T21:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/dunkin-brands-said-to-seek-about-500-million-in-initial-offer.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. may seek
to raise about $500 million in its initial public offering, said
two people with knowledge of the situation, 25 percent more than
the coffee-shop chain initially filed to sell.  The Canton, Massachusetts-based company may complete the
offering by the end of July, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Dunkin’ filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a $400
million IPO on May 4.  Dunkin’ follows private equity-backed companies such as HCA
Holdings Inc. and Kinder Morgan Inc. in returning to the public
market this year after leveraged buyouts. Private equity owners
have completed the biggest U.S. IPOs in 2011 as a U.S. stock
market near a three-year high increased investors’ demand for
companies acquired through debt-fueled acquisitions before
credit markets started to freeze four years ago.  “Private equity IPOs this year have outperformed,” said
Kathleen Smith, a principal at  Renaissance Capital LLC , an IPO
research and investment firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “That’s
an encouraging sign for this IPO, and I do think investors have
been awaiting it.”  Michelle King, a spokeswoman for Dunkin’, declined to
comment.  Bain, Carlyle  Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP paid about $2.43 billion five years ago for Dunkin’, which
competes with coffee chains such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Canada ’s
 Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)   The firms each contributed $345.5 million of equity to the
deal in addition to management’s $25 million, with the rest of
the cost financed with debt, according to a letter to investors
from Carlyle. Carlyle marked its investment at 1.55 times as of
March 31, according to the letter, putting the enterprise value
of the company at $3.5 billion, including $1.8 billion in long-
term debt.  HCA, the Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain, gained
9.2 percent through yesterday since owners including KKR & Co.
and Bain brought it public in a $4.35 billion IPO in March.
Nielsen Holdings NV, the television ratings company owned by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Carlyle, KKR and Thomas H. Lee, rose 33
percent since its $1.89 billion IPO in January. Initial
offerings in the U.S. overall have returned less than 4 percent.  A record $1.6 trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed
from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  Use of Proceeds  Proceeds will be used to repay debt, according to
regulatory filings. The offering is being led by  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Sales at Dunkin’ Brands increased 9.3 percent to $139.2
million in the three months ended March 26 from a year earlier,
according to the company’s regulatory filings. The company
booked a net loss of $1.72 million, compared with net income of
$5.94 million in the year-earlier period.  The doughnut chain has more than 16,000 locations in 57
countries under the  Dunkin’ Donuts  and Baskin-Robbins brands,
according to the filing. Bill Rosenberg founded his first
restaurant in the 1940s, which was later renamed Dunkin’ Donuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  