-- 
EADS Paid U.K. $36M Over Failed Fire-Brigade Control Project

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/eads-paid-u-k-36m-over-failed-fire-brigade-control-project.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. paid the U.K. government 22.5 million pounds ($36 million)
in compensation over a control system for fire brigades that
went so far over budget and schedule that it was canceled after
last year’s election.  A report by the  National Audit Office  published today
detailed how plans to centralize control over fire brigades ran
five years late. Costs rose from an expected 120 million pounds
to the point where the auditors estimated a minimum 469 million
pounds has been “wasted” on preparations for a system that
will never be delivered. Most of the money was spent building
nine regional control centers, eight of which are empty.  The NAO said the  Department for Communities and Local
Government , which ran the project, didn’t have the support of
fire fighters and had a poor relationship with EADS, which in
2007 was selected to deliver the computer system by October
2009. After the May 2010 election, with the EADS running years
behind schedule, the incoming coalition government set new
milestones and then found the company in breach of its contract.  Amyas Morse, head of the National Audit Office, placed much
of the blame with the department. “It was approved on the basis
of unrealistic estimates of costs and under-appreciation of the
complexity of the IT involved and the project was hurriedly
implemented and poorly managed,” he said in a statement. “Its
legacy is the chain of expensive regional control centers whose
future is uncertain.”  The report found EADS and the department struggled to work
together. “During the first two years of the contract there was
a lack of openness on either side and an adversarial stance
towards problem solving,” it said. “There was a tendency by
both parties to revert to the contract conditions, rather than
using a more mature partnering approach.”  ‘Damning Indictment’  The government had paid EADS 40 million pounds at the point
at which it terminated the contract. Taking into account the
hardware and software delivered, the company received an overall
net payment of 11.7 million pounds for the work.  Communities Secretary Eric Pickles, a Conservative member
of the coalition government, laid the blame for the project’s
failure with the previous government. “This official report
represents another damning indictment of Labour’s track record
on expensive IT projects,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
“It is no surprise that Labour led the country to the brink of
bankruptcy when they can’t even manage the spiralling costs of a
misguided project.”  Jeremy Greaves, a spokesman for EADS in the U.K., declined
to comment ahead of the report’s publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 