-- 
Ebix Inflated Earnings as Software Maker Ignored Bad Debt, Lawsuit Alleges

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ebix-inflated-earnings-as-software-maker-ignored-bad-debt-lawsuit-alleges.html
Ebix Inc. dropped 6.4 percent
yesterday following news of a lawsuit accusing the business
software provider of padding its 2009 fourth quarter revenue by
$200,000.  Ebix fell $1.30 to $19.05 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in
 New York  and its market capitalization declined by as much as
$114 million during the day. The Atlanta-based company, which
has denied any wrongdoing, said following the stock drop that
its board of directors approved a plan to expand a share buyback
program from $45 million to $100 million over the next year.  “The board made the determination to increase the share
buyback plan limit after reviewing Ebix’s consistent cash
flows,” the company said in a statement.  Ebix, a business software provider whose acquisitions have
made it one of the fastest growing small-cap companies, inflated
earnings by overstating accounts receivable, according to an
executive who sued Ebix after it bought his firm.  The size of the overstatement was approximately $200,000,
according to a complaint filed May 24 in federal court in
Columbus,  Ohio . It allegedly occurred in the fourth quarter of
2009, representing almost 1.7 percent of Ebix’s net income of
$12.1 million for the period on revenue of $31.3 million.  Shares in Atlanta-based Ebix, which provides data
processing software to the  insurance industry , climbed from $3
in January 2007 to $29 in March of this year. Among the 800
firms with market capitalization between $500 million and $2
billion, Ebix surpassed all but ten in terms of market-cap
growth over the past four years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  During that same period, short interest in the stock has
grown at the fourth fastest rate. After Ebix shares dropped 14
percent this year through June 15, the proportion of the
company’s stock sold short surged to a record 27 percent,
according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.  “When a quarter or more of the shares have been sold
short, it’s certainly indicative that investors question the
legitimacy of the company’s reported results,” said  Lynn Turner , former chief accountant of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Billing Irregularities  The allegations of billing irregularities come from Steven
Isaac, former chief executive officer of Peak Performance
Solutions, and two directors of the firm, Earl Gallegos and
Richard Freeman. The three men sold the company to Ebix in
September 2009 for $8 million. Peak produces risk management and
compliance software for the insurance industry.  Robin Raina, Ebix’s CEO, said the overstatement was only
$150,000, and that it was discovered by Ebix management early in
2010 and corrected immediately.  “That revenue is from the first quarter of 2010. In the
second quarter of 2010, we called it uncollectible,” Raina
said. “Their complaint, it’s completely wrong.”  He also said the sum involved was insignificant for a
company projected to generate more than $170 million in revenue
for 2011. Ebix, which had a market capitalization of $803
million as of yesterday, reported full-year 2010 net income of
$59 million on revenue of $132.2 million.  The company said in its last annual report that it had
outpaced the Nasdaq Stock Market in total cumulative return for
shareholders, turning a $100 investment made in 2005 into 10
times that by the end of 2010, compared with just a $20 gain for
the market.  Fired Employees  The Peak directors claimed that, after Ebix acquired their
company, it fired five of their employees including the person
responsible for billing Peak’s clients. Ebix then took over its
billing operations.  “Ebix was consistently unable to tie customer payments to
specific invoices, and so Ebix was unable to determine which
customers had made payment for which projects,” the directors
said in court papers. “Ebix does not have sufficient internal
accounting controls to allow their books and records to be
relied on.”  Raina said that Ebix’s auditors signed off on the company’s
books and approved its internal controls.  Target of Short Sellers  Questions about company growth are a staple of Ebix’s
quarterly earnings conference calls. Ebix has acquired 13 firms
since January 2008, according to securities filings.  The roll-up strategy, as well as the lack of any apples-to-
apples breakdown among revenue streams following acquisitions,
has drawn the attention of short-sellers, who have pushed Ebix’s
short interest ratio into double digits in 16 of the past 18
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On March 22, a self-described short-seller attacked Ebix on
the Seeking Alpha website under the pseudonym “Copperfield
Research.” Short-selling is the practice of selling a borrowed
security in anticipation of a price decline.  The blog post criticized the company’s growth strategy, its
accounting practices, turnover among its auditors and even
Raina’s charitable works, which involve the construction of
housing in the slums of his native  India .  Two days later, on the afternoon of March 24, Ebix’s shares
suddenly plunged to $22.52, down 24 percent from the previous
day’s close of $29.72, an all-time high. Ebix’s market
capitalization shrank from $1.2 billion to $878 million.  Suspicious Circumstances  Raina, 44, said the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
was looking into the suspicious circumstances surrounding the
anonymous blog posting and the wave of selling that followed
about 48 hours later.  “I’ve never seen anything like that,” said Jeff Van Rhee,
who follows the stock for Craig-Hallum Capital Group. As to the
unusual nature of the selling, which began all at once in the
middle of the afternoon, that remains a puzzle, he said.  “It was tick, tick, tick, and then the explosion, like a
flash mob,” Van Rhee said. “It makes you scratch your head.”  As CEO of a small-cap company in the business-to-business
space, Raina isn’t a household name in the U.S. In India, he is
a celebrity, a native son who found fortune in America and used
it to fund the home-building effort in his homeland.  On its website, the Robin Raina Foundation said it has
built 1,157 homes for underprivileged families in Bawana, part
of a $15 million project to construct 6,000 residences. The
website features testimonials from 24 Indian celebrities,
including Bollywood superstars, singers, fashion models and
cricket players.  Peak Directors Suit  The Peak directors sued after Ebix management refused to
pay an earn-out, or incentive tied to the sale, of $1.5 million
this year. The denial was made on the grounds that Peak didn’t
meet its target of $6.5 million in revenue for 2010 to trigger
the payment, according to court papers.  The Peak founders claimed they met the target. As an
example of what they described as the confused state of Ebix’s
billing operations, they said Robert Kerris, Ebix’s chief
financial officer, produced an unaudited spreadsheet in April
putting their 2010 revenue at $5.9 million, while Sean Donaghy,
the company’s controller, gave them numbers which added up to
$6.5 million for the year.  Both Ebix executives deducted the disputed $200,000 in
accounts receivables from the 2010 sum of Peak’s revenue,
according to the complaint. Peak’s management claimed the bogus
billings had been produced by Ebix in the last quarter of 2009,
before the earn-out period began.  A Difference  Isaac and his co-founders said Ebix generated $6.7 million
in bills for Peak’s clients during 2010, creating an $800,000
difference between Peak’s accounts receivable balance for the
year, and the $5.9 million that Ebix’s finance chief told them
had been applied toward their earn-out.  The directors also claimed other oddities in Ebix’s billing
practices, such as negative revenue from various Peak customers
during 2010, and an alleged failure by Ebix to pay unemployment
compensation premiums in the state of  West Virginia . That lapse
cost Peak $65,000 in revenue because it wasn’t allowed to
operate in the state until the matter was resolved, they said in
the complaint.  Raina said in an interview that he had no doubt his company
would prevail in court over the earn-out claims.  “It’s a black-and-white issue,” he said. “They had to
hit $6.5 million. It’s pure revenue. Nobody contested anything
until the last day. It’s in eveybody’s interest to have as much
revenue as possible.”  Similar Suit  The Peak directors’ allegations that Ebix mishandled the
accounts receivable balances of an acquired company aren’t
unique. A lawsuit filed in  San Diego  federal court in April 2010
by shareholders of ConfirmNet, a San Diego-based company
acquired by Ebix in November 2008, featured a similar claim.  Those investors alleged that $92,280 of ConfirmNet’s legacy
accounts-receivable balances in 2008 were never collected by
Ebix and were never written off in 2009 or in early 2010, when
the lawsuit was filed.  The ConfirmNet investors also said Ebix tried to deduct
$213,393 from its 2009 earn-out payment on the grounds that the
company had overstated its 2008 revenue by more than $100,000.
In April, a judge ruled in ConfirmNet’s favor on the issue of
the earn-out, while tossing out a third ConfirmNet claim about
the timing of revenue from one specific client. The parties
reached a confidential settlement June 20.  According to Raina, Ebix agreed to pay $383,000 to avoid
further legal costs in the 14-month-old lawsuit.  Accounts Receivable  Raina said he is focused on the accounts receivable issue.  Because Ebix switched its own internal billing software
program in the first quarter of 2011, the accounts receivable
balance grew at a faster rate than it had recently, he said. In
April, Raina added three new full-time staffers to the two
people who already worked in Ebix’s billing department, he said.  The case is Isaac v.  Ebix Inc (EBIX) , 11-00459, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio (Columbus). The
ConfirmNet case is Irving v. Ebix, 10-00762, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  