-- 
Ecuador GDP Grew at Fastest Pace Since 2008, Economists Say

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-07-01T01:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ecuador-first-quarter-gdp-grew-at-fastest-pace-since-2008-economists-say.html
Ecuador ’s economy probably grew in
the first quarter at its fastest pace in two years as higher  oil
prices  fueled  government spending , boosting  job creation  and
consumer demand.  Gross domestic product probably accelerated in the January-
through-March period from the last quarter of 2010, when GDP
rose 6.98 percent year on year and 2.6 percent from the third
quarter, according to four economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
That would be the biggest jump in GDP since at least 2008. The
central bank, which was due to report first-quarter growth today,
delayed publication of its GDP report until tomorrow.  Windfall oil profits for Ecuador, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ smallest member, and a Chinese
loan boosted government liquidity in the first quarter, allowing
President  Rafael Correa  to raise spending on projects, including
roads and hospitals, by 44 percent, said Vicente Albornoz,
director and head economist of the Cordes research institute in
Quito.  “This enormous public expenditure will reflect in economic
activity, not necessarily greater production, but at least
increased consumption,” Albornoz said yesterday in a phone
interview from Quito. “You only have to walk down the street to
see the new cars, full restaurants and malls packed with
shoppers buying packages, it’s impressive.”  Government Spending  Government spending rose 33 percent in the first two months
of 2011 from a year earlier, according to the central bank’s
most recent  data . Export revenue, including oil which provides
the government with 24 percent of its income, rose 25 percent in
the first quarter, the central bank said. The $58 billion
economy,  South America ’s seventh biggest, will grow 5.06 percent
this year, according to the 2011 budget.  Ecuador also renewed a contract in February with PetroChina
Co.,  China ’s largest oil producer, for a $1 billion loan in
exchange for future crude sales. The  Finance Ministry  said June
27 it signed an additional $2 billion loan with China
Development Bank Corp. to finance budgeted public works projects.  To be sure, Ecuador’s economic growth is being hampered by
populist economic policies, including its default on $3.2
billion of international debt since 2008, which has scared away
foreign and local investment, Lutz Roehmeyer, who helps manage
about $17 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investments, said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Berlin.  Still, the combination of increased prices for the nation’s
crude, up 14 percent this year, and rising global demand for
higher yielding debt has made Ecuadorean bonds one of the best
performers in emerging markets this year, Roehmeyer said.  Yields, Commodities  Yields on the Andean country’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing
in 2015, the only foreign debt the government kept servicing
after the default, fell 241 basis points, or 2.41 percentage
points, this year to 9.562 percent. Similar maturity Brazilian
bonds yield 1.979 percent, down 89 basis points from the end of
December.  Higher commodity prices are “very good for the bonds,”
Roehmeyer said. “Its only one bond and I think there are some
hardcore investors that only look” at the yields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  