-- 
Medvedev Says Construction for APEC Summit May Face Delays

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-30T14:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/medvedev-says-construction-for-apec-summit-may-face-delays-1-.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said
Russia’s construction plans for next year’s  Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation  summit, the first of the world events the
nation will host this decade, may face delays.  “Construction is proceeding without any time to spare for
unforeseen works,” the president said at a government meeting
on the island of Russky off the Pacific coast city of
 Vladivostok , the site of the summit and once a top-secret base
for the Soviet navy. “That jeopardizes the entire structure.”  Medvedev ordered officials to prepare a backup option if a
suspension  bridge  to the island isn’t built on time. Russia’s
government and investors are spending 662.9 billion rubles
($23.8 billion) on local infrastructure as it prepares to host
the event next year. The developments include the bridge, luxury
hotels and a university.  About 26,500 people, including more than 11,000 foreign
citizens, are involved in the construction of more than 90
facilities. Vladivostok, a 150-year-old city with a population
of 616,740, is located seven time zones away from Moscow.  Russia ’s Role  Russia won the right to host the summit at the group’s
meeting in Sydney in 2007 during the second term of then-
President  Vladimir Putin , whose government sought to increase
its role in the region and develop the nation’s  Far East .  Medvedev made his first foreign visit outside the former
 Soviet Union  as president to Beijing to show Russia’s
determination to cultivate closer ties in the region. Putin, who
became prime minister in 2008, has also delivered the 2014
Winter Olympics, ice hockey’s 2016 World Championship and
soccer’s 2018  World Cup , as well as an annual Formula 1 car race
from 2015.  The building of another bridge, over Vladivostok’s Golden
Horn Bay, may be as much as a year behind schedule, Medvedev
said, citing expert estimates. “Promises have been made
today,” he said. “Nevertheless, we are obliged to take steps
to have other options to bring delegations attending the summit
to the island so we don’t have problems”  Speaking at the Boao Forum for  Asia  last April, Medvedev
called for Russia’s inclusion in the “powerful integration
process” in the Asia-Pacific region and help in modernizing
Russia’s Far East and Siberia.  China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer, became Russia’s top trading partner last year, with
trade jumping 50 percent to $59 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Vladivostok at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  