-- 
EIB Appoints Vice President as Saab Automobile Overseer Leaves

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-30T10:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/eib-appoints-vice-president-as-saab-automobile-overseer-leaves.html
The  European Investment Bank  said
former Austrian Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer will become a
vice president tomorrow, succeeding the manager who has overseen
European Union funding for Swedish carmaker  Saab Automobile .  Molterer, 56, will replace Eva Srejber, a Swede whose four-
year term is expiring and who will join the board of London-
based European Bank for Reconstruction and Development tomorrow,
Par Isaksson, a spokesman at the Luxembourg-based EIB, said
today by telephone.  The EIB, the lending arm of the EU, is providing
Trollhaettan-based Saab with financing to develop new models.
The unprofitable carmaker halted production and suspended wage
payments because of a cash shortage this month. The manufacturer
said yesterday that it’s hoping to restart carmaking in mid-July
after securing shareholder loans, receiving advance payments for
vehicles on order and selling property.  Molterer, a former head of the Austrian  People’s Party , was
one of the EIB’s governors while he was finance minister from
January 2007 until December 2008, the bank said today in a
 statement .  Isaksson declined to say how Srejber’s exit will affect
Saab matters, such as the company’s pending application to bring
in Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  as an investor.  Saab is owned by Swedish Automobile NV, the Zeewolde,
Netherlands-based supercar maker formerly called  Spyker Cars NV. (SPYKR) 
Antonov is also planning to buy Swedish Automobile’s sports-car
manufacturing assets, whose models include the C8 Aileron.
Spyker bought Saab Automobile from General Motors Co. in
February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  