-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Three-Week High as Greek Debt Concerns Ease

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T11:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-as-greek-debt-concerns-ease.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third day, sending the benchmark index to a three-week high, as
concern of a Greek default eased and investors speculated the
global economic expansion is intact.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1 percent to
1,143.68 at 12:01 p.m. in London, paring its second-quarter
decline to 2.3 percent. China’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 1.5
percent as BYD Co., the automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., jumped 41 percent on its trading debut
in Shenzhen. The South Korean won strengthened 0.9 percent
against the dollar to lead gains in emerging-market currencies.  The MSCI gauge pared its June decline to 2.1 percent after
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won enough votes
yesterday to pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed at
meeting European Union aid requirements.  South Korea ’s
industrial production rebounded from a seven-month low in May,
topping economists’ estimates as chip, machinery and car makers
boosted output on global demand.  “Risk-taking is starting again, people are focusing on
bargain-hunting as stocks have pulled back pretty dramatically
in the last month,” said Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1 billion as
chief executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “Emerging markets and  Asia  really stand out in terms of
growth prospects.”  Korean Output  All of the MSCI index’s 10 industry groups gained, led by
consumer, financial and industrial companies.  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-biggest mobile-phone maker which gets
about 16 percent of sales from  Europe , added 0.7 percent in
Seoul trading.  Acer Inc. (2353) , which generated about 39 percent of
its sales from Europe last year, jumped 1.8 percent in Taipei.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 0.7 percent
this year, compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index of developed-country stocks.  The Czech PX Index rose 0.4 percent. Hungary’s BUX index
fell 0.2 percent and Poland’s WIG20 Index slid 0.3 percent.  Greece ’s Papandreou yesterday secured a vote in favor of an
austerity plan that clears the way for the next payment due from
last year’s bailout. He faces a final vote today to stave off
default.  South Korean industrial output climbed 8.3 percent in May
from a year earlier after gaining a revised 6.9 percent in
April, Statistics Korea said today. The median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.9 percent
increase.  BYD Surges  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd., the nation’s largest
planemaker, surged 43 percent on its trading debut after raising
about $530 million in the nation’s largest initial public
offering this year.  The Shanghai Composite Index pared its quarterly loss to
5.7 percent. BYD raised 1.35 billion yuan ($208 million) in a
share sale in Shenzhen,  China , to fund research and expand its
manufacturing facilities.  Turkey’s lira weakened 0.2 percent after the country’s
trade deficit more than doubled in May from a year earlier,
exceeding economists’ forecasts. The deficit was $10.1 billion,
the biggest on record, compared with $4.9 billion a year
earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped one basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 298, according to according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA
Index of credit-default swaps for emerging Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  fell two basis points to 198, according to data
provider CMA in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  