-- 
Emerging Junk Yields at High Show Record Bond Sales May Slow

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-30T21:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/emerging-junk-yields-at-high-show-record-bond-sales-may-slow.html
The pace of bond sales by junk-rated
emerging-market companies is poised to slow from record issuance
in the second quarter as concern that the global recovery is
faltering sends yields to the highest this year.  Dollar debt sold by speculative-grade borrowers yielded as
much as 7.72 percent on June 27, the highest level since Sept.
2, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Corporate EMBI Index.
The difference in yield with investment-grade developing-nation
securities hit 243 basis points, or 2.43 percentage points, the
biggest spread in almost eight months, the data show.  Emerging-market companies sold $30 billion of  junk bonds 
from April to June, up 58 percent from a year earlier and the
most in any quarter since Bloomberg began compiling data in
1999. The average yield was 7.61 percent on June 30, up 58 basis
points from a five-year low of 7.03 percent on April 28, the
biggest increase in any period since May last year as concern
the U.S. economic recovery is stalling and speculation Greece
will default reduced appetite for riskier assets.  “High yield is under pressure clearly from the Greek
concerns, but also from the significant slowdown in global
activity,” David Hauner, head of emerging  Europe ,  Middle East 
and Africa economics and fixed-income strategy at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Research in London, said in a
telephone interview on June 27. If “Greece remains a concern
then we may see that a lot of the issuance that was supposed to
happen in the second half gets shelved,” he said.  Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas,
scrapped a $650 million bond offering on June 23 because of
“volatility” in global markets, according to  Jorge Perez , a
spokesman for the company, which is rated B by  Standard &
Poor’s , its fifth-highest level of junk.  Volatile Markets  Cement and ready-mix concrete shipments to the U.S. won’t
grow as fast this year as Monterrey, Mexico-based Cemex
expected,  Fernando Gonzalez , the company’s chief financial
officer, said on April 29. They had been predicting cement
shipments would grow 5 percent and concrete sales 6 percent.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,  China ’s largest polysilicon
maker, and  China Qinfa Group Ltd. (866) , a coal company, both said in
June that they were suspending planned bond issues because of
volatile markets and a U.S. probe into accounting practices of
some Chinese companies trading on that country’s stock markets.  No junk-rated Chinese companies have sold U.S. dollar-
denominated bonds since short-seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC said on June 2 that  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a tree-plantation
owner, overstated its timber holdings.  Emerging junk yields jumped 46 basis points last month, as
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said his country needed a
fresh bailout to avoid a debt default and German officials
suggested private bondholders might make a contribution to
rescue efforts.  U.S. Economy   Signs also emerged during June that the U.S. economy may be
faltering, with non-farm payrolls missing analysts’ expectations
on June 3 and Institute of Supply Management data published on
June 1 showing that manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace
in more than a year in May.  Only $4 billion worth of junk-rated emerging company bonds
were sold in June, compared with $26 billion in the first two
months of the quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “General appetite for risk among investors has
decreased,” Yerlan Syzdykov, who helps manage about $1.84
billion in emerging-market debt at Pioneer Investments in
Dublin, said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 27.
The end of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s $600 billion program of
bond purchases in June and the failure by U.S. lawmakers to
agree on extending that country’s debt ceiling have also
unsettled investors, he said.  ’Fully Reloaded’  Lower debt levels and higher growth potential in emerging
markets than in the developed world should mean developing
country bond issuance continues at record levels in the second
half of the year, Bryan Pascoe, head of debt capital markets at
HSBC Bank Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview on June
24. HSBC was the largest underwriter of emerging-market bonds in
the second quarter, and led issues worth $13.9 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect the deal pipeline across the board,” in both
major developing world currencies and local currencies “to be
fully reloaded and investor demand to be strong, creating active
third and fourth quarters,” Pascoe said.  Developing economies are set to grow by 6.5 percent this
year, compared with 2.4 percent growth by advanced economies,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Gross government
debt in developing nations is equivalent to 34 percent of gross
domestic product this year, a third of the level for advanced
nations, IMF data show.  ’Lucky’ Moment  Record-low yields earlier in the second quarter spurred
 Evraz Group SA (EVR) , Russia’s largest steelmaker, to sell bonds,
Chief Financial Officer Giacomo Baizini said by telephone from
Moscow on June 24.  Evraz, rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its fourth
highest junk rating, raised $850 million from a sale of bonds
due in 2018 on April 19 with a coupon of 6.75 percent, the
lowest ever for the company. The yield on the bonds rose to as
high as 6.92 percent on June 27 from as low as 6.47 percent on
June 8. It retreated to 6.71 percent on June 30.  “Yields have picked up a little bit,” Baizini said.
“It’s obviously easy with hindsight, but we seem to have been
lucky with the moment.” The company has no need to issue more
debt for the rest of the year, he said.  ’Less Issuance Left’  Total bond issuance by emerging-market borrowers climbed to
$248 billion in the second quarter, 15 percent more than the
previous record for any quarter, set from July to September of
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance in
the first half of this year, of $454 billion, was also the
highest on record for the period.  While concerns over  Greece  and the global economy may
stabilize, bond sales are likely to slip in the second half as
many companies have already met their financing needs, said
Pioneer Investments’ Syzdykov.  “We had a record first half due to the good demand from
investors on one hand and willingness of issuers to capitalize
on the low interest rate  environment on the other,” he said,
“The trend is not likely to continue given there is less
issuance left.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  