-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise to 3-Week High on Greece, Growth Optimism

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T22:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/emerging-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-on-greece-growth-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for
three days in a row, sending the benchmark index to a three-week
high, as concern of a Greek default eased and investors
speculated the global economic expansion is intact.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.2 percent to
1,146.22 at 4:45 p.m. in  New York , paring its second-quarter
decline to 2.1 percent.  China ’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 1.5
percent as BYD Co., the automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., jumped 41 percent on its trading debut
in Shenzhen.  India ’s Sensex Index rose to an eight-week high and
a four-day gain pushed  Brazil ’s benchmark index to the highest
in almost three weeks.  The MSCI gauge pared its June decline to 1.9 percent after
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won enough votes for an
austerity plan required to keep economic aid flowing. The vote,
155 to 136, allows him to implement a 78 billion-euro ($113
billion) package of tax increases and asset sales that was a
condition for further European Union aid.  “Risk-taking is starting again, people are focusing on
bargain-hunting as stocks have pulled back pretty dramatically
in the last month,” said Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1 billion as
chief executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala
Lumpur. “Emerging markets and  Asia  really stand out in terms of
growth prospects.”  The South Korean won strengthened 0.9 percent against the
dollar to lead gains in emerging-market currencies.  LG, Acer  Energy and consumer companies led the MSCI index’s 10
industry groups.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-biggest
mobile-phone maker which gets about 16 percent of sales from
 Europe , added 0.7 percent in Seoul trading.  Acer Inc. (2353) , which
generated about 39 percent of its sales from Europe last year,
jumped 1.8 percent in Taipei.  Oil rose to the highest level in two weeks in New York.
Petroleo Brasileiro S.A., Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer
gained 1.5 percent, the most in a more than month, to a three-
week high. BG Group Plc, the U.K. oil and gas producer that
counts Petrobras as a partner in Brazil, doubled its estimate of
reserves and resources in the  Santos Basin , bolstering plans to
increase production.  Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the country’s largest natural gas
company, rose 1.2 percent to a two-week high in Moscow, leading
gains among energy producers that have driven the  Micex index (INDEXCF) 
0.4 percent higher.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 0.4 percent
this year, compared with a 4 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index of developed-country stocks.  The Czech PX Index rose 0.8 percent and  Turkey ’s benchmark
rose 0.4 percent.  Korea Aerospace IPO  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd., the nation’s largest
planemaker, surged 43 percent on its trading debut after raising
about $530 million in the nation’s largest initial public
offering this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 289, according to according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  