-- 
Emirates Meets Oil Squeeze With Fare Cuts to Put Pressure on Lufthansa, BA

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-01T14:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/emirates-meets-oil-squeeze-with-fare-cuts-turning-screw-on-ba.html
Emirates, the biggest international
airline, said it will combat a profit squeeze from higher fuel
costs by slashing fares to fill its 500-seat Airbus A380s,
heightening competition for  Air France-KLM (AF)  and British Airways.  Emirates will resist the urge to cut routes and flights as
oil prices threaten the profitability of some destinations and
instead aims to stir up demand with cheaper tickets,  Tim Clark ,
the Dubai-based carrier’s president, said in an interview.  “I can understand how irritated some airlines become,
because 43 percent of our daily costs are for fuel, and it’s out
of our control,” Clark said last week in Paris. “But the last
thing you should contemplate is capacity reduction. It’s easy to
do, but it has sounded the death knell for so many carriers.”  Industry practice has generally been to halt growth when
times are hard and costs high, focusing on the most profitable
routes that can sustain higher fares. That strategy is risky
because it hurts sales and destroys confidence among passengers,
airports, holiday companies and businesses in destination
cities, so that traffic often never returns, Clark said on June
20 after a visit to the  Paris Air Show .  Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Akbar al Baker
said that the second-biggest Middle-Eastern carrier may operate
190 planes by 2020, 60 more than envisaged, as it follows
Emirates in building a long-haul transfer hub to rival London,
Paris and  Frankfurt . Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways, the regional
No. 3, is also committed to adding new jets and routes, CEO
James Hogan said in an interview in London.  45,000 Seats  Clark cited U.S.-based Trans World Airlines Inc. and Pan
American World Airways as major carriers that have gone bust
during his career after fatally paring back their networks.  Emirates will stick with a rapid-growth model based on
building Dubai into a high-volume, inter-continental travel hub
using a wide-body fleet featuring 90 A380 superjumbos with
45,000 seats, Clark said.  While cutting fares to sell tickets on the 517-berth planes
will push up the occupancy level needed to break even, the
impact of government spending cuts in many overseas markets
means that strategy is more likely to succeed than one based on
curbing capacity and raising fares, he said.  Emirates had an 80 percent occupancy level in the year to
March 31, when it boosted passengers 14 percent to 31.4 million
and lifted net income 43 percent to 5.93 billion dirhams ($1.6
billion) on sales that rose 26 percent to 57.4 billion dirhams.  ‘Bare Cupboard’  “There is a wave of austerity in  Europe  from  France  and
the U.K. to Ireland and  Greece , and people are concerned about
that,” Clark said. “But what has changed in the last 20 years is
that whereas travel used to be way down the list of priorities,
people now rate it as the No. 1 thing they want to do. So we
need to stimulate demand and get back to pricing levels that are
affordable for the customers while still giving us a margin.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways have already
slashed costs after oil surged to more than $145 a barrel in
2008, sending  jet fuel  to a record $4.36 a gallon, and have
little room left for maneuver, Clark said. Airlines will
probably achieve a collective profit of $4 billion this year, 54
percent less than previously forecast, the  International Air
Transport Association  said June 6, citing the impact of higher
 oil prices , Arab unrest and the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  “When oil reached $145 that caused a huge reworking of the
way things were done, and airlines got themselves back on an
even keel and began making money again, only to get another kick
in the solar plexus when it went back to $120,” Clark said.
“Now everyone says let’s contract, ground planes and lay off
crew. But this time the cupboard is bare.”  Dominos  Brent crude  reached $127 a barrel on April 11 and was
priced at about $112 yesterday. Clark said oil needs to sell for
between $60 to $80 a barrel for airlines to operate in comfort.  Emirates is also conscious of the impact that reining in
jet orders would have on manufacturers, Clark said, with
contract cancellations or modifications likely to prompt an
“horrendous domino effect” among smaller carriers that could
compromise Airbus SAS,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and their supplier base.  “You start to bring down the global duopoly when it’s in
our interests to maintain it,” he said. “In a leaner industry
your costs go up because you don’t have the plethora of choice.”  Clark said he’s in any case confident the plane orders are
necessary as Dubai’s location between  Asia  and Australasia and
Europe,  North America  and  Latin America  allows Emirates to tap
demand spurred by globalization and growth in emerging markets.  ‘Right Place’  Founded in 1985, the carrier developed an inter-continental
network from 1996, when long-range Boeing 777s and Airbus A340s
allowed it to reach new cities and meet the global aspirations
of Dubai’s rulers, Clark said. The model has proved scale-able
as the world economy enters “a new paradigm,” he said.  “We’re in the right place at the right time,” the
executive said. “We would have done it anyway but on a smaller
scale. Our business model was always structured around
maximizing the benefits of our location.”  Etihad, which ranks third in the  Middle East  and has added
seven more planes this year, will announce three more routes
next week that will commence in the next 12 months, Hogan said
in an interview in  London  on June 22.  “We’ve no intention of cutting back our growth,” he said.
“But that doesn’t stop us from redeploying assets if we think
we can get a better return on a certain route.”  Doha Hub  At Qatar Air, CEO al Baker said in an interview at the
Paris show that he’s not only sticking with a plan to grow the
fleet to between 120 and 130 airplanes, but aims to extend it.  “The way I see the opportunities today we’ll end up
anywhere in the region of 175 to 190 aircraft by 2020,” he said
on June 20. Doha-based Qatar had a 178-plane order backlog worth
$35 billion at list prices even before a show where it added six
more Boeing 777s and said it’s mulling a contract for Airbus’s
re-engined A320neo single-aisle model.  “I’m very ambitious,” al Baker said. “I want to make
sure that Qatar will be a major hub between East and West. I am
never intimidated by anybody’s size. I like it as a matter of
fact. It keeps our eyes on the ball.”  Emirates didn’t buy planes in Paris but may announce orders
at the Dubai Air Show in November, Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum said May 10th. The carrier currently has about
150 Airbus and Boeing jets, including 15 A380s, with a 200-
strong order book worth in excess of $68 billion before options.  Alliance-Friendly  Etihad has less expansive growth plans and Hogan has been
open to cooperation with other companies, operating more than 30
code-shares that allow it to attach its code to services flown
by other carriers.  “We’re still going to be a mid-sized airline,” he said. “My
brief is to create an airline that is the right size and shape.
And we’ve got two competitors on our doorstep, were mindful of
that, so we see how we can compete working with other airlines.”  Hogan, linked earlier this year with a bid for  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., which is seeking a
partner, said that Etihad is open to opportunities, though
“there’s nothing compelling on the table today.”  Al Baker said he sees no need for Qatar Air to join an
alliance for the next five years at least, and that remaining
independent gives him “a freehand to expand and to design the
product the way I want.” The CEO said he’s receptive to a stock-
exchange listing, if only because a share sale would curtail a
debate over how much the airline benefits from state ownership.  “In a way it is good for us to do an IPO so that the people
who keep making noise about us being government subsidized,
government supported, will have to shut their mouth and not talk
about it again,” al Baker said.  Clark at Emirates said he’s “not an alliance person” and
that the pursuit of takeovers by airlines usually distracts
management. Becoming a traded stock with shareholders and
independent directors would also be “hell on earth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  