-- 
Tepco Emergency Loans Cut Borrowing Costs to Less Than 1% After Fukushima

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-06-30T09:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/tepco-cuts-borrowing-costs-by-a-third.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the
utility at the center of the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years,
reduced the average interest rate it pays on 3.4 trillion yen
($42 billion) of long-term loans to less than 1 percent.  The Japanese company known as Tepco reduced the average
rate to 0.992 percent in the year ended March 31 from 1.551
percent a year earlier, according to a securities filing. The
Tokyo-based company more than doubled long-term loans, which it
defined as debt maturing in more than one year, from 1.6
trillion yen a year earlier.  Tepco received almost 2 trillion yen of emergency loans
from banks including Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems at
its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. The loans left Tepco with
2.24 trillion yen of cash on hand, the most of any non-financial
Japanese company, at the end of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The banks must have given the company special rates,
which helps lower the financial burden,” said Tomohiro Jikihara,
a Tokyo-based analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The development
isn’t enough to entice investors to buy, because “the news flow
is predominantly negative and the total amount of reparations is
still unknown,” he said.  Loan Repayments  The decline in average interest rate is due to the company
having paid off some of its more expensive loans, said Satoshi
Watanabe, a spokesman at Tepco. Watanabe declined to give
further details.  Tepco shares rose as much as 2.2 percent today in Tokyo to
332 yen before closing at 326 yen at 3 p.m. local time. The
shares have dropped 85 percent since the day before the quake.  About 60 percent of the company’s loans mature in more than
five years, according to the filing. The company is paying an
average coupon of 1.98 percent on all its bonds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average maturity on its 4.7
trillion yen of bonds outstanding is five years.  The company owes Sumitomo Mitsui 769.5 billion yen, Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. 581.8 billion yen and Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. 349 billion yen, according to the securities
filing.  Tokyo Electric is under pressure to sell assets to raise at
least 600 billion yen to compensate victims of the nuclear
meltdown and scrap the reactors. The utility may receive
government help after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet agreed
on a bill providing a safety net for the company as it pays for
the accident-related damages.  Government Help  The third-party entity will issue bonds in a bid to fund
compensation and be allowed to acquire assets owned by the
utility, while the government will guarantee loans by banks to
the third-party organization, according to the bill.  “The next big news for Tepco is whether the government
compensation scheme passes the Diet,” said Jikihara, who
doesn’t have a rating on the company. “I expect Tepco’s
reparation payments to reach 3 trillion yen, not including
payments for potential damage to fisheries and prefectures other
than Fukushima.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  