-- 
Erdogan Says Opposition Boycott of Parliament Flouts Law

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-30T12:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/erdogan-says-opposition-boycott-of-parliament-flouts-law-1-.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused opposition parties of undermining the rule of
law by boycotting parliament until some of their deputies are
released from jail.  A total of 169 members from the main opposition  Republican
People’s Party , or CHP, and independents backed by the pro-
Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party refused to be sworn in when
the 550-seat national assembly convened June 28. They are
protesting court and electoral-board decisions that barred nine
politicians currently in prison from taking their seats.  The unprecedented standoff presents Erdogan, whose  Justice
and Development Party  won a third term with half of the vote on
June 12, with a challenge as he seeks to rewrite a constitution
drafted after a 1980 coup. Changing the document would require
support from opposition lawmakers.  “If the prime minister can play a leading role in
overcoming this crisis and figure out how all parties can get
along,  Turkey  will benefit,” said Sahin Alpay of the political
sciences and international relations department at Bahcesehir
University in Istanbul.  Erdogan said lawmakers who refused to take the oath can’t
accept the separation of the legislative, executive and judicial
branches of government.  ‘Serious Mistake’  “To request exceptions to the rule of law is a great
inconsistency and a serious mistake,” the premier said in
televised comments today to members of his party. He said
parliament, where his party holds almost three-fifths of the
seats, can still perform its functions.  CHP leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  met with President  Abdullah Gul , an Erdogan ally, about the boycott today and said
afterwards that the president would help find a solution
allowing the lawmakers to take up their seats.  The two CHP politicians are in prison, along with scores of
people including former army officers and journalists, on
charges of involvement in an alleged plot to overthrow Erdogan’s
Islamist-leaning government. The defendants and the CHP have
called the trial a “witch hunt” against his opponents.  The other jailed lawmakers are charged with supporting
armed Kurdish militants.  The CHP has been considering a proposal to seek amendments
to the penal code that would enable eight of the banned
politicians to be released and join the parliament.  The Kurdish party said it won’t participate until another
deputy-elect, Hatip Dicle, is freed and takes his place in the
assembly. Dicle’s seat was given to the ruling party after his
victory was nullified by the electoral board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 