-- 
MetLife Replaces BofA in Mortgage Venture as Bank Scales Back Amid Losses

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/metlife-replaces-bofa-on-mortgage-deal-to-add-younger-borrowers.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the life insurer that
uses television ads to sell loans to older homeowners, replaced
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in a mortgage-distribution deal that will
offer access to younger borrowers.  MetLife’s banking unit agreed to become the “preferred
mortgage lender” of KB Home, the Los Angeles-based homebuilder
that targets first-time buyers. The deal, announced yesterday by
KB Home, comes as the builder winds down a mortgage joint
venture with Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets
and deposits.  MetLife is lending more as near-record low  interest rates 
pressure returns on insurance products. Employment at its
MetLife Bank unit have surged, while lenders like Bank of
America scale back amid losses on loans issued during the pre-
2008 housing boom. MetLife’s growth may explain why  KB Home (KBH) 
selected the company instead of a bank with a more recognized
brand, said Michael G. Smith, an analyst with JMP Securities.  “The trickiest part for a homebuilder is getting people
qualified for a mortgage,” said Smith, who has a “market
outperform” rating on KB Home. “Maybe Bank of America just
thought it’s not worth it anymore. Then you get MetLife coming
in saying, ‘Well, we’re trying to get into the business.’”  The switch to MetLife relieves KB Home of its reliance on a
bank that diverted staff from lending to deal with soured assets
and accusations of fraud. KB Home said in January that its
results could suffer if new regulations or disputes with
investors require Bank of America to curtail lending.  Results Affected  “Our home sales and our homebuilding and financial
services results of operations may be adversely affected,” the
homebuilder said in its annual regulatory filing.  The number of loans issued by Bank of America’s venture
with KB Home fell to 5,706 in 2010 from 10,141 in 2008. Bank of
America, which inherited the partnership when it acquired
subprime specialist Countrywide Financial in 2008, informed KB
Home in the first quarter that it planned to exit the
arrangement.  The venture ceased accepting loan applications on June 27,
KB Home said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Terry Francisco,
a spokesman for Bank of America, said changes in regulation
prompted the lender to terminate the joint venture and that KB
Home rejected a proposal to continue under a new agreement.  “We are disappointed with KB Home’s decision,” Francisco
said. The joint venture accounted for less than 1 percent of
Bank of America’s more than $300 billion in mortgages last year,
Francisco said.  Reverse Mortgages  MetLife jumped ahead of Bank of America this year to become
the second-biggest U.S. seller of reverse mortgages, which are
home equity-backed loans to borrowers aged 62 or older. Bank of
America exited that business in February, saying the staff and
resources used by the operation were needed in other parts of
the company. New York-based MetLife ran commercials for reverse
mortgages this week on CNBC and Fox Business channels.  “MetLife is a strong, consumer-friendly company with an
outstanding reputation for  customer service ,” KB Home Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said yesterday on a conference
call with analysts to discuss financial results. KB Home fell
the most in more than two years in New York trading yesterday
after the second-quarter net loss widened to $68.5 million.  Bank of America reported a $2.2 billion loss last year
after settling with investors who accused the bank of selling
loans based on fraudulent data. The company said yesterday it
agreed to pay $8.5 billion to resolve further claims.  New Rules  “It is not inconceivable to me that KB Home maybe decided
that being branded with BofA, given how many bad headlines they
seem to get on the mortgage side, may not be the best long-term
business,” said Thomas Lawler, founder of Lawler Economic &
Housing Consulting.  The biggest U.S. lenders are facing tighter  capital
requirements  from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street regulatory
overhaul. Life insurers are seeking exemptions from the new
rules to account for how their business differs from banking.  MetLife, led by CEO Steven Kandarian, gained $1.43, or 3.4
percent, to $43.46 yesterday. Bank of America rose 32 cents, or
3 percent, to $11.14.  Ted Mitchell, a spokesman for MetLife, didn’t respond to a
request for an interview with MetLife Bank President Donna DeMaio. Prudential Financial Inc., the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer behind MetLife, doesn’t issue residential mortgages.  MetLife Bank  MetLife Bank sells the mortgages it issues and makes
servicing fees by charging investors to monitor the home
collateral and ensure terms of the contracts are met. The
company had $15.6 billion of assets as of March 31, according to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Bank of America’s biggest
FDIC-regulated subsidiary had $1.5 trillion.  The expansion of MetLife Bank gives its parent a hedge
against declines in investment yields because more borrowers
refinance mortgages when rates are low, MetLife has said. The
insurer held more than $300 billion of fixed-income securities
at the end of March.  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries slid to 0.461
yesterday from 2.625 percent on June 29, 2008. The yield hit a
record low of 0.31 percent on Nov. 4. The two-year note’s
average yield over the past 10 years was more than 2.5 percent.  The  employee count  at MetLife Bank rose to 4,985 at the end
of March from 3,768 a year earlier, according to the FDIC. The
worker count was 85 at the end of 2007. Net income at MetLife
Bank was little changed last year at  $218 million . That’s less
than 10 percent of MetLife’s total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 