-- 
European Consumer Prices Rose in June

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-30T10:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/european-june-consumer-prices-increased-less-than-estimated-1-.html
European consumer prices rose less
than economists estimated in June as European Central Bank
policy makers prepare next week to raise borrowing costs further
to fight price pressures.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro region remained at
2.7 percent for a second month, exceeding the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling for a seventh straight month, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. Economists had forecast June inflation of 2.8 percent,
according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet today reiterated that
policy makers are ready to raise the benchmark interest rate
further to fight inflation threats even as governments struggle
to contain  Greece ’s worsening debt crisis. Rising energy costs
are sapping consumers’ purchasing power and adding pressure on
companies to raise prices just as the recovery may be faltering.  “Euro-zone inflation is set to stay above 2.5 percent over
the coming months and may even edge up a bit,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam. “It’s all but
certain that the ECB will pull the trigger next week. The bank
is probably intent on lifting rates further later in the year.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4475 at 11:43 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.3 percent on
the day. It has gained 8.2 percent against the dollar this year.  ‘Still Accommodative’  The Frankfurt-based central bank last month forecast euro-
region inflation to average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2011. ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said
on June 27 that policy makers are “ready not to leave the
interest-rate increase from April stand by itself.”  Adding to signs of increasing price pressures, growth of
loans to euro-region households and companies quickened in May,
the ECB said today. The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which
the central bank uses as a gauge of future inflation, climbed to
2.4 percent from 2 percent in April.  Trichet told a hearing in Brussels that euro-region
inflation “is likely to stay clearly above 2 percent over the
months ahead,” driven by energy costs.  “We see the monetary stance as still accommodative and
risks to  price stability  on the upside,” Trichet said.
“Accordingly, I said that we are in a state of strong vigilance
and that we stand ready to act in a firm and timely manner to
avoid that recent price developments give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures.”  ‘Serious Concerns’  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy which has powered the
region’s recovery, unemployment fell for a 24th straight month
in June, with the jobless rate holding at 7 percent. That’s the
lowest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991.  While crude-oil prices have retreated in the past month,
they are up 23 percent from a year ago.  Martin Winterkorn , chief
executive officer of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker,
said on June 17 that rising raw-material costs are among reasons
for a “challenging” global environment.  With rising prices sapping consumers’ and companies’
spending power and governments from  Spain  to Ireland toughening
austerity measures, the euro-region economy may struggle to
gather strength. European services and manufacturing growth
weakened in June and German investor confidence dropped.  The statistics office will release a breakdown of June
consumer prices next month. Euro-region core inflation, which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, slowed to 1.5 percent in
May from 1.6 percent in the previous month.  “Slowing euro-zone growth, evidence that underlying
inflationary pressures remain moderate and still serious
concerns over the Greek situation suggest that the ECB could
hold off from acting for some time to come after the signaled
July interest-rate hike,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London .  The ECB is scheduled to hold its next monetary assessment
on July 7 in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  