-- 
Euro Set for First Weekly Rise in a Month on ECB Rate-Increase Prospects

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-06-30T23:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/euro-set-for-first-weekly-rise-in-a-month-on-ecb-rate-increase-prospects.html
The euro was set for its first weekly
advance in a month against the dollar on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will raise interest rates next week and as
 Greece  makes progress in avoiding default.  The 17-nation euro gained against most of its major
counterparts this week after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated yesterday ahead of the July 7 meeting that policy
makers are in a state of “strong vigilance” against inflation.
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won approval to authorize
an austerity plan needed to keep aid flowing to Greece. The
Dollar Index headed for its first weekly drop in a month.  “I think an interest-rate hike next week is pretty much a
done deal for the ECB,” said Khoon Goh, head of market
economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.
“The yield differential will continue to provide support for
the euro.”  The euro traded at $1.4491 as of 8:18 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.4502 in  New York  yesterday, when it touched $1.4538, the
highest level since June 10. It’s set for a 2.2 percent weekly
advance. The currency was at 116.91 yen from 116.84 yen. The
dollar bought 80.67 yen from 80.56 yen.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, was little changed at
74.403 and set for a 1.7 percent drop this week.  Investors are betting the ECB will add 71 additional basis
points to its benchmark interest rate in the next 12 months, a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed yesterday.
That compares with 46 basis points on June 29.  Papandreou’s Package  Papandreou won the vote by 155 to 136 to implement a 78
billion-euro ($113 billion) package of tax increases and asset
sales, a condition of receiving further European Union aid. The
premier is seeking an “acceleration of the absorption” of
planned aid funds in order to help the Greek economy exit from
recession, according to an e-mailed statement of a letter he
wrote to European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso .  Manufacturing in the U.S. began to cool in the aftermath of
 Japan ’s earthquake in March and as raw-material costs climbed.
The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index fell to 52
in June, the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
showed before the today’s data. That’s the lowest level since
August 2009. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing will
release a report on its Purchasing Managers’ Index this morning.
The manufacturing index probably declined last month to the
lowest level since July, according to economist estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  