-- 
Europe Gasoline Loads to Drop 17% as Brent Oil Crimps Imports

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/europe-gasoline-loads-to-drop-17-as-brent-oil-crimps-imports.html
The amount of European gasoline
scheduled to be transported across the Atlantic may decline 17
percent in the next two weeks, a possible sign that superior
profits for U.S. refiners are curbing imports.  Oil companies  and traders will book 19 tankers to load a
total of 5.98 million barrels of the fuel in Northwest Europe
over the period, according to the median in a Bloomberg News
survey of five shipbrokers and two traders June 29. At 427,000
barrels daily, that’s 46 percent of the 927,000 barrels a day
that the Energy Department says the U.S. imported last year.  A relative glut of U.S. crude means the country’s
refineries are able to buy cheaper supplies of the raw material
than counterparts in Europe,  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG, said by phone yesterday. That means
better processing profit and fewer imports, he said. West Texas
Intermediate, the landlocked crude that’s traded in  New York ,
cost $16.94 a barrel less than Brent, the European benchmark,
at yesterday's settlement in London. That compares with $13.95
a barrel less on June 24.  “There is a transition in who’s supplying gasoline into
the market, a move from imports to domestic supply,” said
 Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Brent strength is making it
uneconomical to import.”  Daily gasoline imports dropped 21 percent last week to an
average 683,000 barrels, the fewest since the week ended March
11, according to department data. Imports have fallen five
straight weeks, losing 53 percent. Inventories of the fuel, at
213 million barrels, are 1.4 percent above the five-year average
for the time of year.  Refinery Rates  U.S. refinery usage that climbed to a 10-month high of 89.2
percent of capacity in the week ended June 17 may also curb
shipments, Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC Energy
Economics in Walton-on-Thames, U.K., said by phone June 29. U.S.
refinery rates in the week ended June 24 fell 1.1 percentage
point to 88.10 percent, leaving utilization just under the 88.4
percent level of a year earlier.  A lack of U.S. demand may lead to more gasoline being
stored in  Europe , Ul-Haq said. The supply of tankers competing
for cargoes also expanded. There are 35 of the vessels yet to be
assigned cargo and available for hire, almost double last week’s
tally of 18, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Six tankers were hired to load the auto fuel, and another
13 bookings will probably come. Twelve charters were reported
last week with 11 expected at the time.  The 5.98 million barrels of total cargo either booked or
likely to be booked onto tankers over the next two weeks,
compares with 7.2 million barrels a week earlier, according to
the survey.  Rental Income Slumps  Rental income from tankers delivering the fuel across the
Atlantic slumped 10 percent to $8,473 a day yesterday, according
to the  Baltic Exchange  in London.  Torm A/S, Europe’s largest publicly traded shipper of
refined oil products, has slumped 45 percent in Copenhagen
trading this year. The stock closed at 21.87 kroner yesterday,
giving the company a market value of 1.6 billion kroner ($310
million).  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
was based on shipments to the U.S. East Coast from Northwest
Europe. Each vessel would normally haul about 37,000 metric tons
of cargo, or 315,000 barrels.  U.S. gasoline demand, measured by deliveries to
wholesalers, fell to a three-week low of 9.26 million barrels a
day last week. On a four-week average, consumption was 0.3
percent below a year earlier.  “The U.S. doesn’t need more gasoline from Europe,” said
Ul-Haq. “High refinery utilization rates in the U.S. are likely
to meet gasoline demand much more easily,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net 
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  