-- 
Eversendai, SapuraCrest, Sapura, Scicom: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/eversendai-sapuracrest-sapura-scicom-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,579.07, a record close.  Eversendai Corp. (EVSD MK): Shares of the Malaysian
structural steel contractor will make its debut on the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange. The company sold shares to institutions
at 1.70 ringgit each and 1.62 ringgit to individual investors in
its initial public offering.        SapuraCrest Petroleum Bhd. (SCRES)  : The Malaysian oil
and gas services provider said profit in the first quarter ended
April 30 rose 43 percent from a year earlier to 72.3 million
ringgit ($24 million), according to a statement to the stock
exchange. The stock added 1 percent to 4.20 ringgit.        Sapura Resources Bhd. (SRB)  : The automotive retailer’s
profit in the first quarter ended April 30 surged to 130.6
million ringgit from 1.84 million ringgit a year earlier, as it
made a gain from the sale of a stake in its education business,
it said in a statement. The stock declined 1 percent to 1
ringgit.       Scicom (MSC) Bhd. (SCIC MK): The outsourcing company won
government approval to set up a private institution of higher
learning in Malaysia, it said in a statement. Scicom last traded
at 39 sen on June 29.        Yee Lee Corp. (YEE)  : The edible oils distributor and
paper cartons maker signed an agreement to distribute cereal
products for Kellogg Asia Marketing Inc. within Malaysia. Yee
Lee and Dutch Lady Milk Industries Bhd. also mutually agreed too
scrap a distributorship agreement, Yee Lee said in a statement.
Yee Lee fell 2 percent to 1 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  