-- 
Ex-AMD Employee Longoria Pleads Guilty to Four-Year Insider-Trading Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ex-amd-employee-mark-longoria-pleads-guilty-to-securities-fraud-scheme.html
Mark Anthony Longoria, a former
employee of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  charged in a U.S. probe
of insider trading by fund managers and expert networking
consultants, pleaded guilty to a four-year fraud scheme.  Longoria, 45, of  San Antonio , yesterday admitted that while
also working as a paid consultant to  Primary Global Research
LLC , an expert networking firm, he committed four crimes: two
counts of conspiracy, a count of  securities fraud  and making
false statements to prosecutors and FBI agents.  He faces as long as 50 years in prison, said U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan. Longoria is cooperating with
prosecutors, Rakoff said, and he could face a lesser term if he
provides “substantial assistance” to the government.  “Between 2006 and 2010, I was a consultant with Primary
Global Research, known as PGR, an expert networking firm,”
Longoria told Rakoff during the court hearing. “PGR paid me for
providing material nonpublic information, mostly by telephone,
to its hedge fund clients. I believed at the time that the hedge
funds would use the nonpublic information I gave them to make
trading decisions.”  Longoria admitted in court that he passed tips about AMD’s
gross margins and revenue to hedge fund managers in 2009. He
also said that he provided inside information about  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC) , a hard-drive maker based in  Irvine ,  California ,
when he worked for them in 2006. He said he passed the
information to four hedge funds, including Barai Capital
Management, whose founder Samir Barai, pleaded guilty to federal
charges in May.  Pricing Information  “During most of that period, I was employed by AMD,”
Longoria said, adding that he had information about the
chipmaker’s unit volumes and pricing information of its product
lines.  Yesterday in court, Longoria said he conspired in the
insider-trading scheme with Bob Nguyen, a former Primary Global
analyst who pleaded guilty in January, and James Fleishman, a
Primary Global sales manager who was charged with Longoria in
December.  Longoria also named Phani Saripella, Primary Global’s chief
operating officer, as a participant in the scheme. Saripella
hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing. Saripella’s lawyer,
Priya Chaudhry, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
left at her office after business hours or an e-mail message
seeking comment.  “I agreed with employees of PGR, including James Fleishman, Phani Saripella, Bob Nguyen and others, and their
hedge fund clients to provide such inside information to  hedge
funds ,” Longoria said. “I knew that what I was doing was
wrong,” he said.  Cooperating Witness  Nguyen, a former Primary Global Analyst, pleaded guilty in
January to recruiting consultants from public companies to be
part of the scheme. He was described by prosecutors as a
“cooperating witness with the government.”  Fleishman, who has pleaded not guilty to the charges, is
scheduled to go to trial in August.  Primary Global “paid me for providing material, nonpublic
information, mostly by telephone, to its hedge fund clients,”
Longoria said in court. “I believed at the time that the hedge
funds would use the nonpublic information I gave them to make
trading decisions.”  $300 a Call  Longoria said Primary Global paid him $300 for each
telephone call to pass inside information about the chipmaker to
hedge fund clients of the expert networking firm. He also said
he earned about $200,000 from the scheme which he said operated
from 2006 to 2010.  When asked by federal prosecutors and agents with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  in late 2010 and early 2011,
Longoria yesterday said he lied to them, denying he paid a
friend at AMD for earnings information.  “I also told them that I gave only high-level information
to Steve Glass, a hedge fund manager, such as whether AMD sales
were up or down each quarter, when, in fact, I gave him specific
earnings numbers in advance of public announcement,” he said.  Steven Glass, a portfolio manager at STG Capital Management
in  New York , didn’t return voice-mail messages left at his
office seeking comment after regular business hours.  Yesterday in court, Longoria identified the hedge funds
which he said were recipients of his tips. He told Rakoff in
court that the recipients were, “STG, Barai, Cumberland among
others.”  Glass, Gurinder  “In 2009, I also provided AMD’s quarterly revenue and
gross margin numbers in advance of AMD’s public announcements to
PGR employees and clients, including Steve Glass and Gurinder of
G-Core.”  Gary Tynes, a principal of Cumberland Associates Ltd. in
New York, didn’t return voice-mail messages seeking comment
after regular business hours. Gurinder Kalra, of G Core Capital
Management in New York, also didn’t return voice-mail messages
left at his office after regular business hours.  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global, declined to
comment on Longoria’s statements about the firm or Saripella.  Michael Silverman, a spokesman for AMD, said in a statement
that the company was a victim of the  insider trading  scheme.  “AMD has a clear and comprehensive policy against insider
trading, and AMD also has a worldwide insider trading training
program,” he said. “AMD additionally has policies regarding
work by its employees outside of AMD including consulting
arrangements such as the so-called expert networks that appear
to be at the heart of the government’s insider trading
investigations. It appears that Mr. Longoria violated those
policies.”  ‘Not Targets’  Steve Shattuck, a spokesman for  Western Digital  said in a
phone interview, “We are cooperating with the government and
have been advised by the U.S. Attorney’s office that W.D. is a
witness and that the company and its employees are not
targets.”  After court, Longoria’s lawyer,  Jonathan Marks , declined to
comment whether his client would testify at Fleishman’s trial.  Rakoff set sentencing for July 1, 2013, adding, “Don’t be
late,” as lawyers left the courtroom.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Antonia Apps and David Leibowitz,
who are prosecuting the case, also declined to comment after
court.  Longoria was one of four people arrested in December in a
federal probe of insider trading of hedge funds that was
conducted by prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  and the FBI’s New York Office.  Ten Convicted  More than a dozen people have been charged by Bharara’s
office since November, in cases tied to company employees who
also worked for expert networking firms and fund managers who
received their illegal tips.  Ten people have been convicted, including Winifred Jiau, a
former Primary Global consultant who was found guilty on June
20. Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lawyer, said she would file an appeal
after the sentencing.  Expert networking firms match investors with specialists
who provide insight into specific markets. A broader U.S. probe
has implicated hedge funds, banks and insiders at technology
companies.  Longoria was charged along with Fleishman, Walter Shimoon
and Manosha Karunatilaka in December with fraud and conspiracy.  Karunatilaka, a former account manager at Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., pleaded guilty in May to
sharing nonpublic information about the firm with Primary Global
clients.  Prosecutors have repeatedly filed requests with the court
seeking adjournments in prosecuting both Shimoon and Longoria.  In court papers filed June 6, Apps sought a delay in the
case of Shimoon, saying prosecutors and his lawyer “have had
conversations regarding a possible disposition of this case.”
Shimoon’s lawyer,  Henry Mazurek , declined to comment.  The case is U.S. vs. Shimoon, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  