-- 
Ex-Lawyer Cutillo Gets 30 Months in Prison in Galleon Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-30T20:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ex-lawyer-cutillo-sentenced-to-2-1-2-years-in-galleon-insider-trading-case.html
Arthur Cutillo, a former Ropes &
Gray LLP lawyer who pleaded guilty in the Galleon Group LLC
insider-trading case, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York imposed
the sentence today and ordered Cutillo to forfeit $378,068 along
with two other defendants. He must surrender to prison
authorities by Sept. 16, the judge ruled.  “You were one of the winners in life,” Sullivan said.
“At the time of the crime, you were a respected attorney. You
were earning more than $200,000. Yet it wasn’t enough.”  Cutillo pleaded in January to one count of conspiracy and
securities fraud. He admitted disclosing information on
transactions the firm was working on to another co-defendant,
Jason Goldfarb, in exchange for kickbacks.  “I just want to apologize to everybody I hurt,” Cutillo,
34, of  Newark ,  New Jersey , said today in court. “I know what I
did was terribly wrong. Not only did I betray my  law firm , I
betrayed everyone I believed in. I’m sorry.”  Prosecutors said information from Cutillo was passed on to
former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , allowing Goffer and others to
earn more than $7 million.  The sentence was at the low end of a range of 2 1/2 years
to three years and one month recommended by the government.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said in court papers that
the lawyer went “sneaking around” his firm searching for
documents on coming mergers and acquisitions that provided tips.  Sullivan said the sentence was appropriate considering
Cutillo’s family and good deeds.  Defense Position  Catherine L. Redlich , Cutillo’s lawyer, asked Sullivan to
impose no prison time, citing the welfare of her client’s four
young children.  Cutillo, a 2005 law graduate of Villanova University, is
one of 27 people charged in what prosecutors say is the biggest
investigation of insider trading. The government said crimes
were committed by overlapping rings involving Galleon Group co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted in May.  According to evidence presented at trial, one ring was led
by Goffer, founder of Incremental Capital LLC and a former
Galleon trader. He was convicted June 13 with his brother
Emanuel Goffer and a third man. Goldfarb, Cutillo’s former
college roommate, pleaded guilty April 21.  Cutillo’s co-defendant Brien Santarlas, another ex-Ropes &
Gray lawyer, testified in another trial that he and Cutillo
searched desks and computers and eavesdropped for secrets to
sell.  Sneaking Around  “Cutillo’s crimes were extensive,” Fish said in court
papers. “He used multiple methods to avoid detection, such as
sneaking around Ropes & Gray and its computer system to find
material nonpublic information that would be useful for a trader
and using prepaid cellular telephones to communicate with his
partners in crime.”  Cutillo said when pleading guilty that he was a patent
attorney when he became involved in the  insider-trading  scheme.
In 2007, he and Santarlas leaked information about transactions
involving 3Com and Axcan Pharma Inc., he said. Santarlas pleaded
guilty and is awaiting sentencing.  Goldfarb passed on the tips to Goffer, who traded on the
information, Cutillo said.  “This is a crime that also has real negative consequences
over a broad spectrum,” the judge said today. “It certainly
has a negative impact on the national market and people’s
confidence in the markets. If you believe elites in this game
played with loaded dice, they think the game is rigged.”  Cutillo’s attorneys noted that he agreed to plead guilty
and accept responsibility for his crimes. His brother’s death
followed by his wife’s miscarriage “are factors that help to
provide context for his misconduct,” the defense said in court
papers.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-56, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  