-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas Gets 30 Years for $3 Billion Mortgage Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-30T23:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ex-taylor-bean-chairman-farkas-sentenced-to-30-years-in-prison.html
Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 30
years in prison for leading a $3 billion fraud involving fake
mortgage assets.  Farkas, who has been in custody since his conviction in
April of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities
fraud , was also ordered by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema
in Alexandria,  Virginia , to forfeit more than $38 million.  “I actually don’t believe you accept responsibility for
these criminal acts,” Brinkema said today as she handed down
the sentence. “This was a very serious series of crimes.”  Prosecutors said Farkas, 58, orchestrated one of the U.S.’s
largest and longest-running bank frauds, which duped some of the
country’s biggest financial institutions, targeted the federal
bank bailout program and contributed to the failures of Taylor
Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  Farkas, who was wearing a green jumpsuit with the word
“prisoner” stenciled on the back, appeared thinner and his
hair darker than during his two-week trial. He read from a
statement saying he had to “take risks” because he couldn’t
accept the failure of the company.  “I believe that everyone at TBW and Colonial Bank were
acting together in good faith to help each other,” Farkas said.  ‘Powerful’ Message  Thomas O’Brien, counsel to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. as receiver for Colonial Bank, spoke at the sentencing as
a victim of Farkas’s crimes. He said the collapse of Colonial
Bank was the sixth-largest bank failure in U.S. history and the
third largest failure since “the 2007 financial crisis.”  Colonial Bank’s failure cost the FDIC’s insurance fund
about $4.2 billion, he said. Of that, $1.8 billion can be
attributed to the Farkas conspiracy, he said.  “This fraud made a significant contribution to the failure
of an institution that was already on the ropes,” O’Brien said.  Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , head of the
 Justice Department ’s criminal division, said he was pleased with
the sentence even though it was less than what prosecutors had
pushed for.  “I think 30 years has a very powerful deterrent message,”
Breuer said in an interview with reporters in the courthouse.
“If that’s not a deterrent to you then you’re brain dead.”  In court papers, prosecutors sought 385 years or no less
than 50 years.  Madoff Sentence  Prosecutors said in a sentencing memorandum that the
recommended punishment would be consistent with sentences
imposed on “similarly situated” white-collar defendants, such
as  Bernard Madoff  and former WorldCom Inc. Chairman Bernard Ebbers. Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence for $17
billion in losses and Ebbers, 69, received 25 years for an $11
billion accounting fraud.  Brinkema in court today called a sentence of 385 years
“silly.”  Patrick Stokes , deputy chief of the Justice Department’s
fraud section, told the judge today that the crimes committed by
Farkas contributed to the “financial crisis of 2008” and that
anything less than a life sentence would send the wrong message.  “He killed a bank, Colonial Bank,” Stokes said. “He
killed his own company, TBW.”  U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in Alexandria said the 30-year
term “ensures that Lee Farkas will spend the rest of his life
in prison.”  Years Behind Bars  William Cummings , one of Farkas’s lawyers, said his client
is planning an appeal. He said the actual time Farkas will serve
behind bars is about 25 years.  Bruce Rogow, a lawyer for Farkas, urged Brinkema to send
his client to prison for no more than 15 years.  Prosecutors originally sought a money judgment of $42
million, claiming that Farkas was paid millions in salary and
“personally stole” more than $40 million from  Taylor Bean  and
Colonial Bank. That was changed to the $38 million imposed
today.  Six conspirators to the fraud scheme who pleaded guilty
have been sentenced by Brinkema to prison terms ranging from
three months to eight years.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  