-- 
Texas Cotton Farmers Abandon Record Acres on Drought as Gap’s Costs Rise

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-06-30T14:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/texas-cotton-farmers-may-abandon-record-acres-because-of-drought.html
Cotton farmers in  Texas , the biggest
U.S. growers, may abandon a record number of acres after the
worst drought in at least a century damaged plants and boosted
costs for textile makers including Gap Inc.  “This year will probably rank among the top
abandonments,” said  John Robinson , a professor and extension
economist at  Texas A&M University  in  College Station . “The
situation looks very grave.”  About 55 percent of the Texas cotton fields were in poor or
very  poor condition  on June 26, matching the record low in 2006,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture said. More than 70 percent of
the state was experiencing “exceptional” drought as of June
21, and non-irrigated crops in the Panhandle and South Plains
regions have all failed, a Texas A&M  research unit  said.  While the U.S. Midwest got too much rain this spring,
flooding millions of acres of corn, soybean and rice fields, the
dry conditions in Texas -- the worst since record-keeping began
116 years ago -- may force farmers to make crop-insurance claims
rather than harvest cotton.  Abandonment in the High Plains region, which usually
produces about two-thirds of the state’s cotton, may reach 50
percent, the highest since 53 percent of the crop was left to
rot in 1992, according to Lubbock, Texas-based  Plains Cotton
Growers Inc.  The record is 42 percent in 1998, according to the
USDA.  Gap Cuts Forecast  Cotton futures in New York as much as doubled in the past
year, touching a record $2.197 a pound on March 7, as adverse
weather lowered output in  China , the world’s biggest consumer
and producer. San Francisco-based Gap, the largest U.S. apparel
chain, cut its full-year profit forecast by 22 percent in May,
citing higher costs, while Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. posted a 36
percent decline in net income in the quarter ended April 2.  Prices have dropped more than 45 percent from the record on
signs of slowing global demand, particularly in China. Cotton
for December delivery fell by the 5-cent exchange limit, or 4.1
percent, to $1.164 at 10:14 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. That’s the lowest since Nov. 30.  “On one hand, output is declining in the U.S., and on the
other, demand has taken a severe hit,” said Peter Egli, the
director of risk management in  Chicago  at Plexus Cotton Ltd., a
U.K.-based merchant. “Higher prices have rationed demand.”  The drought in Texas, which accounted for 44 percent of the
nation’s harvest last year, may accelerate a projected drop in
production in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter, and revive
prices. Only about a third of the acres in Texas are irrigated.  Cotton may climb to $1.59 by end of year, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts and traders.  USDA Crop Estimate  The USDA on June 9 slashed its forecast for the total U.S.
crop to 17 million bales, from 18 million in May, citing the
worsening conditions in Texas. That would mean a 6.1 percent
decline from a year earlier, when output was 18.1 million bales.
A bale weighs 480 pounds (218 kilograms).  That was the first time since the drought of 1998 that the
USDA lowered its production outlook in June, according to  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at Penson Futures in Atlanta.  “We will see more cuts as the year progresses and the
extent of damage becomes more evident,” Johnson said.  Without rain soon, output will drop more than the
government’s forecast, said Gary Raines, an economist at FCStone
Fibers & Textiles in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Plexis Cotton’s Egli
said production may fall to less than 15 million bales.  Declining Production  U.S. production is expected to be lower even after farmers
boosted planting. A USDA survey of growers released today showed
that 13.725 million acres were sown, compared with 12.565
million estimated in March.  The condition of the Texas crop as of June 26 matches the
low of August 2006, which was the worst since rating records are
available from the USDA going back to 1986.  Craig Heinrich, a 44-year old farmer near Lubbock, said he
already has abandoned half of his 2,400-acre cotton crop because
of the drought and high winds. Heinrich said he’ll seek to
collect on his policy with Armtech Insurance Services.  “If beneficial rain doesn’t fall in most areas of Texas
soon, claims will most likely be higher than in years past,”
said Tom Zacharias, the president of  Overland Park , Kansas-based
National Crop Insurance Services. In 2008, farmers held $90
billion in insurance covering 272 million acres nationwide, the
highest liability ever, he said.  Ted Etheredge, the president of Armtech Insurance, declined
to comment. Officials from 14 other companies  designated  by the
USDA to provide coverage through a government reinsurance
program were either unavailable or declined to comment.  Texas Harvest  Texas may harvest 3.5 million acres (1.4 million hectares)
if the present conditions prevail, FCStone’s Raines said. That
compares with 6.115 million planted acres projected by the USDA
in March after surveying farmers.  Tropical Storm Arlene, the first named storm of the
 Atlantic hurricane season , may bring rain to the region over the
next several days, according to Donald Keeney, a meteorologist
at Rockville, Maryland-based MDA Information Systems Inc.  “Maybe some rain now can save parts of the irrigated
area,” said Heinrich, the Texas farmer. “For most of the area,
it’s just too late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 