-- 
Fabregas Is Optimistic Over Move as Barcelona Raises Bid: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-30T06:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fabregas-is-optimistic-over-move-as-barcelona-raises-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to websites.  Fabregas Optimistic  Cesc Fabregas is “optimistic” he will move to Barcelona
from Arsenal after the European champion increased its bid for
the Spanish midfielder to 35 million pounds ($56 million) plus
add-ons, the  Daily Mail   reported .  “If a player is on the market it is because the club does
not want him. I have no problems,” the newspaper cited Fabregas
as saying at a soccer camp in Tordera,  Spain . “I’m calm and I
am optimistic. I have nothing to say and there is nothing to
speak of.”  Productive Talks  Barcelona and Arsenal held productive talks yesterday even
though there remains some difference in their valuations of
Fabregas, the  Daily Telegraph   reported . The Premier League club
is believed to be holding out for a transfer fee that, with add-
ons, it can present to fans as being closer to 40 million pounds,
the Telegraph said.  Clichy to City  Manchester City  is moving toward a 7 million-pound deal for
Arsenal defender  Gael Clichy , the Independent  reported .  Negotiations on price and personal terms still need to be
concluded and Clichy, whose contract expires next year, is
currently overseas, the Independent said. Liverpool had a 5
million-pound bid for Clichy rejected earlier this month, while
Italian club Roma is also interested in him, the newspaper added.  Players-Plus-Cash  City is ready to test Everton’s resolve with a 20 million-
pound players-plus-cash offer for left-back Leighton Baines, the
Sun  reported .  The Blues are willing to pay about 10 million pounds for
the 26-year-old plus two players, the Sun said. Emmanuel Adebayor and Nedum Onuoha would head the list of candidates
because Everton wants to bring in a new striker and strengthen
the backline, the newspaper added.  Spurs Land Striker  Tottenham is set to make Antonio Pedroza Whitham its first
off-season signing after the Mexican striker agreed to a four-
year contract with the London club, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Pedroza Whitham, whose mother and sister live in Cheshire,
 England , will cost less than 1 million pounds because his
contract with Mexican club Jaguares has expired, the Mirror said.  Teenage Target  Spurs joined Manchester City in targeting French teenage
striker M’Baye Niang, the Daily Mail  reported . Niang, 16, made
his senior debut for Caen in April and scored three goals in
seven games, the Mail said.  The French club said Tottenham has offered a package worth
about 7 million pounds and Spurs believe they can offer him a
better chance of playing in the first team, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  