-- 
Facebook Judge Grants Company Demand for Original Ceglia E-Mails, Contract

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-01T17:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/facebook-judge-grants-request-for-ceglia-s-original-e-mails-contract.html
A western New York man who claims a
2003 contract with Facebook Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  made
him a partner in the company must turn over the original
contract and e-mails he claims support his case, a judge said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo, New York,
yesterday ordered that  Paul Ceglia  allow forensic testing of the
documents and produce his computers, hard-drives and computer
storage media to Facebook by July 15. Facebook, which argued
that Ceglia’s suit is a “fraud on the court,” will then have
30 days to test the documents.  At the end of a three-hour hearing, Foschio declined most
of Ceglia’s requests, including that Facebook immediately turn
over documents and e-mails relating to Facebook’s origins.
Foschio did order Facebook to produce samples of Zuckerberg’s
signature for examination by Ceglia’s experts. After Ceglia
turns over the materials, Facebook will produce 176 e-mails
retrieved from Zuckerberg’s account at  Harvard University , where
he studied as an undergraduate.  Both sides agree that Ceglia hired Zuckerberg, then a
freshman at Harvard, to work on StreetFax.com, a company that
offered a database of street photos to insurance companies and
other subscribers, in April 2003. In a sworn statement,
Zuckerberg said that Facebook wasn’t mentioned in the contract
he signed with Ceglia. The company has called Ceglia a con man.  ‘Fabricated E-Mails’  “This case is based on a fraudulent contract and
fabricated e-mails,” Facebook’s lawyer,  Orin Snyder , told
Foschio.  Facebook said Zuckerberg’s Harvard account contains the
genuine e-mails between Zuckerberg and Ceglia. The Harvard e-
mails make no mention of Facebook and show Ceglia offering a
series of excuses for not paying money he owed Zuckerberg,
according to the company.  Snyder said that Ceglia paid Zuckerberg $9,000 and owed him
more money, which he never paid.  A lawyer for Ceglia, Jeffrey Lake, yesterday complained to
Foschio that  Facebook  has publicly attacked Ceglia’s character.
He told Foschio that Zuckerberg is an admitted computer hacker
who has been sued over the origins of Facebook.  Lake said that there’s no way to tell if Zuckerberg deleted
e-mails on the Harvard server. According to the university,
Zuckerberg accessed his Harvard e-mail account in October, Lake
told Foschio.  “Mr. Zuckerberg and his team are the most capable in the
world in manipulating electronic information,” Lake said. “We
have no idea what he’s deleted. We can’t know that.”  ‘Speculation and Nonsense’  After the hearing, Snyder said Lake’s suggestion that
Zuckerberg deleted unfavorable e-mails from his Harvard account
is “conjecture, speculation and nonsense.”  In an amended complaint filed in April, Ceglia quoted from
e-mails he said he exchanged with Zuckerberg. In one of the
disputed e-mails, Zuckerberg asks Ceglia if he could adapt the
source code from StreetFax for use on “The Face Book” project.  Ceglia claims he cut and pasted his e-mails with Zuckerberg
from a Web-based e-mail program into word-processing documents
that he saved on floppy discs. He said the messages support his
claim that the two men formed a partnership giving Ceglia half
ownership of Facebook when it was started in 2004.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell,  New York , according to Ceglia’s
lawyers. Foschio told the parties to develop protocols to test
the contract and other materials, suggesting that Ceglia may
want to hire an armed guard to supervise the examination of the
contract.  ‘A Lot at Stake’  “There’s a lot at stake here,” Foschio said.  Lake said that if the experts on both sides agree, after
examining and testing the original contract, that it’s a
forgery, the case will be over.  “Lights out. Ball game over. I get that,” Lake said.  Snyder told Foschio yesterday that Zuckerberg no longer has
his copy of the contract he signed with Ceglia. Snyder said
Facebook believes the second page of Ceglia’s contract, which
includes Zuckerberg’s signature, may be authentic. The first
page, which refers to “The Face Book” and includes
Zuckerberg’s initials, is a forgery, Snyder said.  Ceglia’s lawyers had asked the court to order both sides to
turn over evidence, including all of Zuckerberg’s documents, e-
mails and instant messages relating to Facebook before July 30,
2004.  ‘Scam Artist’  In addition to ruling in favor of most of Facebook’s
requests, Foschio yesterday questioned whether Ceglia’s case is
barred by a six-year statute of limitation and said his
complaint may not state a viable claim under partnership law.  In court papers, Facebook’s lawyers have called Ceglia “a
career scam artist.” Ceglia’s lawyers said in court papers that
he showed no deception on a June 11 polygraph test in which he
was asked if he’d forged or doctored the contract.  Three days ago, lawyers from the firms DLA Piper LLP and
Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP told the court they were
quitting the case after representing Ceglia for less than three
months. The lawyers didn’t give a reason for the move.  DLA Piper, which has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries, is one
of the biggest law firms in the world. The Lippes Mathias
lawyers representing Ceglia included former New York Attorney
General Dennis Vacco.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is valued at as
much as $71 billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online
marketplace for investments in companies that aren’t publicly
traded.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 