-- 
Fannie Mae Silence on Taylor Bean Opened Way to $3 Billion Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-30T20:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fannie-mae-silence-on-taylor-bean-mortgages-opened-way-to-3-billion-fraud.html
The first sign of what would
ultimately become a $3 billion fraud surfaced Jan. 11, 2000,
when  Fannie Mae  executive Samuel Smith discovered Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Mortgage Corp. sold him a loan owned by someone else.  Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored enterprise which
issues almost half of all mortgage-backed securities, determined
over the next two years that more than 200 loans acquired from
 Taylor Bean  were bogus, non-performing or lacked critical
components such as mortgage insurance.  That might have been the end of Taylor Bean and its
chairman and principal owner,  Lee Farkas . He was sentenced today
in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, to 30 years in prison
for orchestrating what prosecutors call one of the “largest
bank fraud schemes in this country’s history.”  Instead, it was just the beginning.  Fannie Mae officials never reported the fraud to law
enforcement or anyone outside the company. Internal memos, court
papers, and public testimony show it sought only to rid itself
of liabilities and cut ties with a mortgage firm selling loans
“that had no value,” as Smith, the former vice president of
Fannie Mae’s single family operations, said in a 2008
deposition.  The trial of Farkas and his co-defendants resulted in the
only major criminal conviction stemming from the financial
crisis -- a crisis that followed the September 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the U.S. government takeover
of Fannie Mae and its rival Freddie Mac that same month.  ‘Most Significant’  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, described the Farkas case in a
Feb. 14 letter to President  Barack Obama  as “the most
significant criminal prosecution to date” that arose from the
financial crisis.  “If there had been a criminal referral, Farkas would have
gone to jail in 2002,” William Black, who served as deputy
director of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. during
the S&L crisis of the 1980s, said in an interview.  Seven more years passed before federal regulators shut down
Ocala, Florida-based Taylor Bean and prosecutors charged Farkas
with orchestrating the $3 billion scam. He had duped some of the
country’s largest financial institutions, sought federal bank
bailout funds and contributed to the failures of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup,
once among the nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  ‘Fraud Scheme’  Taylor Bean would have collapsed in 2002 “but for the
fraud scheme,” according to prosecutors. It also survived
because  Freddie Mac  began picking up the company’s business
within a week of Fannie Mae’s cutoff, Jason Moore, Taylor Bean’s
former chief operating officer, said in an interview.  Freddie Mac soon became Taylor Bean’s biggest customer, and
the mortgage company grew to be one of its biggest revenue
producers, accounting for about 2 percent of single-family home
mortgages by volume in 2009, according to a company filing.  Once the 12th-largest U.S. mortgage lender, Taylor Bean’s
business was originating, selling and servicing residential
 mortgage loans  that came from a network of small mortgage
brokers and banks.  It had about 2,400 employees and was servicing more than
500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of Freddie Mac loans
and $26 billion of Ginnie Mae loans, before it collapsed into
bankruptcy in August 2009, according to court papers.  Loan Guarantees  Ginnie Mae, a government-owned insurer of mortgage-backed
securities, primarily guarantees loans insured by the Federal
Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more
than half of all U.S. home loans, were created by the U.S.
government to inject capital into the housing market. Fannie Mae
was established in 1938, and Freddie Mac in 1970.  Beginning in 2006, the companies began making big
investments in subprime loans, many of which eventually
defaulted. In the face of their imminent collapse, the U.S.
Treasury Department took the government-sponsored entities into
conservatorship in September 2008, promising to make good on an
implicit government guarantee of the companies’ bonds.  The deal gave the Treasury almost 80 percent of the
companies in exchange for a line of credit. Since then, the
entities have required more than $160 billion in taxpayer aid.  Freddie Mac, based in McLean,  Virginia , filed a claim on
Taylor Bean in U.S. bankruptcy court for $1.8 billion.
Washington-based Fannie Mae had about $1.7 billion in loans
serviced by Taylor Bean when their relationship ended in 2002.  Officials’ Decision  The decision to keep Farkas in business was made by top
Fannie Mae officials such as Smith and Zach Oppenheimer, then
senior vice president for single family mortgage business,
according to Smith’s deposition and a Fannie Mae memorandum.  A confidential agreement between Fannie Mae and Taylor
Bean’s Farkas unwinding their relationship was negotiated by
lawyers from the general counsel’s office, overseen at the time
by Thomas Donilon, now Obama’s national security adviser,
according to the documents. Donilon’s spokesman, Tommy Vietor,
declined to comment.  Fannie Mae officials feared that seizing the loan portfolio
would signal poor loan quality to the mortgage industry,
according to deposition testimony and an internal Fannie Mae
memo. As a result, the value of the servicing rights to those
loans would drop.  Fannie Mae officials were also concerned that an immediate
termination of the relationship would have “a devastating
effect on TBW’s ability to continue as a viable company,”
according to an undated Fannie Mae memo filed as part of a
related lawsuit.  Confidential Agreement  The confidential agreement allowed Farkas to seek a buyer
for the servicing rights of his Fannie Mae loans. The reasons
for the termination by Fannie Mae were to remain a secret,
according to court filings.  “We hold people accountable in the judicial system when
they don’t report a crime,” said Ken Donohue, former inspector
general of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
who investigated another mortgage fraud matter involving First
Beneficial Co. In that case, he said, Fannie Mae “literally
knew about a crime” and didn’t report it.  “In my estimation, it happened again,” said Donohue, now
a principal at the Reznick Group PC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, said in an
e-mail that its current practice is to “take action and inform
 law enforcement ” if it discovers “inappropriate activity.”
 Brad German , a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to comment.  Focus of Case  Franklin Raines, who was chairman and CEO at Fannie Mae
from 1999 through 2004, said in an interview that he has “no
memory” of the Taylor Bean matter.  Fannie Mae either picks up the documents or negotiates an
agreement when a termination occurs, Raines said. Fannie Mae’s
regional offices manage terminations to get the largest
recovery, and such an event wouldn’t be publicly disclosed, he
said.  Fannie Mae was owned at the time by its shareholders, and
unless there’s a legal obligation to disclose, silence is
typical in business arrangements, Raines said.  The termination alone should have been enough warning to
Freddie Mac and others businesses to “move with caution,”
Raines said.  The government’s case against Farkas and six convicted co-
conspirators focused on conduct after Fannie Mae terminated
their relationship. Those crimes began because Farkas needed
cash to meet operating expenses, such as payroll and loan-
servicing payments to Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, according to
his indictment.  Fake Mortgages  From 2002 through August 2009, he directed the sale of more
than $1.5 billion in fake mortgage assets to Colonial Bank and
misappropriated more than $1.5 billion from Ocala Funding LLC, a
financing vehicle used and controlled by Taylor Bean,
prosecutors said in a sentencing document.  Farkas, 58, oversaw the “triple-selling” of $900 million
worth of mortgage loans to Colonial, Ocala Funding and Freddie
Mac, and led an effort to obtain $553 million from TARP,
according to the filing.  At his trial in April, Farkas and three other witnesses
were asked about the Fannie Mae termination. The relationship
ended, each said, because Fannie Mae discovered that from six to
eight delinquent loans it had bought from Taylor Bean were in
Farkas’s name. Fannie Mae officials weren’t called to the stand
by either the government or the defense.  GMAC Lawsuit  Documents filed in a 2006 countersuit against Taylor Bean
by GMAC Mortgage Corp. showed the number of bogus or bad loans
sold to Fannie Mae was much larger.  Fannie Mae, which had worked with Taylor Bean since 1995,
first had concerns about possible fraud in January 2000 after
the mortgage financier received a telephone call from Catherine
Kissick, the manager of Taylor Bean’s accounts at Colonial Bank,
according to documents filed in the GMAC litigation. Kissick was
sentenced to eight years in prison on June 17 after pleading
guilty to conspiracy in the Farkas case.  Kissick called to say the loan in question, which Fannie
Mae had paid for, had in fact been sold a few months earlier to
Freddie Mac, according to Smith’s deposition.  “The duplicate loan being sold to Fannie Mae could have
been an indication of fraud, or it could have had an innocent
explanation,” Smith said in the lawsuit deposition. “But,
nevertheless, it’s an indication that if they are truly selling
duplicate loans to us, they have either got really bad, weak
controls, or they’re doing fraud.”  ‘Especially Cautious’  Smith summarized the incident in an internal e-mail, urging
colleagues “to be especially cautious in their dealings with”
Taylor Bean and “to let me and others know ASAP if you find
evidence of such problems.”  Smith, who left Fannie Mae at the end of 2006, declined to
comment.  Fannie Mae continued buying loans from Taylor Bean and
helped it build a website called Community Banks Online that
allowed smaller banks to process mortgage loan applications
faster through Taylor Bean. Taylor Bean would then sell those
loans to Fannie Mae.  Moore, the former Taylor Bean chief operating officer, ran
Community Banks Online. He said in an interview that Fannie Mae
was involved in the project and there were plans to market it
nationwide with Fannie’s blessing and funding.  ‘Manipulate Data’  The program also afforded Taylor Bean “the ability to go
in and manipulate data to a degree it had never been able to do
before,” Moore said.  Fannie Mae continued to have concerns about a “lack of
attention to underwriting and quality control” at Taylor Bean,
and on March 6, 2002, Fannie Mae officials had a face-to-face
meeting with Taylor Bean managers, according to an undated
Fannie Mae chronology of the termination entitled “Summary of
Events” that was filed as part of the lawsuit.  Fifteen days later, Fannie Mae’s loss mitigation team in
Atlanta discovered several delinquent Fannie Mae-owned loans in
the name of Farkas and other members of Taylor Bean’s senior
management. A public records check revealed that the named
borrowers didn’t hold title to the real estate and that the
mortgages sold to Fannie Mae had never been recorded, according
to the Fannie Mae document.  “Our conclusion was that fraud, if I can use that word,
had been perpetrated on Fannie Mae, and we considered that to be
a very, very serious matter,” Smith said in the 2008
deposition.  ‘Fraudulent Loans’  On April 1, 2002, Fannie Mae management decided to
terminate its contract with Taylor Bean because of “fraudulent
loans” and “other serious concerns,” according to the summary
document. In addition to the $1.7 billion servicing portfolio,
Taylor Bean had an outstanding balance on Fannie Mae’s advance
payment line of about $189 million, according to the document.  At that point, the chronology stated, Fannie Mae could have
refused to buy any more loans from Taylor Bean, blocked the
company’s access to its online loan processing programs, and
seized the servicing rights, shifting those contracts to another
company without compensating Taylor Bean.  It did none of those things. Fannie Mae wanted to preserve
the value of the servicing portfolio, which would plummet if it
reported that Taylor Bean was selling bogus loans, according to
the summary document and Smith’s deposition.  Smith traveled to Ocala the next day to talk to Farkas
about how to end the relationship, according to the deposition.
Smith said that he was joined the following day by his boss,
Oppenheimer, and Fannie Mae lawyers.  Third Party Move  The negotiation resulted in an agreement that Smith said
outlined what Fannie Mae, Farkas and Taylor Bean would do “over
the next month or two to get the servicing moved to a third
party.” A telephone and e-mail message left for Oppenheimer was
returned by Fannie Mae spokeswoman Bonitatibus, who declined to
comment.  “Companies that have servicing pulled by Fannie Mae with
cause generally do not survive,” said Barry Bier, former
executive vice president and chief investment officer at GMAC
Mortgage Corp., a unit of Detroit-based Ally Financial Inc.,
according to a transcript of deposition testimony. “In this
case I think Taylor Bean was extremely -- was well benefited by
motivated lenders who provided assurances to GMAC to allow them
to go forward.”  GMAC bought the Fannie Mae servicing rights from Taylor
Bean for $27.6 million on May 31, 2002. While GMAC was vetting
the value of the servicing deal, Smith and Oppenheimer declined
to say why Fannie Mae cut ties with Taylor Bean, Bier said.  No Specifics  “I tried to get whatever information I could,” he said in
the deposition. “Each of those gentlemen would not provide any
specifics with respect to the reason for the termination.”  Bier didn’t respond to an e-mail and telephone message
seeking comment.  During the termination, Fannie Mae discovered that about
200 loans Taylor Bean sold as insured by the Federal Housing
Administration didn’t have valid FHA coverage, according to the
“Summary of Events” document.  “Evidence suggests that TBW management knew at the time of
sale of these loans to Fannie Mae that the loans were not
insured,” according to the document. The loans involved
mortgages given to U.S. military veterans, Smith said in his
deposition.  “These are high loan-to-value loans without any insurance
sold to Fannie Mae as government insured when, in fact, they
weren’t,” he said. Taylor Bean was forced to repurchase the
loans. The document doesn’t say how much money the loans
involved.  Delinquent Loans  GMAC also found that 16 loans in the servicing group it
bought from Taylor Bean were delinquent at the time they were
sold to Fannie Mae, according to the document. Taylor Bean
management knew the loans were bad when they sold them and
management falsified a date on the delivery schedule, according
to the Fannie Mae document.  Taylor Bean was forced to repurchase those loans as well,
according to the filing. By November 2002, all of Fannie Mae’s
outstanding claims with Taylor Bean were settled.  The deal with Farkas resembled Fannie Mae’s reaction to an
earlier fraud by one of its authorized lenders, said Chris
Swecker, who investigated mortgage fraud as head of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s office in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  In 1998, an investigator from North Carolina’s State
Banking Commission warned a Fannie Mae employee that Charlotte-
based First Beneficial Co. was selling bad loans, according to
congressional testimony by Donohue, then HUD’s inspector
general. Fannie Mae found many of the First Beneficial loans to
be “fictitious,” Donohue said.  Buy Backs  Fannie Mae allowed First Beneficial to buy back the fake
loans, according to court records. To raise the money, First
Beneficial sold some of the loans to Ginnie Mae, which lost
about $38 million as a result, according to court documents.  Fannie Mae never notified law enforcement or regulators
about the fraud, Swecker said, adding he “pushed hard to
indict” Fannie Mae as a corporation for failing to do so. The
 Justice Department , declining to bring a criminal case, settled
a lawsuit in which Fannie Mae agreed to pay the government $7.5
million and admit no wrongdoing, according to court records.  “We felt like we were on the front end of a big problem
and the last thing we expected to see was a quasi-government
agency sweeping it under the rug,” Swecker said in an
interview. In 2004, in a plea for more resources, he testified
to Congress that the U.S. was on the brink of a mortgage fraud
epidemic.  No Fraud Policy  In a January 2005 letter to lawmakers about the First
Beneficial incident, Fannie Mae’s interim CEO  Daniel Mudd  said
the company had no formal policy on reporting possible fraud.
Fannie Mae doesn’t usually issue public notice when it suspends
or terminates a lender or loan servicer, he said in the letter.  Last year, Mudd, in an interview with the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, cited the termination of Taylor Bean as an
example of Fannie Mae’s willingness to cut ties with problematic
mortgage companies.  A  House of Representatives  subcommittee held a hearing on
First Beneficial in March 2005. As a result, rules were put in
place by Fannie Mae’s regulator, the  Office of Federal Housing
Enterprise Oversight , requiring Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
other government-sponsored enterprises to report fraud to law
enforcement and regulators.  The rule took effect in August 2005, three years after
Fannie Mae terminated Taylor Bean.  Fraud Department  Fannie Mae’s fraud department looked at $1 billion in
suspect loans in 2009 and found $650 million to be fraudulent,
according to William H. Brewster, director of Fannie Mae’s
mortgage fraud program. Brewster told the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission that the loans were bought from lenders such
as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Countrywide Financial Corp., Citigroup
Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brewster said his office now reports fraudulent loans to
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, which replaced the
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, or OFHEO, as
regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008.  A June 21 FHFA inspector general’s  report  found that FHFA
and its predecessor agency ignored or mishandled complaints from
consumers about fraud and botched foreclosures because it had no
system for dealing with them.  The report said OFHEO failed to pursue a tip from a
journalist in June 2008 alleging Taylor Bean was selling loans
to Freddie Mac that the company hadn’t yet purchased. The
unidentified investigative reporter, in an e-mail, claimed to be
in contact with a former Taylor Bean employee who made the
allegations, according to the report.  The inspector general found “no standard procedures were
in place to assure prompt follow-up” and the matter was never
referred to law enforcement for investigation, the report said.  Broke Off  As Fannie Mae broke off its relationship with Taylor Bean
in April 2002, Farkas asked  Raymond Bowman , then Taylor Bean’s
vice president of secondary marketing, to call a friend at
Freddie Mac, which at the time was buying from 5 percent to 10
percent of the loans generated by Taylor Bean, Moore said.  In less than a week, Freddie Mac had agreed to purchase any
conventional loans originated by Taylor Bean, he said. Within
weeks, Bowman was promoted to president.  At Freddie Mac, the decision to boost purchases from Taylor
Bean was made by David H. Stevens, then a senior vice president
of mortgage sourcing, Donald Bisenius, senior vice president for
credit risk management, and Tracy Hagen Mooney, a regional vice
president of sales, according to a former Freddie Mac official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because he didn’t have
permission from his current employer to speak to the media.  Ocala Audit  Auditors and underwriters were sent to Taylor Bean’s
offices in Ocala to look over the loans about a month after the
Fannie Mae termination, the ex-official said.  “Freddie Mac came down, we explained what happened, and
they decided to keep us,” Bowman said during the Farkas trial.  Bowman, who pleaded guilty to the fraud conspiracy and
lying to investigators, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison
on June 10.  Farkas told Freddie Mac officials that eight bogus loans
sold to Fannie Mae were the result of a clerical mistake and
that the company’s termination was due to a personality clash
between Farkas and Fannie Mae’s Oppenheimer, the former official
said. Farkas, while testifying in his own defense at trial, said
the sale of the loans was accidental.  Freddie Mac assumed that because Fannie Mae allowed Taylor
Bean to sell the servicing rights, Farkas’s explanation had
merit, the former official said.  Doesn’t Remember  Bisenius said in an interview he doesn’t remember Freddie
Mac’s specific actions regarding Taylor Bean after the Fannie
Mae termination, although he said he doesn’t recall anyone
alleging fraud within the company before its collapse.  “I don’t think anyone thought that was going on,”
Bisenius said.  Bisenius resigned from his last Freddie Mac job, executive
vice president for single-family credit guarantee, in April, two
months after receiving a so-called Wells notice from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission noting he may be the subject
of a civil enforcement case.  Hagen Mooney, now senior vice president of single-family
servicing and real estate-owned at Freddie Mac, declined to
comment.  Stevens, who left Freddie Mac in 2005 for Wells Fargo & Co.
and Long & Foster Real Estate, said in an interview that
antitrust concerns kept Freddie Mac from asking about the Fannie
Mae termination. Their review of the loans showed Taylor Bean
was selling “high quality stuff,” he said.  He was named FHA commissioner in 2009 and is now the
president and CEO of the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in
 Washington .  After Taylor Bean was raided by the FBI, Stevens, in an
FHA press release, accused the company of “irresponsible
lending practices,” saying Taylor Bean “failed to provide FHA
with financial records that help us to protect the integrity of
our insurance fund and our ability to continue a 75-year track
record of promoting, preserving and protecting the American
Dream.”  Fannie Mae fell as much as 1.8 percent to 32.7 cents before
closing at 33.1 cents in over the counter trading.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 