-- 
FBI Probes Europe-Based Botnet Discovered Infecting Millions of Computers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T19:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fbi-probes-botnet-infecting-millions-of-computers.html
International law enforcement
agencies are investigating what may be the largest documented
botnet, a network of tens of millions of hijacked computers used
to steal banking information, according to a security firm
aiding the investigation.  The botnet, called Metulji, Slovenian for butterfly, is
linked to the theft of hundreds of thousands of dollars by a
criminal gang based in Eastern Europe, including two people
arrested last month in a joint operation in which the FBI joined
in, said Karim Hijazi, chief executive officer of Wilmington,
Delaware-based Unveillance LLC.  Jenny Shearer, a spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of
Invesetigation, declined to comment.  The Metulji botnet is at least twice as extensive as any
known predecessor and uses a potent new form of spyware that has
infected computers in 172 countries, evading anti-virus
software, Hijazi said.  Botnets, which are based on computer worms that give
criminals remote command of the computers they infect, have
helped fuel an expanding crime wave that cyber-security company
McAfee Inc. estimates costs $1 trillion a year.  “It’s a live botnet that is probably stealing information
and facilitating ill-gotten gains to bad guys right now,”
Hijazi, 35.  He said some members of the gang have been traced to the
city of Banja Luka in Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Still in Control  Hijazi said there are indications that other members of the
gang are still in control of the botnet, and he estimated that
losses will eventually rise to millions of dollars.  “This is far from over,” Hijazi said.  Along with a Spanish firm, Panda Security, Unveillance
analyzed the Metulji computer worm and found it’s a more
sophisticated version of the virus behind the Mariposa botnet,
previously known as the largest, which was dismantled by
international law enforcement agencies last year.  The June arrests of two men in Slovenia resulted from their
use of real names and addresses when they registered domains
used to control the Metulji botnet, Hijazi said.  More arrests may be imminent. The alleged author of the
computer worm behind the Mariposa botnet, who may have also
created the Metulji software, was arrested last year in
Slovenia.  At the time, police seized records of people he sold his
software to, data that Hijazi said could now lead authorities to
other members of the Metulji gang.  “That may be the key to finding any others who are still
out there,” Hijazi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  