-- 
Fed’s 21-Cent Swipe-Fee Cap Leaves Banks, Merchants Unsatisfied

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fed-s-21-cent-swipe-fee-cap-leaves-banks-merchants-unsatisfied.html
The Federal Reserve Board’s decision
to cap debit-card swipe fees at 21 cents trims the amount of
revenue banks would have lost under an earlier proposal, while
roughly halving what retailers pay the banks each year.  Still, the action yesterday left both industries grumbling.  The Fed, which is required under the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul to address the fees, proposed in December capping them
at 12 cents, compared with the average 44 cents retailers pay
each time a customer swipes a card.  The 21-cent cap, approved 4-1 by the Fed governors, could
slice about half of the $16 billion in annual revenue reaped by
card issuers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)   “It looks like they split the baby in half, and whenever
you do that you make nobody happy,” said  Robert Litan , a senior
adviser for the Global Economics Group, who conducted research
on the issue sponsored by the banking industry.  Banks and payment networks, who had warned that their
losses from the original proposal could weaken an already shaky
financial system, yesterday complained that the 21 cents still
wouldn’t cover the costs of providing debit cards.  “This is better than the 12 cents anticipated, but still
poses significant challenges to our business,” said Betty Riess, a Bank of America spokeswoman.  Merchants, who saw part of their expected windfall dry up,
said that the Fed caved in to fear-mongering.  The rule also requires card-issuing banks to give merchants
the choice of using at least two unaffiliated debit networks
when they process transactions. That could create more
competition for  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s
largest payment networks, which have negotiated exclusive deals
with banks to handle processing.  Durbin Comment  Banks and credit unions with less than $10 billion in
assets are exempt from the rule, as are reloadable prepaid
cards.  Debit payments, known as interchange, are set by Visa and
MasterCard and passed on to the banks that issue the cards.
Merchants say the payments can be their highest expense after
labor.  Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who pushed
for the caps last year as part of the Dodd-Frank financial
regulation law, said the new rules “will give small businesses
some relief from the unreasonably high fees that the Visa and
MasterCard duopoly fix on behalf of the nation’s biggest banks,
and consumers will finally begin to benefit from the increased
competition, discounts, and lower prices that reform will
bring.”  He added that he was “disappointed” that the Fed
“yielded to the big banks” in setting the higher fee cap.  Dissenting Vote  Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke , the dissenting vote yesterday,
argued that the cap was likely to harm small banks and raise the
costs for checking-account holders. Other governors, who voiced
similar concerns, said the central bank had to weigh in after
Congress required it to address the fees.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called the process “one of our
most challenging rulemakings.” He added: “This is the best
available solution.”  Merchants said they disagreed.  “Let’s just say the Fed took a swing at reform and they
whiffed,” said David French, senior vice president for
government relations at the  National Retail Federation .  French said his group is studying the decision to see if
the Fed “stepped outside the law” in any way.  “There is certainly a legal option that could be
pursued,” he said. “I don’t know that we’re going to go there,
but I wouldn’t rule it out.”  ‘Price-Fixing’  Banking groups, while relieved that that initial 12-cent
cap was changed, also criticized the Fed.  Independent Community Bankers of America , a trade group,
said in a statement that the Fed rule “is still government
price-fixing” at a level below the current market rate.  “There is no doubt that consumers will feel the effects of
this harmful rule,” the group said.  While many of its members would fall into the small-bank
exemption, the trade group has questioned whether the exclusion
is workable.  The rule, originally scheduled to take effect July 21 under
Dodd-Frank, will now be put in place on Oct. 1. It will also
allow banks to tack on five basis points, or 0.05 percent, of
each transaction to pay for fraud costs. For the average payment
of $38, that would add almost 2 cents to the 21-cent cap.  The Fed also said that banks following certain fraud-
prevention standards it sets can charge an additional 1 cent per
transaction fee. That provision was passed on a conditional
basis so the Fed can solicit public comments.  Shares Rise  Investors displayed relief that the Fed didn’t choose a
plan that could be more of a threat to the business model of
MasterCard and Visa, and their shares rose sharply yesterday.  MasterCard, in a statement, called the Fed’s move progress,
but said it didn’t take into account all the costs associated
with debit transactions.  “Setting price caps will create distortions in the market
and harm consumers,” said Chris McWilton, president of U.S.
markets for the company.  Erica Harvill, a Visa spokeswoman, said executives of the
San Francisco-based company will discuss the new rules and
provide an update of their financial outlook on a conference
call scheduled for July 6.  After Durbin’s provision became law and the Fed proposed
its 12-cent cap in December, the banks mounted a lobbying effort
to get the final rule postponed or killed. The Senate on June 8
narrowly rejected a six-month delay, paving the way for the
Fed’s action yesterday.  Perks Eliminated  To make up for some of their lost revenue, banks are moving
to eliminate perks associated with  debit cards , including
rewards programs and free checking.  Consumers have embraced debit cards, which deduct money
directly from a checking account. There were 38 billion debit
transactions in 2009, the Fed has said, making it the most
popular form of non-cash payment.  Visa and MasterCard both surged more than 10 percent
yesterday after the Fed moved to lift the cap. Visa advanced
$11.29, or 15 percent, to $86.57 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the most since March 2008.
MasterCard climbed 11 percent to $309.70, the biggest gain since
February 2009.  The shares of both Visa and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard had fallen more than 10 percent on Dec. 16 amid
investor concern the limits would damage their business model.  The Fed’s final rule would cost banks at least $8 billion
annually, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.
That is a savings of about $4 billion over the original
proposal.  The final rule would cost Bank of America $1.29 billion,
JPMorgan $959.2 million, Wells Fargo, $769.2 million and
Citigroup, $573.2 million, Bloomberg Government estimated.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 