-- 
Hoenig Says Low Interest Rates Aren’t a Panacea for U.S. Economic Ailments

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-30T19:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fed-s-hoenig-says-monetary-policy-can-t-solve-high-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the central bank’s record-low
benchmark interest rate isn’t a panacea for economic ailments
such as high unemployment.  “The U.S. economic recovery is under way, but it remains
more uncertain and volatile than anyone would like,” Hoenig
said today in a speech in Des Moines,  Iowa . “ Monetary policy  is
not a tool that can solve every problem.”  Hoenig, who isn’t a voting member of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, has repeatedly urged his colleagues
to raise interest rates to avoid stoking inflation and asset-
price bubbles. He voted eight straight times in 2010 against
record stimulus led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, tying former
Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a
single year.  “I am concerned that in working to offset the effects of
this devastating crisis and to restore the economy to health, an
extended zero-interest-rate policy is producing new sources of
fragility that we need to be aware of and allow for in our
future policy choices,” Hoenig said to the Rotary Club of  Des
Moines  and the Greater Des Moines Partnership.  Governments, businesses and consumers have made financial
choices and allocated resources with an understanding that the
policy “will remain in place indefinitely,” he said.  Record Stimulus  The FOMC last week voted to maintain record monetary
stimulus after completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases as
planned this month. The panel reiterated its pledge to keep the
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period” and
said temporary forces are inhibiting growth, including high
energy prices and disruptions in the supply of goods after
 Japan ’s earthquake.  In response to audience questions today, Hoenig said that
with the end of bond buying, the central bank’s balance sheet is
at a peak. “It will stop growing,” he said. “That’s good.”  The Fed could eventually sell off its assets, “if we don’t
disrupt the market by doing that,” he said.  Policy makers last week reduced their forecasts for
economic growth and employment this year and next. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a June 22 press conference that while
the outlook for jobs and inflation is better than before the
latest bond purchases, he’s not sure how long the economic
headwinds will persist.  With high government deficits and debt, fiscal policy can’t
be relied on to speed the recovery, said Hoenig, the Fed’s
longest-serving policy maker.  ‘Pro-Growth Policy’  “Complicating the fragility around monetary policy, fiscal
policy as a pro-growth policy instrument also appears to be
approaching its limit,” he said in his speech. “Without a
dramatic change, the deficit and the debt will only become more
daunting with the rising cost of entitlement programs and likely
higher interest rates.”  Hoenig, a native of Iowa who attended  Iowa State
University , in March announced plans to retire on Oct. 1 after a
20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed. He is required
under internal Fed rules to retire at age 65, an age he will
reach in September.  The Fed’s low interest rate policy has fueled a rise in the
price of U.S. farmland, he said.  “With interest rates near zero and with additional massive
liquidity poured into our economy, all interest rates are
affected,” he said. “Asset values of every kind are also being
affected, including land values in Iowa.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  