-- 
Fire the Fed, Let OPEC Run U.S. Economic Policy: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/fire-the-fed-let-opec-run-u-s-economic-policy-caroline-baum.html
The running commentary on the  U.S.
economy  can be reduced to two main themes. The first is that
monetary and fiscal policies have run out of bullets. The second
is that  oil prices  are responsible for our current malaise.  If that’s the case -- if the  Federal Reserve  is impotent,
the federal government is broke and oil prices are responsible
for the economy’s ebbs and flows -- why not put OPEC in charge
of economic policy?  Seriously, if you believe that soaring oil prices, which
are cutting into household budgets and sapping consumer
spending, are the main problem, why risk the unintended
consequences of zero percent interest rates -- for an extended
period -- when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
could achieve the same kind of stimulus by opening the pump
jacks?  You’re probably thinking, she’s kidding, right? Yes, I am.
Influencing the demand for goods and services by manipulating
the overnight  interbank rate  (the Fed’s bailiwick) isn’t the
same thing as managing the supply, and the price, of oil.
However, a reasonable person reading the analysis of why the
U.S. economy is where it is today might be tempted to conclude
the two are interchangeable.  Clearly President  Barack Obama  is sympathetic to the view
that oil makes the world go round (and may impede his re-
election). Last week, the president announced the release of 30
million barrels of oil from the nation’s Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, a storehouse designed for use in the event of true
emergencies.  Time Lag  Why all the hoopla over oil? Simple. There are many more
oil consumers than oil producers, which is why the cry goes out
to “do something” when oil breaches $100 a barrel and  gas prices 
hit $4 a gallon, which they did in May. No one ever mentions the
benefits: the windfall profits that accrue to producers,
shareholders and oil industry employees, all of whom are
consumers in their own right. Most analysts ignore this aspect
and treat higher oil prices as a dead-weight loss on the U.S.
economy.  Even if the U.S. could satisfy all its energy needs
domestically, the effect of oil prices on consumers and
producers would still play itself out in distinct time periods.  Higher oil prices translate quickly to increased prices at
the pump. But because oil exploration is a drawn-out affair -- a
result of regulatory red tape and the nature of the process --
producers don’t spend the additional revenue immediately, so it
gets recycled into financial markets, which is reflected as an
increase in U.S. savings, according to Jim Glassman, senior U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Price Signals  How are producers reacting to higher oil prices today?
Exactly as one would expect. The number of active oil rigs in
the U.S. is up 42 percent in the past year to 1,003, the highest
since 1987, which is when Baker Hughes Inc., the Houston-based
oil services company, separated the rig counts for oil and
natural gas. Investment in  oil exploration  rose an inflation-
adjusted 32 percent in the first quarter of 2011 compared with a
year earlier, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.
And employment in oil and gas industries is up 7 percent in the
past year compared with a 0.7 percent increase for total non-
farm payrolls. It’s amazing what price signals can do.  Last year, the U.S.  consumed  19 million barrels of oil a
day, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Half of that was  imported . Economists are very good at
calculating what a $10 increase in the price of a barrel of
crude oil means for  consumer spending  -- $10 times 19 million
barrels a day equals $190 million a day or $5.78 billion a month
-- and translating it to a dollar-for-dollar reduction in real
gross domestic product growth.  Supply-Side Effects  What about the $36 billion in first-quarter profits earned
by the five biggest U.S. oil companies? Where do they go? The
only people considering that revenue stream are congressional
Democrats in search of a whipping boy.  The profits don’t disappear. Yes, higher oil prices
represent a huge transfer of wealth from consumers to producers
at a time when unemployment is high and many households are
struggling. But higher prices also encourage new production, at
least within the drilling constraints imposed by the Obama
administration.  Even the dollars that go overseas in exchange for oil
imports aren’t buried under a sand dune. They’re recycled into
the U.S. Treasury market, for example, keeping interest rates
low.  In short, everything that flows from the production side as
a result of higher oil prices could be understood as “that which
is unseen,” to borrow from the title of an 1850  essay  by French
political economist Frederic Bastiat.  Flying Blind  I suspect Bastiat, with his delightful, reductio-ad-
absurdum analysis, would have approved of my notion of turning
 economic policy  over to OPEC.  As it stands, we rely on the Fed to pick the interest rate
that will keep the economy growing at its potential in
perpetuity. That’s like throwing darts at a board.  If oil prices are what drive the economy, surely picking
the appropriate gas price is no more challenging than interest-
rate targeting.  Just think of all the benefits. We could get rid of the
Fed, make libertarian Representative  Ron Paul  happy and satisfy
all the tree-huggers demanding a true U.S. energy policy.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 