-- 
Foster’s Says No Contact With SABMiller Since Bid Rejected

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-30T06:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/foster-s-says-it-hasn-t-had-any-contact-with-sabmiller-since-bid-rejected.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) ,  Australia ’s
biggest brewer, hasn’t been in contact with  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  since
rejecting a A$9.5 billion ($10 billion) takeover offer from the
maker of Peroni and Grolsch last week.  “No contact at all,” Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers  said in an interview in  Melbourne , after speaking at a
business breakfast. London-based SABMiller, the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, said June 21 it would “seek
engagement” after Foster’s rejected the cash offer as too low.  Pollaers, who has run the beer business for 14 months, is
focusing on stemming market-share losses and cutting production
costs to free up cash and boost promotion of brands. He’s also
developing new brews to win back consumers who switched to
sweeter pre-mixed drinks and craft beers.  “He is right in sticking to his job and not things outside
of his control,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage about $5.4
billion at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney, including
Foster’s stock. “He runs a pretty attractive asset, and
hopefully the market will be better next year and we will see
more growth numbers coming out of the business.”  In May, Melbourne-based Foster’s spun off its wine unit
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. to focus on the beer business, where
it has suffered five years of market share losses, including for
the nation’s top-selling brew Victoria Bitter.  Strategy Change  Foster’s has managed to stem losses in market share after
it revamped how it deals with customers as a specialist brewer
rather than the “multi-beverage” strategy of Pollaers’
predecessors who combined beer and wine sales teams.  “Twelve months on we’ve stabilized our market share, in
fact grown our market share, and the attention to fundamentals
is paying off,” Pollaers said today. “I’m not, and the team
aren’t, allowing anything to distract us from that.”  Foster’s shares fell 0.2 percent to A$5.15 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading. The stock, after adjusting for the
spun-off wine unit, has surged 24 percent since announcing the
potential split on May 26 last year. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index has gained 8 percent in the same period.  SABMiller bid A$4.90 a share in cash for Foster’s, an offer
the Australian brewer said “significantly undervalues” the
stock.  Half of Market  The acquisition would be SABMiller’s biggest and give the
maker of Castle lager about half of Australia’s beer market.
SABMiller has made a series of acquisitions including Colombian
brewer Bavaria and the Grolsch brand since it began selling beer
to gold prospectors in  South Africa  in 1895, propelling the
company to its ranking behind Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.  SABMiller Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay has made
more than two dozen acquisitions since he moved the brewer’s
listing to  London  in 1999, though he’s passed on some of the
industry’s biggest deals since 2008. He shunned buying the beer
unit of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB last year after rival
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  paid up a price it deemed too high.  Mackay told analysts last week that Australia is among the
world’s most profitable countries to make and sell beer. It
takes the average worker 12 minutes to earn enough money to buy
half a liter of beer, less time than in  Canada  or in  Spain , he
said.  Acquiring Foster’s would boost SABMiller’s profitability.
Foster’s beer business had a margin, which measures earnings
before interest and taxes as a proportion of revenue, of 37
percent in the 12 months ended June 2010, the company said in
February, citing the most recent full year of data. That’s the
widest of any independent brewer in the world and exceeds the
23.5 percent at SABMiller and 30.8 percent at  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  