-- 
France Says Libyan Rebel Airdrops Within ‘Spirit’ of UN Mandate

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-06-30T11:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/france-says-libyan-rebel-airdrops-within-spirit-of-un-mandate.html
France said its parachute drops to
supply Libyan rebels with weapons were within “the spirit” of
the  United Nations Security Council  resolution authorizing the
air war against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  “Our reading of the resolution is that it’s within the
mandate of defending civilian populations,” Laurent Teisseire,
spokesman for the French defense ministry, said in a press
briefing in Paris today. “These were civilians with no means to
defend themselves.”  French warplanes dropped medical supplies and light weapons
in May to rebels holding a chain of mountains about 70 miles
(110 kilometers) south of the capital, Tripoli. In June, those
rebels went on the offensive from their base in the city of
Zentan and pushed Qaddafi loyalists out of the mountain chain,
seizing a key border crossing with  Tunisia .  Teisseire equated the airdrops to British efforts to supply
the French Resistance in World War II.  In Beijing today, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said the “international community should take no actions
that go beyond the mandate of the resolution.”  Thierry Burkhard, a spokesman for the French military,
wouldn’t say if the weapons were French or came from another
allied country. He said the drops did not include anti-tank
missiles, as had been reported yesterday by Le Figaro newspaper.  The mountainous region, with a large Berber population
opposed to Qaddafi’s rule, can’t be reached overland by the
rebels holding the sea ports of Misrata and Benghazi, who have
been supplied with weaponry by Qatar.  Burkhard said at a Paris briefing that French warplanes
destroyed about 60 vehicles being used by Qaddafi loyalists and
attacked about 30 command centers or weapons depots over the
past week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  