-- 
French Horse Betting Monopoly Legal If Consistent, EU Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-30T08:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/french-horse-betting-monopoly-legal-if-consistent-eu-court-says.html
A French law giving Pari Mutuel
Urbain a monopoly on horse-race betting is justified when it is
applied in a consistent manner, the European Union’s highest
court said.  “National legislation is appropriate for ensuring
attainment of the objective pursued -- combating criminal and
fraudulent activities and protecting society -- only if it
genuinely reflects a concern to attain it in a consistent and
systematic manner,” the  EU Court of Justice  ruled in Luxembourg
today.  Maltese betting company Zeturf asked  France  in 2005 to
overturn the law. The Conseil d’Etat, France’s highest court, in
2008 sought the EU Court’s guidance on whether such a monopoly
can be considered in the public interest.  The Brussels-based European Commission is considering an
overhaul of the patchwork of national gaming laws across the
region’s 27 nations. The Court of Justice has examined a series
of cases brought by betting companies including  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) 
and Betfair Ltd. over whether it is legal for state monopolies
to block them from operating in some EU countries.  The court said it’s for the national tribunal to determine
in whether the goals are being implemented in a consistent
manner.  France in 2009 decided to open its gaming market to
competition under the threat of a lawsuit from the commission,
the EU’s executive agency. Last year, Zeturf was officially
approved as an operator by France’s online gaming regulator, the
Autorite de Regulation des Jeux en Ligne.  The case is: C-212/08, Societe Zeturf Limited v. Premier
ministre, Ministre de l’Agriculture et de la Peche, Ministre de
l’Interieur, de l’Outre-mer et des Collectivites territoriales,
Ministre de l’Economie, de l’Industrie et de l’Emploi -
intervening party: G.I.E. Pari Mutuel Urbain (PMU).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in  Luxembourg  at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  