-- 
French Nuclear Industry Must Spend on Safety, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-30T17:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/french-nuclear-industry-must-spend-on-safety-lawmakers-say-1-.html
France ’s nuclear industry must
increase spending on safety post-Fukushima as some plants may
not meet requirements for coping with earthquakes and flooding,
according to a parliamentary report.  Investment in preventing atomic disasters “needs to be
raised a level,” French Senator Bruno Sido said today at a
press conference following the publication of the report. The
industry must prepare for disaster scenarios that are far worse
than those currently being planned for, he said.  The report questioned whether the Tricastin and Gravelines
sites, operated by Electricite de France SA and Areva SA, are
strong enough to withstand earthquakes and severe flooding.  State-controlled EDF’s 58 nuclear reactors provide about
three-quarters of domestic power needs. Areva developed the
installations and is the utility’s biggest supplier as well as
operator of atomic fuel processing plants. The country’s nuclear
watchdog is overseeing a series of safety checks at the sites
following the March meltdowns at Fukushima in  Japan .  Areva’s Comurhex I installation at Tricastin and EDF’s
Gravelines plant may not have been built with a high enough
degree of safety in mind to deal with earthquakes, according to
the report. The current requirement is that they can withstand
tremblors that rate at least 0.5 higher on the Richter scale
than the most severe recorded over the past 1,000 years. That
could change as a result of the inspections.  Worst-Case Scenario  France’s atomic watchdog has already asked for work to be
carried out before the end of 2014 at the Tricastin nuclear
plant to guard against severe flooding, the report said. The
worst-case scenario for Tricastin and EDF’s Bugey plant would be
a rupture of the Vouglans hydroelectric dam, lawmakers said.  The report calls for the development of emergency systems
to transport back-up generators and other equipment in the event
of a crisis to bring power and water to nuclear sites as well as
“longer and more detailed” safety drills for local residents.  France should “bury” the idea of exporting low-cost
nuclear energy to countries without existing reactors or atomic
safety regimes, Sido said.  The French industry’s reliance on sub-contracting met with
criticism from lawmakers. Employees of companies other than EDF
and Areva carry out “sensitive” work on installations and may
not be properly overseen or tested for  radiation exposure ,
French Deputy Christian Bataille said.  “There are sometimes eight layers of sub-contracting,” he
said. “I understand why this system has developed but it
shouldn’t become the system upon which we rely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  