-- 
Friday Holds Key for Stock Rally to Sustain: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-06-30T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/friday-holds-key-for-stock-rally-to-sustain-technical-analysis.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
made a high on the last day of a week only once since peaking in
April, and tomorrow may determine whether the market can build
on its current rally, Strategas Research Partners said.  The benchmark index for U.S. equities had its weekly
intraday high on a Friday only once over the past eight weeks,
as the gauge sank 7 percent, according to data from Strategas
and Bloomberg. That marked a shift in trend from the first four
months of the year, when the S&P 500 rallied 8.4 percent and
Fridays accounted for 10 of the 17 weekly highs.  “We need to see this trend re-emerge,”  Christopher Verrone , head of  technical analysis  at the New York-based firm,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The bulls have had trouble
sustaining strength late in the week.”  The S&P 500 yesterday completed its biggest three-day gain
since March 21 as Greece passed austerity measures, pending home
sales climbed and Monsanto Co.’s sales beat estimates.  This Friday, the Institute for Supply Management is
scheduled to release the factory index, which may show a
decrease to 51.8 this month from 53.5 in May, according to the
median forecast from economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Worse-than-expected economic reports and concern about the
debt crisis in  Europe  spurred losses in six consecutive weeks
from April 29 to June 10, the longest streak since July 2008.
The  S&P 500  has since climbed 2.9 percent.  “If this is going to be more than an ‘oversold bounce,’ it
will be important for this trend to improve over coming weeks,”
Verrone said.  Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 