-- 
Gasoline Pump Prices May Keep Sliding Through July 4 Holiday

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/gasoline-pump-prices-may-keep-sliding-through-july-4-holiday.html
U.S. retail gasoline prices, down 11
percent from a 34-month high on May 4, may keep falling through
the Fourth of July weekend as fewer Americans take to the road
because of high costs and a slowing economy.  The number of people using their cars during the five-day
holiday will fall 3 percent to 32.8 million, Heathrow, Florida-
based AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization, said in a
June 22 forecast. On June 29, pump prices averaged $3.541 a
gallon, 29 percent higher than a year earlier, according to AAA.  Consumer confidence  dropped to a seven-month low in June as
Americans grew concerned about the outlook for jobs and wages,
the New York-based Conference Board said June 28. The U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May, the highest level
this year, government data showed on June 3. Prices may drop
another 5 to 10 cents by mid-July, according to  Trilby Lundberg ,
an energy analyst based in Camarillo,  California .  “Gasoline demand for the year is slightly down and the
twin reasons are that underemployment is still very deep and
we’re still paying a price premium of about 80 cents over a year
ago,” said Lundberg, who conducts a biweekly survey of about
2,500 filling stations nationwide.  Motorists bought an average of 9.33 million barrels a day
of gasoline in the week ended June 24, 1.8 percent less than a
year earlier, MasterCard, the second-biggest payments network
company, said June 28.  “The price environment is still elevated and will be part
of consumer consciousness until we get back to around $3.25 a
gallon or below,”  Michael McNamara , vice president of research
and analysis for MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a price story and general
economic story.”  Futures Prices  Retail prices have followed  futures markets  lower as
inventories rose six straight weeks from a 22-month low at the
end of April. New York Mercantile Exchange gasoline contracts
lost 20 percent of their value from April 29 to June 24.  Rising fuel inventories, lower crude prices and the
 International Energy Agency ’s decision on June 23 to release 60
million barrels of oil from strategic reserves will further
depress prices, said  Tancred Lidderdale , a senior economist for
the Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.  The IEA’s release from stockpiles held in 28 member nations
was meant to ease the losses from  Libya , where civil unrest has
interrupted oil production and shipments. Libya’s output dropped
to 150,000 barrels a day in June from 1.585 million daily in
December, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “In our last forecast we said prices would fall toward an
average $3.60 by the end of the summer and current gasoline
prices are already lower than we forecast,” Lidderdale said.
“The market looks like it’s in a better situation for prices to
stay lower than we projected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  