-- 
Gates Retires Again After Serving Two Presidents At Pentagon For Two Wars

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-01T19:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/gates-departs-after-serving-two-presidents-during-two-wars.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  burst
out of his office in mock horror.  His “countdown clock,” which tracked the number of days
until the end of President  George W. Bush ’s term, and presumably
his own tenure at the Pentagon, had inexplicably added 20 days.  “‘How do I get this fixed?’” his then-undersecretary for
policy, Eric Edelman, recalls Gates asking. “He was counting
down the days until he left.”  Then Bush did leave. Gates stayed.  The public servant who has worked under eight presidents
has finally gotten his wish, having journeyed from an early-
career rejection to be director of the Central Intelligence
Agency to almost universal praise as secretary of defense.  Today, Gates handed control of the world’s most powerful
military, with its reach into the far corners of the globe, to
 Leon Panetta , who was sworn in this morning after his last day
as CIA director yesterday.  “Bob Gates, my outstanding predecessor and good friend,
has been a tireless advocate for our troops and their
families,” Panetta, a former Army intelligence officer, told
troops and department personnel in a message. “I pledge to be
the same.”  Protecting Soldiers  In Iraq and Afghanistan, Gates has worked to bring troubled
military operations to the point where the U.S. may begin to
withdraw its forces. He was the driver behind a $36 billion
program to protect soldiers in the field with 23,000 mine-
resistant ambush-protected armored vehicles, known as MRAPs. And
he has put the Pentagon on a path toward tighter budgets,
including canceling failing or unneeded weapons systems.  Along the way, he fired at least five top officials,
including an Army secretary, an Air Force secretary and the
manager of the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet fighter program.  He has needled Washington as “the only place in the world
where someone can walk down lovers lane holding their own
hand.”  Gates, who began his career as a CIA analyst, eventually
did become the agency’s director under President  George H.W. Bush  in 1991; his earlier 1987 nomination by President  Ronald Reagan  was withdrawn when it became clear that the Senate would
reject him on questions over how much he knew about the Iran-
Contra scandal.  He retired from government service for the first time in
1993, then went on to become president of  Texas  A&M University
in  College Station , Texas, for four years. Bush asked him to
lead the Defense Department 4 1/2 years ago. Yesterday, he was
praised by his last boss at a Pentagon tribute.  ‘One of the Best’  “Bob, today you’re not only one of the longest-serving
secretaries of defense in American history, but it is also clear
that you’ve been one of the best,” President  Barack Obama  said.  Obama’s plaudits are backed up in fact, said Charles Stevenson, author of the 2006 book “SecDef: The Nearly
Impossible Job of Secretary of Defense.” Stevenson has studied
all 22 secretaries of defense using five criteria -- managing
the department, exercising civilian control of the military and
maintaining relations with the president, with others on the
national security team and with Congress.  “I think enough evidence is in,” said Stevenson, who
teaches at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced
International Studies in  Washington . “He’s just been superb
across the board by every measure. I can’t think of another
secretary of defense who has played all those roles as well.”  Gates was so highly regarded by leaders in both political
parties that prominent Democrats suggested him as a vice
presidential candidate in 2008, a Democratic official said on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  Highest Civilian Honor  Obama yesterday surprised Gates with the Presidential Medal
of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor.  Robert Michael Gates came to the Pentagon in December 2006
with the matter-of-factness of his native  Kansas  -- attributes
Obama alluded to jokingly in his remarks.  “If you look past all of Bob’s flashiness and bravado, and
his sharp attire, his love for the Washington limelight,” Obama
said to laughter from the audience, “then what you see is a man
that I’ve come to know and respect, a humble American patriot; a
man of common sense and decency; quite simply, one of our
nation’s finest public servants.”  Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, called the defense chief “infallibly, impenetrably
honest.”  “He tells it straight, no bull, no fancy words,” said
Mullen, whom Gates called his “battle buddy” at the Pentagon
and who has been the secretary’s neighbor at a Navy housing
complex in Washington. “He drilled down for details and never
stopped asking us uncomfortable questions.”  A Keepsake  One of those questions was why so many soldiers were dying
in  Iraq  -- almost 3,500 to date from hostile action -- when a
program to build more heavily armored vehicles was dragging.
Gates immediately elevated  the vehicle  to the Pentagon’s top
acquisition priority and ranks it as his proudest achievement.  Gates has asked that an image of the vehicle appear in his
official portrait that will be displayed in the corridor outside
the defense secretary’s office, Undersecretary for Acquisition
Ashton Carter said. Carter said he sent Gates a scale model of
the  Navistar “MaxxPro” version  yesterday as a keepsake and
artist model.  Money was also shifted into MRAP armored vehicle purchases
in 2009 after Gates canceled weapons programs, such as the
manned vehicle component of the Army’s Future Combat Systems.
Halting those programs created tensions with members of
Congress, including from his own  Republican Party , who often
cited  China  as a potential adversary that was being neglected.  ‘Toughness and Clarity’  As yesterday’s retirement ceremony neared, the Senate Armed
Service Committee’s Democratic chairman and top Republican both
offered praise for Gates. Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan
Democrat who was in the minority opposing his confirmation as
CIA director in 1991, said that as defense secretary Gates “has
combined vision and thoughtfulness with toughness and clarity,
and courageous, firm decision-making.” Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona called him one of America’s “most impactful
secretaries of defense.”  Gates and Obama developed a strong relationship. There were
private disagreements over  Afghanistan ,  Libya  and budget cuts.
Once a decision was taken, though, Gates offered vital support
to the president.  Mullen alluded to Gates’s frankness with Obama at the
Pentagon ceremony. He said Gates played the honest broker, “no
matter how high or how low in the chain of command that truth
needed to travel.”  Defending the President  Prior to Obama’s decision last week on the pace of
withdrawal from Afghanistan, Gates made clear he favored a
minimal reduction in forces.  After Obama called for 10,000 troops to be withdrawn this
year and 23,000 more by September 2011, Gates defended the
president against critics. Ending the surge next September meant
that the extra forces would be in Afghanistan twice as long as
the earlier “surge” in Iraq, he said.  “I’m pretty sure he was surprised by Obama’s decision,”
said Edelman, a former ambassador and a distinguished fellow at
the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a Washington
policy center that examines national security and defense-
related issues. “He did a more effective job of defending
President Obama’s decision than Obama did.”  As he leaves office, Gates has put in place a process for
carrying out Obama’s decision to cut $400 billion more from
defense spending in the next 12 years, a cut that comes on top
of $178 billion of reductions Gates has begun. Gates has warned
of the risk of hollowing out the force if cuts aren’t made
carefully.  664,150 Miles  As defense secretary, Gates has expanded partnerships with
countries around the world, especially in the Persian Gulf to
guard against  Iran . In  Asia , he worked to buttress alliances in
the face of China’s military modernization.  He made a splash in Brussels last month when he warned
European partners in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that
they need to pick up a bigger share of the alliance’s load.
European leaders balked, with French President Nicolas Sarkozy
saying Gates is going into retirement “a little bitter.”  His world travels as secretary took him to 121 countries
and across 664,150 miles, according to his office.  Gates yesterday took his last flight as defense secretary
home to Washington state, just north of  Seattle , aboard an Air
Force E-4B, a converted Boeing 747 command aircraft that carries
communications gear allowing the defense secretary full contact
with the president and his forces at all times.  He plans to write two books. He also has a calendar full of
speech invitations.  Gates says he threw out his countdown clock when he decided
to stay on with Obama. Yesterday, he reassured his wife, whom he
met on a blind date 45 years ago, that his public duties were
over.  “Becky, we’re really going home this time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  