-- 
Gazprom Seeks Gas Sales in Asia to Diversify From Europe

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-30T18:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/gazprom-first-half-exports-advance-26-on-year-ceo-miller-says.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas
export monopoly, is seeking sales agreements with  India , China
and  South Korea  to diversify from the European export market and
ensure stable  cash flow .  “These are the countries where we are now holding intense
negotiations about new long-term contracts,” Chief Executive
Officer  Alexei Miller  said today at the gas producer’s annual
meeting in Moscow. “It’s hard to overemphasize the significance
of this work.”  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, signed
preliminary agreements with three Indian companies for liquefied
natural gas this month, while failing to reach an agreement on
pipeline supplies with China National Petroleum Corp. before
Chinese President Hu Jintao’s visit to Russia. The company,
which has sent tankers of LNG to India,  China  and South Korea
from its Sakhalin-2 project, aims to supply 14 percent of the
global market for the liquid fuel by 2030.  Gazprom will hold its next round of negotiations with China
about a supply contract next month, Miller said.  Disagreements on pricing remain, with Gazprom insisting on
parity with Europe, Miller told reporters today in Moscow.
Gazprom is ready to start building a  gas pipeline  through the
Altai region to China once a contract is signed, he said.  The expansion will boost export volume by at least 50
percent, reducing Gazprom’s dependence on Europe, its biggest
market by revenue, Miller said. The company plans to continue
increasing exports to  Europe , where it supplied 23 percent of
demand at the end of last year, he said.  Shipments to Europe and  Turkey  may reach 155 billion to 158
billion cubic meters this year and export revenue will probably
rise to a record, Miller said. Total exports reached $36.6
billion in the first five months of the year, indicating
Gazprom may beat a 2008 record of $81.6 billion, Deputy CEO
Alexander Medvedev said on June 20.  Export volume has risen 26 percent in the first half of the
year, or by 26.6 billion cubic meters, Miller said.  Gazprom won’t make significant changes in its long-term gas
supply contracts after holding talks with European consumers,
Miller said.  “No radical changes in the contract system are expected or
planned,” Miller said. The company will maintain so-called
take-or-pay clauses and a link to oil and product prices in the
agreements, he said.  Gazprom may reach pre-crisis gas production levels in 2012
rather than 2013, Miller said. He forecast that the company’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization may
reach $60 billion this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  