-- 
Geithner Said to Consider Leaving Treasury After Debt Debate

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-30T23:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/geithner-said-to-weigh-leaving-treasury-after-debt-ceiling-debate-resolved.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has signaled to White House officials that he’s
considering leaving the administration after President Barack Obama reaches an agreement with Congress to raise the federal
debt limit, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Geithner said speculation about his departure was being
driven by his decision to commute to New York so his son can
finish his final year of high school there.  “I live for this work,” he said at the Clinton Global
Initiative in Chicago. “It’s the only thing I’ve ever done. I
believe in it. We have a lot of challenges as a country. I’m
going to be doing it for the foreseeable future.”  Geithner hasn’t made a final decision and won’t do so until
the debt-ceiling issue has been resolved, according to one of
the people. All spoke on condition of anonymity to talk about
private discussions.  The Treasury secretary has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its obligations if Congress doesn’t raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling by Aug. 2. The administration and Republicans in
Congress are at an impasse in negotiations to raise the limit,
which is tied to efforts to cut the nation’s long-term deficit.  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 that it expects to
place the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a
possible downgrade if there’s no progress on the debt limit by
mid-July.  Fitch Ratings  said June 21 it would place the U.S. on
a negative rating watch if no action is taken by Aug. 2.  Completing the Turnover  An exit by Geithner would complete the turnover in Obama’s
original economic team, with Council of Economic Advisers
Chairman Austan Goolsbee scheduled to leave in early August to
return to the University of Chicago.  That would leave Obama with two key posts to fill as
Republicans are seeking to turn the 2012 election into a
referendum on Obama’s handling of the economy and as the
recovery is slowing. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent
in May, according to the Labor Department, and the economy grew
at a 1.9 percent pace in the first quarter, according to
Commerce Department figures released June 24.  Jen Psaki, a White House spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “Geithner leaving may raise the level of uncertainty for
the direction of economic policy, and that is never a positive
thing for the markets and the recovery,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.7 billion as chief investment officer
at the United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  ‘Shock Value’  Still, he said, it wouldn’t have too much “shock value,”
especially if Geithner remains at Treasury until the debt
ceiling is settled, “which is the most pressing concern anyone
would have.”  Treasuries fell for a fourth day as stocks rose and a
measure of U.S. business activity improved. The yield on the 10-
year note climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
3.16 percent at 5:14 p.m. in New York.  Investors may be more interested in who would come after
Geithner.  “The question in cases like this is always who will be the
replacement,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of
bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “You
can’t judge if this is good or bad for the market until you see
who follows.”  The market was “comfortable” with Geithner because he was
“a visible player in trying to blunt the crisis,” Mueller
said.  Needs a Break  Geithner, 49, has told associates he needs a break from
government service after dealing with the turmoil that followed
the collapse of  Wall Street  firms, including Bear Stearns Cos.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., first as president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and then as Treasury secretary.  If Geithner does leave the administration, Obama would be
losing a member of his economic team who understands  Washington 
institutions and the  New York  banking world as well as the
intricacies of the Chinese economy. Geithner has pressed the
Chinese to let their currency appreciate faster to reduce the
global imbalances that both he and Obama have blamed for
financial uncertainty.  After Obama’s victory in the 2008 election, Geithner had a
rocky start in Washington as he faced Senate scrutiny over his
failure to pay self-employment tax returns while he worked at
the  International Monetary Fund . He paid some of the taxes after
being audited by the  Internal Revenue Service  and didn’t pay the
rest until it was clear that he would be nominated for the
Treasury post, according to the Senate Finance Committee.  Growing Stature  His initial moves to return financial markets to health
were rebuffed by Wall Street. On Feb. 10, 2009, when Geithner
unveiled a plan to bolster the banking system, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 stock index tumbled 4.9 percent.  As Obama’s presidency progressed, and the economy began to
recovery, Geithner’s stature grew.  “Tim was very influential from day one,” said former CEA
Chairman  Christina Romer . “His public persona has just caught
up with what has always been true inside the White House.”  Former President Bill Clinton said he “honestly didn’t
know” whether business confidence might be hurt if Geithner
leaves.  “I think what people want is predictability now,” Clinton
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today in  Chicago .
“We’ve absorbed a lot of change, we’ve absorbed a lot of
trauma.”  Clinton, who called Geithner “a very smart man,” said he
hadn’t heard that the Treasury secretary was considering
leaving.  Summers, Orszag  In addition to Goolsbee, who earlier this month announced
his decision to return to the University of Chicago, three other
top Obama economic advisers already have departed. At the CEA,
Goolsbee replaced Romer, who returned to teaching at the
 University of California  at Berkeley last September.  National Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers and
Office of Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag  left the
administration last year. Summers returned to  Harvard
University , and Orszag is now vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc.  Geithner earned a bachelor’s degree from  Dartmouth College 
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , and a master’s degree from Johns
Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington. After graduate school, he worked for three years at
a global consulting firm founded by Henry A. Kissinger.  Some Republicans are already urging Obama to select a
replacement who comes from the business community.  “What would be smart is to bring a CEO on board,” Senator
Rob Portman of  Ohio  said on Bloomberg Television. “Somebody
who’s got business experience. Somebody who, again, understands
the important connection between policies and jobs and the
economy and the fiscal situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  