-- 
Geithner Says Failure to Raise Debt Ceiling Unthinkably Damaging

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-30T23:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/geithner-says-failure-to-raise-debt-ceiling-unthinkably-damaging.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said today that Congress has “no option” other than
approving an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “It will be unthinkably damaging to the economy, much more
damaging than even what we faced in that dark period of ’08 and
’09,” Geithner said in  Chicago  at the Clinton Global Initiative
conference.  He said Congress has no choice and will raise the debt
limit. The Treasury, which has projected that its borrowing
authority will expire Aug. 2, plans to release an update on the
debt limit tomorrow.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
announced today that the Senate will cancel its July 4 recess to
remain in session next week for debt-limit talks. Reid’s
decision came after President  Barack Obama  said Congress
shouldn’t be taking vacations while the issue is unresolved.  “We really have no option to go into a period where we
don’t start paying our bills. Congress has no choice but to pass
this and I’m sure they will,” Geithner said.  Geithner has signaled to White House officials that he’s
considering leaving the administration once a debt limit
agreement is reached, according to three people familiar with
the matter. At the Clinton Global Initiative conference,
Geithner said he will be at Treasury “for the foreseeable
future.”  ‘Yellow Light’  At a news conference yesterday, Obama criticized
Republicans for the failure to reach an agreement on the debt
limit.  “The yellow light is flashing,” Obama said, warning of
dire consequences if Congress doesn’t raise the borrowing limit
before Treasury’s Aug. 2 deadline.  The two sides are at a standoff over demands from the White
House for tax increases and from Republicans for cuts in the
Medicare health-insurance program for the elderly and other
entitlements. Bipartisan talks on debt reduction, led by Vice
President  Joe Biden , collapsed last week.  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top  credit rating  unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. Moody’s Investors Service this month said it will
but the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a
downgrade unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by
mid-July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  