-- 
Germany Beats Nigeria to Join France in Women’s World Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-30T22:41:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/germany-beats-nigeria-to-join-france-in-women-s-world-cup-quarterfinals.html
--  Germany , the two-time defending
champion and host nation, beat Nigeria 1-0 to join France in the
quarterfinals of soccer’s Women’s World Cup.  Midfielder Simone Laudehr scored with a shot from about 12
meters (13 yards) after Nigeria failed to clear Celia Okoyino Da
Mbabi’s free kick in the 54th minute in  Frankfurt  last night.  “We had to work hard,” Germany coach Silvia Neid told
reporters. “I’ve never seen a game fought this hard.”  Gaetane Thiney earlier scored twice as France beat  Canada 
4-0 to secure a place in the last eight. Camille Abily and
Elodie Thomis also got goals for the French in Bochum.  France and Germany lead Group A with six points each from
two games.  Nigeria  and Canada have both lost twice, ending their
chances of advancing to the knockout stages.  In addition to winning the World Cup in 2003 and 2007,
Germany won the past five European Championships, giving it
seven titles in the continental competition.  “Every team we play gives 120 percent -- we’re the
reigning champion,” Neid said. “We’re happy with this role.”  France and Germany meet on July 5 in Moenchengladbach to
determine the winner of the group, while Canada plays Nigeria
the same day in Dresden.  The pool winner will play the runner-up in Group B, while
the team finishing second in Group A will face the Group B
winner.  Japan  leads Group B after a 2-1 win over  New Zealand  in its
opening game, while England and Mexico share second place after
drawing 1-1.  England faces New Zealand in Dresden tonight, while Japan
takes on Mexico in Leverkusen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  