-- 
Germany Hands Netherlands 8 Old Masters Bought in World War II

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T07:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/germany-hands-dutch-old-masters-sold-in-world-war-ii-seized-by-communists.html
The German government said it will
hand over to the Netherlands eight Old Masters that belonged to
Dutch Jews before the Nazi occupation and were later seized from
their East German owner by the communist regime.  The paintings were acquired by Alfred Kummerle, the owner
of a yarn-spinning mill in the east German city of Brandenburg,
from the Netherlands between 1940 and 1944. When Kummerle died
in 1949, his wife inherited his collection. She fled East
Germany in 1953 and her possessions were seized by the communist
regime, becoming “property of the people.”  The  Federal Office for Central Services and Unresolved
Property Issues  told Bloomberg News by e-mail that 32 Old
Masters from Kummerle’s collection are currently in the  Leipzig
Museum fuer Bildende Kuenste . The eight to be returned to the
Dutch government include oils by the 17th-century masters Jan
Steen and Philips Wouwerman that were once owned by the Jewish
dealers Jacques Goudstikker and Nathan Katz.  “Provenance research on the remaining works has not yet
been completed,” the office said. “This partial decision
affects eight paintings bought in the Netherlands that were
formerly in Jewish ownership.”  It’s a case that illustrates how complex restitution
questions can be, given the tortuous route many artworks took
before and after World War II. The Federal Office for Central
Services had to weigh claims from not only the Dutch government
and the Kummerle heirs, but also from the  Conference on Jewish
Material Claims Against Germany .  The Dutch government in 2001 established a restitution
panel to advise it on Holocaust-related claims for artworks in
the national collection. In 2006, the Dutch government returned
202 works from the national collection to Goudstikker’s heir.  Death at Sea  Goudstikker escaped Amsterdam in 1940 with his wife and son
and died at sea. Katz was forced to liquidate his company to
prevent it from falling into the Nazis’ hands.  The Dutch government first requested the return of the
Kummerle paintings in 1945. Though the East German authorities
rebuffed the claim, the Federal Office for Central Services and
Unresolved Property Issues said the claim remained valid after
German unification in 1990.  The office said it rejected the claim from the Claims
Conference because the loss took place in the Netherlands. Under
German law, the Claims Conference has a legal remit to recover
property confiscated from Jews before World War II in eastern
 Germany  in cases where no heirs have stepped forward to stake a
claim. That doesn’t extend to involuntary losses in the
Netherlands, the office said.  The Kummerle heirs are entitled to financial compensation
for their loss, the office said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 