-- 
German Banks, Government Said to Agree on Draft Greek Plan

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-06-30T11:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/german-banks-said-to-agree-with-government-on-plan-to-roll-over-greek-debt.html
Germany’s biggest banks and insurers
and the government agreed on a draft proposal to roll over Greek
debt holdings before a meeting with Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  today, people familiar with the plan said.  The firms will commit to providing financing for a Greek
aid package, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. The draft, which may change
during the meeting between Schaeuble and industry executives,
left open how much debt would be rolled over and under what
conditions, they said. Schaeuble will make a statement at about
3 p.m. Berlin time.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
at a conference in Berlin yesterday with  Chancellor Angela Merkel , predicted that financial companies would contribute to
help avert a “meltdown.” German and French lenders are the
biggest foreign holders of Greek debt and their participation
would help the European Union meet a goal of getting banks to
roll over at least 30 billion euros ($43.3 billion) of bonds.  “The banks have the most to lose if there’s another
financial crisis so they don’t really have a choice but to
help,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets. “A contribution from the private sector is an
important hurdle, along with the Greek vote, to clear the way
for further aid.”  Greek Austerity  An agreement by private investors to shoulder part of the
burden of a second Greek rescue is one of the remaining
conditions of the EU’s plan to stave off the euro-region’s first
sovereign default. Schaeuble is seeking an agreement with his
country’s banks ahead of a meeting of euro area finance
ministers in Brussels on July 3.  Financial institutions would “offer our hand in a
solution,” Ackermann said. “Not because we’re doing it gladly,
but actually to enable policymakers to do something so that we -
- I’ll say it frankly -- so that we don’t have a meltdown.”  European financial shares rose for a third day on
speculation  Greece  will avoid a default for now. The Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of 49 companies
climbed 0.5 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  clinched victory
yesterday on a bill setting out his strategy for budget cuts,
and must win a second ballot today to execute measures ranging
from tax increases to asset sales. A debate on the second stage
of the austerity package resumed today at 10 a.m. in  Athens . No
time has been given for the final vote.  Questions Remain  The German plan was drafted after working-level meetings
yesterday between the financial companies and government
representatives, and a French proposal is being used as a
blueprint for talks, they said. Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing ,
speaking in Berlin yesterday, said German financial institutions
have reached a draft agreement on participation in a Greek
rescue, although there are still “a few hitches.”  The German proposal may not address potential sticking
points such as the maturity of the new Greek bonds, whether
investors would face writedowns on their current holdings, and
how rating companies would view a rollover, the people said.  French Plan  The French proposal suggested options to reinvest a
proportion of the maturing bonds in either new five-year Greek
debt, or new 30-year securities with repayment guarantees.
Including a “significant majority” of bondholders is a
condition of agreement on the arrangements, the French Banking
Federation said.  The French proposal also depends on credit-rating firms not
cutting Greece and existing or newly issued government
securities to default, according to a draft of the plan.  Germany ’s banks and insurers hold Greek sovereign debt
expiring by 2014 of about 2 billion euros and 4 billion euros
expiring by 2020, the people said. German firms and the  Finance
Ministry  are discussing the idea of rolling over bonds maturing
until 2020, and not just those running through 2014, as had been
first envisaged, said the people.  German lenders’ total foreign claims on Greek public-sector
borrowers amounted to 9.91 billion euros in March, according to
Bundesbank data published on June 14. This figure excludes loans
provided by KfW Group, Germany’s development bank, to Greece as
part of the EU rescue package as well as holdings shifted to
Germany’s bad banks.  FMS Wertmanagement, the bad bank in charge of winding down
assets of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, held 9.1 billion euros in
Greek loans and bonds at the end of last year, with sovereign
debt representing 7.4 billion euros, it said in May. WestLB AG’s
Erste Abwicklungsanstalt holds 1.1 billion euros of Greek
government debt, it said on June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  