-- 
Unemployment Fell for 24th Month in June; German Jobless Rate Held Steady

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-30T08:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/german-unemployment-drops-8-000-as-joblessness-declines-for-a-24th-month.html
German unemployment declined for a
24th straight month in June, underscoring the resilience of
 Europe ’s largest economy amid the euro region’s debt crisis.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
8,000 to 2.97 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a drop of 17,000, according to
the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate held at 7 percent, the lowest since records for a
reunified  Germany  began in 1991.  German companies are stepping up output and hiring,
bolstering consumer demand and helping drive the euro region’s
economic expansion. Germany’s economic performance contrasts
with that of Greece, where rioters failed yesterday to halt the
passage of additional austerity measures as the debt-burdened
country struggles to emerge from a recession.  “The German labor market has been improving rapidly since
the middle of 2009,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The combination of robust
employment growth and rising wage growth will underpin
consumption this year and next.”  The euro traded at $1.4486 at 10:37 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up
0.4 percent from yesterday.  The Bundesbank on June 10 forecast the economy will expand
3.1 percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent in
2010. The “prospects of the German economy experiencing a
lengthy period of expansion are rising,” the central bank said.  Porsche Hiring  German carmaker Porsche SE is seeking to hire at least
1,000 people at its factory in Leipzig, while  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi unit plans to recruit some 300 skilled workers.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Europe’s largest engineering company, has said it has about
4,000 open positions, partly due to a lack of suitable
candidates.  “While we don’t see a wide-spread, cross-sector shortage
of skilled labor, there are problems in individual occupations
such as electrical engineering,” Labor Agency head Frank-
Juergen Weise told reporters in Nuremberg today.  With European governments from  Spain  to Ireland cutting
spending, German companies have relied on faster-growing
economies to boost sales. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars based in Munich, said on
June 8 that deliveries jumped 22 percent last month.  Germany’s expansion “continues to be driven by foreign
demand, but even more now by domestic demand,” the Essen-based
RWI economic institute said on June 16. Hiring will increase and
“the situation of public households will improve considerably”
through 2012, it said.  Greek Package  GfK AG said on June 28 its consumer sentiment index, based
on a survey of about 2,000 people, will rise for the first time
in four months in July. “Good general conditions” have become
“more influential than detrimental factors, such as the state
of affairs in  Greece ,” it said.  European leaders are seeking ways to agree on a deal to
prevent Greece from restructuring its debt. Greek lawmakers
yesterday passed a 78 billion-euro ($113 billion) austerity
package and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is due to
meet with banks and insurers in Berlin today to discuss their
participation in a second aid package.  Waning Confidence  The euro-region economy is already showing signs of
cooling. European economic confidence dropped to the lowest in
eight months in June and manufacturing growth weakened. In
Germany, investor confidence dropped more than economists
forecast last month to the lowest in 2 1/2 years.  The recent slowdown in the decline of German unemployment
may be due to the fact that much of the economy’s rebound after
the winter season set in earlier than usual, the Labor Agency
said today in its report. The economy expanded 1.5 percent in
the first quarter from the fourth, when it grew 0.4 percent.  According to comparable data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany’s jobless rate was
6.1 percent in April while the euro-region average was 9.9
percent.  France  had 9.4 percent unemployment, the U.S. 9 percent
and Spain 20.7 percent.  In the euro-region economy, unemployment probably held at
9.9 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
European Union’s statistics office in  Luxembourg  will release
the report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at  at
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  