-- 
Greek, Portuguese, Spanish Notes Jump on Greek Debt Rollover Deal News

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/german-two-year-government-notes-snap-three-day-drop-as-retail-sales-slide.html
Greece ’s government notes led gains
by securities from the euro region’s most indebted countries as
 Germany ’s biggest banks agreed on a proposal to roll over Greek
debt holdings to stave off the area’s first sovereign default.  German two-year government note yields reached the most in
nearly three weeks as European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled the ECB will raise  interest rates  next
week and euro-region inflation data topped the bank’s 2 percent
ceiling for a seventh month in June. The nation’s banks have
agreed to roll over at least the Greek bonds they’re holding
that mature through 2014, which amount to about 2 billion euros
($2.9 billion), Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in
Berlin today. The country’s so-called bad banks will provide 1.2
billion euros as well, he said.  Greece’s two-year note yields dropped 58 basis points to
26.73 percent at 4:26 p.m. in London. The 4.6 percent security
maturing in May 2013 advanced 0.62, or 6.20 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,449) face amount, to 71.24. Ten-year yields rose four basis
points to 16.33 percent.  “Any good news on the rollovers is good news for
peripherals,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London, referring to bonds from
the euro-region’s most indebted nations. “For now the market is
content to give peripherals a bit of relief, but I don’t think
sentiment will be hugely constructive until we see a general
pickup in global growth.”  Spanish, Italian Yields  Spain ’s 10-year yield dropped 12 basis points to 5.45
percent, while two-year yields fell 13 basis points to 3.46
percent. Italian 10-year bond yields declined six basis points
to 4.88 percent and those on similar-maturity Portuguese bonds
fell 18 basis points to 10.91 percent.  Two-year German yields advanced six basis points to 1.61
percent, while the ten-year bund yield rose five basis points to
3.03 percent.  “This deal keeps hopes underpinned that the ball is
rolling and there will be some relief on Greece,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London.
“That opens the door for the ECB to keep normalizing rates,
which keeps pressure on the short end, since we already had
Trichet’s comments earlier cementing the July rate hike.”  Officials are in “a state of strong vigilance,” Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels today, a phrase he has used before
previous monetary tightening. Euro-region inflation remained at
2.7 percent for a second month, data showed today, less than the
2.8 percent economists had forecast.  ‘Very, Very Clear’  “Trichet’s words were very, very clear this morning:
whatever happens, the ECB will raise rates next week,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “Inflation is well above the ECB’s comfort
level and it’s likely to stay there for some time, therefore
it’s likely to sustain the tightening bias.”  German bund yields have dropped 32 basis points this
quarter as policy makers grappled to stem a funding crisis in
the region’s most indebted nations, boosting demand for the
region’s safest assets. Greek 10-year yields jumped more than
3.5 percentage points over the same period.  Greek lawmakers today backed a bill to authorize an
austerity plan required to keep rescue aid flowing. Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won the vote by 155 to 136, allowing
him to implement a 78 billion-euro package of tax increases and
asset sales that was a condition of receiving further European
Union funds.  ECB Tightening  The ECB tightened in April for the first time in almost
three years, lifting the key rate a quarter point to 1.25
percent. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region has been in
breach of the central bank’s 2 percent limit since December. At
the same time, the threat of a Greek default is roiling European
markets and clouding the economic outlook. ECB officials next
convene in  Frankfurt  on July 7.  German unemployment declined for a 24th straight month in
June, underscoring the resilience of  Europe ’s largest economy
amid the euro region’s debt crisis. The number of people out of
work fell a seasonally adjusted 8,000 to 2.97 million, the
Federal Labor Agency said today. The jobless rate held at 7
percent, the lowest since records for a reunified Germany began.  German  government bonds  handed investors a gain of 0.1
percent this year, compared with 2.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries
and 2 percent for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Greek bonds have lost 16 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 