-- 
German Banks, Insurers Agree With Schaeuble on Greek Aid

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-06-30T16:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/german-banks-agree-to-greek-rollover-plan.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
Germany’s biggest bank and insurer, were among the nation’s
financial firms that agreed to reinvest in Greek debt to help
avoid the euro area’s first default.  German banks and insurers agreed to roll over at least 2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) from Greek bonds maturing through
2014, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said at a press
conference in Berlin today. The country’s so-called bad banks
will provide an additional 1.2 billion euros, he said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Schaeuble had insisted
that private investors shoulder part of the burden of a second
Greek rescue to help relieve the cost to taxpayers. Deutsche
Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , speaking beside
Schaeuble today, called the contribution by banks and insurers
voluntary and substantial, a day after saying private industry
would help to avert a “meltdown.”  “The banks have the most to lose if there’s another
financial crisis so they don’t really have a choice but to
help,”  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, said before the announcement. “A contribution from the
private sector is an important hurdle, along with the Greek
vote, to clear the way for further aid.”  European banking shares rose for a third day on speculation
Greece will avoid a default for now. The Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index of 49 companies jumped 1.9 percent.  Greek Vote  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won approval of a
second bill to authorize a 78 billion-euro package of budget
cuts and asset sales that was a condition of receiving further
European Union aid. Those steps were approved in a vote
yesterday that was marred by street violence.  Schaeuble met with top finance industry executives today to
seek an agreement on a debt rollover before a gathering of euro-
area finance ministers in Brussels on July 3. The announcement
failed to provide specific information on the maturity or coupon
of the new Greek debt the banks will purchase, or how the
transaction will be structured or guaranteed.  The rollover involves taking money from expiring debt and
reinvesting it into new bonds with longer maturities.  “It’s decisive that we win the participation” of private
industry, Schaeuble said. “The preparations are proceeding
intensively these days and I’m confident that we’ll have a
solution on Sunday.”  In May 2010, Ackermann and Schaeuble led a similar effort
by German financial companies to provide 8.1 billion euros in
financing to support debt-stricken  Greece  at the time of the 110
billion-euro bailout by the EU and International Monetary Fund.  Deal by ‘Sunday’  German and French lenders are the biggest foreign holders
of Greek debt and their participation may help the European
Union meet a goal of getting banks to roll over at least 30
billion euros of bonds. Ackermann said today that a French
proposal is being used as a blueprint for the German
contribution, though adjustments will be made.  “We have worked together intensely in past days and weeks,
also at a European level with other banking associations, to
work toward a solution which I think meets all requirements, is
voluntary and at the same time substantial,” said Ackermann,
63. “While we aren’t quite there with the design and final
details, we’ll continue working today and tomorrow and are
confident that within the framework of the global banking
association we’ll be able to provide a quantifiable and
sustainable solution by Sunday.”  French Proposal  The financial companies’ total holdings of Greek sovereign
debt amount to almost 10 billion euros, with about 55 percent
maturing after 2020, according to a statement given to reporters
today.  “At least for the 2 billion euros in bonds maturing
through 2014, each participating institute will make the same
amount available again within the economic and legal
possibilities and the European financing structures that have
yet to be decided,” the statement said.  The French proposal suggested options to reinvest a
proportion of the maturing bonds in either new five-year Greek
debt, or new 30-year securities with repayment guarantees.  Including a “significant majority” of bondholders is a
condition of agreement on the arrangements, the French Banking
Federation said. The French proposal also depends on credit-
rating firms not cutting Greece and existing or newly issued
government securities to default, according to a draft of the
plan.  Allianz,  Germany ’s biggest insurer, will contribute toward
a rescue package for Greece, spokeswoman Stefanie Rupp-
Menedetter said by phone. She said the aid package will give
Greece the time to return to capital markets and will contribute
to stabilizing markets and the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  