-- 
Ghana Economy May Grow 14% on Oil, Risks Budget Deficit, World Bank Says

-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-06-30T18:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/ghana-economy-may-grow-14-on-oil-risks-deficit-bank-says-1-.html
Ghana’s  economy may expand 14
percent this year following the start of oil production for
export, said Ishac Diwan, the  World Bank ’s country director in
the West African nation.  The country risks widening its  budget deficit  amid spending
before elections in December 2012, Diwan told reporters in
Accra, the capital, today.  “The strong political contention in the country could make
ruling parties over-spend before elections,” he said. “Ghanaians
must be fiscally responsible to monitor government’s
investments, and tame politicians from over-spending especially
in areas which would leave big holes in the deficit and shoot
inflation upward.”  Ghanaian inflation has slowed since reaching a five-year
high of 20.7 percent in July 2009. Consumer prices increased
after the government’s fiscal gap widened to 14.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2008, when the last presidential and
parliamentary votes were held. In December, Ghana began
production of oil for export at the offshore Jubilee field.  A supplementary budget that  Ghana ’s  Finance Ministry  will
announce in August should focus on spending in areas that will
boost growth, Diwan said, without elaborating. Deputy Finance
Minister Fifi Kwetey said June 28 that expenditure will rise,
without giving details. The country aims to cut its budget
deficit to between 5 percent and 5.5 percent, from 6.8 percent
in 2010, Kwetey said.  The World Bank’s board of directors is set to decide on a
$150 million grant to Ghana’s agricultural industry in
September, Diwan said. A program last year to give “technical
support” to cotton farmers, including training and better-
quality seeds, will yield output of 50,000 metric tons during
the harvest that starts in September, he said. Previously,
Ghana’s cotton production averaged 5,000 tons a year, Diwan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 