-- 
Glaxo, Roche Breast-Cancer Drugs Fail to Win U.K. Cost Backing

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/glaxo-roche-breast-cancer-drugs-fail-to-win-u-k-cost-backing.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tyverb and
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin haven’t been proven effective when
combined with a hormone to treat HER-2-positive breast cancer in
older women, the U.K.’s health-cost agency said.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence’s
 preliminary guidelines  recommended against using Tyverb or
Herceptin with a hormone known as an aromatase inhibitor, the
agency said today in a statement. The advice applies to women
who are past menopause and whose breast cancers have spread to
other areas of the body and carry high levels of a protein
called HER-2, or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, which
aids tumor growth.  The institute, known as NICE, advises the state-run
 National Health Service  on which treatments offer value for
money. London-based NICE has already cleared Tyverb, known in
the U.S. as Tykerb and by its chemical name lapatinib, and
Herceptin, also known as trastuzumab, for use against  breast
cancer  in certain other patients.  “Unfortunately, the manufacturers of lapatinib and
trastuzumab didn’t give our independent committee convincing
evidence to show how much using either drug with an aromatase
inhibitor could benefit” the additional group of patients, NICE
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Dillon said in the statement.
“The cost effectiveness of the drugs was also significantly
uncertain.”  Glaxo said it was disappointed by the ruling.  “We believe that lapatinib, in combination with an
aromatase inhibitor, does offer a clinical benefit for this
group of women with advanced breast cancer,” Simon Jose,
general manager of the London-based company’s GSK U.K. unit,
said in a statement.  NICE estimated that Tyverb and the hormone cost more than
74,400 pounds ($119,000) for each additional year of life and
that Herceptin and the hormone cost more than 51,000 pounds for
each additional year of life. Both figures exceed the upper
limit of 30,000 pounds that the institute usually applies in its
guidelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  