-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Central Bank Connections Reach Ever Deeper After Hiring

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-01T08:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/goldman-sachs-connections-with-central-banks-reach-ever-deeper-after-hire.html
The revolving door between  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and central banks is spinning again.  The fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets said yesterday it
hired  Bank of England  economist Andrew Benito after recruiting
Huw Pill from the  European Central Bank  in May and Naohiko Baba
from the Bank of  Japan  in January. Moving in the other
direction, Ben Broadbent, Goldman Sachs’s ex-chief U.K.
economist, started at the Bank of  England  last month. Former
vice chairman  Mario Draghi  will take up the presidency of the
ECB in November.  The targeting of central banks reflects the value banks
such as New York-based Goldman Sachs place on the skills
economists gather working in policy-making at a time when growth
in advanced economies is struggling to gain momentum. Meantime,
governments seeking top officials are again turning to Goldman
Sachs for top decision-makers 12 months after it settled U.S.
fraud claims and almost four years since the start of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “The people they’re hiring from central banks tend to have
valuable understandings of monetary policies, currencies, what’s
going on with regulation and have access to all sorts of
important people,” said  Roy Smith , a finance professor at New
York University and former Goldman Sachs partner. “Goldman
Sachs has taken a bashing in the crisis. It’s bound to be near
the bottom or recovering now, as there’s nothing of substance to
follow the charges. Governments recognize that to be the case.”  ‘Talented People’  Benito, who most recently served as a senior economist at
the Bank of England’s structural economic analysis division,
arrived at Goldman Sachs this week as senior European economist
based in London, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. Fiona Laffan, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman,
confirmed the memo’s contents. She declined to comment further.  Pill, the ECB’s deputy director general of research, will
start at the firm as chief European economist in August,
succeeding  Erik Nielsen , who will become global chief economist
at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank. Baba joined in January
as chief economist for Japan after leading financial systems
analysis at the country’s central bank.  “Investment banks seek out talented people and those who
have skills, insight and access to how policy decisions are made
are very attractive,” said Peter Hahn, a former Citigroup Inc.
banker who lectures on finance at London’s Cass Business School.  Mario Draghi  The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs
last year for misleading investors in a mortgage-linked
investment that was sold in 2007. Then British Prime Minister
Gordon Brown said the firm’s employees showed “moral
bankruptcy” amid calls to ban the company from government work.
Goldman Sachs paid $550 million in July to settle the SEC’s
civil claims.                 Bank of  Italy  Governor Draghi’s three years as a vice
chairman of Goldman Sachs’s international division from 2002 to
2005 became an obstacle to his candidacy to run the ECB before
his German rival Axel Weber dropped out. Goldman Sachs arranged
currency swaps that helped Greece hide the extent of its  budget
deficit . Draghi said on June 14 he “had nothing to do with this
deal whatsoever” and that it had started before his arrival.  Goldman Sachs isn’t alone in recruiting central bankers.
UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, said today it plans to
appoint former Bundesbank President Weber to its board and then
make him chairman in 2013. Barclays Plc said in May it hired
Brian Madigan, the  Federal Reserve ’s former top staff adviser on
interest-rate policy, to provide counsel on economic research
and regulation.  Rate Forecasts  Benito’s arrival marks a further reshaping of Goldman
Sachs’s economic division after Jim O’Neill stepped down last
year after about a decade running the department. O’Neill, now
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Asset Management , was replaced by Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson .  Educated at the universities of Warwick and Cardiff, Benito
worked at the Bank of England for 11 years, according to the
memo from Goldman Sachs. He also spent time at the Bank of Spain
and the  International Monetary Fund . His research work has
focused on  consumer spending  and the housing market.  Goldman Sachs economists predict the Bank of England will
raise its benchmark rate from 0.5 percent in November, although
they say the chances of a delay are growing amid anaemic growth.
They expect the ECB to lift its key rate to 1.75 percent by the
end of the year from 1.25 percent before adding another 75 basis
points next year. They anticipate the Fed and  Bank of Japan (8301)  will
leave borrowing costs at about zero through 2012.  ‘Government Sachs’  Goldman Sachs has been a breeding ground for central
bankers. Broadbent is the third Goldman Sachs alumnus to sit on
the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee since its
creation in 1997. In his first vote on policy in June, he sided
with the majority choosing to leave the U.K.’s benchmark rate
unchanged. Former MPC members David Walton and Sushil Wadhwani
also had Goldman Sachs on their resumes before joining the
central bank.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney and Fed Bank of New
York President William Dudley both previously worked for Goldman
Sachs. Former  U.S. Treasury  secretaries  Robert Rubin  and  Henry Paulson  ran the bank before entering government, helping to earn
the company the nickname “Government Sachs.”  “Goldman Sachs partners are extremely fortunate that due
to the success of their firm they can afford to go into public
service sooner than their competitors,” said Philip Keevil, a
partner at New York-based advisory firm Compass Advisers LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  