-- 
Goldman Sachs Set to Lose on `Big Brother' Buyout Debt: Corporate Finance

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o ,   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/goldman-berlusconi-set-to-lose-endemol-bet-corporate-finance.html
Endemol NV investors, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , are facing losses of more than 60
percent as the Dutch producer of the “Big Brother” television 
show reorganizes 2.8 billion euros ($4.1 billion) of debt amid 
the Greek crisis.  Endemol’s enterprise value has fallen to no more than 1.2
billion euros from 3.1 billion euros four years ago, with its
equity and junior debt becoming worthless, said two people with
knowledge of the situation who declined to be identified because
talks with creditors are confidential.  Shareholders such as Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s  Mediaset SpA (MS)  and Goldman Sachs are in negotiations
with lenders complicated by last week’s departure of Chief
Executive Officer Ynon Kreiz amid disagreements over Amsterdam-
based Endemol’s strategy. Concerns that  Greece  will default on
its debt and the slowing economic recovery have pushed up
funding costs as investors shun risky assets.  “The market is already discounting the breach of the
covenants,” said Saverio Papagno, an analyst at AZ Fund
Management in Luxembourg. “All the options on the table right
now, including a debt-for-equity swap.”  Endemol, the world’s largest independent TV producer, said
in its 2010 annual report that widening losses would cause the
company to breach its loan covenants. Marco Giordani, Mediaset’s
chief financial officer, said yesterday that the results of a
test on the latest debt ratios would be available in 45 days.
Los Angeles-based investment bank Houlihan Lokey is advising
Endemol on the reorganization.  ‘Pre-Crisis World’  Mediaset, Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA, Goldman Sachs
and Cyrte Fund II BV, under an  investment company  founded by
John de Mol, bought Endemol in 2007 using 2.8 billion euros of
leveraged loans, including 325 million euros of mezzanine debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Going back I don’t think we would pay that price again,
which was paid in a different, pre-crisis world,” Mediaset Vice
Chairman Pier Silvio Berlusconi, the prime minister’s eldest
son, said near Milan yesterday.  Endemol’s 1.8 billion-euro senior loans are quoted at 56.7
percent of face value, down from 70.8 percent at the beginning
of the year, according to data provider Markit Group Ltd.  In his three years as CEO, Kreiz cut costs at the TV
producer and made acquisitions such as Tiger Aspect and Darlow
Smithson in the U.K. and Authentic Entertainment in the U.S. Yet
without a hit format on the scale of “Big Brother,” Endemol is
unprofitable.  Debt Ratios  Net loss widened to 1.29 billion euros last year from 345
million euros as Endemol wrote down the value of units to
reflect a slower economic recovery, according to its annual
report. Revenue gained 4.7 percent to 1.25 billion euros.  At the end of 2010, Endemol’s debt was 5.6 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to its annual report, which showed 2010 Ebitda of
393.8 million euros. This year, Ebitda may be about 150 million
euros, Pier  Silvio Berlusconi  said yesterday.  “ Big Brother ” continues to register top audience ratings
in countries such as the U.S.,  Italy  and  Germany , maintaining
its position as Endemol’s leading format. Other productions
include “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?” and “Deal or no
Deal.”  “Old war horses like the ‘Big Brother’ are still strong,
but they also need new, successful shows,” said Oriana Cardani,
an analyst in Milan at Centrobanca SpA.  Share Writedowns  Mediaset and its Spanish unit have written down shares in
Endemol to zero. Delta Lloyd Group, which owns 10.5 percent in
Cyrte Fund II, has written down its assets in Endemol to 10.5
million euros in 2010 from 256.1 million euros a year earlier,
according to its annual report.  Endemol’s current enterprise value may be as low as 800
million euros, according to the people familiar with the matter.  Joanna Carss, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in  London , and
Endemol’s press office referred requests for comment to Charlie Armitstead, a spokesman for Endemol at Financial Dynamics.  Management is in talks with lenders to reorganize the
 capital structure , and no proposal has been put on the table
yet, Armitstead told Bloomberg News. He declined to comment on
valuations and said Endemol is on track to meet its 2011
financial targets.  Barclays Capital , one of the leaders of the syndicate of
lenders, also declined to comment on the talks.  Creativity Drain  Kreiz was only the latest key executive to have left
Endemol. In September, Paul Romer, who helped create the “Big
Brother” format with De Mol, stepped down as chief creative
officer, leaving the company after 15 years.  Companies with a major TV production business that can have
synergies with Endemol, such as  ITV Plc (ITV)  and RTL Group SA, or
companies with a significant content distribution business such
as  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  may be interested in buying
Endemol, said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in London. Officials at the three companies declined to comment.  “The issue is debt,” Pier Silvio Berlusconi said.
“Endemol has been managed with a financial approach. To remain
we would like to play an industrial role, so far we haven’t been
able to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 