-- 
Gold May Gain on Concern About Slowing Economy, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/gold-may-gain-on-concern-about-slowing-economy-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as concern about a
slowing economy spurs demand for the metal as an alternative
investment, a survey found.  Seventeen of 23 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 74 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Two
predicted lower prices and four were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was up 0.5 percent for this week at $1,508.50 an ounce
by 11:25 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It reached a
record $1,577.40 on May 2.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s drive to stave off
the euro area’s first sovereign default stayed on track after
lawmakers yesterday backed a bill to authorize an austerity plan
required to keep rescue aid flowing. Concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis helped push bullion to an all-time-high. Reports today
may show manufacturing cooled in June in the U.S. and  China ,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “With the distraction of the Greek vote out of the way
now, the focus will now shift to” manufacturing data, said Marc Ground, an analyst at Standard Bank Plc. The data “will most
likely confirm the weakness of the global economy, this should
reignite demand for the safety of precious metals.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of June 24.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 212 of 369 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 17 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 