-- 
Google Halted Social Network Invites After ‘Insane Demand’ for New Service

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-30T20:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/google-halted-new-google-invites-after-insane-demand-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
search engine, shut down the invite mechanism for its new
Google+ social network after “insane demand,” said  Vic Gundotra , head of social efforts, on the company’s  website .  Google unveiled the service June 28 in a fresh attempt to
compete with Facebook Inc.’s site. Google+ looks similar to
Facebook, with streaming updates of photos, messages, comments
and other content from selected groups of friends.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  is starting Google+
after missteps last year with the introduction of a social
component to  Gmail  called Buzz. Google needs to fix the
invitation glitch quickly if it wants to effectively challenge
Facebook, the world’s largest social network, said Josh Bernoff,
an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “The utility of a social environment depends on your
ability to invite people to it,” Bernoff said in an interview
today. “If you want to try this out but your friends are not on
the system and cannot get on the system because of the blocking
of the invitation, it’s not a very good test.”  The social network will initially be available to only a
limited set of users, Google said when it introduced the new
feature. The company said it has been testing Google+ internally
and is now ready to gradually open up what it calls a
“project” to the general public.  ‘Field Trial’  “We launched Google+ in a field trial in order to test the
product out and gather more feedback,” Google said in an e-
mailed statement. “As part of the field trial, we may open and
close Google+ to new users at any time. We’re thrilled so many
people are interested in trying out a new approach to online
sharing.”  The company declined to comment on user numbers in the
Google+ test.  Overall, Google’s site had 1 billion visitors in May
globally, making it No. 1, according to market researcher
ComScore Inc. of Reston, Virginia. Microsoft Corp. ranks second
with 905 million and Facebook is third with 714 million.  As  Internet users  spend more time on social-networking
sites, Google is releasing new social features to lure Web
surfers to its own services and expand advertising sales.
Facebook captured 13 percent of total hours people spent online
in May, while Google got 10 percent, according to  ComScore Inc.   “It’s good that Google is taking a slower approach,”  Mike Hickey , an analyst with Janco Partners Inc. in  Greenwood
Village ,  Colorado , said in an interview today. “The last thing
they want to do is plug in 10 million people and have a sour
experience for them.”  Google’s shares rose $8.81, or 1.8 percent, to $506.38 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
declined 15 percent this year.  In March, Google reached a settlement with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission to resolve concerns it violated its own privacy
policies with its Buzz service.  Google also made an earlier foray in social networking with
its Orkut site, started in 2004. While the service made inroads
emerging markets such as  Brazil , it hasn’t matched the growth of
Facebook globally.  The new service, which integrates with Google’s maps and
images, seeks to help people organize social contacts easily
within groups of friends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  