-- 
Google Loses Bid to Dismiss Street View Suit Over Privacy-Violation Claims

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-30T19:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/google-loses-bid-to-dismiss-street-view-suit-over-privacy-violation-claims.html
Google Inc. must face a lawsuit
claiming its data collection using Wi-Fi networks for its Street
View program, which allows users see photographs of roadsides,
violates wiretapping laws, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in  San Francisco  denied
Google’s bid to dismiss claims that the data collection, which
included e-mails, user names, passwords and other private data,
violated federal wiretap laws. Ware granted Google’s request to
dismiss claims based on state statutes.  The class-action, or group lawsuit was filed on behalf of
residents living in nine U.S. states whose homes can be seen
depicted on Google Street View. The case is the first in which a
federal court is being asked to determine whether a company can
be found liable under federal wiretap laws based on allegations
that it intentionally intercepted data from a wireless home
network, according to Ware’s opinion.  While Google publicly disclosed its intent to use vehicles
equipped with cameras to capture photos, it failed to say it
also intended to capture wireless data, Ware wrote. The  Mountain
View , California-based company argued it couldn’t be found
liable for federal wiretapping violations because the Wi-Fi
broadcasts were unencrypted and “readily accessible” to the
general public.  Unencrypted Networks  “Although the networks themselves were unencrypted, the
networks were configured to prevent the general public from
gaining access to the data packets without the assistance of
sophisticated technology,” Ware wrote. “Merely pleading that a
network is unencrypted does not render that network readily
accessible to the general public” and make interception of
communications from that network immune from liability, the
judge said.  Jay Nancarrow, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the lawsuit’s claims are “without merit.” Ware
should have dismissed all the claims, and the company is “still
evaluating our options at this preliminary stage,” Nancarrow
said.  Last month, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut
Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee, asked
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp. for information
about the companies’ collection of data from private wireless
networks to create maps of Wi-Fi service, saying the practice
raises privacy concerns.  Google, Apple and Facebook Inc. faced questions on mobile
privacy in a Senate Commerce subcommittee hearing last month.
The companies also may face tougher European Union restrictions
on the way they handle user-location data after a May opinion
published by European Union privacy officials.  The case is In re Google Inc. Street View Electronic
Communications Litigation, 10-2184, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  