-- 
Greek Bonds Turn World Beaters as Default Concern Wanes in Past Two Weeks

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-07-01T15:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/greek-bonds-turn-world-beaters-as-default-concern-recedes-past-two-weeks.html
Investors wise enough to bet on Greek
bonds as the nation’s two-year yields climbed to a record 30
percent have been rewarded with the best returns of any
sovereign-debt market during the past two weeks.  Greek securities returned 5.6 percent since June 16 through
yesterday, the most among 26 indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Spain 
was second with a 1.3 percent gain, while German debt lost 0.8
percent and U.S. Treasuries fell 1 percent, the indexes show.
The euro rose 2.1 percent against the dollar in the period.  Yields on two-year notes plunged 4.24 percentage points
since mid-June as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  survived a
no-confidence vote, changed his finance minister and pushed 78
billion euros ($113 billion) in new austerity measures through
parliament, positioning Greece to receive more European Union
aid. The nation passed a “critical milestone” to avoid the
euro area’s first default, Papandreou said yesterday.  “Some of the more aggressive  hedge funds  might have been
tempted,” said  David Scammell , who manages $7.3 billion in
European  government bonds  at Schroders Plc in London and who
doesn’t own any Greek debt. Speculators who bet prices would
fall may have closed out positions, while domestic investors
“get comfort from the high yields,” he said.  Greek Notes Climb  The two-year note yield fell for a fourth day, dropping 123
basis points, or 1.23 percentage points, to 26.07 percent as of
4:15 p.m. in London. It climbed to a record 30.32 percent on
June 16 as Papandreou struggled to win support for budget cuts
and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s debt ranking to CCC, the
world’s lowest sovereign rating.  Ten-year bond yields declined to 16.33 percent from 18.35
percent on June 17, the highest since the euro’s 1999
introduction. Greek bonds have still lost 16 percent this year,
EFFAS indexes show.  “ Greece  is giving it a go and there’s some sort of
political will,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The country
hasn’t fallen apart, and political factions haven’t split
completely. Yield levels are still at default levels.”  Greek stocks also rallied in the second half of June. The
benchmark ASE Index jumped 8.3 percent since sliding to a 14-
year low on June 16. National Bank of Greece SA, the nation’s
biggest lender, rallied 19 percent, and EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA, the second-largest, rose 20 percent.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt were at 1,875
basis points today, according to CMA. That signals an 80 percent
chance the country will default within five years. The swaps pay
buyers face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to debt
agreements.  Euro-region finance ministers will convene tomorrow by
teleconference. They are set to approve the next aid payment for
Greece and outline the terms for a second rescue. The meeting
had earlier been scheduled for July 3 in Brussels.  Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros in new
financing, including a contribution from private investors, in a
second bailout aimed at preventing default, according to an
Austrian Finance Ministry official. The  International Monetary
Fund  will put up 30 percent of the new funds, with euro-region
countries and private investors contributing the remaining 70
percent, Thomas Wieser, head of the ministry’s economic policy
and financial markets department, said at a briefing with
Finance Minister Maria Fekter in Vienna late yesterday. European
Union finance chiefs also hold a conference call tomorrow to
free up a 12 billion-euro payment overdue from the original
rescue.  ‘Voluntary’ Roll-Over  German banks agreed to roll over the Greek bonds they’re
holding that mature through 2014, which amount to about 2
billion euros, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday in Berlin. The country’s so-called bad banks will
provide 1.2 billion euros as well, he said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said this week that the
nation’s banks are headed for a “voluntary” agreement to roll
over most of their holdings of Greek debt.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
at a conference in Berlin two days ago with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , said that financial companies would contribute to
help avert a “meltdown.” German and French lenders are the
biggest foreign holders of Greek debt, and their participation
would help the EU meet a goal of getting banks to roll over at
least 30 billion euros of the nation’s bonds.  ‘Excessive’ Safety Trade  “We’re seeing a little bit of an unwind of the excessive
flight-to-safety trade that has dominated over the previous few
weeks,” said  Padhraic Garvey , the head of developed-market debt
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “If this were the beginning of
the end of the crisis, we should be targeting single-digit
yields for Greece.”  Trading in Greek debt diminished as the crisis intensified,
which may have exaggerated price changes, according to  Bill Blain , head of the Special Situations Group in  London  at Newedge
Group.  Greek  government bond  trading on the electronic secondary
 securities market  known as HDAT dropped about 50 percent to 695
million euros in May from the previous month, the Bank of Greece
said June 20. Traded volume fell from 1.39 billion euros in the
same period a year earlier. Of the 639 trading orders executed
on the HDAT system, 62.4 percent were sell orders.  “Just how volatile the market is and how bouncy it can be
is a factor of a nervous market,” said Blain. “The fact that
very few bonds will move the market one way or the other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 