-- 
Greece Set to Get Aid Payment as Banks, Lawmakers Fall in Line on Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-01T08:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/greece-set-to-get-aid-payment-as-banks-lawmakers-fall-in-line-on-crisis.html
Euro-area finance ministers are set
to approve the next aid payment due  Greece  and outline a second
rescue after banks lined up behind debt-rollover plans and Greek
lawmakers approved a budget-cutting package on a second ballot.  The endorsements by Greece’s creditors and parliament met
European Union conditions for preventing a default. Finance
chiefs descend on Brussels in two days before a scheduled
session on July 11-12, where they aim to close this chapter of
the debt crisis that has raged for more than a year.  The euro rose to a three-week high yesterday and the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index rallied for a fourth day as investors bet policy
makers would make good on their vow at a summit last week to do
what it takes to avoid a Greek default.  “As markets exhale after the two successful Greek votes,
it remains to be seen whether conditions begin to return to
something approaching normal,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an
economist at Jefferies International in London. It’s too early
to say “that the Greek problem has been overcome.”  Europe ’s latest attempt to prevent Greece’s fiscal frailty
from infecting the entire region -- and the world -- caps a
turnaround from just three months ago when the country’s then-
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  predicted a return to
markets this year. Since then, Greek yields surged and credit-
insurance prices indicated an increasing likelihood of default
after the government in Athens reported missing deficit targets.  Debt Burden  Greece is Europe’s most-indebted country with debt at about
150 percent of output.  Standard & Poor’s  rates it below every
other country in the world.  The July 3 finance ministers’ meeting will focus on
releasing the fifth tranche of aid from last year’s 110 billion-
euro ($160 billion) bailout, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
the group’s chairman, said June 29.  “This is a first good answer from Greece, now they need to
implement” the deficit cuts, Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  told reporters yesterday in Paris. “I expect we will
be able to organize the payment of the next tranche of 12
billion” euros.  A second package may require about 45 billion euros in new
loans, 30 billion euros in Greek asset sales and a contribution
of about 30 billion euros from creditors, who have indicated a
willingness to roll over some of their holdings, people familiar
with the matter have said.  Upcoming Report  Further aid can’t be organized before a report being
prepared by the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank  gives an indication of
how much progress Greece has made on overhauling its economy,
Reynders said.  Finance ministers are also likely to discuss progress the
region’s banks and insurers are making toward an agreement on
how much Greek debt to roll over in response to politicians’
pressure.  German banks have agreed to roll over the Greek bonds
they’re holding that mature through 2014, which amount to about
2 billion euros, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday. The country’s so-called bad banks will provide 1.2
billion euros as well, he said.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
at a conference in Berlin yesterday with  Chancellor Angela Merkel , predicted that financial companies would contribute to
help avert a “meltdown.” German and French lenders are the
biggest foreign holders of Greek debt and their participation
would help the EU meet a goal of getting banks to roll over at
least 30 billion euros of bonds.  Rollover  Under a French proposal, bondholders would agree to roll
over 70 percent of their maturing debt into new 30-year Greek
bonds with the principal on the new debt guaranteed through
Greece investing in zero-coupon bonds of similar maturity. Under
a second option, investors would roll over 90 percent of their
debt into new five-year bonds with no guarantee.  Ideally, the rollovers should be done “on a level playing
field,” Reynders said. That means the same conditions across
“different sectors such as banks and insurance and across
different countries.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won the final vote
by 155 to 136 to enact a 78 billion-euro package of tax
increases and asset sales. Those steps were endorsed in a vote
yesterday that was marred by street violence as police fired
tear gas on crowds in  Athens .  Protests  Greece’s largest public-sector labor union plans a further
rally today in an extension of protests of more than 20,000
people that gripped the city center this week. Parliament has
become the focus of repeated riots that underscore the challenge
faced by Papandreou in executing his plan in a recession-hit
economy while appeasing the EU partners funding its debts.  Papandreou said his government and Pasok party is ready to
rise to the challenge of reforming Greece.  “The Pasok party took the decision to change itself and
Greece and we accept the responsibility,” Papandreou said in a
speech in Athens today televised live on state-run NET. “It’s a
political challenge to rise to the occasion.”  Some economists doubt the country’s ability to meet the
terms of its economic reform plan.  “This is the end of the road for Greece in terms of
austerity,” said  George Magnus , a senior economic adviser at
UBS AG in  London , told Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word.”
“We cannot expect the Greek parliament and Greek citizens to go
through this all over again every quarter when they’re non-
compliant with their targets.” This is “short sightedness” on
the part of European leaders, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  