-- 
Gupta Insider Trial Postponed Indefinitely

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-30T14:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/gupta-trial-postponed-indefinitely-in-sec-insider-trading-case.html
A U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission judge postponed a hearing for  Rajat Gupta , the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director scheduled to face accusations
that he leaked inside information about the company.  Chief Administrative Law Judge Brenda P. Murray granted a
six-month stay of the proceeding, which was scheduled for July
18, according to a June 20  order  posted on the SEC’s website.
The SEC said elsewhere on its  website  that the hearing had been
“postponed indefinitely.”  Gupta, 62, was accused by the SEC in March of having passed
confidential information to Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam
in 2008 about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in
Goldman Sachs. Rajaratnam, who was convicted May 11 of directing
an insider-trading ring, faces almost 20 years in prison at his
July 29 sentencing. Gupta, a former McKinsey & Co. managing
partner, isn’t facing criminal charges.  Rather than pursuing claims against Gupta in federal court,
the SEC filed an administrative proceeding, which is heard by a
judge employed by the agency. Gupta, who has denied the claims,
sued the SEC in March, saying the administrative action would
deny him the right to a  jury trial .  A phone call to Gupta’s attorney  Gary Naftalis  wasn’t
immediately returned. In the March lawsuit, Naftalis said
“Gupta denies all allegations of wrongdoing and stands ready to
mount a defense against each and every one of the commission’s
charges.”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Conference Call  According to the SEC, Gupta called Rajaratnam immediately
after a September 2008 conference call during which the Goldman
Sachs board considered and approved an investment by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway as well as a public offering.  Within a minute of Gupta’s call, Rajaratnam arranged for
Galleon funds to purchase more than 175,000 Goldman Sachs
shares, the SEC said. Galleon sold the shares the following day
after the information became public, making illicit profits of
more than $900,000, the SEC said.  Gupta stepped down from the Goldman Sachs board last year
and has also resigned from board positions at other companies,
including Procter & Gamble and AMR Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  