-- 
Iberdrola Loses Edge to Biggest Investor as Spanish Law ‘Stirs up Beans’

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-30T17:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/iberdrola-loses-edge-to-acs-as-spain-boosts-shareholder-rights.html
Chairman Ignacio Galan of  Iberdrola
SA (IBE) , the world’s biggest producer of renewable energy, has
battled for five years to limit the influence of his largest
investor. Galan is about to lose one of his best tools.  Tomorrow, stockholder Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA will gain the right to vote all of its 20 percent
stake in Iberdrola. Previously, domestic law allowed Iberdrola
to limit ACS’s voting rights at 10 percent.  Spain is ending voting caps for companies that use them,
including oil driller  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , to avoid entrenching
management. While the change will increase the power of ACS
Chairman  Florentino Perez , a self-made billionaire and chairman
of the Real Madrid soccer club, it may backfire for investors.  “This is going to really stir up the beans,” said Miguel Llorente, who owns Iberdrola shares and helps run 3.8 billion
euros ($5.5 billion) at Capital at Work in  Madrid . “ACS is
going to be pressing for a takeover, and the speculation is not
going to be to the benefit of shareholders” of Iberdrola.  Galan has denied Perez board seats. Perez, in turn, hasn’t
disclosed his agenda for the Bilbao-based power company whose 35
billion-euro market value is bigger than that of any U.S.
utility. An ACS spokesman declined to comment.  ACS shares have gained 8.2 percent this week. That beat the
4.6 percent increase in the 19-member Bloomberg Europe
Construction & Engineering index and the 4.1 percent advance by
Iberdrola in the same period.  That helped Perez hold his long-term lead: ACS averaged a
total return of about 4.9 percent annually in the last five
years compared with Galan’s 1.9 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Hostile Hochtief Offer  The 64-year-old Perez, as head of  Europe ’s largest
construction company, is experienced in boardroom battles and
acquisitions. This month he completed an unsolicited takeover of
a bigger rival,  Germany ’s  Hochtief AG. (HOT)   First, ACS made an all-share hostile offer to Hochtief
investors in September that was below the target’s market price.
That allowed the Spanish builder to increase its 30 percent
stake by buying shares in the market until it surpassed the 50
percent threshold.  Perez invested in Iberdrola while also doing his own
renewable-energy projects, diversifying the Madrid-based builder
from public works after Spanish  government spending  plummeted
and the economic boom turned to bust in the past three years.  Investors who support Galan say they aren’t sure that a
stronger Perez will increase  shareholder value .  Urge to Bid?  Ingo Speich, who manages 3.5 billion euros at Union
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , said he’s concerned Galan may make
a profit-diluting takeover to keep Perez at bay.  “Sometimes there’s a likelihood that even if the
management of the company is excellent, they take short-term-
oriented actions that could be negative in the long run,”
Speich said. Galan already has made two “questionable” deals
as ACS sought to build its influence, the  fund manager  said.  Since ACS bought a 10 percent stake in 2006, Iberdrola
bought back its own renewable-energy unit and acquired the
U.K.’s Scottish Power Plc electricity company for cash and
stock, diluting ACS’s stake. Speich said little value was
generated for shareholders by the purchases which, according to
Bloomberg data, cost $29 billion including debt.  At Iberdrola’s annual meeting on May 27, Speich voted with
a minority of stockholders against a resolution that granted
Galan authority to increase share capital by as much as 50
percent. Speich said he owns about 160 million euros of
Iberdrola stock.  Galan’s Remarks  Galan told shareholders at the meeting that buying
companies including Scottish Power and Energy East Corp. of the
U.S. had protected Iberdrola from the financial crisis and
allowed it to post a record profit last year. Galan told
analysts on May 5 the company has no plans for further deals.  A spokesman for Iberdrola declined to comment further.  Perez’s strategy may be to force Iberdrola to sell assets,
said Carles Vergara, a professor of finance at Iese business
school in  Barcelona . That would earn a dividend for ACS and make
it easier to amass a controlling stake in the power company.  ACS, with less than a third of Iberdrola’s market value,
won’t be able to take control without recruiting allies that
also have large stakes, he said.  Cash Flow   Officials at Bilbao Bizkaia Kutxa, the Spanish savings bank
that owns 6.2 percent of Iberdrola, according to Bloomberg data,
wouldn’t comment, a BBK spokesman said.  Speich said he’s backing Galan to come out on top because
Perez may want to use the power company’s cash flow to reduce
ACS’s debt.  The construction company controls 20 percent of Iberdrola’s
shares through a combination of direct holdings and swap
contracts.  Galan has said ACS is a competitor and barred it from the
board of Iberdrola, whose renewable-energy unit produced a
record 25,400 gigawatt-hours of electricity last year.  ACS responded by putting its clean-energy portfolio up for
sale and sued for board seats all the way to  Spain ’s  Supreme
Court , which hasn’t ruled.  “ACS is in no position to launch a takeover,” said
Llorente. The builder “is waiting for Galan to make a mistake.
They are going to wait for the best moment to play their card.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  