-- 
Libyan Managers Sought to Cut Losing Hedge Fund Holdings, Document Shows

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-07-01T08:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/libya-sought-to-cut-losing-hedge-fund-holdings-document-shows.html
Libya’s $64 billion sovereign wealth
fund sought to cut holdings in hedge funds after losing on
investments including bets with Millennium Global Investments
Ltd., according to a document distributed by U.K. human-rights
group  Global Witness .  The  Libyan Investment Authority , or LIA, invested $4.5
billion in so-called alternative assets, according to an LIA
“Management Information Report” dated Sept. 30. KPMG LLP,
which was advising the fund, recommended reducing the holdings
by $2.4 billion amid high fees and sluggish performance, the
document shows.  The world’s 11th-biggest sovereign wealth fund turned to
financial firms from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, to HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest
bank, to achieve its goal of 8 percent annual returns. The bets
didn’t always work out, raising concern among the fund’s
managers that capital would be eroded, the LIA document shows.  “By liquidating the funds we can guarantee capital
preservation and ensure reduction in expenses,” the 42-page
document said.  Libya  established the investment authority to find outlets
for its rapidly growing oil wealth. The fund never disclosed
detailed information about its holdings or returns. The  European
Union , U.K. and U.S. have frozen the LIA’s assets as part of an
effort to cut off Muammar Qaddafi’s regime from access to
funding after its forces killed hundreds of civilians.  Millennium Fund  The report said an LIA team recommended selling stakes in
Millennium, a London-based hedge fund founded by former Goldman
Sachs executive Michael D. Huttman, after a $100 million
investment in the firm’s Global Emerging Credit fund lost all
its value.  Attempts by the LIA to negotiate fee reductions for
remaining investments in Millennium’s Global Natural Resources
fund and the Global High Yield fund were declined, the report
said. That crystallized the LIA’s view that it should liquidate
holdings in Millennium, the report said.  Millennium, which oversees $12.2 billion, continues to
manage money for the LIA and has “always had open and
professional dealings” with the sovereign wealth fund, the firm
said in a statement yesterday. The losses sustained by
Millennium’s Emerging Credit fund were a “regrettable, but
unavoidable, consequence of the unprecedented market
conditions” of 2008, the hedge fund said.  KPMG ’s Role  The LIA employed KPMG in 2009 and 2010 to improve the
fund’s administration and internal processes, though the audit
and advisory firm didn’t offer investment advice, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the information is private.  Officials for KPMG declined to comment. A spokesman for
HSBC in London also declined to comment as did a spokeswoman for
New York-based Goldman Sachs. Calls to LIA Chief Executive
Officer Mohammed Hussain Layas weren’t answered.  “Banking secrecy laws still mean that citizens are left in
the dark about how their own state’s funds are managed,” said
Robert Palmer, a campaigner at  Global Witness , said in a
statement. “We can’t continue with a situation where
information about how a state handles its assets is only made
available once a dictator turns violently on his own people and
information is leaked.”  ‘Not Unique’  The LIA report also recommended selling hedge fund
investments tied to Notz Stucki & Cie, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Permal Asset Management Inc. and BNP Paribas SA. Geneva-based
Notz Stucki and New York-based Permal are so-called funds of
hedge funds, which charge clients an extra layer of fees to pick
hedge-fund investments.  Spokesmen for Notz Stucki, Credit Suisse, Permal and BNP
Paribas declined to comment.  “The LIA is not unique,” said Randal Goldsmith, a
director in fund services for  Standard & Poor’s  in London.
“There’s been a lot of disappointment in returns from
alternatives and fund of hedge funds.”  Hedge funds on average lost 19 percent in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Funds gained 9 percent in 2009
and 8 percent last year.  Investments in equity derivatives, including bets with
Goldman Sachs, with a total original cost of $2.2 billion, rose
to a market value of $312 million from $303 million in the three
months to Sept. 30, according to the document. The LIA’s
deposits amounted to $20.2 billion, held by the central bank of
Libya and lenders including HSBC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  