-- 
ICICI, State Bank of India First to Tap Largest Identity Store

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-06-30T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/icici-state-bank-of-india-first-to-tap-largest-identity-store.html
Indian lenders such as  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and  State Bank  of  India  will be the first companies granted
access to the largest personal  identity program  in history, a
database of up to a billion people that promises to
revolutionize business.  About 64 banks will open accounts in a few months based on
details entered in the government’s burgeoning biometric data
store, the project’s leader, billionaire entrepreneur Nandan Nilekani, 56, said. India initially aims to hand identification
numbers to 600 million people by 2014, enabling access to
financial services for those who don’t have birth certificates,
utility bills or passports.  “This is a game changer,” Nilekani, a co-founder of
 Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , said of the identity plan in a June
28 interview at his  New Delhi  office. “This could lead to a
wave of innovation with people building applications that we
can’t even dream about.” Entrepreneurs last week showed
Nilekani plans to create a secure online “vault” for personal
files such as education certificates, ending the need to carry
them around, and a system for college payments.  About 47 percent of Indians don’t have a bank account,
according to a study  Boston Consulting Group  and the
Confederation of Indian Industry published this year. In rural
areas, the problems are even greater: 70 percent of villagers
don’t have a bank account and 85 percent are without credit.  Representatives of ICICI and  State Bank of India  did not
immediately respond to phone calls and e-mails requesting
comment.  Friedman Inspiration  Insurance and phone companies are also making products
compatible with the store of data, which can be used for free
until 2013, Nilekani said.  The  Unique Identification Authority  of India he heads was
conceived to help the poor benefit from social services through
an ID number, and create a fraud-proof way of delivering
subsidies, which account for about 10 percent of  government
spending  or $30 billion.  Nilekani left his job with India’s second-largest software
exporter when asked to head the project by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  in 2009. New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman
says Nilekani inspired his 2005 bestseller ‘The World Is Flat’.  While Nilekani says there will be “enormous”
opportunities for businesses to use the technology, he rejects
the accusation that companies will be reaping the benefits from
a taxpayer-funded project. He compares the venture to the
government building a road used by the public and companies.  ‘$18 Billion Saving’  “Giving so many people an ID and including them in formal
society, the social value of that is incalculable,” Nilekani
said. “This is soft infrastructure, which is equally important
as roads and ports, it is about delivery of services.”  Nilekani also heads a  task force  on government plans to
directly transfer cash to the poor to subsidize fertilizer and
fuel costs. According to a McKinsey report in November, an
 electronic platform  for government payments will save the
government about $18 billion a year.  While Nilekani said his colleagues have the basic
technology in place to collect every Indian citizen’s name, date
of birth, gender, fingerprints and iris scans, they are still
working on the problems of storing all this information.  “Accuracy and scale are the major problems,” he said. “
In any technology, when you scale it, you encounter
challenges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  