-- 
IEA Oil Release Won’t Result in Forced European Sell Tenders

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-30T10:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/iea-oil-release-won-t-result-in-forced-european-sell-tenders.html
The International Energy Agency-
coordinated oil stockpile release will lead to five countries
issuing sell tenders while eight nations will let companies
holding the inventories decide.  In  Belgium , France, Italy, Poland, Spain, Turkey, Britain
and Japan,  oil companies  can sell their reduced reserves, the
Paris-based agency said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Germany,  South Korea , Belgium, Netherlands and the U.S. will
issue tenders to sell government reserves, it said. The IEA last
week announced the release of 60 million barrels, or 2 million
barrels a day, of emergency oil, the first time since 2005 as an
armed rebellion in Libya chokes global supplies.  “Industry can sell them off, or take less crude or product
in, which has the same effect,” of making supplies available to
the market, the IEA said. Twelve members of the 28-nation group
are involved in the stockpile release program.  The  move  will reduce the amount of crude and refined
products that companies need to set aside for emergency use, the
agency said. “In those countries governments will lower the
obligation, in most instances this is done,” the IEA said.  The U.K. lowered companies’ reserves obligation by 3
million barrels, equal to its commitment under the IEA program.
 Japan  cut compulsory stock obligations for its oil industry to
67 days of domestic sales from 70 days.  50-60 Percent  Oil supply will increase by 350,000 barrels a day in the
third quarter following the IEA action, according to JBC Energy
GmbH. “Only 50-60 percent of the announced release will
actually be realised,” analysts including Vienna-based  David Wech  said in a June 28 report.  “Obligations on commercial holder reserves were lowered
rather than introducing an actual mandatory discharge in
supplies,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
 London  said in a note today. “The immediate impact in Europe
might not be that pronounced as firms hold on to products with
demand still far from ideal.”  Government-held stocks will be sold in public tenders under
the program, the agency said. The U.S. is  offering  30 million
barrels of crude from its Strategic Petroleum Reserve while
 Germany ’s tender to sell crude and oil-products will close on
July 1.  North Sea Brent crude fell as much as 7.4 percent to
$105.72 a barrel following the IEA announcement on June 23. The
August contract was 1 percent lower at $111.24 a barrel as of
9:36 a.m. on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  