-- 
In New Era, Bad Habits Are Holding Back Bold Ideas: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/in-new-era-bad-habits-are-holding-back-bold-ideas-ezra-klein.html
Americans live in a new economic
reality, and it’s long past time that  Washington  did, too.  In the short term, the nation faces a jobs crisis; in the
long term, a deficit crisis. Each crisis presents opportunities
to overhaul the state for a new era. Instead, Democrats and
Republicans are using both to double down on the same stale
ideas they were pushing in 2005, 2001, 1997 and even earlier.  The Bush tax cuts are a perfect example. The cuts and the
tax code that preceded them were both designed in the 1990s --
an era of 5 percent unemployment, budget surpluses and a
productivity-enhancing technological revolution. The current
moment couldn’t be more different, yet we’re still debating
whether we should return to the tax policies of George W. Bush
circa 2004 or of Bill Clinton circa 1999. The new thinking about
how to create policy suited for 2011 -- or even just a  tax code 
suited to 2011? -- is nowhere to be found.  The debate on jobs is similarly narrow and
counterproductive, pitting analyses of “cyclical unemployment”
against competing narratives of “structural unemployment.” The
cyclical side says that unemployment is a result of inadequate
economic demand, thus we need Keynesian pump-priming to fill the
gap. The structural side says that unemployment results from an
erosion of skills and a changing economy, and that there’s
nothing much we can do to close the gap quickly.  Structural v. Cyclical  There’s no need to choose -- or to give up hope. Much of
our unemployment is structural and some of it is cyclical.
Action is necessary either way. As former White House Council of
Economic Advisers Chairman  Christina Romer  told me in March, “If
you think our problem is structural, there are things we should
be doing: money for training, or helping people get out of their
mortgages, or massive investment in  Detroit . Saying it’s
structural is not the same as saying it’s not our problem.”  We should begin with a commitment to hundreds of billions
of dollars in infrastructure investments. This isn’t make-work
or even an optional expense. Waiting to fix a bridge is the same
as waiting to pay down the deficit: You’ll have to spend the
money later if you don’t spend it today. But waiting to fix a
bridge also runs the risk that the bridge will collapse, forcing
you to spend much more later than you would spend today.
Advancing worker-intensive, economically vital investments from
the future to the present is exactly how stimulus should work,
and why the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and the AFL-CIO both
support it.  Suspend Regulations  Moreover, infrastructure investment would create jobs in
the construction sector  -- where unemployment is more than 16
percent -- at a time when materials and labor are unusually
cheap due to slack demand. Former President  Bill Clinton  has
 suggested  temporarily relaxing environmental regulations so
construction projects could be approved quickly. A conservative
economist told me that Republicans might support the idea if the
government also temporarily suspended the  Davis-Bacon Act , which
requires public works projects to pay the prevailing wage,
boosting labor costs. If that’s what it takes to get a deal, so
be it.  As for  deficit reduction , surely we can break the cycle of
small thinking: raising taxes here, cutting Medicare spending
there, capping domestic discretionary spending for a few years -
- all while keeping the current shape of government virtually
unchanged.  Cut Payroll Tax  How about a bigger, better idea? Let’s cut the payroll tax
in half and impose a slightly larger tax on  carbon emissions . To
support this plan, you don’t need to have your hair on fire
about global warming. You just need to like labor more than you
like carbon emissions. We can reduce the tax burden on work,
which we want more of, and shift it to emissions, which we want
less of.  Here’s another idea: Buried within Medicare is a formula
called the sustainable growth rate. The SGR was passed in 1997
by a  Republican Congress  and signed into law by a Democratic
president in order to slow the growth in doctor payments. But
the formula soon began mandating huge cuts in those payments. If
the cuts were enacted -- they’re up to 30 percent now -- few
doctors would stay in the Medicare program. Consequently,
Congress routinely passes “doc fixes” that negate the SGR’s cuts
and makes sure the doctors get paid.  Abolishing the SGR would solve the “doc fix” problem
permanently, but it would also add about $300 billion to the
deficit, which is why Congress consistently ducks the issue. But
the SGR should be repealed -- with its demise paving the way for
deep reforms to the system. As part of the deal, Republicans
could get increases in the fees patients pay for services.
Democrats could get a structural redesign of the system,
increasing payments for treatments backed by solid evidence and
decreasing payments for treatments that are less effective.  Cramped Debates  You wouldn’t know that such options even exist from the
state of our cramped debates about jobs and the deficit. But
those stilted discussions are a function of the political
environment, not the policy options. We don’t have to keep
repeating ourselves.  You know that old line about how the Chinese character for
“crisis” combines the symbols for “danger” and “opportunity”?
Well, it’s not true. The character is actually an amalgam
< http://www.pinyin.info/chinese/crisis.html > of “danger” and
“turning point.” But there’s a reason this invented bit of
Eastern wisdom has such currency in Western management books and
inspirational seminars: Crises often are opportunities. In
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel ’s famous words, “You never want a
serious crisis to go to waste.”  Right now, we’re wasting two of them.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  