-- 
India’s Rupee Rises to Two-Week High as Fund Inflows Increase

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-06-30T13:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/india-s-rupee-rises-to-two-week-high-as-fund-inflows-increase.html
India ’s rupee rose to a two-week
high as international investors raised holdings of the nation’s
shares to benefit from economic growth.  The currency headed for a monthly gain as exchange data
showed funds based abroad bought $1.1 billion more stocks and
bonds than they sold in the five days through June 29. Capital
inflows are improving after Greek lawmakers approved budget cuts
necessary to win more financial aid and avert a debt default,
said Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at FirstRand Ltd.  “The Greece problem looks temporarily resolved and that
allows the market to focus on fundamentals such as India’s
relative economic strength,” Mumbai-based Harihar said. “Fund
flows are already coming back.”  The Indian currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 44.6975 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, taking this month’s
advance to 0.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It was 0.3 percent lower for the quarter after  Greece ’s debt
crisis roiled global markets.  The rupee will rise to 44.60 by the end of this year,
according to the median estimate of 24 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Offshore forwards indicate the currency will trade
at 45.16 to the dollar in three months, compared with 45.60
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the second fastest pace among
Asia’s 10 biggest economies. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index has gained 2.9 percent this week.  The South Asian nation’s 10-year government bonds yield
8.33 percent, the most among  Asia ’s investment-grade debt, and
more than twice the 3.1 percent offered by similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  