-- 
Indonesia Stocks: Bumi Resources, Garuda Indonesia, Tiga Pilar

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-06-30T09:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/indonesia-stocks-astra-agro-lestari-semen-gresik-tiga-pilar.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the 4 p.m. Jakarta-time close.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  advanced 58.30 points, or 1.5
percent, to 3,888.57, a record close. The gauge extended its
increase this quarter to 5.7 percent. The market was closed
yesterday for a holiday.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI IJ), Indonesia’s largest coal
producer, declined 1.7 percent to 2,950 rupiah, the lowest close
since March 2. China Investment Corp. has asked Bumi to pay in
cash if the coal producer exercises an option to settle $600
million of debt ahead of schedule in October,  Bisnis Indonesia 
reported, without saying where it got the information. The news
is negative for Bumi, PT Kim Eng Securities wrote in a note.
Bumi Director Dileep Srivastava hadn’t replied to an e-mail
seeking confirmation.  PT Garuda  Indonesia  (GIAA IJ), the nation’s largest
airline, rose 1.9 percent to 530 rupiah as it signed a $55
million  term loan  due June 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The facility pays a margin of 425 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate and proceeds will be used
for general corporate purposes, the data show.  PT Tiga Pilar Sejahtera Food (AISA IJ) rose 1.5 percent to
660 rupiah, climbing for a second day. The instant-noodle maker
won a tender to acquire a plant and the brand of a snack product
owned by an overseas company, Investor Daily Indonesia reported,
citing Yulianni Liyuwardi, the company’s corporate secretary.
Liyuwardi couldn’t be reached when called at her office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  