-- 
Insider Trading Crackdown Vowed by Australian Market Regulator

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-30T14:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/insider-information-crackdown-vowed-by-australia-s-medcraft-as-deals-leak.html
The new head of Australia’s financial
markets watchdog intends to “crack down” on unfair disclosures
that cause sudden changes in stock prices, and require company
directors, auditors and bankers to ensure fair and open markets.  “We’re in a stronger position than ever to crack down on
leaks,” said Greg Medcraft, 52, who became chairman of the
 Australian Securities and Investments Commission  in May. “We’ve
told investment bankers and stockbrokers they need to strengthen
their codes of conduct on sharing confidential information.
We’re now in charge of surveillance, which also means we’re in a
better position to monitor for anything that points to trading
on the use of inside information.”  Fund managers say that the nation’s financial regulators
haven’t stopped practices that give some investors an advantage
over others with market moving information. ASIC says it
identified 200 cases of unusual share-price moves in the 10
months to May 31, 42 of which were referred for further
investigation; of those, 24 involved possible  insider trading .  “Price-sensitive information being dispersed and traded on
is a breach of the most fundamental principles of law, and it
needs to be dealt with more aggressively,” said Prasad Patkar,
who oversees about $1.7 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “If investors are being ripped off, that's not 
satisfactory, clearly.”  More than 48,000 trades have triggered the regulator’s
surveillance filters since Aug. 1, 2010, ASIC said. New
investigative powers -- including phone tapping -- mean ASIC is
better equipped to uncover insider trading, Medcraft said in an
interview in Sydney.  Auditing Failures  The regulator has had a busy week: ASIC won a case
involving shopping-mall operator  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  that it
said sent a signal to directors that they will be held
responsible for their company’s accounting procedures. It
published June 29 a report revealing auditing failures among top
accounting firms, and yesterday said companies should provide
more clarity on executive pay.  Medcraft, who  previously worked  as an investment banker at
Societe Generale SA in  New York , eventually becoming its Global
Head of Securitization, is also demanding stockbrokers, bankers
and financial advisors improve self-regulation. He became an
ASIC Commissioner overseeing  investment banking , pension funds
and financial advisors in February 2009.  The government has credited the regulator, which imposed a
short-selling ban as markets tumbled after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, with helping to
stabilize  Australia ’s financial system. Medcraft became ASIC’s
chairman for a five-year term on May 13, replacing Tony
D’Aloisio, who led the regulator during the financial crisis.  Plugging the Leaks  ASIC’s vow to clamp down on leaks comes as regulators
worldwide increase efforts to prevent unauthorized dissemination
of market-sensitive information. In the U.S., the Securities and
Exchange Commission has boosted market supervision since the
global financial crisis -- including pursuing a case against
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  The UK’s Financial Services Authority, which prosecuted its
first criminal insider-trading case in 2008, is “determined to
take insider-dealing enforcement right into the heart of the
city,” its acting head of enforcement, Tracey McDermott, said
in May.  Newspapers have this year reported several takeovers ahead
of official announcements. Shares in cable operator  Austar
United Communications Ltd. (AUN)  jumped 18 percent in the four trading
days after the Australian newspaper reported Feb. 18 that rival
operator Foxtel was considering a takeover bid. The shares rose
a further 18 percent until May 26, the day the deal was
officially announced.  ‘Noticeable Stock Movements’  The Australian reported the planned purchase of broadcaster
Seven Media Group by  West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd. (WAN)  on
Feb. 21, before the deal was announced later that day. The
U.K.’s  Daily Telegraph  reported on Dec. 5 that Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s second-biggest mining company by sales, was in talks
to buy  Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV)  -- the day before Riversdale
disclosed the discussions to the exchange.  “In a handful of situations in the last year we’ve seen
the press reporting information, or else noticeable stock
movements, ahead of official company announcements,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at White Funds
Management Pty. in Sydney. “That’s highly suggestive that
information has leaked into the marketplace. Most investors
would see this as an area worthy of further regulatory
attention.”  ASIC took over direct supervision of the nation’s financial
markets in August last year from Australia’s main bourse
operator,  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Its role in the nation of 22.5 million people
is akin to the UK’s FSA and the U.S.’s SEC. ASIC is responsible
for both supervision and enforcement of the laws against
misconduct on Australia’s financial markets.  Phone Taps  Under Australia’s  Corporations Act 2001 , listed companies
have an obligation to disclose to the market any information not
generally available, and that a reasonable person would expect
to have a “material impact” on its share price. The law also
prohibits people with inside knowledge from trading shares.  An amendment on Dec. 13 gave ASIC the power to request that
federal police initiate phone taps on its behalf where it
suspects insider trading. Such methods were used by the SEC in
the case it built against Galleon’s Rajaratnam.  In a case prosecuted by ASIC, directors of Centro
Properties Group this week were found by a federal judge to have
wrongly approved financial statements that didn’t disclose all
the company’s debt -- a decision ASIC said clarified a board’s
duties to shareholders.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  “Directors are an important gatekeeper in our system,”
Judge John Middleton said in his ruling. “It’s not the
responsibility of company boards to just delegate or rubber
stamp. They actually have to take responsibility.”  That victory came after high-profile court losses in 2009,
including one involving the collapse of telecommunications
carrier One.Tel Ltd. ASIC also lost at trial a case in the same
year against  Andrew Forrest , the billionaire founder of
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , whom it accused of misleading
investors over iron-ore project accords with  China .  In February this year, ASIC won a reversal at the court of
appeal, a decision Forrest has himself now appealed to the
country’s top court.  The regulator says it secured 22 convictions in 2009-10,
three of which involved market misconduct, manipulation or
providing false information. ASIC completed 23 criminal
proceedings in that period, resulting in 12 jail sentences,
according to the regulator’s latest annual report. ASIC says it
achieved an average 91 percent success rate in civil litigation
and criminal matters.  Executive Pay Disclosure  Four large accounting firms in Australia didn’t conduct
proper audits in 17 percent of the cases reviewed by the
country’s regulator, with smaller firms falling short almost a
third of the time, ASIC said this week. In an announcement
yesterday, the regulator said companies must provide more
clarity on the pay their executives and directors receive.  Medcraft also wants improved disclosure of new financial
products to ensure investors are fully aware of the risks
associated with complex securities. Additionally, he wants funds
to detail their assets more regularly and transparently.  “I’d like to see better asset-level disclosure,” Medcraft
said in the June 29 interview. In Australia, asset managers
aren’t required to disclose their holdings to customers, whereas
mutual funds in the U.S. are.  The government has said the transfer of additional
supervisory powers to ASIC was aimed at paving the way for the
entry of new competitors to ASX, a move designed to help turn
Australia into a “global financial hub.”  Foreign Competition  Chi-X Australia Pty, the Nomura Holdings Inc.-owned stock-
exchange operator that is so far alone in winning regulatory
approval to enter the Australian market, has said it may start
its service as soon as October 31.  That is the date that new trading rules, designed by ASIC,
come into effect. Chi-X will be the first foreign-owned market
operator since Australia’s original stock market opened in the
southern city of  Melbourne  in 1861.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 