-- 
Iran Arming Iraqi Groups Attacking U.S. Troops, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-30T09:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/iran-again-arming-iraqi-groups-attacking-u-s-troops-gates-says.html
Iran  is furnishing new, more deadly
weapons to Shiite Muslim militias targeting U.S. troops in Iraq
as part of a pattern of renewed attempts to exert influence in
the region, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  About 40 percent of the deaths of American soldiers since
the official end of U.S. combat operations almost 10 months ago
have occurred in the past few weeks as a result of the attacks,
Gates said yesterday in an interview at the Pentagon that also
touched on Iran’s nuclear program.  The U.S. has raised the attacks with Iraqi Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki and others, said Gates, who leaves office today.
Gates will be succeeded by  Leon Panetta , director of the Central
Intelligence Agency.  Iran is “facilitating weapons, they’re facilitating
training, there’s new technology that they’re providing,” Gates
said. “They’re stepping this up, and it’s a concern.”  Iran is supporting radical Shiite groups intent on
“killing as many as possible in order to demonstrate to the
Iraqi people that, in effect, they drove us out of Iraq at the
end of the year,” he said.  The attacks are increasing as the U.S. and Iraqi
governments are discussing politically acceptable ways to extend
the American military presence beyond December. Iraq’s nascent
security forces have struggled to combat Sunni Muslim al-Qaeda
affiliates and Shiite militias, and the country lacks the
military capability to defend its borders.  Iranian Influence  The aid to radical allies inside Iraq reflects Iran’s
stepped-up efforts to wield influence in the  Middle East  and the
Persian Gulf region, Gates said. The pattern has become
particularly evident since populist revolts began against
authoritarian rule in  Tunisia ,  Egypt  and elsewhere, collectively
known as the Arab Spring.  “They didn’t create the Arab Spring or start it, but they
are clearly trying to exploit it wherever they can,” said
Gates.  In Iraq, more than 100,000 U.S. troops left in the year
leading up to the Sept. 1 transition from combat operations to a
mission that primarily advises and supports Iraqi troops. The
goal was to withdraw the remaining 50,000 soldiers at the end of
this year.  The Pentagon has recorded 28 soldiers killed in action
since the start of the new mission, called Operation New Dawn.
Almost 3,500 previously had been killed since the 2003 U.S.-led
invasion.  Troop Deaths  The department two days ago announced that two U.S.
soldiers were killed in Iraq’s Diyala province when their unit
was struck by a roadside bomb. Staff Sergeant Russell J.
Proctor, 25, of Oroville,  California , and Private First Class
Dylan J. Johnson, 20, of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , were with the 4th
Squadron, 9th Cavalry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st
Cavalry Division from Fort Hood,  Texas .  Three U.S. soldiers were killed in Iraq yesterday in a
rocket attack on their base near the border with Iran, the
 Associated Press  said today, citing an unidentified U.S.
military official who blamed the strike on a Shiite Muslim
militia with Iranian links.  The Iranian threat to the U.S. forces has increased “in
the last three or four months,” Gates said. Iran is supplying
bigger “explosively formed penetrators,” or EFPs, a
particularly powerful type of roadside bomb, and “improvised
rocket-assisted munitions,” or IRAMs, he said. IRAMs are bombs
capable of creating a more powerful explosion than a
conventional mortar shell.  Threat to Armor  The U.S. also is concerned about growing supplies of
advanced rocket-propelled grenades, Gates said. The weapons,
popular with insurgent groups, are effective against U.S. armor.  “So they are really making this as difficult as they
can,” Gates said. The weapons are manufactured in Iran, he
said.  One of the achievements Gates has touted for his 4 1/2
years in office is wrestling with the Pentagon to focus on the
wars in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan , particularly in developing
technology to better protect U.S. forces from roadside bombs.  He pressed to speed purchases of mine-resistant, ambush-
protected vehicles, or MRAPs, in part to counter Iranian-made
EFPs. He then bore down to get all-terrain versions of the
vehicles, called MATVs, for Afghanistan’s rugged terrain. He
also established a  task force  to find other ways of intercepting
and countering the devices.  Accusations in 2006  The issue of Iran supplying powerful roadside bombs capable
of penetrating the thickest armor flared in 2006, when the U.S.
repeatedly accused the government in Tehran of seeking to
undermine Iraq and the foreign coalition in the country.  The U.S. said the Quds Force of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard
Corps was providing the aid. Iranian leaders denied the
allegations.  The issue began to wane in late 2007, when the U.S.
military acknowledged a decline in the number of Iranian-
supplied bombs.  Gates said at the time that he doubted the credibility of
assurances from Iranian officials that they would stop
facilitating the deadly roadside bomb attacks.  During a Nov. 1, 2007, news conference at the Pentagon,
Gates said Iran’s most senior leaders “probably” are aware
that elements of their military are helping the bombers, adding
that he hadn’t seen definitive intelligence on that point.  He said the Iranians had given assurances to Iraqi
officials that they would try to halt such aid.  Had Declined  Gates said yesterday that there had been a decline in
attacks with EFPs until the recent resurgence.  On  Iran’s nuclear program , the defense secretary said he
still believes the country’s leaders are intent on building an
atomic weapon and are “getting closer,” Gates said.  “There is, I think, a general view that they may be
seeking what people call a threshold capability, which means not
really having an assembled weapon but the capability to move
quickly to a weapon should they choose,” Gates said.  It would be difficult to verify that point, he said. “If
they get that close, then you have to assume that they have the
weapons themselves,” Gates said.  Iran’s nuclear program, which the country’s leaders say is
intended solely to generate energy, is under the scrutiny of
inspectors from the United Nations  International Atomic Energy
Agency .  Weapons ‘Threshold’  “The real threshold is when will they have enough low-
enriched uranium to make it worth their while to throw out the
IAEA and then enrich that uranium to weapons-grade so that they
would have several weapons,” Gates said. The question, he said,
is “At what point could they do that?”  Iran also would need to develop a weapon to employ the
uranium.  Still, the window of time in which Iran might achieve a
nuclear weapon remains one to three years, Gates said, declining
to comment on overt or covert efforts to throw a wrench into the
program.  U.S. officials, including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , have said international sanctions and technical
difficulties have slowed Iran’s nuclear progress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 