-- 
Iran to Export 2 Million Metric Tons of Wheat, Minister Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-06-30T13:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/iran-to-export-2-million-metric-tons-of-wheat-minister-says-1-.html
Iran  plans to export 2 million
metric tons of wheat in the current Iranian calendar year after
a cut in government subsidies reduced domestic consumption of
the grain, Economy and Finance Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said
today in an interview.  Iran had no wheat exports in the previous year and
forecasts an increase in output beyond the 15 million metric
tons produced last year, he said without giving an amount.  “Our agricultural sector will experience a better
situation,” Hosseini said in Jeddah,  Saudi Arabia , where he was
attending the annual meeting of the  Islamic Development Bank .
“We increased the price of wheat 30 times. Previously, lots of
wheat and flour was destroyed and wasted in the country” or was
smuggled out, he said.  Iran is grappling with international economic and financial
sanctions over its nuclear development and the implementation of
a five-year program that began in December to phase out energy
and food subsidies.  Iran is targeting economic growth of 6 percent in the
Iranian year that began March 21, he said. Inflation will
continue to accelerate until November, from 14.2 percent last
month, though there are no immediate plans to further reduce the
subsidies for consumers, he said. Non-oil exports will increase,
he said.  `Forecast Is Real'  “The forecast is real, yet cautionary,” and includes the
impact of oil on the economy, he said. He said crude prices are
“definitely” going to move higher in 2012, staying above $100 a
barrel. Non-oil exports will continue to grow, Hosseini said.
Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Iran will import goods totaling $65 billion this year,
Hosseini said, without giving details or the previous year’s
figure.  In April, the  International Monetary Fund   estimated  that
Iran’s average inflation will accelerate to 22.5 percent in 2011
from 12.5 percent last year. The IMF has predicted zero economic
growth for Iran this year compared with 1 percent in 2010.  `Much-Needed Reform'  “Growth in 2011 is expected to stall temporarily as
subsidies for energy and other products are phased out -- a
much-needed reform that will yield benefits in the medium
term,” the IMF wrote in its  World Economic Outlook .  Iran’s domestic wheat consumption is expected to drop to
6.4 million tons in the current Iranian year from 8.7 million
the previous year, following a cut in subsidies in December, the
Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper reported last month, citing Deputy
Commerce Minister Hamid Alikhani.  The government paid some 40 trillion rials ($3.7 billion) a
year in bread subsidies, Alikhani said, according to the Tehran-
based newspaper. The start of a five-year plan to phase out
subsidies including on wheat will increase competitiveness in
flour and bread production and reduce bread waste, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Jeddah  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 