-- 
Israel 10-Year Bonds Advance on Concern Greek Crisis to Spread

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-06-30T11:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/israel-10-year-bonds-advance-on-concern-greek-crisis-to-spread.html
Israel’s benchmark government bonds
rose for the first time in four days as concern the European
debt crisis may spread, even after  Greece  passed the first part
of a plan to prevent a default, spurred demand for safer assets.  The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020,
which yesterday climbed the most in two weeks after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote on an austerity package,
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.15 percent
at 12:59 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The rate dropped 11 basis points in
the second quarter.  “There is a still the risk of the debt crisis in Greece
spreading, which is attracting investors to safety,” Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-strategy at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said by telephone.  U.S. government debt  headed for a quarterly gain on concern
countries such as Ireland and  Portugal  will struggle to attract
investors, increasing demand for the safest securities. Yield
shifts on Irish and Portuguese notes suggest investors are
starting to anticipate both countries will need to persuade
bondholders to reinvest the proceeds of maturing securities in a
debt rollover plan similar to that proposed for Greece.  The shekel strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.4148 per dollar,
bringing the gain for the quarter to 1.9 percent.  Gas Finds  “There is demand for the local currency as the economy is
growing at a relatively strong pace, also supported by a report
today on gas reserves,” said Yaron Chechik, a currency trader
at Financial Immunities Ltd. in Rehovot,  Israel .  Holders of the Sara and Myra exploration licenses off
Israel’s Mediterranean coast said a seismic survey indicated the
sites may hold about 6.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.  The results follow other finds off Israel’s shores since
2009, including the Tamar and Leviathan discoveries that
together hold an estimated 25 trillion cubic feet of gas. The
finds are sufficient to eventually meet Israel’s domestic needs
and enable it to export gas, industry executives and government
officials have said.  Israel’s unemployment rate declined to 5.8 percent in
April, a record low according to the government, as the economy
expanded. Growth in Israel slowed to an annualized 4.8 percent
in the first quarter from 7.6 percent in the previous three
months, which was the fastest since 2006, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said June 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  