-- 
Israel’s Sara, Myra May Hold 6.5 Trillion Cubic Feet of Gas

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-30T10:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/israel-s-sara-myra-may-hold-6-5-trillion-cubic-feet-of-gas.html
Holders of the Sara and Myra
exploration licenses off  Israel ’s Mediterranean coast said today
that a seismic survey showed they may hold 6.5 trillion cubic
feet of natural gas.  “This is an excellent report for us and for the energy
sector,” Ohad Marani, the chief executive officer of Israel
Land Development Co. Energy Ltd., said at a conference in  Tel
Aviv . The average probability associated with the results is 54
percent, he said.  The results for Sara and Myra follow other gas finds off
Israel since 2009, including the Tamar and Leviathan discoveries
that together hold an estimated 25 trillion cubic feet. The
finds are sufficient to meet Israel’s domestic needs eventually
and enable it to export gas, industry executives and government
officials have said.  “Its always exciting to find natural resources,” said
David Kaplan, a Tel Aviv-based energy analyst at Barclays Plc.
“The government has shown concern about having an effective
monopoly on natural gas and none of the partners in Sara and
Myra are partners in Tamar.”  Tamar partnership companies fell in Tel Aviv trading.
Isramco Negev 2 LP dropped 0.7 percent to 0.42 shekels at 12:41
p.m.  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL)  declined 2 percent to 2.03
shekels. Delek Drilling LP lost 1.5 percent to 11.31 shekels.  Kaplan noted that Tamar is already being developed and may
produce gas by 2013, while Sara and Myra are still targeted
prospects rather than discoveries. “In the best case scenario,
where everything goes perfectly, the first product may be two to
four years from now,” he said.  Israel Land Energy fell 8 percent in Tel Aviv today after
rising 13 percent yesterday on press reports of the estimates.
Modiin Energy Ltd., another partner in the licenses, retreated
8.1 percent after gaining 8.8 percent in the previous session.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  