-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ Said to Be in Talks for RBS’s Australia Infrastructure Unit

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-06-30T02:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-be-in-talks-for-rbs-s-australia-infrastructure-unit.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
is in talks with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to buy the
U.K. bank’s infrastructure advisory unit in Australia, two
people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  The Sydney-based unit employs 30 full-time staff, one of
the people said, declining to be identified because the talks
are confidential.  The acquisition would add to the project-financing assets
in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa that the Tokyo-based bank
acquired from RBS for 3.9 billion pounds ($6.3 billion) in
December. Mitsubishi UFJ Chief Executive Officer Katsunori Nagayasu and his rivals are looking to expand overseas amid 18
straight months of declining loan demand in Japan.  “All Japanese megabanks have said project finance, in
particular in  Asia , will be a pillar for future growth,” said
 Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities Ltd. The region around Australia “is probably the
area that Mitsubishi UFJ is looking into next for its global
expansion of project and infrastructure financing.”  The two banks are in advanced talks for the Australian
unit, which was set up by ABN Amro Holding NV, the Financial
Times earlier today. The sale price isn’t clear, it said.  Shinya Matsumoto, a spokesman at Mitsubishi UFJ’s main
banking unit, and London-based RBS declined to comment.  RBS is selling assets after receiving a taxpayer-funded
bailout in 2008. Nagayasu said Nov. 15 that last year’s purchase
of RBS’s assets including loans for electricity, natural-
resource and infrastructure projects would help his bank double
its project financing workforce in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  