-- 
Japan Tankan Survey Shows Economic Rebound Gathering Steam

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-07-01T03:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japan-s-tankan-deteriorates-to-worse-than-expected-minus-9-on-quake-impact.html
Japanese companies forecast increased
hiring and investment as demand picks up this year after the
March earthquake that triggered the biggest plunge in the Tankan
survey of sentiment since 2009.  Large companies said they will boost  capital spending  4.2
percent in fiscal 2011, exceeding analysts’ forecasts for a 2.4
percent increase. The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at
large manufacturers fell to minus 9 in June from 6 in March, the
 Bank of Japan  said in  Tokyo  today. A negative number means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  Manufacturers forecast profits to surge 21 percent in the
six months ending March 2012 and said they will hire more people
this year, today’s report showed. Nomura Securities Co. said the
economy is having a V-shaped recovery after industrial output
grew the most in more than 50 years in May as carmakers such as
Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. restored operations.  “Corporate plans for capital spending and hiring signal
that the effect of the earthquake is only temporary,” said
 Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura in Tokyo. “Japan’s
rebound has been stronger than expected.”  The yen traded at 80.71 per dollar as of 12:03 p.m.,
unchanged from before the report was published. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average rose 0.5 percent after the Greek parliament
supported a European bailout. Large manufacturers forecast on
average that the yen will trade at 82.59 per dollar in the year
through March 2012, according to today’s report.  Lower Than Forecast  Manufacturer sentiment missed the median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for a reading of minus 7.
Companies see the index of sentiment improving to 2 in September,
today’s report showed. Large firms will take on 0.4 percent more
new graduates this year after cutting back 31 percent in the
previous year.  “The numbers were all slightly negative, but this is a
temporary phenomenon,” Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister
 Kaoru Yosano  said at a press conference in Tokyo today.
“Economic activity will make big advances as we approach the
year-end. I am confident that we will see growth next year.”  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 4.5 percent as
more people gave up on looking for work and disaster areas were
excluded from the survey, according to a government report
released in Tokyo today.  Toyota’s Optimism  Toyota Motor Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda  said this
week that the carmaker’s recovery from the quake has “far
exceeded expectations,” with production in Japan to return to
normal after July and North American output rebounding by
September.  Honda Motor, Japan’s third-biggest automaker, said last
week it will hire 1,000 temporary workers in Japan to increase
production.  The resumption of operations at plants of parts makers is
helping ease automakers’ supply constraints.  Renesas Electronics
Corp. (6723) , the largest manufacturer of microcontrollers used in cars,
said on June 10 output at its main plant damaged by the quake
will be restored to the pre-disaster level by the end of
September, one month earlier than it previously forecast.  The world’s third largest economy shrank at a 3.5 percent
annualized pace in the three months through March, the second
quarter of contraction, as  consumer spending  and corporate
investment slumped in the aftermath of the quake.  A further 3 percent shrinkage is expected in the second
quarter, before growth resumes in the second half of the year,
according to the average forecast of 43 economists in a survey
by the government-affiliated Economic Planning Association
released on June 8.  Reconstruction Spending  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is planning a second extra budget
totaling about 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) to follow a 4
trillion yen plan approved by parliament in May. Kan, whose
public approval fell after the quake, said this week he would
step down when the budget and two other bills pass in parliament.  Recent data indicates that the recovery in the corporate
sector may be at risk. Machinery orders, an indicator of future
capital spending, dropped for the first time in four months in
April. Exports fell more than economists projected in May from a
year earlier. On a seasonally adjusted basis the shipments
increased 2.5 percent in May from April.  Forecasts by  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Hitachi Ltd. for weaker
earnings have added to signs of depressed demand. Monetary
tightening by Asian economies grappling with inflation means
that Japanese companies also can’t count on customers within the
region for boosting sales.  Panasonic Profit  Panasonic last week forecast full-year profit will tumble
59 percent in the fiscal year started April after the earthquake
disrupted factories and suppliers. Sales of car-related
components and mobile phones will probably drop because of
supply-chain bottlenecks, Panasonic’s Chief Financial Officer
Makoto Uenoyama said.  Hitachi Ltd. last month forecast net income will drop 16
percent this fiscal year after the temblor crippled its
factories.  Production gains may be limited by restrictions on power
use after shutdowns of nuclear plants around around the nation
cut supply, according to Noriaki Matsuoka, an economist at Daiwa
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  “The peak of electricity demand will be in the summer, so
production will probably stay flat in July and August,” he said.
“It’ll still take some time for production levels to return to
where they were before the earthquake. That’s not something
we’ll be able to see this quarter.”  Weak Demand  Household demand has also been weak, with consumer outlays
sliding 1.9 percent in May, a report today showed, a larger drop
that predicted by analysts. Consumer prices excluding fresh food
increased 0.6 percent in May, the government said.  The U.S. economic recovery has been slower than anticipated,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week. In
 China , a manufacturing index fell to the lowest level since
February 2009 as Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to tame inflation
damps economic growth. China is  Japan ’s largest export market
and the U.S. is the second largest.  Today’s report confirms the central bank’s prediction that
the economy will start recovering this year, easing the case for
policy makers to add further stimulus, an economist said.  “The Tankan survey results support the BOJ’s view that the
economy will rebound,” said  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in Tokyo. “Given
that view, there’s little need for the BOJ to ease monetary
policy further right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  