-- 
Japan’s Unemployment Rate Fell to 4.5% in May

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-06-30T23:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japan-s-unemployment-rate-fell-to-4-5-in-may-1-.html
Japan ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly declined in May as more people stopped looking for
work after the nation’s largest earthquake on record.  The jobless rate fell to 4.5 percent in May from 4.7
percent in April, the statistics bureau said in  Tokyo  today. The
median forecast of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for the jobless rate to rise to 4.8 percent.  The decline in the unemployment rate may be masking the
weakness of the economy because it doesn’t include data from
areas affected by the March 11 disaster, according to economist
 Yoshiki Shinke . Wages have slid since the disaster and a
separate report today showed that household spending fell 1.9
percent last in May, pointing to weaker  consumer spending .  “Employment conditions have been deteriorating gradually
since the earthquake,” Shinke, a senior economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the report. “The
actual state of the job market is probably worse than the number
suggests” given that hiring in disaster areas aren’t included
in the data, he said.  Payrolls fell by 100,000 people, the third monthly decline,
today’s report showed. Ricoh Co. said this week it plans to cut
1,600 jobs through October to save costs.  Signs are emerging that consumer spending is recovering
after the natural disaster, a factor that may aid the job market.
Retail sales fell 1.3 percent in May, less than estimated, and
household sentiment has rebounded from a two-year low.  “We’re expecting an economic recovery going forward,
increasing the chances that job cuts won’t become of a large
scale,” Dai-Ichi Life’s Shinke said. “Further advances in the
 unemployment rate  will probably be limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  