-- 
Japanese REITs to Benefit From Lower Prices, Less Competition, S&P Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-06-30T06:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japanese-reits-to-benefit-from-lower-prices-less-competition-s-p-says.html
Japanese real estate investment
trusts may benefit from lower prices after the March earthquake
drove away some buyers, helping ease competition, according to
 Standard & Poor’s .  Expectations for a prolonged recovery following the
magnitude-9 temblor on March 11 may force some property owners
to sell, said Christopher Lee, S&P’s corporate ratings director
for the Asia-Pacific region. As global investors hold off
purchases following the disaster, trusts with access to capital
will seek to buy buildings to improve revenue amid record low
rents, he said.  “From the purchasers’ perspective, the current market may
offer quite a bit of value and opportunities,” Lee said in an
interview in Tokyo on June 28. “Those J-REITs with room to grow
because their leverages are relatively low can use this
opportunity to expand and improve their business profile.”  J-REITs that invest in Japanese properties have raised
176.4 billion yen ($2.8 billion) so far this year after more
than quadrupling fundraising in 2010, according to Mizuho
Securities Co. In 2010, they raised 311 billion yen through debt
sales and public offerings, compared with 76.6 billion in 2009,
Mizuho said.  The 35-member  Tokyo  Stock Exchange REIT Index rose 0.4
percent, the highest in more than a week, at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Bearish Investors  The number of global investors who were bearish or fairly
bearish on central Tokyo’s office sector almost doubled to 11
following the disaster, from six, according to a poll of 58
companies by CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. By contrast, those who
were bullish fell to 20 from 27, it showed.  The average office rent in Tokyo’s five main business
districts -- Chiyoda, Chuo, Minato, Shinjuku and Shibuya --fell
to a record-low 17,400 yen per tsubo in May from April, Miki
Shoji Co. said on June 9. One tsubo, a standard measure of
property area in  Japan , is 3.3 square meters, or 35.5 square
feet.  More J-REITs may start trading next year as the market
recovers after seven mergers took place in 2010, said Roko Izawa,
a real estate analyst at S&P, in the same interview. Starts
Proceed Investment Co. and Advance Residence Investment began
trading last year after no REITs debuted in 2008 and 2009,
according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  “Mergers were the key theme for Japanese REITs last
year,” said Izawa. “This year and next will be the stage of
recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  