-- 
Japan Stocks Rise for Third Day on Greek Vote, Nuclear Restart Prospects

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-30T07:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japanese-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-greece-vote-eases-default-concerns.html
Japanese stocks rose for a third day
after  Greece  passed austerity measures needed to secure aid from
the European Union, and as utilities advanced on expectations
they’ll be allowed to restart nuclear plants.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which sells 20 percent of its PlayStation game
consoles and other products in  Europe , gained 3 percent. Kyushu
Electric Power Co. and other utilities advanced after Kyodo News
said a local government has agreed to the restart of halted
reactors. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
lender by market value, climbed 2.1 percent after Deutsche Bank
AG raised its rating on the sector.  “There will still be a lot of twists and turns, but Greece
has been able to avoid a worst-case scenario,” said  Mitsushige
Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “That makes it easier for investors
to take on risk.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 0.2 percent to
9,816.09 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader Topix index
added 0.6 percent to 849.22 with three stocks rising for each
that fell. For the month, both the Nikkei and the Topix rose 1.3
percent, their biggest monthly gains since February.  The value of shares traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s
first section totaled 1.32 trillion yen ($16.4 billion), 9.6
percent less than this year’s average of 1.46 trillion yen.  Disaster Decline  The Topix slid 8.8 percent since March 10, the day before a
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami devastated  Japan ’s northeast
coast, triggering the worst nuclear accident in 25 years and
leaving more than 23,000 people dead or missing.  Japanese shares had also weakened on signs the U.S.
economic recovery is slowing and amid the Greek debt crisis,
which the  International Monetary Fund  said might “spill over,”
hurting banks that hold the country’s bonds.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The index rose 0.8 percent yesterday as Greece’s
parliament passed budget cuts and tax increases that satisfy EU
conditions for more bailout money. U.S. banks including
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of American Corp. gained after the
 Federal Reserve  raised a ceiling on debit-card transaction fees.  Amid clashes between protesters and police in  Athens ,
Greece’s parliament yesterday approved the first part of an
austerity plan aimed at meeting EU requirements and staving off
default. EU officials said they wouldn’t provide loans needed to
cover bonds maturing in August unless Greece approved the
package.  ‘Conflicting Interests’  German financial companies yesterday pushed toward an
agreement to roll over their Greek bond holdings, a move that
would give the cash-strapped country more time to pay, while
stopping short of outright debt forgiveness. European officials
have called on creditors in the private sector to share the cost
of the bailout.  “Amid all of these conflicting interests -- between the
Greek government and its people,  Germany  and its banks -- the
different sides found a point of agreement,” said Koichi Kurose,
chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which holds about
$240 billion in deposits. “Still, there isn’t a fundamental
resolution yet.  Nuclear Restart  Utilities had the biggest gain among the 33 Topix industry
groups after  Kyodo News  reported the town of Genkai in
southwestern Japan will allow Kyushu Electric Power to restart
reactors, easing concern local opposition to nuclear power will
damage the industry. The Nikkei newspaper today reported that
the governor of Saga prefecture showed a ‘tolerant attitude’
toward restarting the reactors after Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda 
said Japan’s government will take responsibility.  About 74 percent of Japanese support a “gradual
abolition” of atomic power, following meltdowns at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, according
to an Asahi newspaper poll this month.  Kyushu Electric jumped 4.2 percent to 1,447 yen, rising for
a second day after the Kyodo report. Kansai Electric Power Co.,
a utility that generates 43 percent of its power using nuclear
plants, climbed 4.6 percent to 1,600 yen. Chubu Electric Power
Co., operator of a nuclear plant on Japan’s eastern coast shut
after the Fukushima accident, advanced 2.4 percent to 1,570 yen.  Makers of parts for nuclear  power plants  also advanced.
Japan Steel Works Ltd. jumped 4.4 percent to 549 yen, the
second-biggest gain on the Nikkei. Kimura Chemical Plants Co.
surged 15 percent to 402 yen.  Banks Advance  Japan’s largest lenders advanced after Deutsche Bank raised
its investment rating on the sector to “overweight” from
“market weight,” saying new global banking regulations are
less onerous than expected. Mitsubishi UFJ advanced 2.1 percent
to 390 yen and was the most-actively traded stock in Japan.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest
publicly traded bank, increased 1.3 percent to 2,468 yen. Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., the No. 3, gained 0.8 percent to 132 yen.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said on June 25
the world’s largest banks must hold as much as 2.5 percentage
points in additional capital as part of efforts to prevent
another crisis like the one that stemmed from the 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Deutsche Bank
analysts Yoshinobu Yamada and Thanh Ha Pham said the
announcement eased concern banks would have to raise funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 