-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Advance on Greece Vote, U.S. Economy

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-30T23:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-on-greece-vote-u-s-economy.html
Japanese and Australian stock futures
rose amid optimism  Greece  will avoid default and after U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in June,
easing concern the world’s largest economy is slowing.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., a camera maker
that counts Europe as its largest market, gained 0.6 percent
from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Toyota Motor
Corp. which gets 28 percent of revenue in  North America , climbed
2.1 percent. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, advanced 0.8 percent after metal prices
increased.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,890 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,820 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,890
in  Osaka , at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent today.  “Investors are relieved that Greece looks like it’s going
to be able to rollover debt maturing this month,” said Juichi
Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index advanced 1 percent yesterday after
Greek lawmakers passed a bill to authorize an austerity plan
required to keep rescue aid flowing. U.S. Stocks also gained
after a gauge of manufacturing unexpectedly improved and
consumer confidence rose to the highest level in 10 weeks.  BOJ Tankan  Japan’s central bank will announce the country’s most-
closely watched survey of manufacturer sentiment today at 8:50
a.m. in  Tokyo . The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index of
confidence among big manufacturers probably fell to minus 7 in
June from 6 in March, the biggest drop since March 2009,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A negative number means pessimists outnumber
optimists.  The survey is the first to fully reflect the impact of the
March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that devastated the
country’s northeast coast, triggering the worst nuclear accident
in 25 years, damaging factories and leaving more than 23,000
people dead or missing.  Futures in Japan and Australia rose after Europe, one of
Asia’s biggest export markets, took steps to avoid a Greek
default that the  International Monetary Fund  has said could
“spill over,” hurting banks in the region that hold the
country’s bonds.  German Rollover  German banks and insurers, including Deutsche Bank AG and
 Allianz SE , yesterday agreed to roll over at least 2 billion
euros ($2.9 billion) Greek bonds maturing through 2014, Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said at a press conference in Berlin
yesterday. The move will give Greece more time to pay, while
stopping short of outright debt forgiveness.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management- Chicago 
Inc. said its business barometer climbed to 61.1 this month from
56.6 in May. Economists called for the index to drop to 54,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Shares of Japanese exporters may get a boost after the yen
depreciated to 117.20 against the euro, compared with 116.61 at
the close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday. Against the
dollar, Japan’s currency weakened to 80.87 from 80.41. Exporters
benefit from a weaker currency because it increases the value of
overseas sales.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5 percent by the  S&P
500  and a drop of 1.1 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 