-- 
Japan Pledges to Double Sales Tax by the Middle of This Decade

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-06-30T10:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/japan-pledges-to-double-sales-tax-by-the-middle-of-this-decade.html
Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s
government modified a pledge to double the nation’s 5 percent
 sales tax  by 2015 after some ruling party members said a
specific deadline shouldn’t be set.  The government will raise the levy to 10 percent by the
“middle” of this decade, according to a statement released in
Tokyo today. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said the increase would be completed between 2014-2016.  Kan’s ability to restore the fiscal health of a nation with
the world’s largest debt burden has been hampered by lawmakers
calling on him to resign and a record earthquake. A doubling of
the sales tax would still be below the 15 percent the
 International Monetary Fund  has recommended for the world’s
third-largest economy.  “Division between the Cabinet and the Democratic Party of
 Japan  makes it much harder for the government to raise taxes and
fix the nation’s finances,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Yosano and Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda stepped up their
calls last week for the tax to be raised by 2015 as proposed by
a panel headed by the premier. The extra revenue would be used
to fund the nation’s rising welfare cost amid an aging
population. DPJ lawmaker Yoichi Kaneko was among those opposing
the panel’s recommendations, saying an “unconditional”
increase by 2015 would be “unacceptable.”  “Everyone knows Japan’s fiscal state will be in danger if
the sales tax isn’t raised,” Yosano said at a press conference
in  Tokyo  today. He said the government remains committed to
improving the nation’s fiscal health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  