-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Decline, Top Estimates

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-30T12:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/jobless-claims-in-u-s-fall-top-estimates.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, indicating
little progress in the labor market.  Jobless claims fell by 1,000 to 428,000 in the week ended
June 25, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a drop to 420,000. The number of people on
unemployment benefit rolls and those getting extended payments
declined.  Weaker demand in recent months has prompted some companies
to trim their workforces, adding to concern a cooling labor
market will further restrain  consumer spending  that accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Federal Reserve officials last
week retained record monetary stimulus to help the economy
withstand a “temporary” slowdown in growth.  “The labor market is not making any material
improvement,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who
projected 429,000 claims in the latest week. “Consumer spending
will be more constrained.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 43 economists ranged
from 410,000 to 435,000. Stock-index futures maintained gains
after the report. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index expiring in September rose 0.2 percent to 1,307 at 8:32
a.m. in  New York .  Today’s data showed the four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure than the weekly figures, was little changed at
426,750 last week after 426,250 the previous week.  Continuing Claims  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 12,000 in the week ended June 18 to 3.7 million. They
were forecast to decrease to 3.69 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
27,000 to 3.93 million in the week ended June 11.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, fell to 2.9 percent from
3 percent in the prior week, today’s report showed.  Thirty-six states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while 17 reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , a Trinity, North Carolina-based bedding
manufacturer, is among companies seeing a slowdown in demand, in
part reflecting limited job growth.  ‘Softening’ in Economy  “Our retailers have seen a little bit of softening in the
economy,” Lawrence Rogers, chief executive officer, said in a
conference call with investors on June 28. “The market is just
absorbing some of the high fuel costs and the inflation in food,
and just the general unemployment numbers.”  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Payrolls grew by 54,000 in May, the least in eight months.
The lack of a pickup in the labor market and an economy that’s
slowing reinforce the decision of Fed policy makers to keep
 interest rates  close to zero for an extended period.  “Recent labor market indicators have been weaker than
anticipated,” central bankers said in a statement on June 22
after a two-day meeting. “The slower pace of the recovery
reflects in part factors that are likely to be temporary,” such
as supply chain disruptions stemming from the Japanese disaster
in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  