-- 
JPMorgan Scores Victory for Repeat Offenders: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/jpmorgan-scores-victory-for-repeat-offenders-jonathan-weil.html
Read just about any article in the
financial press about a Securities and Exchange Commission
settlement with some accused fraudster, and you probably will
see two lines bound to get a lot of eyes rolling.  One is that the defendant neither admitted nor denied the
SEC’s claims. The other is that the penalties include a court
injunction or SEC order barring the alleged crook from breaking
the securities laws in the future, as if it had been perfectly
legal to violate them beforehand. No one, it seems, ever gets
nailed for anything.  As if that weren’t maddening enough, here’s an open secret:
The SEC hardly ever enforces these  obey-the-law  orders. This
brings us to last week’s headline-grabbing settlement between
the SEC and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s securities arm over a toxic
bond deal four years ago called Squared CDO 2007-1.  First, the prologue: In 2006, the SEC  fined  the same
JPMorgan unit $1.5 million after determining it had defrauded
customers who bought something called auction-rate securities
from the company. Specifically, the SEC accused it of violating
section  17(a)(2)  of the  Securities Act  of 1933, under which the
SEC need only show negligence to establish a fraud claim. The
SEC also ordered the company not to violate that section of the
law in the future.  So what would be the penalty for disobeying that order?
Nothing, it turns out.  One More Time  As part of last week’s settlement, the SEC  accused  the same
JPMorgan subsidiary of again violating the same section of the
law. However, the commission’s  complaint  didn’t include any
allegation that the company had breached its 2006 cease-and-
desist order. An SEC spokesman,  John Nester , didn’t offer an
answer when asked why not. A JPMorgan spokesman,  Joseph Evangelisti , declined to comment.  “This is inexcusable on the part of the SEC not to push
this, and it shows how pathetically eager it is to hang up part
of the scalp, close an investigation, point to a remedy, and
then move on,” says  James Cox , a securities-law professor at
Duke University School of Law. “They’re just indicating that
these orders don’t have any future impact. That’s too bad for
the public interest.”  Here’s what the SEC should have done, for appearances’ sake
if nothing else. It should have added a claim for violating the
2006 order and fined the company for that infraction separately,
even if it kept the total settlement amount the same. Instead,
the SEC acted as if the cease-and-desist order never existed,
which makes you wonder why the commission bothered to issue it
in the first place.  No Names  Under last week’s settlement, which was approved yesterday
by a federal judge in  New York , JPMorgan will pay $153.6
million. No individuals who worked for JPMorgan were named as
defendants, as if the fraud just happened of its own volition.
The company also consented to an injunction barring future
violations.  Technically, the infractions cited in the 2006 complaint
should have disqualified the company from participating in
certain kinds of securities offerings. So, back in 2006,
JPMorgan asked the SEC’s staff for a waiver that would let it go
about its business as usual. (This, too, is standard operating
procedure whenever a big securities firm settles an SEC fraud
complaint.)  The company got what it wanted, with one catch. The staff
 wrote  that its decision was based on the assumption that
JPMorgan “will continue to comply with” the SEC’s cease-and-
desist order. The company received  two  similar  waivers  from the
five-member commission, as well. Don’t count on the SEC to
revoke any of those waivers now, though.  Third Time  Last week’s lawsuit was the third time since 2006 that the
SEC accused the same subsidiary, J.P. Morgan Securities, of the
same kind of fraud violation. In 2009, the company -- without
admitting or denying anything, of course -- paid $75 million to
end the SEC’s investigation into some nasty derivatives it sold
to Jefferson County,  Alabama . The alleged  misconduct  in that
instance predated the 2006 order, though. The SEC went ahead and
issued another cease-and-desist order.  What’s galling is how typical this is. Back in 2006, the
securities arms of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Wachovia Corp.
were co-defendants with JPMorgan in the same auction-rate-
securities case. They, too, were issued cease-and-desist orders
barring the same type of future violations as JPMorgan.  Both  Goldman  and  Wachovia  were accused later by the SEC of
violating the same section of the law again. The SEC settled
those cases without accusing either company of violating the
prior orders. Per the usual ritual, they neither admitted nor
denied the SEC’s claims.  Now ask yourself: Is this any way to run a cop shop? The
SEC’s enforcement division, led by  Robert Khuzami , should be
embarrassed for engaging in such charades, as should Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  and her fellow commissioners. No one can expect
 Wall Street  to respect the SEC when the agency doesn’t even pay
lip service to its own orders against repeat offenders. The
notion of deterrence has become a fantasy.  Just remember that the next time some too-big-to-fail bank
tries to sell you anything.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 