-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for June (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-06-30T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-june-text-.html
Following is the text from the Kansas
City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Survey of Tenth District Manufacturing  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity rebounded solidly
in June after a brief slowdown last month, and producers remained
generally optimistic about future activity. Raw materials price
indexes fell for the second straight month, but more producers
plan to raise selling prices in the months ahead.  The month-over-month composite index was 14 in June, up from 1 in
May and equal to 14 in April. The composite index is an average of
the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time,
and raw materials inventory indexes. Growth in factory activity
increased at both durable and non-durable goods producing plants.
Most other month-over-month indicators also improved in June. The
production index jumped from -2 to 22, and the shipments, new
orders, and order backlog indexes also posted solid gains. The
employment index increased from 9 to 17, and the new orders for
exports index also edged higher. The raw materials inventory index
climbed from 1 to 16, while the finished goods inventory index was
unchanged.  The year-over-year factory indexes were very similar to recent
months, and solidly positive. The composite year-over-year index
edged up from 30 to 31, and the new orders and shipments indexes
also improved slightly. The employment index increased from 25 to
29, reaching its highest level since early 2007. The production
index eased from 41 to 40, and the  capital expenditures  and new
orders for exports indexes were also largely unchanged. The
finished goods inventory index fell from 17 to 12, while the raw
materials inventory index inched higher.  Future factory indexes were mostly positive, as producers remained
fairly optimistic about activity in the months ahead. The future
composite index increased from 13 to 15, and the future new orders
index also improved. The future production index eased somewhat,
and the future shipments, order backlog, and employment indexes
also slowed marginally. The future capital expenditures index fell
from 18 to 10, and the future new orders for exports index was
basically unchanged. The future raw materials inventory index rose
modestly from 1 to 3, but the future finished goods inventory
index eased slightly.  Price indexes were mixed for finished goods, but raw materials
indexes fell further indicating slower price appreciation. The
month-over-month raw materials price index dropped from 54 to 36,
and the finished goods price index also edged lower. The year-
over-year raw materials price index eased from 87 to 85, while the
finished goods price index remained unchanged. The future raw
materials price index fell from 58 to 55, while the future
finished goods price index increased somewhat, indicating slightly
more firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  