-- 
Kenya’s 3-Month Yields Fall for 3rd Sale Bank Gets Fewer Bids Than Offered

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-30T15:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kenya-s-3-month-yields-fall-for-3rd-sale-bank-gets-fewer-bids-than-offered.html
Kenya ’s three-month borrowing costs
fell for the third successive weekly auction as the bank
received fewer bids for the debt than the amount it offered.  The yield on 91-day Treasury bills was 8.988 percent at
today’s auction, the Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in
an e-mailed statement today. That compares with 8.99 percent for
the June 23 sale.  The central bank of East Africa’s biggest economy cut a
sale of bonds to 47 percent of the amount bid last week to curb
an increase in yields as the country grapples with a fourfold
increase in inflation since October. Yields on three-month bills
surged to a more than nine-year high on June 10 as the shilling
depreciated to the weakest in 17 years, raising the cost of
imports such as fuel and food.  “The central bank is determined to cap the yields on the
short-term securities by accepting bids within its desired
levels as it seeks to bring stability in the money market,”
Fred Moturi, a fixed-income dealer at Nairobi-based Sterling
Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone today before the auction.  The bank, which had offered 2 billion shillings ($22.33
million) of 91-day bills, received 1.48 billion shillings of
bids, accepting 1.44 billion shillings.  Inflation accelerated to 14.5 percent in June, the highest
in more than two years, as food and fuel prices increased, the
Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.  Overnight Rate  “The results of declining yields and under subscription is
an indication of the tightening effect that the central bank is
pursuing in the market,” Fred Mweni managing director at
Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd., said in an interview .  The central bank increased the overnight lending rate to 8
percent to rein in price growth and curb speculation in the
shilling, it said yesterday. It previously used the benchmark
central  bank rate , which is at 6.25 percent, to price overnight
loans. The bank, which said it will review the bank-lending rate
daily, left it unchanged today, it said on its website.  Kenya will boost spending by 15 percent to 1.15 trillion
shillings in the year through June 2012, increasing spending on
roads and energy, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said in his
budget speech on June 8. The deficit will widen to 7.4 percent
of gross domestic product. Domestic borrowing is targeted at
119.5 billion shillings in the next financial year, down from
125 billion shillings this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  