-- 
Kenya Shilling Gains for 3rd Day to as The Central Bank Tightens Policy

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-30T12:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kenya-s-shilling-advances-for-third-day-to-as-central-bank-tightens-policy.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
longest streak of advances in almost two months against the
dollar after the  central bank  raised its overnight lending rate
to try curb inflation and speculative trading.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy gained for a third
day, appreciating 0.4 percent to 89.40 per dollar by 3:31 p.m.
in Nairobi, the capital. Today’s increase pares the currency’s
slump this quarter to 7 percent, the worst since the three
months through September 2008, when it fell 11 percent.  The Central Bank of Kenya increased the overnight lending
rate to 8 percent to rein in price growth and curb speculation
in the shilling, it said yesterday. It previously used the
benchmark central  bank rate , which is at 6.25 percent, to price
overnight loans. The bank, which said it will review the bank-
lending rate daily, left it unchanged today, it said on its
website.  “The central bank action sends the clearest signal to the
market that the weakening of the shilling is not supported by
fundamentals and it’s determined to curb arbitrage and
speculative trading,” Fred Moturi, a fixed-income dealer at
Nairobi-based Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone.  The central bank didn’t get any bids for an eight
consecutive session where it offered 500 million shillings ($6
million) of  repurchase agreements , an official who declined to
be named in line with the Nairobi-based bank’s policy. It stayed
out of the foreign  currency market .  In a repurchase agreement, an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  