-- 
Kenyan Economic Growth Rate Declined to 0.5% in First Quarter, Agency Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-30T14:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kenyan-economic-growth-rate-declined-to-0-5-in-first-quarter-agency-says.html
Kenya’s economic growth slowed in
the first quarter as dry weather reduced farm output and the
rising cost of energy imports capped consumer and business
spending.  Gross domestic product expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent from the previous three months, when it grew 2.2
percent, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics 
said in an e-mail today.  “There was significantly lower rainfall than usual and
agriculture took a hit,” Fred Moturi, a fixed-income trader
with Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi
today. “Higher fuel prices in the first quarter impacted on
manufacturing and electricity.”  Kenya is the world’s largest exporter of black tea, with
agriculture accounting for almost 25 percent of its economy.
Production of tea, the country’s largest foreign-exchange
earner, fell 18 percent in the five months through May from the
year earlier, the Tea Board of Kenya said on June 27.  The economy grew 4.9 percent in the first quarter from the
year-earlier period, compared with 7.2 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics bureau said. Agriculture expanded
2.2 percent, while growth in the electricity and water industry
slowed to 3.5 percent from 21.2 percent in the previous three
months.  Growth Forecast  Dry weather and high energy prices “to a certain extent
restrained economic growth,” the bureau said. “Agricultural
output, particularly coffee and tea, had their production
substantially depressed as a result of the poor rains.”  The government forecast on June 8 that economic growth will
slow to 5.3 percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2010 as the
rising cost of imported fuel and food limits consumer spending.
Inflation accelerated to a more than two-year high of 14.5
percent in June.  The central bank raised its  benchmark lending rate  at the
last two policy meetings, taking it to 6.25 percent in May. The
bank said last week it may need to increase rates further to
rein in inflation and halt the decline of the shilling, which
has slumped about 12 percent against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  