-- 
Kenya’s Government May Issue at Least $500 Million of Eurobonds Next Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-30T09:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kenyan-government-may-issue-at-least-500-million-of-eurobonds-next-year.html
Kenya , East  Africa ’s biggest
economy, may revive plans to sell at least $500 million of
Eurobonds in the fiscal year that begins on July 1, 2012, said a
senior Treasury official.  The possible sale is intended to set a benchmark for
corporate borrowers seeking loans abroad, John Murugu, director
of the  Finance Ministry ’s debt-management department, said in a
phone interview today from the capital, Nairobi. The proceeds
will be spent on infrastructure and energy projects, he said.  Kenya joins other African nations such as Zambia, Angola
and  Rwanda  that plan to raise capital in global markets. Kenya
is rated B+ at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, which is four
steps below investment grade and on par with assessments
assigned to  Cape Verde , Zambia and  Georgia .  Nigeria , rated B+ at S&P, in January sold its first dollar-
denominated debt. The Eurobonds due 2021 of Africa’s biggest oil
producer fell, raising the yield three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 6.13 percent by 7:08 a.m. in  London .  Kenya has been considering when to raise money in
international capital markets since shelving plans to sell $500
million in Eurobonds three years ago due to the global financial
crisis which tightened credit markets.  The yield and maturity of the planned overseas debt issue
will largely depend on a review of the country’s credit rating
due next month, as well as perceived political risks as the
country approaches general elections in 2012, Murugu said.  Yield Estimate  Kenya’s proposed Eurobond will probably yield more than
Nigeria’s because its economy is not as robust, Yvonne Mhango, a
Johannesburg-based economist with  Renaissance Capital , said in
an e-mailed response to questions today.  “Kenya’s large current deficit, slower economic growth,
wide fiscal deficit, relatively higher public debt and elections
in 2012, raises the economy’s risk profile and thus the cost of
borrowing,” Mhango said.  Kenya’s government projects economic growth will slow to
5.3 percent in 2011, from 5.6 percent the year earlier, and
accelerate to 6.1 percent in 2012. Nigeria’s economy is expected
to grow 8 percent this year, the statistics bureau said April
18.  A disputed presidential election in December 2007 sparked
two months of ethnic violence that killed 1,500 people and drove
300,000 from their homes. The violence abated after President
Mwai Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord with his political
rival  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister, promising
changes including a new constitution that was enacted last year.  Rating Improvement  “Looking at the various issues at the international level
and domestic level I would expect in due course our rating will
start to be much better,” Murugu said. “We have done very well
with the new constitution. It’s a very good platform of
certainty in the future, a bed-rock for future economic
growth.”  Once the Eurobond offering has been completed, Kenya is
planning “consistent” sales of the securities, he said.  This month, Kenya’s Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said
the country would seek 119.5 billion shillings ($1.3 billion)
from domestic investors in 2011-2012 and 116.7 billion shillings
in net foreign financing to help fund a 1.15 trillion-shilling
budget, a 15 percent increase from the year earlier.  If Kenya’s debut sale of Eurobonds goes ahead as planned,
the funds generated would be factored into the budget for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, Murugu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  