-- 
Kodak Falls as ITC Leaves Apple, RIM Claims Unresolved

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-01T20:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/kodak-itc-case-against-apple-rim-pushed-back-until-aug-30.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  fell 14 percent in
New York trading after a trade panel failed to reach consensus
on the camera company’s claims that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  infringe its image-preview technology.  The U.S. International Trade Commission case, which Kodak
is counting on to help extract $1 billion in licensing fees from
Apple and RIM, was extended until Aug. 30, marking the second
delay by the Washington-based agency in determining an outcome.  The full six-member ITC was reviewing Rochester,  New York- 
based Kodak’s appeal of a January decision by Administrative Law
Judge Paul Luckern, in which he said Apple’s iPhone and RIM’s
BlackBerry don’t violate Kodak’s patent on a way to preview
digital images using less processing power and storage space.
The ITC said in a  notice  late yesterday that it modified its
interpretation of some aspects of the patent, requiring time for
a second look at the case by the judge.  Kodak tumbled 51 cents to $3.07 at 4:02 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest percentage decline
since Jan. 26. The shares have dropped 43 percent this year.  “Traders who bought on the prospect that Kodak was going
to win sold out,” Mark Kaufman, an analyst at Rafferty Capital
Markets in New York. Traders “will be back in August before the
next milestone.”  Kaufman, who recommends buying the shares, predicted a
ruling favoring Kodak and a settlement among the companies.  Judge’s Interpretation  In a three-page notice on its website, the commission said
that the Apple iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4 don’t literally infringe
the patent when they are in non-flash modes, while remanding the
question of whether they infringe in other ways. The commission
also said Luckern must review other infringement issues of both
the iPhone and BlackBerry, based on the revised interpretation.  “The ITC made a partial and inconclusive ruling,”  Mike Abramsky , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said
in a note to clients.  Part of Kodak’s argument was that Luckern should have used
the interpretation of the key terms that were set by the judge
in a case against South Korean phonemakers Samsung Electronics
Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  that involved the same patent. Kodak
had won the judge’s ruling in that case, which settled before
the commission had a chance to look at the patent.  Whether the ITC agreed to adopt those earlier definitions
won’t be known until the commission releases the full opinion.  Kodak Response  Kodak said in a statement the decision favors the
photography company because it had asked for the commission to
alter the judge’s interpretation and the judge’s invalidity
finding was remanded.  “The commission has decided to modify in our favor the
judge’s initial recommendation,” said Kodak General Counsel
Laura G. Quatela. “As we have said from the start, we remain
extremely confident this case will ultimately conclude in
Kodak’s favor.”  Officials with Cupertino, California-based Apple and
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM didn’t return messages seeking
comment.  The patent covers a feature that previews low-resolution
versions of a moving image while recording still images at a
high resolution. Higher resolution requires more processing
power and storage space. Kodak, which generated $838 million
from patents last year, contends the image-preview feature is
used in every digital camera and phone with a camera.  Samsung, LG Settlements  Apple and RIM denied infringing the patent and argued it
was invalid. Luckern on Jan. 24 agreed on both issues. Kodak
challenged that finding and the commission reviewed to see
whether Luckern should have considered the interpretation from
the Samsung and LG cases. The commission also weighed that the
patent was given a second review by the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office and upheld by the agency.  Kodak Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez in March
estimated the company could make $1 billion from Apple and RIM
because the phonemakers would be forced to settle rather than
risk having their best-selling products shut out of the U.S.
market. Kodak received a combined $964 million from Samsung and
LG in settlements over the same patent.  Patent Royalties  Perez, CEO since 2005, has said he is using proceeds from
intellectual-property licensing to invest in the company’s
inkjet printing, packaging and software units to blunt falling
revenue from camera film. The company has told investors it
expects to gain $250 million to $350 million a year in revenue
on average from intellectual-property licensing through 2013,
which didn’t include potential Apple and RIM royalties.  The iPhone is  projected  to have 18.2 percent of the global
smartphone market this year, while BlackBerry will have 14.2
percent, according to a June 9 report by Framingham,
Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  Apple has its own patent case against Kodak at the ITC. A
judge in May sided with Kodak in that dispute, saying the camera
company wasn’t infringing two Apple patents. The commission is
considering whether to review that decision.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones and
Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras, and
Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  