-- 
Korea Gas Shares Fall on Government Plan to Freeze Prices

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-06-30T07:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/korea-gas-shares-fall-on-government-plan-to-freeze-prices-1-.html
Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  retreated the most
in more than three months in Seoul trading after the government
announced a plan to keep gas prices unchanged in July.  The stock fell 4.8 percent to 37,000 won on the  Korea 
Exchange, the biggest decline since March 14. Korea’s benchmark
Kospi stock index rose 0.3 percent.  The Knowledge Economy Ministry said the price freeze was in
response to rising inflationary pressure. Korea Gas sought a 5.6
percent increase in tariffs for the July-August period as the
cost of importing liquefied natural gas climbed, according to an
e-mailed statement from the ministry today.  “The unexpected decision is affecting investment sentiment
for the stock,” said Shin Ji Yoon, an analyst at KTB Securities
Co. in  Seoul , who has a “buy” recommendation on Korea Gas.
“It’s different from what everyone expects and the government
earlier said. Still, the reaction looks excessive.”  The decision will have limited impact on Korea Gas’s
earnings because the government will make up by adjusting
tariffs later, he said. The government, which owns 51 percent of
Kogas, as the company is known, annually sets the margin for
selling fuel based on forecast sales to cover import costs.  The freeze would increase the amount to be recouped through
tariff increases by 78.4 billion won ($73 million), according to
the ministry. The government will allow Korea Gas to adjust
rates gradually, depending on global crude prices and currency
movements, the ministry said.  The government today increased its consumer inflation
target rate for this year to 4 percent from the previous
projection of 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  