-- 
Korea Won Gains to Two-Month High on Factory Production, Greece

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-30T06:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/korea-won-gains-to-two-month-high-on-factory-production-greece.html
South Korea ’s won advanced to the
highest level in almost two months and bonds fell after factory
production recovered and  Greece  passed austerity measures needed
to win European Union funds.  The currency rose the most since May 26 after industrial
production climbed 8.3 percent in May from last year, rebounding
from a seven-month low, as chip, machinery and carmakers boosted
output on global demand, adding pressure on the central bank to
keep raising  interest rates . The government cut this year’s
economic growth forecast and raised an inflation estimate to
beyond President Lee Myung Bak’s target.  “The approval of Greece’s austerity measures helped ease
uncertainties in the market, boosting demand for riskier
assets,” said Han Sung Min, a currency dealer at Busan Bank in
 Seoul . “The rise in factory production is also supporting the
won even though there’s speculation authorities may try to slow
the won’s rapid gains.”  The won rose 0.9 percent to 1,067.65 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, the strongest ending level since May 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency advanced
2.7 percent this quarter.  The yield on the 4 percent government bonds due March 2016
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.05
percent, the highest since May 11, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. The rate increased 19 basis points this
month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The economy will expand 4.5 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
said in a statement, down from a 5 percent estimate in December.
Consumer prices are expected to rise 4 percent, exceeding the
previous 3 percent projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  