-- 
N.Z. Dollar Advances to Record on Confidence Data; Aussie Gains on Greece

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-06-30T06:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/n-z-dollar-advances-to-record-on-confidence-data-aussie-gains-on-greece.html
New Zealand ’s dollar rose to a
record as reports showed business confidence and home-building
approvals increased. Australia’s currency gained as optimism
 Greece  will avoid a default boosted higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie strengthened to a three-week high
versus the greenback after a central bank report showed lending
expanded last month and as traders trimmed bets on an interest-
rate cut. Both South Pacific nations’ currencies were bolstered
before the Greek parliament votes on plans to execute austerity
measures. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended investors buy
Australia’s dollar against the yen.  “The business confidence numbers were quite constructive
for the kiwi,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . “It’s likely the second
Greece vote on the implementation law will pass and that should
see a stabilization in risk appetite. The Aussie, kiwi and
commodity currencies in general should outperform.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose to 82.84 U.S. cents as of 4:21
p.m. in Sydney from 82.53 cents yesterday in  New York , after
reaching 83.19 cents, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1985. The kiwi traded at 66.63 yen from 66.67 yen.
Australia’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.0729 after climbing
to $1.0751, the strongest since June 7. The currency was at
86.28 yen from 86.29 yen.  Greece Progress  The Australian and New Zealand dollars strengthened after
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won support yesterday for
a bill laying out his strategy for budget cuts. Luxembourg’s
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of euro-area finance
ministers, said the vote paved the way for payment of the next
aid installment from euro-area governments and the  International
Monetary Fund .  A net 46.5 percent of companies in New Zealand expect the
economy to improve over the next year, up from 38.3 percent in
May, according to a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd. The net
figure subtracts the number of pessimists from the number of
optimists. Home-building approvals increased 2.2 percent in May,
after dropping 1.2 percent in April,  Statistics New Zealand  said.  The Australian dollar gained versus 12 of its 16 major
counterparts after the  Reserve Bank  said loans provided by banks
and finance companies increased 0.3 percent in May from the
previous month.  Goldman Recommendation  Goldman Sachs recommended investors buy the Australian
dollar versus the yen, targeting an advance to 90 yen amid
prospects for “positive surprises” in global economic data.
The bank recommended exiting the position should the currency
weaken to 84 yen.  “The Australian dollar is uniquely positioned to benefit
from this, especially given that the Australian rates market is
still pricing 11 basis points in cuts by year-end,” wrote
strategists led by London-based Thomas Stolper, chief currency
strategist, in a note to clients. Aussie-yen is “a compelling
cross as risk appetite continues to normalize.”  Cash-rate future contracts predict the RBA’s benchmark rate
will be 4.65 percent at year-end, compared with a forecast for
4.50 percent on June 27.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
4.75 percent in  Australia , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  Australia’s 10-year bonds fell for a third day, with the
yield climbing three basis points to 5.21 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, dropped two basis points to 3.36 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  