-- 
NBA Convenes With Players Union in Effort to Avoid Sports’ Second Lockout

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T16:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nba-convenes-with-players-union-in-effort-to-avoid-sports-second-lockout.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players will negotiate one last time in an effort to
prevent a lockout that tomorrow might shut down half the major
U.S. sports world and its $14 billion in combined revenue.  With the  National Football League  entering the 110th day of
its lockout today, the NBA and the  National Basketball Players
Association  will meet in New York aiming to find enough common
ground to extend their own labor accord -- which expires at the
end of the day -- long enough to reach a new deal. Absent that,
the NBA could lock out the players tomorrow, marking the second
time two major U.S. sports leagues had concurrent work
stoppages.  Negotiators arrived at a Manhattan hotel at midday, 12
hours before the contract is set to run out. Commissioner  David Stern  led the management team that included New York Knicks
owner  James Dolan , while union Executive Director  Billy Hunter 
was joined by players including Derek Fisher, a  Los Angeles
Lakers ’ guard the association’s president.  As the threat of lost games grows more likely with the
continuation of the lockouts, many in sports business --
including network programmers, sponsors and fans -- soon will be
working to fill the possible void, according to William Sutton,
a professor in the  DeVos Sports Business Management  Program at
the  University of Central Florida .  Sponsors, Networks  “People are going to have to start creating contingency
plans for what’s going to take place,” Sutton said in a
telephone interview. “The corporate sponsors and the networks
will have programming holes and messaging holes. If there aren’t
any games played, they’ve still budgeted this money and they
still have products to sell and messaging to fill.”  The NFL, which has a players’ association of about 1,900,
is projected to bring in about $9.3 billion in revenue next
season. The average NFL salary in 2009, the last season a figure
is available, was $1.89 million.  Members of the 450-man NBA players’ union averaged $5.8
million last season as the league generated $4.3 billion
revenue.  An NBA work stoppage would be the third in its history. The
first was in 1995, which lasted from July 1 to mid-September. A
1998 lockout lasted 204 days before ending on Jan. 20, 1999,
shortening that season to 50 games from 82.  Following the owners’ most recent 10-year proposal
disclosed by Stern, Hunter said under those terms the sides
would be more than $7 billion apart.  ‘No Absolutes’  Asked about the likelihood of a July 1 lockout during his
most recent public comments, Stern said, “Nothing in this world
is absolute.”  “There’s always time to make a deal,” he said.  That time might come after a lockout, which would save
clubs money and completely shut off players’ access to their
teams, eliminating workouts, summer camps, help from coaches and
health care.  There are 202 players -- almost 45 percent of the league --
who are either unrestricted or restricted free agents, or have
yet to have options exercised by their teams, according to the
union. They would not be able to sign new deals, nor would the
60 rookies drafted a week ago.  It would be just the second time that two of the U.S.’s
four major sports leagues endured work stoppages at the same
time.  Double Trouble  Major League Baseball  went through a 232-day player strike
from August 1994 until March 1995 that caused the cancellation
of its postseason. The  National Hockey League  locked out its
players in October 1994 and settled in January 1995, shortening
that season to 48 games.  In his most recent public comments, union Executive
Director Billy Hunter said that a preliminary ruling by a  U.S.
Court of Appeals  panel in  St. Louis  that allowed the NFL to lock
out players while their case proceeds has influenced the NBA’s
level of confidence in its own labor fight.  “At this stage, they feel as though they have the upper
hand, particularly in view of the current state of bargaining
between the NFL and the NFLPA,” Hunter said.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  and players’ association
chief  DeMaurice Smith  appeared together yesterday at an
orientation for rookies and said they were working hard to end
the lockout. That came after weeks of talks spurred optimism
that the sides may reach a deal in time to avoid disruption to
the season.  Different Disputes  While the specifics of the two leagues’ disputes are
different, the potential for increased revenue from such sources
as television contracts, the Internet and licensing has all
major sports owners focused on guaranteeing strong returns,
according to Robert Bruno, who teaches labor and employment
relations at the  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign .  “What’s different from five, 10, 20 years ago is that the
urgency of owners to do that wouldn’t have been as great (in the
past) because there seemed to be a reasonable cap to what the
revenues could be,” Bruno said. “There does appear to be, in
all the major sports, a real pushback on the part of sports
ownership to change the trajectory of how revenues are being
distributed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 