-- 
Necas Saves Czech Coalition Majority With Agreement on Posts

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-30T16:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/necas-saves-czech-coalition-majority-with-deal-on-cabinet-posts.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas
secured a deal on the division of government posts with a
ruling-coalition partner, preserving the parliamentary majority
he needs to trim the  budget deficit .  The divide among the government parties widened this month
as the three coalition members clashed over splitting the
Cabinet posts and next year’s spending plans. Public Affairs,
the smallest member, said it would leave the coalition unless
Necas met its demands by the end of June.  “We successfully finished the negotiations,” Necas told
reporters after a meeting of coalition leaders. “We consider as
crucial the confirmation of the obligation to be united in
voting on confidence or non-confidence motions.”  The dispute threatened government plans to overhaul the
pension system and reduce the budget deficit, an agenda that
helped Czech bonds outperform German debt in the past year.
Necas, who last year assembled the largest majority in
parliament since independence in 1993, pledged to cut the
shortfall to less than the European Union limit of 3 percent of
economic output by 2013.  The government plans to tie a parliamentary vote to
legislation overhauling the tax system with a confidence vote in
the government, Necas said.  The koruna has gained 5.6 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months, the second-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the
Hungarian forint. The koruna was little changed at 24.334 to the
euro as of 6:13 p.m. in Prague. The 10-year Czech government
bond dropped, pushing the yield to 3.953 percent, from 3.928
percent yesterday.  Budget Pledges  Necas has called the overhaul of the pension and health-
care systems the key goals for his Cabinet.  The government plans to narrow the gap to 3.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, from the planned 4.2 percent in
2011. Necas’ Civic Democrats and the TOP09 party rejected a
demand by Public Affairs to guarantee money for teacher’s
salaries and transport infrastructure.  Coalition tensions increased after May 11, when John quit
as deputy prime minister, accusing Necas of interfering with his
right to select his own team for fighting corruption. Public
Affairs also demanded four government posts, as set in the
coalition agreement, compared with the two it now holds.  History of Infighting  The  Czech Republic  has a history of political infighting.
The former communist country had two minority governments and
two interim Cabinets in the past 13 years, stalling previous
efforts to control the budget deficit. In 2009, Prime Minister
 Mirek Topolanek  lost a no-confidence motion halfway through the
country’s six-month term as EU president.  Even with the squabbling, the ruling coalition pushed
through some of its measures in parliament this month, including
an increase in the  retirement age  that the  International
Monetary Fund  said may eliminate most of the deficit in the pay-
as-you-go pension system.  The Cabinet yesterday approved three bills needed to
overhaul pensions, allowing workers to divert part of their
mandatory pension-insurance payments into private accounts
beginning in 2013.  Declining Popularity  Public Affairs’ popularity declined the most among the
ruling parties since the elections, opinion polls showed.  The party would have received 3 percent of the vote if
elections were held this month, below the 5 percent needed to
gain seats in parliament, according to a poll by Prague-based
Stem conducted June 2-10. Public Affairs won 10.9 percent in
last year’s elections.  Necas’ Civic Democrats were backed by 15.1 percent of those
surveyed, compared with 20.2 percent in the elections. Support
for TOP09, the third coalition member, was 10.8 percent, down
from 16.7 percent. The poll of 1,244 people had a margin of
error of 1.5 to 2.5 percentage points.  The three parties, which hold 115 votes in the 200-seat
lower house of parliament, wouldn’t be able to form a majority
government if elections were held now, according to the poll.
The opposition  Social Democrats  were the most popular party in
the poll, garnering the support of 27.4 percent of those
surveyed, up from 22.1 percent in the elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  