-- 
New Jersey Lawmakers Send Christie Ban on Hydraulic Fracturing

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/new-jersey-lawmakers-send-christie-ban-on-hydraulic-fracturing.html
The  New Jersey  Legislature sent
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  a measure to ban drilling for
natural gas using a process called hydraulic fracturing, which
environmental groups say contaminates drinking water.  The measure passed the state Senate 32-1 and the Assembly
56-11 with 8 abstentions yesterday, according to the  New Jersey
Office of Legislative Services  website. If Christie signs the
bill, it will be the first statewide ban on fracking in the U.S.
The governor won’t comment until state lawyers review the
legislation,  Michael Drewniak , his spokesman, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  While New Jersey produces no natural gas, communities in
the state’s northwest sits atop the Utica Shale, a largely
unexplored formation stretching from Ontario,  Canada , to
Tennessee.  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  said in February that its
initial well in the Utica formation in Pennsylvania produced the
equivalent of 4.4 million cubic feet of natural gas a day.  “We want to get this in place so that New Jersey will be
off-limits,” Assemblywoman Connie Wagner, a Democrat from
Paramus and a sponsor of the measure, said in an interview.
“There are regulations in place and it’s not working. We are
seeing one accident after another.”  U.S. gas output expanded 20 percent in the past five years
as the process let drillers extract the fuel from shale
formations in  Texas ,  Louisiana ,  Arkansas  and Pennsylvania once
considered impenetrable. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency is studying fracking, in which millions of gallons of
chemicals are injected underground, for possible impacts on
drinking water. The EPA said results are expected in 2014.  Chesapeake Leases  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  is among gas producers that have
been leasing property to drill in the Utica formation since
December, said Diana Marchese, the county recorder in Trumbull
County,  Ohio , which borders Pennsylvania. Marchese’s office
keeps records of leases filed.  New York’s legislature passed a fracking ban in 2010 that
was vetoed by former Governor David Paterson. Paterson, a
Democrat, later imposed a temporary moratorium.  France ’s National Assembly voted last month to punish
drillers who use the technique with fines, jail time and
cancellation of exploration permits. A Senate vote is scheduled
today in Paris.  Bob Martin, commissioner of the  New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection , has sought strict regulations on
drilling near the Delaware River, part of a watershed that
supplies water to 15 million people in New York,  Pennsylvania ,
New Jersey and Delaware. The  Delaware River Basin Commission ,
which manages the watershed, has put gas development on hold
while it drafts rules.  Delaware Water Quality  “We will insist that natural gas regulations” adopted by
the commission “guarantee the supply and quality of the
Delaware River water, on which New Jersey relies for up to one-
quarter of our drinking water,” Martin told the commission in
April.  In Pennsylvania, 2,864 wells have been drilled in the
Marcellus Shale since 2008. Marcellus, which sits above the
Utica formation and stretches from New York to  Maryland , may
hold 490 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to heat U.S. homes
and power electric plants for two decades, according to Terry Engelder, a professor of geosciences at  Pennsylvania State
University  in  State College .  The N.J. legislation describes fracking as involving
chemicals “that can suddenly and in an uncontrolled manner be
introduced into the surface waters and ground water of the
State.” The measure refers to a June 10, 2010, spill in
Clearfield County, Pennsylvania, about 110 miles (177
kilometers) northeast of Pittsburgh, in which gas and drilling
fluid shot “75 feet into the air for 16 hours,’ according to
Boston-based  Environment America .  Leroy Well Leak  On April 19, a Chesapeake crew was fracturing a well near
Leroy Township, about 150 miles northwest of Philadelphia, that
erupted because of equipment failure, according to a statement
by Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake. Fluids spilled fluids into a
tributary of Towanda Creek, which flows to the Susquehanna. No
injuries were reported. Seven families were evacuated as a
precaution and all returned within a day, Chesapeake said.  Hydraulic fracturing ‘‘poses serious potential for harm to
our environment and our health,’’ according to the Environment
America’s website.  ‘‘From what we have seen with our neighboring states, we
have seen them embrace the system for fracking and what we have
seen is the regulations are not in place to control the
damages,’’ Wagner said. ‘‘Specifically, Pennsylvania.’’  U.S. shale-gas production reached 4.87 trillion cubic feet
in 2010, or 23 percent of total gas production, up from 0.39
trillion cubic feet in 2000, the Energy Department said in an
April 5 study. Rising production of shale gas has helped lower
natural gas prices and reduce imports, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  