-- 
New York Same-Sex Marriages May Energize Opposition in Other U.S. States

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/new-york-gay-marriages-may-energize-opposition-in-other-states.html
The  New York  Senate’s vote last week
to legalize same-sex marriage won’t prompt similar laws in other
states and may touch off a national backlash, according to gay-
rights advocates across the U.S.  Georgia state Representative Karla Drenner, a Democrat from
the Atlanta area, said she was both overjoyed by the New York
vote and afraid that it will galvanize gay-rights foes.  “It’s a double-edged sword,” Drenner, who is gay, said in
a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t be surprised if this New
York victory creates a new rhetoric at the national level, and
not a good rhetoric. This is going to be one of those issues
that is going to fire up the social conservative base in 2012.”  Same-sex marriage advocates from  Georgia  to California
interviewed by Bloomberg News said that the country’s third-
most-populous state’s legalization of gay marriage was a
landmark victory. Many also said it wouldn’t change the law
where they live -- and opponents agreed.  Since the New York vote, Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann  repeated her call to add a gay marriage ban to
the U.S. Constitution, according to a transcript of a Fox News
interview. A state measure that would do the same is on the
ballot next year in Bachmann’s home state of Minnesota.  Hunting the Brave  In  New Orleans , the crowd at a Gay Pride event last weekend
couldn’t stop talking about New York, said Cory Heitmeier, a
riverboat captain and gay activist.  “People were carrying signs saying ‘I love New York,’”
Heitmeier said in a telephone interview. “People were changing
their Facebook status to say ‘I love New York.’”  The celebrants also had few illusions that  Louisiana  would
follow New York soon, he said: “Not with the Legislature we
have. They couldn’t even pass an anti-bullying bill for kids,
because it might also protect someone who’s gay.”  “We don’t have the brave leadership they do,” he said.
“It would take more bravery here.”  New York lawmakers approved Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s bill
June 24, making the U.S. state the sixth and most populous to
legalize same-sex marriage.  Iowa ,  Vermont ,  New Hampshire ,
 Massachusetts  and Connecticut issue marriage licenses to same-
sex couples, as does the  District of Columbia , according to the
Washington-based Human Rights Campaign, which advocates equal
rights for gay, bisexual and transgender people.  Solidarity Crumbled  New York’s measure was hailed as a tipping point by some
advocates.  “Working together, we can achieve marriage equality in
the  United States ,” Jim Carroll, interim executive director of
Equality  California , said in a telephone interview from  San
Francisco . A gay-marriage ban in that state is the subject of a
federal court challenge.  Republican support of New York’s law was also significant,
said Jonathan Rauch, a guest scholar at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington  and author of “Gay Marriage: Why It
Is Good for Gays, Good for Straights, and Good for America.”  “The days of Republican solidarity are waning,” said
Rauch.  Still, gay marriage advocates in 29 states, including
Louisiana, Georgia and  Ohio , face an obstacle that didn’t exist
in New York, said Sarah Warbelow, state legislative director for
the  Human Rights Campaign . The states have constitutional
amendments, most passed in 2004, that define marriage as a union
of a man and a woman, and prevent legislatures from doing what
New York did. That means the victory is limited, said Brian
Brown, president of the National Organization for Marriage, a
Washington organization that opposes same-sex unions.  “This doesn’t change or alter any of the states that have
passed constitutional amendments protecting marriage,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Minnesota  Decides  In Minnesota, where a constitutional ban is on the November
2012 ballot, same-sex marriage advocates expect to be helped by
the New York law, said Ann Kaner-Roth, executive director of
Project 515, a group fighting the ban.  The inclusion of Republican and corporate backers in New
York is “a great model for Minnesota,” she said in a phone
interview. “We have a very strong corporate community.”  Jason Adkins, executive director of the Minnesota Catholic
Conference, which supports the ban, said in a telephone
interview that the New York law is a nonfactor.  “I think what happened in New York shows exactly why we
need a constitutional amendment,” he said. “But it’s just one
more reminder.”  Headed to Court  In many states, the legislative process may be a dead end,
said Richard Socarides, president of Equality Matters, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  “Some of the remaining states are going to be just too hard
to get, so we’re going to have to look to the courts,”
Socarides, former special assistant and senior adviser to
President  Bill Clinton , said by telephone.  Yesterday, Lambda Legal, a national gay-rights advocacy
group, sued  New Jersey  over its civil-union law, saying the
statute fails to give same-sex couples protections equal to
those given married people. Meanwhile, the Rhode Island Senate
passed a similar bill.  Georgia’s Drenner said the Republican support that helped
pass New York’s law doesn’t carry into in the South.  “Those are very different Republicans than the ones we’ve
got down here,” she said.  She predicted that Georgians will see new opposition to
other rights issues, like same-sex adoptions: “These things
have a way of punishing the community in ways that may seem
unrelated but aren’t.”  Unwitting Accomplices  Gary Palmer, president of the Alabama Policy Institute and
a gay marriage foe, said in a phone interview from Mountain
Brook that New York’s law will turn conservative attention back
to social issues: “You have a lot of conservatives that will be
swayed by this. Unwittingly, they’ve made social issues a part
of the 2012 campaign, when they weren’t before.”  Scott Porter, a lawyer with Taylor English Duma in Atlanta
who has a 5-year-old daughter with his partner of nine years,
said he’s not worried about pushback from social conservatives -
- and that his attitude is new.  In 2004, when 75 percent of voters in Georgia approved a
marriage ban, “it was painful,” he said in a phone interview.
“I didn’t want people talking about gay marriage. I thought it
would only hurt us. I thought, ‘Boy, that’s pushing things too
far.”  “Now I think all that conversation in 2004, all that
negative use of us for political purposes, has led to where we
are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  