-- 
New York Fed Halts AIG Bond Auctions on Market Conditions

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-30T22:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/new-york-fed-halts-sales-of-aig-mortgage-securities-on-market-conditions-.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
is halting its sales of mortgage bonds acquired in the rescue of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after coming under criticism
that auctions were damaging credit markets.  “Given prevailing market conditions” for residential
mortgage-backed securities, “we do not anticipate any sales of
bonds in the near term or until such time as the New York Fed
deems it will achieve value for the public,”  Jack Gutt , a New
York Fed spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The New York Fed began unloading the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from New York-based AIG for the
entire pool in March. As traders blamed declines in debt from
high-yield bonds to subprime-mortgage securities on the sales,
the bank slowed their pace. Its last auction ended June 9.  “On the surface, this is a positive because these sales
will not weigh down the market,” Jason Weiner, a  money manager 
who helps oversee $18.6 billion in fixed-income assets at M&I
Investment Management Corp. in  Milwaukee , said in an e-mail.
“Longer term it will loom over the market until it clears.”  Barclays Capital analysts led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  wrote in
a June 10 report that at current prices the portfolio of assets
would probably fetch $15 billion “at most,” less than the
offer from AIG.  Better Deal  “What I would speculate happened is that the Federal
Reserve thought the deal they were going to get in the public
market was going to be a lot better than what they were going to
get from AIG, and it turned out that was not the case,” Paul Newsome, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill Partners LP, said in an
interview.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment.  The New York Fed has sold $10 billion in face value of
mortgage securities assumed in the AIG bailout and held by a
vehicle called Maiden Lane II, leaving it with about $21 billion
to be auctioned, according to Barclays Capital data.  The New York Fed may choose to resume the auctions at a
later point, though “there will be no fixed timeframe for the
sales,” Gutt said in the e-mail.  The cost to protect corporate bonds from default, which
earlier today dropped as optimism grew that  Greece  would avoid
default, extended declines after the Fed statement.  Investor Confidence  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 4 basis points to a
mid-price of 90.9 basis points as of 5:45 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The benchmark gauge, which falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped from 101
basis points on June 24, the highest level since Oct. 4.  Credit-default swaps indexes used by dealers,  hedge funds 
and other investors to protect against losses on subprime
housing debt and commercial mortgages also recovered this week.  One Markit ABX index tied to subprime mortgage bonds that
were rated AAA when issued in 2006 has climbed 12 percent after
dropping more than 18 percent the previous 11 weeks. The index
rose to 40.25 today from 35.9 on June 24, prices from London-
based Markit show. A similar index tied to junior AAA ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds created in 2007, known as the Markit
CMBX, has climbed to 69.3 from an almost nine-month low of 63.7
on June 27.  Prices on these indexes rise as investor confidence
improves, reflecting a decline in the cost of protecting against
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  