-- 
News Corp.’s BSkyB Bid May Become Pricier as Review Drags on, Shares Climb

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-30T11:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/news-corp-s-bskyb-bid-may-become-pricier-as-review-drags-on-shares-climb.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. faces a
further review for its planned takeover of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  as the stock reached its highest since
the initial June 2010 bid, potentially making the deal more 
expensive.  The U.K. government today asked rivals for the second time
since March to respond to News Corp.’s proposed undertakings.
The additional delay may force Murdoch to raise his 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.5 billion) offer for the U.K.’ biggest pay-TV
broadcaster as the benchmark index has risen 15 percent since
the offer last June, said Credit Suisse AG analyst Simon Baker.  “The starting point for Sky’s independent directors should
be the pre-bid stock indexed up by the 15 percent rise in the
value of the FTSE 100,” Baker said. BSkyB should open talks at
about 920 pence and may settle for 870 pence, he said.  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in New York, today moved closer toward
price negotiations for the 61 percent of the pay-TV operator it
doesn’t already own after the government accepted plans to carve
out the Sky News channel as a separate company. U.K. Culture
Secretary Jeremy Hunt today imposed new conditions and said the
new consultation will run until July 8.  News Corp.’s bid has also become about $1 billion more
expensive since the initial offer because of the pound’s gain
against the  U.S. dollar . The bid was worth $11.5 billion when it
was first announced.  BSkyB shares rose as much as 0.3 percent to 850.5 pence in
 London  today, the highest intraday level since December 2001,
and stood at 849 pence at 11:34 a.m., giving the company a
market value of 14.9 billion pounds. The shares have gained 15
percent so far this year. News Corp. added 1.3 percent yesterday
to $17.39 in  New York .  New Conditions  News Corp. will nominate a monitoring trustee to oversee
the spin off process, and the Sky News board meetings must
include an independent director with senior editorial or
journalistic experience for decisions on editorial issues, Hunt
said.  “I could have decided to accept the original undertakings
but a number of suggestions were made in response to the
consultation which could further strengthen the undertakings,”
Hunt said in a statement, as the government published the
results of a consultation on earlier pledges.  News Corp., which owns four of the U.K.’s largest
newspapers, has up to two months after winning regulatory
clearances to negotiate the agreed offer.  News Corp. faces opposition from rivals who say full
ownership of the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator would give
Murdoch too much power. The government said today it received
more than 40,000 responses to its initial consultation.  40,000 Responses  “I don’t think anyone anticipated that there’d be 40,000
responses to the first one and it would take as long to get
through them as they did,” said  Paul Richards , an analyst at
Numis Securities in London. “If there are a similar number of
replies again then it could take really some time.”  Enders Analysis said in a research note this week said it
expected regulatory barriers to be cleared in July, with a
purchase concluded by the middle of October if News Corp. and
BSkyB can agree on a price.  Avaaz, an advocacy group that organizes campaigns for
citizens, said in a statement today that it may seek permission
for a judicial review of the government decision.  Sky must continue to cross-promote Sky News as a public
limited company on its channels, Hunt said today. News Corp.
said it would continue to cooperate with the regulatory process.  “We will continue to engage constructively with the
regulatory process,” News Corp. said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  