-- 
News Corp. Moves Closer to BSkyB Deal as U.K. Accepts Independence Pledge

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-30T08:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/news-corp-moves-closer-to-bskyb-deal.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. moved
closer toward its takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
after the U.K. government accepted plans to carve out Sky News
as a separate company with additional conditions.  News Corp. will nominate a monitoring trustee to oversee
the spin off process, and the Sky News board meetings must
include an independent director with senior editorial or
journalistic experience for decisions on editorial issues, U.K.
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said today. A new consultation
will run until July 8.  “I could have decided to accept the original undertakings
but a number of suggestions were made in response to the
consultation which could further strengthen the undertakings,”
Hunt said in a statement, as the government published the
results of a consultation on earlier pledges.  Final government approval would clear the way for price
negotiations over  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion)
bid for the 61 percent of the pay-TV operator it doesn’t already
own. News Corp., which owns four of the U.K.’s largest
newspapers, has up to two months after winning regulatory
clearances to negotiate the agreed offer.  News Corp. faces opposition from rivals who say full
ownership of the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator would give
Murdoch too much power. The government said today it received
more than 40,000 responses to its initial consultation.  40,000 Responses  “I don’t think anyone anticipated that there’d be 40,000
responses to the first one and it would take as long to get
through them as they did,” said  Paul Richards , an analyst at
Numis Securities in  London . “If there are a similar number of
replies again then it could take really some time.”  Enders Analysis said in a research note this week said it
expected regulatory barriers to be cleared in July, with a
purchase concluded by the middle of October if News Corp. and
BSkyB can agree on a price.  Avaaz, an advocacy group that organizes campaigns for
citizens, said in a statement today that it may seek permission
for a judicial review of the government decision.  Sky must continue to cross-promote Sky News as a public
limited company on its channels, Hunt said today. News Corp.
said it would continue to cooperate with the regulatory process.  “We will continue to engage constructively with the
regulatory process,” News Corp. said in a statement today.  Murdoch may have to raise his 700 pence-a-share bid, which
was rejected last June by independent directors as too low, to
win over shareholders, investors including Odey Asset Management
and Westchester Capital Management Inc. have said.  BSkyB was little changed at 848 pence at 9:03 a.m. in
London, giving the company a market value of 14.9 billion
pounds. The shares have gained 15 percent so far this year.
News Corp. added 1.3 percent yesterday to $17.39 in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  