-- 
Nigeria May Issue More Eurobonds by 2012 for Curve, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-30T12:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nigeria-may-issue-more-eurobonds-by-2012-for-curve-morgan-stanley-says.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer, may sell another set of Eurobonds by the end of 2012
to diversify its funding and to provide a liquid yield curve for
international debt, Morgan Stanley said.  “If you look at it from a funding perspective, it is clear
that they do not really have to tap the international markets,
as the local  bond market  has the capacity to handle their
funding needs,” Andrea Masai, a Johannesburg-based economist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a phone interview today. “The
motivation therefore appears to be one of diversification, but
also the need to provide a liquid curve in offshore debt.”  Africa’s most populous nation sold $500 million in a debut
Eurobond sale in January to give investors a “transparent and
internationally observable benchmark,” Olusegun Aganga, the
former finance minister, said Jan. 21.  The yield on the 6.75 percent debt due 2021 has fallen 70
basis points to 6.091 percent since its issue in January.  The notes have “traded exceptionally well” and “there is
definitely appetite for Nigerian debt, given its improving macro
fundamentals and liquid and tradable, fixed-income markets,”
said Masai. “Its overall debt metrics allow it to issue more
paper. One must remember that its external debt ratios are still
at very low levels.”  Outstanding Debt  Nigeria ’s had 4.5 trillion naira ($29.6 billion) in
outstanding debt in 2010, or 15.6 percent of gross domestic
product, Morgan Stanley said in its report, citing the Ministry
of Finance. This may rise to 16.7 percent of GDP in 2012, a
“comfortably low level,” they said. Nigeria’s external debt
level is 2.4 percent of GDP and may rise no more than 3.8
percent by 2012, Morgan Stanley said.  Fitch Ratings  may upgrade its “negative” outlook on
Nigeria’s BB- assessment, the third-highest non-investment grade
ranking, within the next 12 to 18 months, Morgan Stanley wrote
in its report. Fitch lowered its outlook on Nigeria from
“stable” on Oct. 22 due to concern that the nation was making
withdrawals from the excess crude account, a windfall saved when
the price of crude goes above the benchmark used for the
country’s budget, and foreign-currency reserves dropped.  President  Goodluck Jonathan , who was returned to power in
April elections, slashed almost 500 billion naira off a budget
adopted two months earlier, taking the final spending plan to
4.5 trillion naira. Nigeria’s Senate passed a bill last month
creating a sovereign wealth fund to help the country save more
of its oil revenue and funnel money into projects.  “With the sovereign wealth fund firmly in place now, the
fiscal position outperforming official targets, and the
recurrent-capital mix of public expenditures likely to improve
going forward, we believe that Fitch’s concerns are being
addressed,” said Masai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  