-- 
Nigerian Naira Heads for Best Quarter in 14 as Bank to Lifts Curb on Flows

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-30T13:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nigerian-naira-heads-for-best-quarter-in-14-as-bank-to-lifts-curb-on-flows.html
Nigeria ’s naira headed for the
biggest three-month gain in 14 quarters against the dollar after
demand for the U.S. currency ebbed before the central bank lifts
curbs on foreign investors’ debt holdings.  The naira advanced 1.1 percent to 152.025 per dollar at
2:01 p.m. in interbank trading in Lagos, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer has appreciated 2.6 percent since March 31, the best
three-month gain since the quarter through December 2007.  The naira may strengthen to 145 per dollar by the end of
the year after policy makers decided to lift a requirement for
foreign investors to hold local-currency investments in
 government securities  for at least a year starting July 1,
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said June 23.
“Positive  interest rates ” will aid the gain, he said.  “The naira has rallied in anticipation of future
inflows,” FM Capital Partners Ltd. strategists, led by London-
based Olivier Vojetta, wrote in a research note today. “The
Nigerian authorities have been more vigorous in attacking
inflation as they have raised the benchmark interest rate three
times this year and the authorities announced the removal of the
one-year holding-period requirement for foreign investors who
hold  government bonds .”  FM Capital Partners forecast the naira to finish the year
between 145 to 150 per dollar, the analysts wrote.  The Abuja-based central bank raised its key rate by half a
percentage point to 8 percent in May to help curb inflation,
which accelerated to 12.4 percent in the same month. The bank
targets an inflation rate of 10 percent. Lenders’ demand for
dollars at the central bank’s auction yesterday was the lowest
in five months. The bank sold $183 million, having offered
lenders $200 million.  Reform Boost  “Risk appetite and the recent reforms in the Nigerian
 interbank market  helped reduce the demand for hard currency” at
auction, BNP Paribas SA analysts led by London-based Bartosz Pawlowski wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  The central bank has defended the naira, keeping it within
3 percent above or below the 150 per dollar marginal rate at its
twice-weekly foreign-exchange auctions in a bid to curb
inflation.  The naira is expected to trade below 150 per dollar by the
year end, Nalini Cundapen, a emerging markets strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The central bank “recognizes the naira as a key tool in
the battle against inflation,” said Cundapen. “Sanusi is keen
to attract foreign investors back to the naira market using
liberal reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  