-- 
Nigerian Cocoa Farmers Start Getting Fungicide as Shortages May Hurt Crop

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-30T12:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nigerian-cocoa-farmers-start-getting-fungicide-as-shortages-may-hurt-crop.html
Nigeria ’s cocoa producers may begin
using deliveries of fungicides to tackle diseases such as black
pod next week after the arrival of shipments of the chemicals,
amid a shortage that threatens effective treatment of the crop.  “It’s being delivered,” Robo Adhuze, a spokesman for the
Cocoa Association of Nigeria, said by phone yesterday from Akure
in the west of the country. “The farmers may not be able to use
the chemical until next week” and the lack of access by most
may still “reduce the crop due to loss to black pod attacks.”  Cocoa is the second-biggest foreign-exchange earner for
Nigeria,  Africa ’s leading oil producer, government figures show.
Exports of beans in 2010 rose 2.3 percent to 200,333 metric
tons, according to data from the Federal Produce Inspection
Services, a government agency that supervises the shipments.  Emmanuel Ajayi, chief executive officer of Biostadt Nigeria
Ltd., the importer of  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s Ridomil fungicide, said the
delivery of 30,000 kilograms of the chemical and another 20,000
kilograms expected to arrive aren’t sufficient to meet demand.  “Nigeria needs a minimum of 200,000 kilograms a year,” he
said by phone yesterday from Gombe, in the north.  Ridomil distributed by the  Ghana  government to its farmers
is smuggled to Nigeria and sold below local prices, discouraging
importers from competing, Adhuze said.  “Importers were wary of bringing in the chemicals because
of losses they incurred in the past as a result of supplies from
Ghana,” he said. “Ghana has tightened its borders. This year
anybody that imports the chemical will sell everything because,
although the Ghanaian supply still trickles in, it is reduced.”  Nigeria ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia 
among the world’s largest producers, according to the website of
the  International Cocoa Organization . Nigeria’s cocoa year is
divided into two harvests. The main crop begins in October and
ends in January, while the light-crop season, the smaller of the
two, usually begins in March and ends in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 nvwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  