-- 
Nobel Economist Stiglitz Asks $1 Million in Suit Against Ex-Divorce Lawyer

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-30T15:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nobel-economist-stiglitz-asks-1-million-in-suit-against-ex-divorce-lawyer.html
Economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz  is
asking a federal jury in  Washington  to award him more than $1
million in damages from his former lawyer, who he says failed to
file divorce papers in time to prevent his second wife from
claiming part of his $300,000  Nobel Prize  money.  Jury selection begins today in the trial of Stiglitz’s
professional-negligence suit again  Rita M. Bank  of Ain & Bank in
Washington. The trial, scheduled to last six days, will include
testimony by Stiglitz and divorce lawyers from New York and
Washington, according to court papers.  Stiglitz, 68, who  shared the Nobel  in 2001, alleges he lost
more than $5 million because Bank kept him in the dark about her
loyalties, according to court papers. Jane Hannaway, Stiglitz’s
second wife, filed for divorce in 2002.  Bank, who has denied the allegations, declined to comment,
as did Stiglitz, who is scheduled to travel to Beijing this
weekend to be sworn in as president of the International
Economic Association.  Bank never told Stiglitz she had consulted with Hannaway
about a potential divorce before he hired her to represent him
in August 2000, according to a complaint filed in 2005 in
Washington.  Stiglitz said in court papers that he repeatedly asked Bank
to file divorce papers in Washington in 2000 and 2001 to limit
his financial exposure, though this was never done.  Stiglitz anticipated “that certain future publications he
was working on, along with the potential award of the  Nobel
Prize  in Economics in October 2001, would generate income which
he wished to protect from being awarded in a divorce to
Hannaway,” according to the complaint.  Advice to Negotiate  “Bank assured Stiglitz that he would be better off
continuing to negotiate rather than filing suit,” Stiglitz
alleges.  After he won the Nobel, which earned Stiglitz more than
$300,000, Bank advised him to reject settlement offers made by
Sanford Ain, Hannaway’s attorney, for half the assets accrued
during the 24-year marriage, according to court records.  In October 2002, Bank told Stiglitz she could no longer
represent him because she was joining a  law firm  with Ain, he
said.  Hannaway found out “weeks, and perhaps months” earlier
and responded by seeking new counsel and filing for divorce in
 New York , where “celebrity status” rules allowed her to make a
claim against Stiglitz’s future income that would be enhanced by
his Nobel, the complaint said.  ‘Millions’ Lost  Had Bank filed the divorce case in a timely manner in
Washington or informed Stiglitz of the legal cost of not
accepting the settlement offers, he would have saved “millions
of dollars in legal fees, expert fees and future incomes and
royalties,” according to the complaint.  Stiglitz initially sought $5 million and suggested that he
could testify as his own damages expert. U.S. District Judge
Richard Leon rejected those requests and ruled on June 14 that
his case would be limited to legal costs related to the case
being filed in New York rather than Washington.  Those possible damages are about $1.3 million, according to
court documents filed by Stiglitz.  Stiglitz won the prize for showing that markets are
inefficient when all parties in a transaction don’t have equal
access to critical information. His book “Globalization and Its
Discontents” was published in 2002 and became a bestseller,
translated into 28 languages, according to court documents. A
follow-up book, “The Roaring Nineties,” came out in 2003.  Stiglitz last worked in Washington as chief economist at
the  World Bank , a position he held until he resigned in early
2000. He is now a professor of economics at  Columbia University .
He remarried in 2004.  The case is Stiglitz v. Bank, 05-1826, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 