-- 
Nokia Shutters Last Online Stores, Sells Operator Messaging Unit

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-30T11:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nokia-shutters-last-online-stores.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by volume, closed the last of its 10 online
stores today as Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop pares parts
of the company’s operations.  “We are simplifying our channel structures and focusing
resources on our key retail and operator partners,” as well as
bricks-and-mortar Nokia stores, James Etheridge, a spokesman for
the Espoo, Finland-based company said by telephone. The online
sales sections of Nokia websites in the  U.S . and  U.K . today bore
messages directing customers to retailers and operators,
including Amazon.com for unlocked phones in the U.S.  Nokia sold a business that provides e-mail and instant
messaging services marketed through phone companies to
competitor  Synchronica Plc (SYNC)  for $25 million, according to a
statement today. Elop has already agreed to sell the development
operations for Nokia’s Symbian smartphone software to Accenture
Plc as he shifts to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 as Nokia’s
main high-end platform.  “Though operator-branded mobile messaging is an offering
valued by network operators, it is no longer a core business for
Nokia,” Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  said. “We are pleased that
the business will continue after its planned acquisition by
Synchronica.”  Nokia rose 0.1 percent to 4.39 euros at 2:26 p.m. in
Helsinki trading.  U.S. Deployments  The messaging unit, developed from Montreal-based Oz
Communications, which Nokia acquired in 2008, has 10 deployments
in  North America  including AT&T Inc.,  Verizon Wireless , T-Mobile
USA, Sprint Nextel Corp. and Rogers Communications Inc. Nokia
will transfer about 250 workers and contractors to Synchronica,
according to the Royal Tunbridge Wells, U.K.-based company.  “Synchronica is the leader in emerging economies for
mobile e-mail and instant messaging software and we’re combining
it here with a very strong market share in North America,”
Chief Executive Officer Carsten Brinkschulte said in a telephone
interview. “Technical synergies are also good and we intend to
create one combined product.” Synchronica outbid others to get
the business, he said.  Nokia partner-managed online stores in countries including
 China , Brazil and Portugal will continue to operate normally and
more will be added in some markets where online shops have been
closed, Etheridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  