-- 
Nowotny Says ‘More Painful’ Greek Default Must Be Avoided

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-30T07:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nowotny-says-more-painful-greek-default-must-be-avoided-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said a Greek default would be more
difficult for  Greece  than living through the austerity that
policy makers have demanded to provide emergency loans.  “You won’t get around the reforms,” because “a default
is even more painful for the people,” Nowotny told Austrian
state radio station ORF in an interview today. A default “is
exactly what we want to avoid in the interest of the entire
European economy and the European internal market.”  Nowotny said a French proposal for involving creditors in
the rescue was “very interesting” and should be coordinated in
 Europe . Representatives of German banks and insurers hammered
out a draft proposal to present at a meeting today with Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and top industry executives,
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  head  Josef Ackermann .  “For some countries, in particular for  Germany , this is an
important aspect to gain political consensus,” Nowotny said.
“What’s important is that there is a joint European solution”
and that “is exactly what is being talked about right now.”  Having clinched victory on a bill setting out his strategy
for budget cuts, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  must
today win a second ballot to execute measures ranging from tax
increases to asset sales. The vote takes place as a general
strike and protests of more than 20,000 people have paralyzed
central  Athens  for the past two days.  The Greek parliament’s approval of the cuts yesterday was
“a positive step, but it’s clear that more steps need to
follow,” Nowotny said. In particular, state asset sales “must
be quickly implemented,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  