-- 
Singers, Musicians Want City Opera’s George Steel to Go, Company to Stay

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-30T20:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/nyc-opera-musicians-singers-call-for-steel-to-go-company-to-stay-put.html
In a protest as melodious as it was
rueful, New York City Opera musicians and singers took to the
sidewalk outside  Lincoln Center  for the Performing Arts to pan
General Manager  George Steel ’s plan to vacate the David H. Koch
Theater for an undisclosed location or locations.  “Save the People’s Opera” read the flyers as musicians in
black tie performed selections from “Rigoletto,” “Aida” and
others on the idyllic early-summer morning.  Steel took over in February 2009 and told reporters in May
that the 58-year-old company doesn’t have the money to remain at
Lincoln Center. He was not at the protest, where union members
of  Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians  and the
 American Guild of Musical Artists  said the company would do
better without him.  “If he’s going to lead us down this path we need a
replacement,” Claire Chan, a  New York  City Opera violinist,
said in an interview.  Maggie McKeon, a City Opera spokesman, declined to comment.  Chan also works in the pit of Broadway’s “The Phantom of
the Opera.” Fellow NYCO violinist Sarah Pratt wondered about a
“Phantom of New York City Opera.” Chan said the quip raises a
legitimate issue.  “Who is actually controlling New York City Opera?” she
asked. “Is it George or members of the board? The announcement
to leave Lincoln Center took us all by surprise.”  Tuba player Steve Johns said the contemporary repertoire
previously favored by Steel was a recipe for failure and NYCO
needs to include crowd pleasers to survive.  Paging Joseph Volpe  “It’s the most difficult thing to change a head but that’s
what we think should be done,” he said. “He’s a very small-
scale kind of person. We need someone with vision. Joseph Volpe
is an exciting choice but I don’t know if he’s available.”  Volpe retired from the  Metropolitan Opera  in 2006 after 42
years with the company. In February 2010, he was hired to help
the Met bargain with its unions, a process that’s ongoing.  In a meeting last week with the singers and musicians’
unions, Steel proposed five unnamed operas for next season,
three of them 18th- and 19th-century “standard repertoire,”
according to a schedule they distributed to the media. It calls
for dramatically less work for both unions.  The American Guild of Musical Artists, which also
represents stage directors, stage managers and a dancer, has
sought an injunction from the  National Labor Relations Board  to
block the move and charged NYCO with unfair labor practices
because the union wasn’t consulted.  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 