-- 
Obama Calls Gates One of Nation’s Finest Public Servants

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/obama-calls-gates-one-of-nation-s-finest-public-servants-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said farewell
to top adviser and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates today,
calling him one of the nation’s finest public servant and a man
who was willing to give voice to “hard truths.”  Gates is “a humble American patriot, a man of common sense
and decency,” Obama said during a ceremony at the Pentagon as
the defense chief steps down. “To know Bob is to know his
profound sense of duty.”  Gates, 67, served as the 22nd secretary of defense for 4
1/2 years, two of them under Obama’s predecessor,  George W. Bush . Obama persuaded Gates to stay on as the new president
wrestled with winding down the war in  Iraq  and developing a new
strategy in Afghanistan.  Obama said Gates chose “citizenship over partisanship” by
serving presidents of both parties. “I believe the life of Bob
Gates is a lesson especially to young Americans, a lesson that
public service is an honorable calling,” he said.  Gates was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the
nation’s highest civilian honor. The award was “a big
surprise” to Gates. Referring to the secret operation that led
to the killing of  Osama bin Laden , Gates told Obama that he had
learned that “you’re getting pretty good at this covert ops
stuff.”  Gates is being replaced by former congressman and CIA
Director  Leon Panetta  as the nation’s 23rd defense secretary.  Candor, Loyalty  Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said in opening the ceremony that Gates won the respect
of the military with his candor and his loyalty, calling him
“infallibly, impenetrably honest.”  “He tells it straight, no bull,” Mullen said.  In assessing strategy, whether for the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  or planning for purchases of weapons systems, Mullen
said Gates “made us think about things we hadn’t considered.”  Gates summed up the highlights of his years at the Pentagon
in remarks May 27 at the U.S. Naval Academy.  When he took over in December 2006, it was “the toughest
stretch of the  Iraq war ” and “casualties were at their
highest, and prospects of success uncertain at best,” Gates
said. “The Taliban were making their comeback in Afghanistan,
and history’s most notorious terrorist was still at large.”  Now, he said, “Iraq has a real chance at a peaceful and
democratic future; in Afghanistan, the Taliban momentum has been
halted and reversed; and Osama bin Laden is finally where he
belongs.”  West Point  Speech  Gates, preparing for his final months in office, reviewed
Iraq and Afghanistan in a speech at West Point on Feb. 25 and
had this advice:  “In my opinion, any future defense secretary who advises
the president to again send a big American land army into  Asia 
or into the  Middle East  or  Africa  should ‘have his head
examined,’ as General MacArthur so delicately put it.”  He began his public service career in 1966 as an
intelligence officer at the CIA, an agency he would later direct
under President  George H.W. Bush  in the early 1990s. He was
president of  Texas A&M University  before returning to the
government in December 2006.  In his last official trip earlier this month, he told NATO
allies in a June 10 speech that the defense alliance risks a
“collective military irrelevance” unless nations contribute
more to its operations. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
responded that the remarks were those of a “bitter” man about
to retire.  Military Spending  Gates defended $400 billion in reduced Pentagon spending
over 12 years, warning Congress June 15 that it means “real
cuts,” not just finding efficiencies. Still, he said, a
smaller, capable military is better than a larger “hollow”
one.  As head of the world’s most powerful military, Gates often
paid tribute to the soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who
were at the center of danger, people he often called “family.”
One of his achievements during his tenure was to better protect
U.S. forces from roadside bombs.  “As I come to the end of my time in this post,” he told a
Memorial Day audience May 30 at Arlington National Cemetery,
“it is up to us to be worthy of their sacrifice, in the
decisions we make, the priorities we set, the support we provide
to troops, veterans and their families.  “For the rest of my life, I will keep these brave patriots
and their loved ones in my heart and in my prayers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  