-- 
Obama Rose ‘Very Quickly’ to Be Commander in Chief, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-30T12:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/obama-rose-very-quickly-to-be-commander-in-chief-gates-says.html
President  Barack Obama , who
inherited two wars when he took office at the age of 47, rose to
his role as commander in chief “very quickly,” outgoing
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  Gates, who served in government under seven other
presidents before Obama, said in Brussels earlier this month
that he was “in the awkward position for the first time in my
career of being 20 years older than my president.” Obama
adapted quickly to the demands of U.S. national security, Gates
said yesterday in an interview at the Pentagon.  “It really didn’t take him any time at all, as far as I’m
concerned,” said Gates, 67, who is being honored in a military
farewell ceremony today before he flies to his home north of
Seattle. He will retain the authority of defense secretary until
his successor, Central Intelligence Agency Director  Leon Panetta , is sworn in during a private ceremony tomorrow.
Panetta, a former member of Congress, turned 73 this week.  Obama “made two decisions early on that were very tough
decisions,” Gates said yesterday, citing actions on  Iraq  and
Afghanistan.  The new president almost immediately approved a pending
request from his war commander in Afghanistan to send 21,000
more troops into the conflict, which had taken a back seat after
the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq. Obama also opted to reduce the
number of troops in Iraq gradually, amid expectations of a
quicker pullout after his campaign pledge to end U.S.
involvement in the war.  Gates has frequently defended Obama’s compromise solutions
after vigorous, though by all accounts respectful, internal
disagreements among members of the national security team.  “He’s become much more familiar with what’s going on in
places like  Afghanistan  and much more familiar with our
military,” Gates said. “So I think it’s enriched the base on
which he can make decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  