-- 
Lockheed Promises Electric-Grid Security

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/lockheed-promises-electric-grid-security-for-1-3-billion-market.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is selling its
military and intelligence expertise to electric utilities as the
world’s largest defense contractor tries to exploit a U.S. push
to guard power grids from terrorists and hackers.  Lockheed plans to enter the projected $1.3 billion market
for utility cybersecurity next month with Palisade, a software
program developed in partnership with American Electric Power
Co. of Columbus,  Ohio . The program alerts power companies to
hacker intrusions and attacks on their electronic systems.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration proposed in May
requiring utilities and other companies that operate “critical
infrastructure” to develop cybersecurity plans that would be
reviewed by commercial auditors. Companies could also work with
the Department of  Homeland Security  to improve their plans.  Without adequate protection, the “smart grid” is
“vulnerable to attacks that could result in widespread loss of
electrical services essential to maintaining our national
economy and security,” a Government Accountability Office
report found in January.  Lockheed’s product gives utilities “the big picture of
what’s really happening” within their networks, Rich Mahler,
the company’s senior manager for cybersecurity in its energy
solutions business, said in an interview. Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed suffered an attack on its own computer system
last month.  IBM, Raytheon  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Raytheon Co. and
 Boeing Co. (BA)  are among companies also working with utilities on
smart-grid projects.  The U.S. electricity network is increasingly becoming a
smart grid as it is overhauled with advanced  information
technology . Power companies are installing next-generation
digital meters in buildings while preparing to attach more
renewable energy resources and as many as 1 million electric
autos to the grid by the middle of the decade. All those
innovations give hackers more ways to break into a network.  “Cybersecurity is being talked about at the CEO level” at
U.S. utilities, David Batz, manager for security, infrastructure
and operations at the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-
based industry group, said in an interview.  Investment in security for the computerized electrical grid
is expected to increase to $1.3 billion in 2015 from about $800
million this year, according to Pike Research LLC, a Boulder,
Colorado, firm that studies the clean-energy market.  Global Projects  IBM, which says it’s the market leader in power-company
cybersecurity, is involved in about 150 smart-grid projects
globally, with customers including  Sempra Energy (SRE)  of  San Diego 
and Japan’s Tokyo Electric Power Co.  “What we’re watching is an entire sector of the  U.S.
economy  and the global economy modernizing,” Andy Bochman, an
energy security specialist for Armonk, New York-based IBM, said
in an interview.  Raytheon provides utilities with consulting services and
software to protect their power grids, according to Charles
Cartwright, who heads Raytheon’s integrated command systems
business. The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company is working
with utilities “mainly across the South,” he said in an
interview.  Chicago-based Boeing won $8.56 million in pilot projects
from the U.S. Energy Department to develop prototype smart-grid
systems in collaboration with Consolidated Edison Inc. in  New
York  and Southern California Edison Co., the department said
last year.  Lockheed Hit  Lockheed, which drew 84 percent of its $45.8 billion in
sales in 2010 from government contracts, said the May 21 cyber
attack on its system was the result of a data breach at security
provider RSA Security, a unit of EMC Corp. of Hopkinton,
 Massachusetts . Lockheed detected the “significant and
tenacious” threat “almost immediately” and no customer,
program or employee information was compromised, according to a
 statement  from the company.  “I’m sure it hurts their credibility a little bit,” Mark
Weatherford, security chief at the  North American Electric
Reliability Corp. , a U.S.-approved power-grid watchdog, said in
an interview.  Lockheed was able to respond immediately, “which is
something that a lot of companies could not have done,”
Weatherford said. “If you’re in this business long enough,
you’re going to get hacked.”  Lockheed opened a cybersecurity research center in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , in 2009 to develop tools to fight
electronic attacks. What the company learns from government work
can sometimes be adapted for utilities, Mahler said.  Research Center  Palisade runs on a utility’s existing networks, linking
security components throughout the company’s computer and power-
line system, according to Mahler.  “What we try to do is suppress a lot of the false alarms”
so that utilities “can respond appropriately to the real
ones,” he said.  American Electric, the biggest U.S. producer of coal-fueled
electricity, received $75 million to make smart-grid upgrades
under the 2009 U.S. stimulus law and teamed with Lockheed, which
developed a new cybersecurity product for the utility’s network.
The companies plan to run Palisade as a pilot project through
2012.  American Electric and Lockheed have been working with 15
other utilities, whose names haven’t been made public, to share
the security threat information that the software provides.  “The sharing of threats from one company to another is
really what this is all about,” Kevin Stogran, American
Electric’s director of information risk services, said in an
interview.  Obama Blueprint  None of the other utilities working with Lockheed has
committed to buy the software. A “major  oil company ” is
considering purchasing it, Mahler said. Lockheed officials have
declined to say how much Palisade costs.  “Right now security is definitely not integrated into the
grid,” Weatherford said during a briefing in Washington last
week. “Security is bolted on,” he said.  At a minimum, utilities are required to meet cybersecurity
standards of the North American Reliability Corp., established
in 2008, or face penalties of as much as $1 million a day.  The Obama administration’s smart-grid blueprint, which
includes protection against cyber attacks as a primary goal,
aims to coordinate public and private efforts to upgrade the
aging power grid. Members of Congress are considering
legislation that would provide the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission greater authority to respond to a cyber attack.  The Government Accountability Office in January determined
that the electric utility industry doesn’t have a way of
measuring the effectiveness of cybersecurity efforts, and power
companies lack a means for sharing information about threats to
the grid.  “Utilities are focusing on regulatory compliance instead
of comprehensive security,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  