-- 
One-Third of Obama $400 Billion Defense Cut May Be From Overhead

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-01T16:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/one-third-of-obama-cuts-possible-through-overhead-gates-says.html
As much as one-third of President
Barack Obama’s goal of reducing defense spending by $400 billion
may be achieved by cutting overhead, putting more risk on
contractors and eliminating overlapping and marginal programs,
former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said shortly before
leaving office.  “The sort of back-of-the-envelope numbers we’ve run would
suggest we could get at least a third of the money we need,” or
more than $120 billion, Gates said in an interview June 29 with
Bloomberg News. His successor,  Leon Panetta , was sworn into
office today.  “We can probably get out more efficiencies and marginal
programs -- or where we have redundancy in the services,” he
said. “For 2012 and 2013, my hope is the cuts won’t be too
deep, but I think that there is more room with efficiencies.”  “I don’t think we will be able to get a significant
portion of the $400 billion in 2012 or 2013, so the question
is” beyond that “what can we identify, where if we make
changes today we can generate some real returns,” he said.  Still, Gates said he wasn’t “sanguine” that the long-term
savings can be achieved. “This is going to be hard,” he said.
“Tough choices are going to have to be made, and I want the
Congress and president to understand what those tough choices
are.”  Politically Sensitive Areas  Among those choices might be adjusting U.S. strategy to
allow for force-structure reductions and tackling “politically
sensitive” areas such as working military retiree health-care
premiums, said Gates, whose last day in office was yesterday.  “It’s a little late in the defense planning process to
make major changes to fiscal 2013 so the good news could be that
fiscal ‘13 is not cut as deeply as some fear,” said Byron Callan, a defense analyst at Washington-based Capital Alpha
Partners LLC, in an e-mail.  “Defense budget reductions can’t just fall on investment -
- there will be an impact on all accounts, given the magnitude
of savings being sought,” he said.  Gates has repeatedly warned that surging health-care costs
are consuming an increasing share of the Pentagon budget,
growing to $52.5 billion in the fiscal 2012 request from $19
billion in fiscal 2001.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in a  report  that the
primary cause of long-term budget growth will be rising
operations and support costs. Those include “significant
increases” in military and civilian compensation of about 1.5
percent a year -- to $495 billion in 2030 from a projected $350
billion in fiscal 2012.  What’s Possible  For the 2012-2016 program, the CBO estimates that the
Pentagon will need an additional $64 billion, or about 2 percent
more than what has been budgeted to execute its plan.  It isn’t yet known whether spending can be reduced by the
$400 billion without crippling defense capabilities, following a
combined $178 billion in proposed efficiencies and deficit-
reduction cuts proposed last year, Gates said.  The comprehensive Pentagon review of role, missions and
force structure will address this question, Gates said. He said
the review was his idea and not the White House’s.  “I do believe we can find more. How much we can find
without significant consequences, I think is the purpose of the
comprehensive review,” he said.  “If it is crippling, we can tell him that,” Gates said.  The $400 billion “is actually the lowest floating around”
of all the deficit-reduction ideas aimed at the Pentagon, he
said.  ‘Do More’  In a June 29 news conference, Obama reiterated that defense
spending won’t be off the table in seeking deficit reductions.  Obama praised Gates for his potential savings to date,
adding: “We’re going to do more and I promise you, the
preference of the Pentagon would be not to cut any more, because
they feel like they’ve already given.”  Asked his reaction, Gates in the interview said, chuckling:
“This is a point I have made in these discussions.”  “People in this building understand that we’re going to
have to make some contribution to getting the deficit down but,
at the same time, the external factors that drive the size of
our forces haven’t changed at all,” he said. “If anything,
they are getting more worrisome.”  Still, Heritage Foundation analyst  MacKenzie Eaglen  said
“Obama’s proposed $400 billion is the new floor for debt
ceiling negotiations. The goal-posts for cuts ranges now from
$400 to $700 billion from the military.”  ‘Political Reality’  “Gates’ optimism about how severe the cuts will be this
year and next is out of touch with the political reality to show
immediate reductions in federal outlays as part of any debt
reduction bargain. The fastest way to achieve these savings
will, quite unfortunately, be from defense spending,” she said.  In testimony June 15 before a Senate appropriations panel,
Gates included the negotiations of acquisition contracts as
among the first category of potential “overhead savings.”  “For example, in more cases where there is not significant
technical risk, we’d be looking more at fixed-price contracts,”
he said in the interview.  “Where there is high risk involved, the government and
company should share that, it seems to me, but where there is
pretty familiar technology we ought to be able to get better
deals,” he said.  “We want a viable industrial base,” he said. “We want
people to make a profit but at the same time, I think we can be
smarter about the way we negotiate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  