-- 
OPEC to Cut Supply on Slower Asian Demand, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-30T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/opec-to-cut-supply-on-slower-asian-demand-oil-movements-says.html
OPEC will cut oil shipments through
to the middle of July as Asian refiners reduce imports while
conducting seasonal maintenance work, according to tanker-
tracker Oil Movements.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will ship
22.7 million barrels a day in the four weeks to July 16, down
0.7 percent from the period to June 18, the consultant said in a
report. The data, which excludes  Ecuador  and Angola, does not
reflect any change in OPEC output in response to the
 International Energy Agency ’s release of emergency stockpiles,
Oil Movements said.  “Demand is diminished relative to what might have been
expected and it’s mainly happening in the east,” Roy Mason, the
founder of Oil Movements, said by telephone from Halifax,
 England . “They’re getting towards the peak of the maintenance
season in the east, so it may be a temporary lull.”  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency , an adviser to
28 oil-consuming nations, said June 23 its members will offer 60
million barrels of oil, the first deployment of strategic
stockpiles in five years, after OPEC failed on June 8 to
announce a plan on making up for halted Libyan exports.  Saudi
Arabia  pledged that day to keep consumers supplied in the
absence of an OPEC accord.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will drop 0.9 percent to 17.44 million
barrels a day in the period, the report showed.  Crude on board tankers will average 485.44 million barrels
in the four weeks, down 0.8 percent from 489.41 million barrels
in the period to June 18, Oil Movements said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Iraq  is exempt from the group’s quota
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  