-- 
Morgan Stanley’S Peters Sticks With Call for Higher Inflation: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-30T15:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/morgan-stanley-s-peters-sticks-with-call-for-higher-inflation-tom-keene.html
Gregory Peters, head of global
fixed-income economic research at Morgan Stanley, said the
operator of the world’s largest brokerage continues to expect
inflation to rise over the next year.  Oil prices  slid, easing market-based gauges of inflation
expectations, after the Paris-based  International Energy Agency 
announced on June 23 the release of 60 million barrels of oil
over 30 days from member nations’ emergency stockpiles as
fighting in  Libya  pares global supplies. Oil futures fell 4.6
percent on the day the announcement was made.  “The IEA’s surprise announcement is temporary and you are
seeing that getting re-priced already,” Peters said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “It’s more of a temporary phenomenon than anything
else and we still think inflation is on the rise.”  Bloomberg News reported yesterday that Morgan Stanley was
burned by a wager on U.S. inflation expectations in the second
quarter, citing three people informed of the dealings. The
bank’s interest-rates trading group lost at least tens of
millions of dollars on the trade, two of the people said,
declining to be identified because the transaction isn’t public.
Mary Claire Delaney, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Traders at the bank bet that inflation expectations for the
next five years would rise in Treasury markets, while forecasts
for the next 30 years would fall, according to two of the
people. Such wagers on so-called break-even rates involve paired
purchases and short sales of Treasuries and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, in both maturities.  Consumer Price Index   “That is not really my area of expertise and there has
obviously been a lot of negative press,” Peters said, referring
to the New York-based firm’s forecast for rates in the TIPS
market. “We still believe that inflation is on the rise.”  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in May,
compared with the 0.1 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed on June 15. The so-called core measure, which excludes
more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent.  Brent oil for August settlement fell 18 cents to $112.22 a
barrel today. The European benchmark has fallen 3.5 percent in
June. It traded today at a premium of $17.18 to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate. Crude oil in  New York  added 0.1 percent
to $94.88 a barrel.  TIPS Payments  The decline in crude oil prices disproportionately hurt the
value of TIPS maturing within five years because they have fewer
remaining interest payments that can benefit from a rebound in
prices. The five-year break-even rate dropped to as low as 1.76
percentage points this month on June 24 from 2.04 percentage
points at the end of May, indicating underperformance by five-
year TIPS relative to nominal Treasuries. The rate increased to
2.04 points today.  Despite some softer-than-expected U.S. economic data,
“you’ve seen a steady rise in both core and headline
inflation,” Peters said. “We see that continuing throughout
the course of this year, abating somewhat next year.”  U.S. employers in May added the fewest workers in eight
months and unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent,
underscoring the concern of policy makers that the expansion is
failing to boost the labor market. The Federal Reserve today
completed its second round of asset purchases, known as QE2,
after buying $1.7 trillion in securities through last year,
increasing the amount of money in circulation. The Fed bought
$600 billion in Treasuries in the most recent program.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  