-- 
Moroccan Voters Approve Draft Constitution Giving More Power to Parliament

-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-02T00:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/moroccans-vote-on-constitution-giving-more-power-to-parliament.html
Moroccans approved a draft
constitution, drawn up at the orders of King Mohammed VI, that
the government said would bring long-awaited democratic changes
to the North African nation, the Interior Ministry announced
today.  The proposal was supported in a nationwide referendum
yesterday by more than 98 percent of voters. More than 72
percent of the country’s 13 million voters participated,
Interior Minister Taieb Cherkaoui said.  Under the plan, the prime minister would be chosen from the
party that wins elections and the king would retain the power to
overrule or dissolve parliament, along with his role as
“commander of the faithful” in the Islamic country.  The constitution was drawn up at King Mohammed’s orders in
response to pro-democracy protests that echoed the uprisings in
 Tunisia  and  Egypt . Hundreds of thousands of people took to the
streets to support the draft, calling it a step toward
democratization. There were also demonstrations against it, with
critics objecting to the fact that the drafting committee was
appointed by the king and saying the changes don’t go far enough.  “The constitution will be approved,” Mohamed Darif, a
political science professor at  Hassan II University  near
Casablanca, said before the vote. “This is not the constitution
of a democratic phase. But it’s a constitution that paves the
way for a democratic phase.”  ‘Democratic Course’  When he announced the draft, King Mohammed said it would
“make  Morocco  a state that will distinguish itself by its
democratic course.” The country’s biggest political parties,
including the Islamist  Justice and Development Party  and the
Union of Popular Forces, backed the text.  Demonstrations against corruption and the monarchy’s
powers began in February, prompting the king to promise more
liberties. While protests haven’t reached the scale of the
movements that toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia, security
forces clashed with protesters on May 29 and one activist in the
coastal city of Safi died from injuries.  Morocco’s $80 billion economy may expand almost 5 percent
this year, according to government forecasts. Tourism accounts
for almost 10 percent of gross domestic product in the nation of
33 million.  Morocco has been invited to join the Gulf Cooperation
Council, the six-nation group of monarchies whose largest member,
 Saudi Arabia , has opposed moves toward democracy in the Arab
world. King Mohammed is the North African country’s secular and
religious leader.  ‘Protests Will Continue’  The Feb. 20 youth movement, which has led the protests in
Morocco, called for a boycott of the referendum.  “While most Moroccans know that the constitution will
pass, the protests will continue,” said Jalal al-Makhfi, a
member of the movement. “The constitution doesn’t necessarily
mean moving Morocco to democracy. The most important thing for
Feb. 20 is fighting corruption.”  Mohamed Moujahid, secretary-general of the Unified
Socialist Party, which also urged a boycott, said that under the
proposals “the king conserves all powers and the fundamentals
remain the same.”  Supporters of the constitution also acknowledge that it
isn’t the end of the journey toward democracy.  “There are still many reforms that need to be done,”
Mustapha Ramid, an official with the Justice and Development
Party, said in a telephone interview. “We will vote ‘yes’
because this constitution contains several advances and acquired
rights.”  The proposed changes also include allowing Moroccans to
vote abroad, and making Amazigh, spoken by the Berber ethnic
community, an official language alongside Arabic. While Islam
would continue to be the state religion, freedom of worship
would be guaranteed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 