-- 
Mortgage Rates Little Changed in U.S. Near Lowest Level Since December

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-06-30T14:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/mortgage-rates-little-changed-in-u-s-near-this-year-s-low-1-.html
Mortgage rates  were little changed
this week, keeping borrowing costs close to the lowest level
since December as the housing market struggles to recover.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.51
percent in the week ended today from 4.5 percent, according to
 Freddie Mac . The average 15-year rate was unchanged at 3.69
percent, the McLean, Virginia-based company said in a statement.  A drop in mortgage rates from this year’s high of 5.05
percent in February has done little to lift the U.S. housing
market. Stricter lending standards, mounting foreclosures and
unemployment close to 9 percent are restraining demand for homes
even as price declines lure some buyers.  “Housing is still bad, but relative to what people were
expecting, it’s more or less on par,”  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts ,
said in an interview yesterday. “Basically, lending to
homeowners is no riskier this week than it was a week ago.”  Contracts to buy previously owned U.S. homes rose 8.2
percent in May, following a revised 11 percent drop in the
previous month, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. A separate report by the Chicago-based group on June
21 showed sales of existing houses, which make up about 96
percent of the market, declined in May to a six-month low.  Home prices  fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest drop in 17 months for the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
values in 20 cities.  Applications for home-purchase loans decreased 3 percent
last week to the lowest level since February, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  reported yesterday. The Washington-based
group’s measure of refinancing slipped 2.6 percent.  The rate for a 30-year fixed loan is below where it was
last year at this time, when it averaged 4.58 percent, according
to Freddie Mac. It fell to a record 4.17 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  