-- 
Motorola Mobility Short Interest Triples on Android Competition

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-30T20:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/motorola-mobility-short-interest-triples-on-growing-android-competition.html
Investor bets against Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. have more than tripled since January as
the mobile-phone company faces rising competition from rival
handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  The company, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , had short
interest of 15.9 million shares on June 28, compared with 4.9
million on Jan. 10, according to the New York-based research
firm  Data Explorers . Shorts represent about 5.4 percent of the
shares outstanding, about double the 2.6 percent average for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the data show.  The bearish bets may reflect growing concerns about
Motorola’s profitability as it competes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and an
increasing number of companies that use the same Android
software it does, said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at MKM
Partners LLC. The range of Android smartphones, from companies
such as Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , makes it
difficult to stand out, he said.  “People are anxious about the profit picture in the
Android space,” said Kuttinen, who is based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut  and has a “buy” rating on Motorola. “People are
skeptical about Motorola’s ability to hike the margins.”  Motorola Mobility, which makes mobile phones and set-top
boxes for  cable television , was spun off from Motorola Inc. this
year and has lost a third of its value since it started trading
Jan. 4. The stock rose 4 cents to $22.04 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  Android Challenge  Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha, who was hired from
chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  in 2008, stabilized the handset business
by cutting costs and focusing on Android, making it one of
Google’s early supporters. Android is available for free from
Google though, and it has been adopted by traditional mobile-
phone makers that want to offer smartphones capable of browsing
the Web and running software programs known as apps.  Besides Samsung and HTC, LG Electronics Inc. and Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB offer Android phones. All four
of those companies are likely to ship more phones than Motorola
in the current quarter, said Tim Long, a BMO Capital Markets
analyst.  Motorola Mobility, whose stock ticker is MMI, “had a
first-mover advantage, but now Samsung, LG and Sony Ericsson
have joined HTC, and we expect each to out-ship MMI,” said
Long, who cut his rating on Motorola to “underperform” on June
27 and dropped his price target on the stock to $19 from $26. Of
38 analysts who track the stock, 21 recommend buying it, 12 rate
it a hold, and 5 suggest selling.  Innovation Effort  Jha has been pushing innovations in software and design to
help Motorola devices stand out against Apple’s iPhone,  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry as well as other Android devices.
Motorola’s Atrix, which went on sale in the U.S. in February,
plugs into a keyboard-and-screen console similar to a thin
laptop so the phone can be used as a personal computer.  Motorola is also working on smartphones with more secure e-
mail so companies will be more willing to adopt Android devices,
and technologies to make it easier to transfer content from
phones to tablet computers to set-top boxes.  “We are taking some risks and betting some dollars and
making sure that we have some sustainable differentiation,” Jha
said at an investor conference this month.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for the company, said
executives were not available for interviews and declined to
comment on the short interest.  Scale Challenge  The company’s major rivals have greater scale, said Long,
which may allow them to demand better terms from suppliers and
save on other expenses to lift profits. Motorola pulled back in
some international markets as part of its cost-cutting efforts.  Motorola sold 4.1 million smartphones in the first quarter,
up from 2.3 million a year earlier. Samsung sold about 12.6
million in the quarter, with HTC at 9.7 million.  “MMI’s lack of global reach is becoming more of an
issue,” said Long, the second analyst to downgrade the stock in
just more than a week.  Motorola may also have more competition at  Verizon
Wireless , which is the largest U.S. wireless operator and
accounted for 28 percent of Motorola’s revenue last year.
Verizon, which began offering the iPhone this year, also sells
Android phones from Samsung, LG,  Sony Ericsson  and HTC.  Verizon Rivals  “Competitive headwinds are intensifying in the U.S. from
other Android vendors, notably at key carrier partner Verizon,
where we see MMI’s share being vulnerable,” said Kulbinder Garcha, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, who cut his rating
on the stock to “underperform” on June 21 and dropped his
price target to $19.  Motorola said in April that it will be break even in the
second quarter or earn a profit of 12 cents, excluding some
items. Analysts forecast a profit of 6 cents a share.  “People are thinking the quarter is probably not good,”
said Buzzy Geduld, chief executive officer of New York hedge
fund Cougar Trading, who said he has neither a short or long
position on the stock. “The stock is cheap but we just don’t
know what the catalyst is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  