-- 
Love Academy Tries to Fix French Sex Legacy Tainted by Strauss-Kahn Case

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-07-01T16:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/love-academy-restores-french-sex-legacy-tainted-by-strauss-kahn.html
The  French Academy of Seduction  costs
$2,500 a semester and isn’t for the meek.  “We need to make love,” director Veronique Corniola says
on a muggy morning in Paris. “It’s very good for a man. It’s
also good for a woman. We just don’t know how to do it very
well.”  Learning to seduce and copulate correctly are the
curricular cornerstones at the school that Corniola says has
graduated some 3,000 students since it opened its doors in 1995
across the street from the Chanel boutique on Rue Cambon.  Now, in the wake of former International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ’s arrest in  New York  on
charges of attempted rape, unlawful imprisonment and forcibly
touching a hotel chambermaid, Corniola’s mission is to teach the
world the protocols of foreplay and clean up France’s debauched
sexual reputation. For the former Club Med social director,
etiquette is everything and Strauss-Kahn gets her dander up.  “Dominique Strauss-Kahn is not a French lover,” is
Corniola’s verdict.  Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty. Prosecutors in
 Manhattan  today released the French presidential hopeful 
and said they will return his bail, while retaining his passport 
and not dismissing the case against him. Their investigation into 
the 32-year-old hotel housekeeper from  Guinea  is said to have 
raised doubts about her credibility.  Sex Museum  Still, his arrest on May 14 poisoned the French ideal of
Romantic Nationalism. Sex in  France  is more than an indoor
sport. It’s political. America’s national symbol is the bald
eagle. The British have a bull dog. France has Marianne, a woman
with exotic breasts bared. As Eugene Delacroix’s celebrated
painting “Liberty Leading the People” graphically shows, she’s
spearheading a path through her enemies to a brighter future.  It’s impossible to undervalue the significance of sex in
France. Connoisseurs even have their own museum, the  Musee de
l’Erotisme , a seven-floor establishment that includes a full-
sized display brothel and its own Facebook page.  An on-site inspection of this abundantly stocked exhibition
space in Paris’s Pigalle area, open from 10 a.m. until 2 a.m.,
shows the place is the hottest, albeit least wholesome, museum
on the planet.  “All of this has led people to believe that French men are
the best seducers in the world,” Corniola says glumly. “That’s
finished, over. They’ve become too aggressive, the way they
touch too vulgar.”  ‘Ruy Blas’  Philippe Larmine, the 55-year-old director of the digital
publishing company AI Editions SA, is not surprised and says the
tragic tale of Strauss-Kahn is older than Victor Hugo.  Holding a copy of the 19th-century writer’s stage drama
“Ruy Blas,” Larmine is standing on a veranda overlooking
prostitutes parking their mobile-home brothels in the Bois de
Boulogne. He reads from the play’s opening scene, in which
Hugo’s main character, Ruy Blas, finds himself snared in a fate
similar to that of the fallen IMF director.  “My reign is over, thrown out, disgraced, everything lost
in one day for a passing fancy, at my age, silly and crazy with
a low-class handmaiden,” Larmine recites. “My credit, my
power, everything I was dreaming of, my position, my job, my
honors, in one instance collapsed within the laughter of the
crowd.”  Corniola says her role is to teach students how to avoid
dangerous and doomed sexual liaisons. “The course goes for nine
months,” she explains, taking my hand to show the correct way
to greet a woman during a first encounter of the close kind. The
touch is soft, with the man giving the woman’s hand a slight and
gentle turn to the right.  Quickie Course  “Look into her eyes with a smile,” she instructs.
“Nowadays men and women go from coffee to sex and that’s not
good.”  Corniola says her seduction school, which accepts no more
than 30 full-time students a year, also offers a three-month
quickie course on intimacy for $1,250. She has three instructors
and says her pupils mostly come from France, Canada, Belgium and
the U.S.  “They’re all professionals, politicians, lawyers, top
executives,” she says. “They usually fall into two categories,
divorcees or couples who’ve been married for so long that they
don’t know each other.”  Flinging back her mane of curly auburn hair, Corniola says,  “Let me tell you an incredible fact. We now have more
female students than male students.”  Corniola says both sexes have forgotten the art of
seduction.  Starting Point  “With the raucous way men are today, women need to make an
effort,” she adds. “The first question I ask is ‘how many
people have you slept with?’ That’s the starting point.”  What comes next is a field trip to a Paris restaurant or a
museum and a study-abroad program at a Club Med resort in a
steamy climate.  “All of my students have lost the habits of seduction,”
Corniola says. “They’ve lost confidence in themselves and
require a precisely structured intimacy to survive.”  And Corniola says she’s the one to give them an education.
So far, she says nobody has dropped out.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 