-- 
Overnight Repo Rates Fall to 2011 Low  as Quarter End Adds to Shortage

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-30T13:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/overnight-repo-rates-fall-to-2011-low-on-quarter-end-demand.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
securities in the repurchase-agreement market slipped to the
lowest level this year as banks shored up balance sheets at
quarter-end amid already short supply.  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through 10 a.m.  New York  time with ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker, was 0.01 percent yesterday.
That matched the lowest level this year and was down from 0.12
percent at the start of the quarter. The repo rate opened today
at 0.02 percent. The average rate for overnight federal funds,
known as the fed effective rate, averaged 0.09 percent this
quarter, which compares with the central bank’s target rate for
overnight loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent.  The U.S. budget stalemate and the  Federal Reserve ’s debt
purchases have reduced the amount of Treasuries available for
borrowing and lending in the repo market. The Fed will complete
today its $600 billion of Treasury purchases under the second
round of quantitative easing, known as QE2. In February, the
Treasury eliminated $195 billion in Supplementary Financing
Program bills, or SFPs, it sold on behalf of the Fed as it
sought to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit.  “The combination of a lack of Treasury supply, quarter-end
demand and a flight to quality has driven repo rates lower,”
said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “The typical rebound that occurs after
quarter-end might not be as much as usual this time as there
will still be flight-to-quality demand given the issues in the
euro zone and a shortage of supply as the debt ceiling hasn’t
yet been raised.”  Quarter-End Demand  Investors such as banks and securities firms are often
attracted to the safest securities and shortest maturities at
quarter-end to improve the quality of assets on their balance
sheets.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  President  Barack Obama  is working to reach a compromise
with Republican lawmakers, who are seeking spending cuts before
they agree to raise the nation’s borrowing limit. The government
has said the U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the
$14.3 trillion limit.  Negative Rate  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was minus 0.005 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided by the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. That was the first time the index was negative.
The DTCC provides data back through July 2010 on its website.
The rate was 0.101 percent at the start of the quarter.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  An apparent increase in demand for Treasury repos from U.S.
prime money market funds moving investments out of euro
commercial paper and certificates of deposits because of the
 euro-zone  debt crisis has also helped drive repo rates lower,
according to the  Boca Raton , Florida-based broker dealer AVM LP.  “Uncertainty in the overall stock market is also driving
cash to the front end of the fixed income markets as well as
into repo,” said Jeff Kidwell, director of funding and direct
repo at AVM. “Once quarter-end is over, we expect general
collateral repo rates to rise, particularly as the Greek
austerity measures just passed in the government vote and if the
debt ceiling is resolved, likely bringing back $195 billion in
SFP bills.”  European Stakes  The 10 largest U.S. prime money market funds, representing
$755 billion of total assets, have about 50 percent invested in
securities issued by European banks,  Fitch Ratings  estimated in
a June 21 report. Prime money funds typically invest in
commercial paper, bank certificates of deposit and floating-rate
notes issued by private firms.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 2.8 percent in
June on the European debt crisis and weaker-than-expected
economic data in a second straight monthly loss.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote on an
austerity package in Parliament yesterday. Papandreou may still
struggle to convince investors that he can implement the
$112 billion austerity plan as it reaches a final vote in
parliament as public protests in the streets escalate.  The one-month Treasury bill rate traded negative this week
for the first time since January 2010 in the cash market. It
touched negative 0.0101 percent yesterday, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The rate is down from as high as
0.1562 percent this year on Jan. 10.  Loss Protection  Negative bill rates mean investors are willing to pay the
government to hold their money, protecting them from the
potential losses of other investments.  “Prime money funds are monitoring the situation in  Greece 
closely and actively managing their exposure to euro-zone
banks,” said  Alex Roever , head of short-term fixed-income
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The most popular
place so far to reinvest has been in repo, which has contributed
to the plummet in overnight general collateral rates. We should
begin to see some modest relief after the Fed’s QE2 ends.”  Overnight general collateral repo rates should increase by
five basis points following the end of the Fed’s QE2 and should
rise toward 17 basis points if the debt ceiling is raised,
assuming also the resumption of the SFP bill issuance, according
to JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  