-- 
How Lawyers Can Prevent a ’Cancer on the Presidency’: John Dean

-- B y   J o h n   D e a n
-- 
2011-06-30T04:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/how-lawyers-can-prevent-a-cancer-on-the-presidency-john-dean.html
If the Watergate affair occurred
today, it might have turned out very differently.  Rather than a defeated  Richard Nixon  being forced from
office early by his own secretly recorded and incriminating
conversations, there should have been a joyous farewell on the
South Lawn of the White House on Jan. 20, 1977, as the president
flashed a final victory sign, stepped into his helicopter, and
headed off to a respected place in U.S. history.  Rather than Nixon’s top aides going to prison, many of us
might have gone on to even higher public service. Everything
would have been different if, instead of compounding the problem
that confronted the White House with the arrests at the bungled
bugging and burglary of the Democratic National Committee
headquarters at the  Watergate  complex -- an activity that had
not, in fact, been the work of the president or his staff -- we
had taken action to ensure the criminality never reached into
the White House.  On June 17, 1972, when the arrests occurred, I was a 34-
year-old White House counsel, a midlevel staff person who was
asked to deal with the mess. My suggestion that we bring in
someone experienced in criminal law was instantly rejected.
Instead, with my limited background (I had worked on some
criminal legislation while on  Capitol Hill ), I became the “deck
officer” dealing with the burgeoning disaster. Because the rules
of legal ethics have changed so much, lawyers today wouldn’t
address the problem confronting the Nixon White House as I did.
Now they are in a stronger position to prevent wrongdoing before
things go too far.  Duty to Office  The rules were created largely because of the Watergate
debacle, and they have been further refined because of later
scandals, such as the one that led to the collapse of Enron. Had
these ethics rules been in place in June 1972, I would have
understood that my duties were to the office of the President,
rather than to the man in the  Oval Office . Had that been the
case, I believe it might have even made a difference to Nixon,
not to mention others.  Today’s rules make it clear that a lawyer represents an
organization, whether it’s a corporation, a union, a partnership
or a governmental agency, and not what lawyers call the
“constituents of the organization,” such as the officers,
directors or even the chief executive officer. This requires
lawyers to approach their work thinking about the interests of
the organization as a whole and not the personal agendas or
problems of management. These rules also require lawyers to
“report up” within an organization if wrongdoing is uncovered,
and if the highest authority inside doesn’t act to correct
things, lawyers can “report out” to other authorities.  Code of Silence  Not surprisingly, these  rules  are highly controversial
among lawyers, and they have not been uniformly adopted in every
state. By long tradition lawyers have guarded their clients’
confidences and secrets. Telling on a client, even for egregious
ongoing crimes, was anathema to the profession. After all,
without the confidence conferred by confidentiality, how could a
lawyer effectively represent his or her client?  It’s a fair question. There is a tension here. Lawyers need
to know it all -- the good, the bad and the ugly -- in order to
serve their clients. Yet in an organization setting, the
individuals who work on its behalf need to be accountable first
to the organization. The individuals are not the client; the
organization is.  Today, lawyers have the leverage and duty to be more
proactive and to force clients to do the right thing, especially
where fraud or crime can be prevented.  Whistle-Blower Role  The debate on this issue has lasted four decades and is
only now being resolved. The majority of the bar has concluded
that lawyers can better serve their clients if they are able to
stop wrongdoing. Based on personal experience I believe this is
the correct position. The fact that lawyers can take these steps
makes it less likely they will have to.  Many lawyers still resist these rule changes. They remain
uncomfortable taking on a watchdog or whistle-blower role. So
improvement will not come overnight. But it will come as lawyers
see how the “reporting up” requirement alone can prevent nascent
Enron- and Watergate-type problems. I’m confident we’ll find
that many people who run organizations, if kept apprised of
dangerous issues, generally will want to do the right thing.  After the Watergate burglary 40 years ago, I wasn’t able to
communicate with President Nixon until eight months into the
coverup. By then we were all too deeply involved, including the
president. My warning that there was a “ cancer  growing on the
presidency” proved painfully correct. Under today’s rules,
perhaps, that warning could have come long before the scandal
had grown into a constitutional nightmare.  (John Dean, along with Cleveland lawyer James Robenalt,
operates the website www.watergatecle.com and runs a continuing
legal education program using the lessons of Watergate. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dean at  jimrobenalt@thompsonhine.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 