-- 
Lower-Rated Hospitals Pay Biggest Penalty on Debt Since 2009: Muni Credit

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-06-30T15:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/lower-rated-hospitals-pay-biggest-penalty-on-debt-since-2009-muni-credit.html
Hospitals with low investment-grade
ratings are facing their highest relative borrowing costs since
2009 amid shrinking funds from states cutting back on Medicaid
and the uncertain outcome of changes to U.S. health care.  The extra yield investors demand to hold BBB rated 10-year
hospital bonds over top-rated general-obligation debt rose to as
much as 2.74 percentage points May 13 from 1.93 points Jan. 17,
the widest since October 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The
spread on AA hospital debt above the 10-year top-rated bonds
widened to as much as 1.51 points May 16, a level not reached
since August 2009.  Large hospitals with higher ratings will “be a lot more
adept in response” and their debt is less likely to see spreads
widen significantly, Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
a telephone interview.  Medicaid, a joint federal and state program of health care
for the poor, has emerged as a battleground as governors attempt
to balance their budgets. The health-care overhaul President
 Barack Obama  signed last year limits states’ power to bump
residents off Medicaid without federal permission, a provision
Republicans have asked Obama to ease.  “I think it’s going to be very challenging for smaller
operations to find the money to spend on  information technology 
and modernizations to generate economies of scale,” said
Schankel. “There’s more and more divergence of the mom and pop
places and the big operations.”  Debt Distinction  The outlook on debt from  New Jersey ’s St Joseph’s
Healthcare System, with the lowest investment grade of BBB-,
was revised to negative on June 16 by  Standard & Poor’s , which
noted its reliance on state and federal funds.  By contrast,  St. Louis , Missouri-based Ascension Health
Credit Group, the third-biggest issuer of hospital munis,
expects a “favorable market reception” to $176 million of
scheduled bond remarketings between July and November, said
Anthony J. Speranzo, chief financial officer in an e-mail.  “The market has seen a trend of cash outflows from the
mutual funds that buy Ascension Health bonds since yields were
so low, which had adversely impacted demand,” said Speranzo.  “These outflows have recently abated and we anticipate
stronger investor interest, which will support an environment of
lower rates in the near term.”  Hospital Consolidation  There may be a consolidation among the 5,000 not-for-profit
hospitals across the country as larger and better-capitalized
operations buy the smaller ones, said Buck Stevenson, a
portfolio manager who oversees higher-yielding, tax-exempt
revenue bonds for New York-based Silvercrest Asset Management
Group, which manages $10 billion.  “Merger and acquisition activity will increase between
hospitals and between hospitals and physicians, a development
which, on balance, is a positive trend for the industry,
notwithstanding the short-term implementation risk some
individual health systems will face,” said Moody’s Investors
Service in a Feb. 3 report, which gave the sector a negative
outlook.  There’s about $310 billion of hospital municipal debt
outstanding, Bloomberg data show.  Whether expanded eligibility will prove to be a burden
depends on the reimbursement rate, said Sylvan Feldstein, a
municipal bond analyst who helps oversee $1.6 billion in tax-
exempt munis at RS Investments. He avoids buying bonds from
hospitals where more than half of their revenue comes from
Medicaid and Medicare, which provides health care to the
elderly.  Affordable Care  The Affordable Care Act is designed to extend coverage to
32 million uninsured people by 2019, with as many as 16 million
of those under Medicaid. By 2014, eligibility for Medicaid,
which serves about 60 million annually, would be expanded to all
Americans with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty
level.  Extra federal aid under the 2009 economic stimulus helping
states pay for Medicaid ends June 30. Thirty-one have proposed
cuts to Medicaid and other health programs in 2012, according to
 data  collected by the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  In the broader municipal market, top-rated 10-year debt
yielded 2.71 percent, the highest since May, according to BVAL
data.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  DALLAS, the Texas city of about 1.2 million, will issue
$236.3 million in refinancing bonds as soon as next week. The
city’s water and sewer system will use proceeds to refinance
debt issued in 2003. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead underwriters
in the sale. (Added June 30)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  