-- 
Lloyds Banking Will Cut 15,000 Jobs, Cull Overseas Units to Focus on U.K.

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-30T15:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/lloyds-banking-plans-to-eliminate-15-000-jobs-to-save-2-4-billion-by-2014.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, will cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs
by an additional 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) as it
withdraws from overseas units and increases its U.K. focus. The
shares soared the most in more than a year.  Most of the job losses will come in the U.K. as a result of
cuts to management functions and by centralizing some roles, the
London-based bank said in a statement. The bank also plans to
withdraw from more than 15 of its 30 overseas units.  “Lloyds must become leaner, more agile and more
responsive,”, Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 47,
said today in a conference call with journalists outlining his
first strategic review since he took the job in March. “We will
focus on attractive” customers in the U.K., “reduce our
international presence and continue our disciplined reduction of
non-core assets,” the bank said.  British banks, including Lloyds, HSBC and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , are
reviewing their operations and trimming profitability targets as
regulators enforce higher  capital requirements  to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. Horta-Osorio told
parliamentarians last month that the 41 percent government-owned
lender still had “substantial” problems and would take three-
to-five years to turn into a “great bank.”  Lloyds had already pledged 2 billion pounds of savings
annually following its purchase of HBOS Plc three years ago,
which has so far resulted in about 27,000 job losses.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, today said it would cut 700
posts.  ‘Positive Catalysts’  The shares rose 9.7 percent to 49 pence at the close in
 London , the largest rise since May last year and the second-
biggest increase in the 49-member Bloomberg 500 Banks Index. The
government paid an average of 73.6 pence a share for its stake
in the bank.  “Many of the fears some had expected going into this
strategic review have not materialized,” wrote Joseph Dickerson, an analyst at Espirito Santo investment bank in a
note to investors. Today is the start of “a string of positive
catalysts,” for the shares, added Dickerson who has a “buy”
rating on the stock.  The Portuguese banker pledged to reduce so-called non-core
assets and also ruled out a sale of the bank’s Scottish Widows
insurance unit, the statement said.  Lloyds has units in  North America ,  Australia , Ireland,
 Germany  and the Netherlands. The U.K. already represents about
90 percent of the bank’s assets. The bank has a total of 104,000
employees, with about 4,000 outside the U.K., it said today.  ‘Deep Distress’  The cuts “will cause deep distress and anxiety across the
company as staff face the reality of this arbitrary slashing of
jobs,” said David Fleming, national officer of the Unite union,
which represents some Lloyds employees. “This total failure to
take significant action to make appropriate changes to rebuild
the public confidence in the sector is deplorable.”  Lloyds said the savings would help fund a 2 billion-pound
investment program, designed to “revitalize” its Halifax brand
and expand its wealth unit. It pledged not to send any more
permanent jobs from the U.K. to offshore locations.  The lender is targeting a “sustainable” return-on-equity,
a measure of profitability, of 12.5 percent to 14.5 percent by
the end of 2014. That’s a reduction from “over 15 percent in
the medium-to-longer term” forecast by Finance Director Tim Tookey in a presentation to analysts in February.  ‘Headline Grabber’  “The real headline grabber is the new RoE guidance which
has been downgraded,” wrote Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore
Capital in a note to investors today. “This is due to a weaker
revenue outlook with net interest margin downgraded.”  The company, which received a taxpayer-funded bailout of
more than 20 billion pounds, forecast a net interest margin of
“just above 2 percent” this year. It will rise to as much as
2.3 percent by 2014, the bank said today. Tookey in February
forecast “north of 2.5 percent” by 2014.  The loan-to-deposit ratio would fall to 130 percent, it
said today. That compares with 148 percent at the end of the
first quarter.  “We have to do this because this bank lost money last year
on an after-tax basis,” said Horta-Osorio. “We have to get
this bank back on its feet to effectively support the U.K.
economy and moreover we have to get this bank also profitable
and supporting the U.K. economy” to “pay taxpayers’ money
back.”  Work should be returned from  India  and the  Philippines  to
the U.K. to soften the impact of the cuts, said  Lloyds Trade
Union  in an e-mailed statement today.  “The bank is 41 percent owned by the taxpayer and it has a
special responsibility to secure jobs in the U.K. and limit the
impact of compulsory redundancy on Lloyds Banking Group staff,”
said LTU General Secretary Mark Brown in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  