-- 
Papandreou Clinches Votes for Second Greek Budget Bill

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T14:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/papandreou-wins-enough-votes-to-pass-greek-budget-bill-ensuring-bailout.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s drive to stave off the euro area’s first sovereign
default stayed on track after lawmakers backed a bill to
authorize an austerity plan required to keep rescue aid flowing.  The premier won the vote by 155 to 136, allowing him to
implement a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of tax
increases and asset sales that was a condition of receiving
further European Union aid. Those steps were approved in a vote
yesterday which was marred by street violence as police fired
tear gas on crowds. That ballot was carried by 155 votes to 138.  Greece ’s largest public-sector labor union plans a further
rally today in an extension of protests of more than 20,000
people that gripped the city center this week. Parliament has
become the focus of repeated riots that underscore the challenge
Papandreou faces in executing his plan in an economy suffering
recession while appeasing the EU partners funding its debts.  “Today’s vote is constructive, and will clear the way for
EU help,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London . “However, it just buys time which
creates a buffer to allow making a default or restructuring less
painful. The market is expecting Greece to default and it will
not change its mind.”  Default Risk  Two-year Greek government bond extended gains after the
result, pushing the yield down 62 basis points to 26.69 percent
at 5:21 p.m. in Athens. The euro was little changed after the
result, trading at $1.4469.  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt earlier rose 33
basis points to 1,978 basis points, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps. That signals an 82 percent probability the
nation will fail to meet its commitments within five years.  Attention now shifts to Brussels where Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos will meet his counterparts from the
rest of the euro region on July 3 and on July 11 to hammer out a
second bailout that will involve financial institutions.  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers and the government
agreed to roll over Greek debt holdings worth at least 2 billion
euros ($2.9 billion), Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
in Berlin today.  Protest Rally  The road in front of Parliament reopened to traffic today
after a cleanup of the area, which was last night strewn with
rubble used to pelt riot officers. A repeatedly torched van
nearby had been removed, though the shell of a burnt-out
newspaper kiosk remains. The protest campsite of so-called
“indignants” is still in place in the center of the square
facing Parliament.  Labor union ADEDY announced plans to hold a rally at 7:30
p.m. today. “The struggle of the workers will continue and
escalate,” it said in an e-mailed statement. Violence scotched
the union’s plans to march on Parliament yesterday.  Lawmakers yesterday needed the protection of riot police
who frequently deployed tear gas in clashes with hooded
protesters. A fire at the Hellenic Post Office, on the ground
floor of the building housing the  finance ministry  opposite the
legislature, was doused by fire fighters. Police said 31
officers and 30 protesters were injured.  Venizelos said in Parliament today that the government will
take all measures necessary to ensure public order in the
country.  Austerity Drive  “The government, regardless of the political cost and
fully aware of its historic duty, will ensure law and order are
upheld,” Venizelos said. “There is tension and there is real
violence and the protection of law and order is obvious. What is
important is for the country, state, economy and society of the
country to function.”  Papandreou is trying to meet EU demands for imposing
further austerity on an electorate already balking at a wave of
budget cuts introduced last year. Greek newspaper To Vima
calculated the additional burden for an average family of four
at 2,795 euros ($4,034) a year, about the same as one month’s
income.  “The key underlying risk remains, namely, there is a
solvency gap that will require more than just fiscal
consolidation and a privatization plan,” said Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist at  Barclays Capital .  Revenue Shortfall  Under the terms of the new austerity plan, Papandreou has
pledged to find buyers for state assets worth 50 billion euros
and impose levies ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent on wages.
He also plans higher taxes on restaurants and bars, higher
heating-oil taxes and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000
euros from 12,000 euros presently.  Papandreou has already struggled to implement a first
bailout agreed in April last year as  tax revenue  persistently
fell short of targets. That sparked a renewed selloff in the
country’s bonds in April as concern mounted a default was
inevitable unless a second rescue was negotiated.  “We still expect government debt to remain stubbornly high
over the coming years, suggesting that the government may still
be unable to borrow from the markets when any bailout package
ends,”  Ben May , European economist at Capital Economics Ltd.,
said. “The upshot is that any market rally in response to the
government’s victory may prove to be fairly short-lived.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  