-- 
Pawlenty’s ‘Isolationist’ Dig Signals Republican Security Split

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/pawlenty-s-isolationist-dig-signals-republican-security-split.html
When former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  gave a foreign policy speech this week, he didn’t limit
his criticism to the man whose job he’s seeking, President
 Barack Obama . He also called out fellow Republicans.  Pawlenty, who’s seeking his party’s presidential
nomination, said some Republicans “seem to be trying to outbid
the Democrats in appealing to isolationist sentiments.”  While Pawlenty didn’t name names, his comments underscored
a division on national security among the rival candidates, as
in the rest of the party, that is helping shape the primary.
That’s alarming some Republicans and may hinder their efforts to
challenge Obama on the issue.  Republican candidates are increasingly at odds over
national defense, with some -- such as Pawlenty and former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney -- pressing the
interventionist stance that has traditionally defined their
side. Others -- including former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  and
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  -- argue for limiting U.S.
involvement in foreign conflicts, partly based on cost.  “The Republicans are more split now than they’ve been
since 9/11,” said Peter Feaver, a Duke University security
studies professor who served as an adviser to Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton . “What you’ve seen in the last year or
two is a softening of the Republican consensus.”  Costly Wars  Among the reasons for the shift, Feaver said, are the
length and cost of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, mounting
concern about the national debt, and a waning public appetite
for U.S. involvement in military conflicts, especially among Tea
Party activists, who want to rein in the government’s role.  “There is public weariness with the nature of the
challenges after Sept. 11,” said Kori Schake, an international
security studies professor at the U.S. Military Academy at  West
Point ,  New York . “And a lot of the most vibrant and active part
of the  Republican Party  right now -- people on the small-c
conservative right -- you really need to persuade them to take
an activist role in the world,” said Schake, who advised
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  during his 2008 presidential bid.  Obama hasn’t made that case with respect to continuing the
 Afghanistan  war or U.S. participation in the NATO mission in
Libya, Schake said, leading his rivals to “test-drive” various
ways of differentiating themselves from him and each other.  Pawlenty, 50,  speaking  at the  Council on Foreign Relations 
in New York on June 28, lamented the trend.  “America already has one political party devoted to
decline, retrenchment, and withdrawal. It doesn’t need a second
one,” he said in a speech about the  Middle East  that also
condemned Obama’s foreign policy as ineffective, incoherent and
weak.  Jobs Top Concern  Unlike in some recent elections, foreign policy -- and
national security in particular -- isn’t registering as a major
issue with the public so far.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20 found that
unemployment and jobs is the public’s top concern -- with 42
percent calling that the most important issue facing the U.S.,
followed by  government spending , the federal deficit and health
care. Just 5 percent cited the war in Afghanistan, including 4
percent of Republican respondents. The poll of 1,000 adults had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  And foreign policy divisions aren’t confined to the
Republicans. Among Democrats, an increasingly vocal antiwar wing
is voicing frustration with Obama for failing to wind down U.S.
involvement in  Iraq  and Afghanistan and for inserting U.S.
forces into the Libyan conflict without congressional
authorization.  ‘Freedom to Maneuver’  Still, the Republicans’ internal divisions over national
security could deprive them of what would otherwise be a ripe
issue to use against Obama.  “When the president has a Congress that is divided and a
political opposition that is divided, it gives him more freedom
to maneuver,” said William Keylor, a Boston University
professor of international relations and history. If Republicans
were taking a “very hard line,” he said, “then it would raise
that old question about Democrats being soft on foreign policy,
leaving them vulnerable to charges that they are isolationist
and unwilling to project American power. Now some are raising
those questions about Republicans.”  Such skepticism is coming from prominent Republicans who
say they worry they’re witnessing a dangerous trend.  “This is isolationism,” McCain said on ABC television’s
“This Week” on June 19. “There’s always been an isolation
strain -- isolation strain in the Republican Party, the Pat Buchanan wing of our party. But now it seems to have moved more
center stage.”  No ‘Vital’ Interest  McCain said he “strongly” disagrees with the position of
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who announced her
presidential candidacy on June 27, that the U.S. has no vital
national interest in Libya. In her announcement, Bachmann called
herself a “peace-through-strength” conservative.  McCain, 74, also expressed concern about assertions Romney
made on Afghanistan during a June 13 debate in New Hampshire.
Romney said the U.S. should “bring our troops home as soon as
we possibly can, consistent with the word that comes from our
generals.” The former governor cited as a takeaway lesson from
the mission that “our troops shouldn’t go off and try and fight
a war of independence for another nation.”  Romney, 64, has since made it clear he isn’t rushing for a
withdrawal and suggested after Obama’s speech last week that the
president’s schedule for drawing down troops was
counterproductive and being made for the wrong reasons.  ‘Arbitrary Timetable’  “We all want our troops to come home as soon as possible,
but we shouldn’t adhere to an arbitrary timetable on the
withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan,” he said in a
statement.  Pawlenty has come closest to articulating the Republican
hawkishness that has defined the party for decades, arguing for
a more aggressive policy in  Libya , against swift withdrawals
from Iraq and Afghanistan, and against substantial defense
spending cuts or closing military bases overseas.  Huntsman, 51, has strayed further from the longtime party
line, saying during his presidential campaign announcement
speech that the U.S. must “manage the end” to conflicts abroad
and arguing that at a time of record debt, cost should help
determine military policy.  After Obama’s speech, Huntsman called for “significantly
fewer boots on the ground” in Afghanistan than Obama’s plan
envisions.  “With America mired in three expensive conflicts, we have
a generational opportunity to reset our position in the world in
a way that makes sense for our security as well as our budget,”
he said in a statement.  While that stance might be attractive to some in the party
and independent voters, Feaver argued, it would be a risky
political strategy for Huntsman or any Republican candidate.  “There’s substantial angst among Republican primary voters
on the cost of the war and the length of the war and perhaps the
hopelessness of making Afghanistan into a robust democracy, but
that’s not the issue that motivates them,” Feaver said. “In
the long run, Republicans do not win when they run on the dovish
side of Democrats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  