-- 
Link U.S. Payroll Tax Holiday to Unemployment Rate: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-06-30T12:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/payroll-tax-should-be-linked-to-unemployment-rate-peter-orszag.html
Today’s fiscal policy debate
straddles two divides: one between those who support jobs and
those who favor austerity, and one between those who think
additional revenue is needed and those who don’t.  On the first divide, both sides are right, because the
truth is that the U.S. needs both jobs and austerity -- and a
combination would be more powerful than either piece by itself.
We face a very weak labor market now and, over the medium- and
long-term, an unsustainable fiscal path. It would make sense to
combine an additional round of temporary  job creation  measures
with a substantial amount of permanent  deficit reduction  that
would be enacted now but take effect later.  The economy remains weak after the bursting of the credit
bubble 2 1/2 years ago. In 2007, total private sector borrowing
amounted to roughly 28 percent of gross domestic product. By
2009, it was 17 percent of GDP. History shows that economies
take substantially longer to recover from this type of financial
crisis than from other shocks. Yet we continue to be surprised
that our expectations for growth are not realized. (Our two
biggest Charlie Brown moments thus far were in late 2009-early
2010 and late 2010-early 2011.)  What’s most likely ahead is a prolonged period of
relatively slow growth, less than 3 percent per year (The
 International Monetary Fund  shares this outlook.). And,
unfortunately, that means the  unemployment rate  will decline
only very slowly, if at all.  Long-Term Joblessness  Lasting weakness in the labor market, in turn, can cause
people to lose their attachment to the workforce and see their
skills atrophy. Already,  6.2 million  Americans have been
unemployed for more than six months, and 4 million for more than
12 months. We thus face the problem continental  Europe 
experienced during the 1980s, when a temporary downturn there
led to stubborn unemployment and more workers collecting
disability benefits.  Given our feeble labor market, it is particularly important
that policy makers avoid overly hasty deficit reduction.
Official  projections for the federal budget  show fiscal
tightening in excess of 2 percent of GDP from fiscal year 2011
to 2012. To put that percentage in context, consider that the
fiscal tightening in the U.K. from 2010 to 2011 -- which has
received so much attention in the news media -- amounted to less
than 1.5 percent of GDP.  To mitigate the harm to the labor market from this fiscal
drag, policy makers should provide additional macroeconomic
support in 2012 by extending the existing  payroll tax  holiday.
But more than that, Congress should link the payroll tax to the
unemployment rate. This would allow the tax holiday to
automatically calibrate itself to existing conditions, providing
support only when the economy is weak. If necessary, the
underlying payroll tax rate could be raised to make this
mechanism budget-neutral.  Lower the Deficit  Such additional macroeconomic support shouldn’t be enacted
alone, however, because we must also address our unsustainable
long-term fiscal course. Even though it would be wrong to reduce
the deficit immediately, it is essential that we enact measures
now to lower it over the next decade and later.  This brings us to the second divide over fiscal policy:
between those who support raising revenue and those who don’t.
Here again, timing matters. It is difficult to see how the 2015
deficit problem can be addressed by cutting spending, and
equally difficult to see how the 2050 deficit problem can be
addressed by raising revenue.  First, the 2015 problem. As the economy recovers, the
deficit is projected to decline from about 10 percent of GDP to
5 or 6 percent. This projection, by the way, assumes a more
robust recovery than may occur in the wake of a financial-led
recession. To the extent that the recovery is sluggish, the
deficit will be higher.  Seeking Stability  Stabilizing debt as a share of the economy requires a
deficit in the range of 3 percent of GDP. So even if the
official assumptions turn out to be right, we face a gap in 2015
between the projection and the size of deficit that would give
us a stable fiscal trajectory.  Given the inevitable phasing in of any changes to
entitlement programs, it is difficult to see how, by 2015,
spending cuts could reduce the deficit more than about 0.5
percent of GDP. To make a difference in the next few years, more
revenue is needed.  There is no easy way to obtain this revenue, unfortunately.
Among the difficult choices, the best approach is to reconsider
the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. They should be extended only if
they can be offset by other measures. If not, they should be
allowed to expire in full. That requires only 34 votes in the
Senate. It also has the benefit of familiarity, because it would
return the  tax code  to roughly its form in the 1990s, and it
would raise roughly enough revenue to stabilize the debt over
the next decade.  Spending Cuts  The 2050 deficit problem is different. Over the long run,
most of the fiscal adjustment will have to come from reducing
expenditures. We simply can’t raise enough revenue to offset
projected spending increases.  Those increases are disproportionately due to health care.
The  Congressional Budget Office  reports that by 2050, spending
on Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health programs will
rise from 5.5 percent of GDP to more than 12 percent. By
comparison, Social Security costs are projected to increase from
5 percent of GDP to 6 percent over the same period.  The bottom line is that, right now, we need jobs measures
and deficit reduction that would take effect as the economy
recovers. From 2015 to 2020, we’ll need more revenue. And
looking ahead over the next four decades, we have to contain
costs, especially in health care.  ( Peter Orszag  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 