-- 
Pension Funds Pay Price for Shunning Stocks: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/pension-funds-pay-price-for-shunning-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
Company pension funds are so
reluctant to own stocks that a two-year  bull market  has done
little to bolster their financial position, according to Tobias
Levkovich, Citigroup Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the percentage of assets that
traditional defined-benefit plans have invested in shares, bonds
and mutual funds since 1985, based on quarterly figures compiled
by the  Federal Reserve .  Stocks have accounted for a smaller share of the plans’
holdings than debt securities for the past four quarters, the
longest streak in more than a quarter-century. The gap narrowed
by half a percentage point in the first quarter to 1.4 points.  “Corporate pension asset allocation has been slow in
shifting back to equities” after an exodus in 2008, when prices
plunged, Levkovich wrote two days ago in a report. Stocks were
36 percent of assets as of March 31. They peaked at 62 percent
five years earlier.  Funds run by companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
could cover only 84 percent of projected payouts at the end of
last year, according to S&P. Pension managers have to put more
money into stocks to bridge that gap, Levkovich wrote.  Since falling to a low in March 2009, the Russell 3000
stock index has generated a 110 percent total return. That’s
about six times the return on the Barclays Capital Aggregate
Bond Index, a similarly broad benchmark for fixed-income
securities.  Defined-benefit plans make fixed monthly payments to
retirees. They have been supplanted at many U.S. companies by
defined-contribution plans, such as 401(k) programs, which allow
employees to make tax-free investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  