-- 
Pimco Says U.S. Banks ‘Bondholder’s Dream’ on Capital Rules

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-06-30T20:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/pimco-says-u-s-banks-are-bondholder-s-dream-on-capital-rules.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
wagering that U.S. banks will withstand the Greek deficit crisis
with their bonds returning more than other debt after their
worst monthly performance this year.  “U.S. banks are in a stronger position to absorb
deterioration in the macroeconomic environment,”  Mark Kiesel ,
global head of corporate bond portfolios at Pimco, wrote today
on the firm’s  website . “Bank and financial credit spreads
remain attractive.”  Investors have turned away from financial debt as  Greece ’s
struggle to avoid default threatened its creditors, creating
buying opportunities, said Kiesel, who’s based in  Newport Beach ,
 California . Pimco, manager of the world’s largest bond fund,
favors the bonds of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , as regulators require the biggest banks to hold more
assets to back their debt, he said.  “That’s a bondholder’s dream,” Kiesel said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “You’re basically having the incentives
for these companies aligned with yours.”  While JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs are “clear winners,”
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may need to sell part of the firm’s $21
billion stake in China Construction Bank Corp. to comply with
the so-called Basel III rules, Kiesel told  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” today.  Bank Bonds Fall  “Bank of America, of the major banks, is in the least best
position from a capital standpoint,” Kiesel said. “JPMorgan
and Goldman can literally get to Basel III by the end of 2012.”  Bank bonds lost 1 percent this month, the biggest decline
since November, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt jumped
23 basis points since the end of May to 212 basis points, or
2.12 percentage points. Spreads on industrial company debt
expanded 6 basis points to 144 basis points during the period.
Strategists at JPMorgan, whose fixed-income research group
ranked first in Institutional Investor magazine’s latest survey
of U.S. money managers, changed their recommendation on U.S.
banks to “neutral” from “overweight” this month.  “The long bank short industrial trade is a crowded one and
has not performed well as risk sentiment has turned,”
strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in a June 17 report.  TCW Group  U.S. banks aren’t “in the firing line” of a Greek default
and their bonds will perform well, according to Tad Rivelle,
head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which oversees about $120 billion.  “We continue to be fans of the systemically critical U.S.
financials,” Rivelle said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Global regulators agreed last weekend that banks deemed too
big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in
additional capital as part of efforts to prevent another
financial crisis. The buffers will range from 1 percentage point
to 2.5 percentage points, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision said in a June 25 statement.  The requirements go beyond capital rules for
internationally active lenders that were published by the Basel
committee last year. Those measures, known as Basel III, require
banks to hold core capital equal to 7 percent of their risk-
weighted assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 