-- 
Polar Bear’s Listing as Threatened Species Upheld by U.S. Federal Judge

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T21:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/polar-bear-s-listing-as-threatened-upheld-in-lawsuit-over-economic-effects.html
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s
decision to list polar bears as threatened under the Endangered
Species Act was reasonable, a federal judge ruled, rejecting
challenges that it limits resource development in  Alaska .  The agency’s decision “represents a reasoned exercise” of
its discretion based on the facts and the available science in
2008 when it made the determination, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan in  Washington  wrote today in a 116-page ruling
granting the government’s request to uphold the designation.  Opponents “failed to demonstrate that the agency’s listing
determination rises to the level of irrationality,” Sullivan
wrote. “Plaintiffs’ challenges amount to nothing more than
competing views about policy and science.”  The Bush administration’s 2008 decision to list the polar
bear as threatened was challenged in several lawsuits including
one by the state of Alaska over claims the designation would
limit resource development and the economy. The administration
cited the effect of global warming on the projected decline in
sea ice that polar bears depend on for survival.  Polar bears, the world’s largest land predators, live on
ice flows in the Arctic regions of Alaska,  Canada ,  Greenland ,
 Norway  and  Russia . The loss of ice is forcing the animals
inland, away from their hunting areas. In October 2009, U.S.
officials proposed setting aside a portion of land and sea ice
larger than the state of  California  as critical habitat for the
bears.  Bear Population  At the time of the listing, there were estimated to be
about 20,000 to 25,000 polar bears worldwide, Sullivan said
today’s ruling.  Sullivan cited the Wildlife Service’s administrative
proceedings, leading to a decision that included more than
16,000 pages of documents and about 670,000 comments from state
and federal agencies, foreign governments, conservation groups
and tribal organizations.  “The court is bound to uphold the agency’s determination
that the polar bear is a threatened species as long as it is
reasonable, regardless of whether there may be other reasonable,
or even more reasonable views,” Sullivan said.  The ruling will become final if no objections are filed by
July 7, the judge said.  Sharon Leighow, a spokeswoman for Alaska Governor Sean Parnell, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Warming ‘Affirmation’  The Fish and Wildlife Service’s designation came after the
 Center for Biological Diversity  filed a complaint in 2005.  Kassie Siegel, director of the center’s Climate Law
Institute, called today’s ruling “an important affirmation that
the science demonstrating that global warming is pushing the
polar bear toward extinction simply cannot be denied.”  “While we are disappointed that the polar bear will not
receive the more protective endangered status it deserves,
maintaining Endangered Species Act listing for the polar bear is
a critical part of giving this species back its future,” Siegel
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is In Re Polar Bear Endangered Species Act Listing
and Rule Litigation, 08-00764, U.S. District Court for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  