-- 
Solorz-Zak to Buy Polkomtel for $5.5 Billion in Record Deal

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-01T08:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/polkomtel-s-owners-will-sell-phone-company-to-solorz-zak-for-5-5-billion.html
Billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak agreed
to buy Polkomtel SA,  Poland ’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, for 15.1 billion zloty ($5.5 billion) in a record
acquisition by a Polish investor.  Shareholders including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  signed a
preliminary accord to sell the Warsaw-based company to Solorz-
Zak late yesterday. The price excludes about 3 billion zloty of
debt and dividend due to current owners. Solorz, who started
Poland’s first private television network in 1992, three years
after the fall of the Communist regime, will finance the deal
with cash and debt, he said in a statement.  Polkomtel will help Solorz-Zak, 54, tap rising demand for
bundled phone, Internet data and TV services in the most
populous country among the European Union’s eastern members.
Ranked by Forbes magazine as the second-wealthiest Pole, Solorz-
Zak will use Polkomtel’s network to accelerate building a high-
speed wireless system to take on  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange.  “The biggest player on the market has just been created,”
 Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by
phone, citing other Solorz-Zak assets including Cyfrowy Polsat
SA, Poland’s second-largest TV network, and investment companies
he is using to build Poland’s first fourth-generation network.  ‘Reasonable Price’  Polkomtel shareholders have been trying to sell their
shares in the mobile-phone company since at least 2003. Besides
Vodafone, the world’s No. 1 wireless carrier, they include oil
refiner PKN Orlen SA, power utility PGE SA, copper producer  KGHM
Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  and coal trader Weglokoks SA.  The purchase price gives Polkomtel an enterprise value of
18.1 billion zloty, or 6.4 times the company’s 2010 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Deals
involving European wireless assets as targets fetched a median
multiple of 9 times in the past five years, according to
Bloomberg data.  Polkomtel reported Ebitda of 2.83 billion zloty last year.
It forecast in April that 2011 earnings will be little changed.  “It looks like a reasonable price,” said Michal Marczak,
an analyst at BRE Bank SA. “But it seems it doesn’t include
control premium.”  Solorz-Zak, who also controls Invest-Bank SA, pension fund
PTE Polsat SA and power utility ZE PAK SA, needs to win
antitrust approval for the transaction by the end of this year,
Polkomtel shareholders said. Forbes estimates his assets at 7.2
billion zloty.  High-Speed Network  Polkomtel plans to raise about $4.9 billion of loans and
bonds to fund the buyout, two people with direct knowledge of
the deal said today. The financing comprises senior and
subordinated debt, they said.  Aero 2 Sp. z o.o. and Mobyland So. z o.o., both owned by
Solorz-Zak, are the first Polish companies to start building a
wireless Internet network based on long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology. Aero will invest 1 billion zloty to cover all of
Poland, Chief Executive Officer Adam Kurianski said yesterday.  Polkomtel, the operator of the Plus brand, has about 14
million customers for voice and Internet services. It competes
with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa and France
Telecom SA’s Telekomunikacja Polska SA unit, which is Poland’s
biggest mobile-phone operator.  “Telekomunikacja and Deutsche Telekom will be left
behind” as far as high-speed wireless Internet is concerned,
said Piotr Janik, an analyst at KBC Securities NV.  Polish Proceeds  Polkomtel’s current Polish owners, all state-controlled,
may need to share the profits from the sale with the government
after Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad said in April that
passing “a significant share” of the sale proceeds to the
government is the “right direction.”  Orlen is raising cash to invest in oil exploration and
production. PGE is spending 38.9 billion zloty on projects
including new  power plants , while KGHM plans to invest a record
10.9 billion zloty this year.  For Vodafone, the deal completes CEO Vittorio Colao’s plan
to unwind part of its portfolio in Europe and  Asia . Vodafone
said its 24 percent holding in Polkomtel will fetch about 920
million euros ($1.3 billion) in cash, which will go toward
repaying debt.  Vodafone Exit  Under Colao, Vodafone has sold a stake in  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 
and reduced its interests in  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. This month,
it completed the sale of its 44 percent holding in French
wireless operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros. Newbury, England-
based Vodafone also has a 45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless ,
the largest U.S. wireless provider,  “This seems to be a happy ending,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who has an
“outperform” rating on Vodafone shares. “This would be the
end of the cleanup of its portfolio.”  Vodafone slipped 0.8 percent to 164.05 pence at 9:23 a.m.
in  London .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., ING Groep NV, Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Rothschild advised Polkomtel’s sellers, while Trigon
Dom Maklerski SA, Deutsche Bank AG and  Credit Agricole  SA
advised Solorz-Zak.  Credit Agricole and Deutsche Bank AG managed the financing
of deal for Solorz-Zak, while Societe Generale SA, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and PKO Bank Polski SA also took part in
funding, according to a statement from the billionaire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  