-- 
Porsche’s Leaner, Meaner Cayman R Gives 911 a Run for Its Money

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/porsche-s-leaner-meaner-cayman-r-gives-911-a-run-for-its-money.html
It’s 3 a.m. and we’re in the airport
parking lot in  Long Beach , California, hollow-eyed after delays
turned the flight from New York into a 12-hour ordeal.  In front of us is the car I’ll be testing for the weekend.
My fatigue flutters away. I’m thrilled. My wife: Not so much.  “It’s puce,” she says.  “It’s a Porsche,” I answer.  “A puce Porsche.”  Just a trick of the overhead fluorescent lights on the
paint job of the $66,300 Cayman R. Actually, the sports car is
an odd shade of green that reminds me of diluted absinthe.
Peridot, Porsche calls it, like the gem stone. So that’s better.
Sort of.  “Look how practical,” I say, throwing Miranda’s rolling
bag and my two backpacks into the rear hatch. Impressive for a
two-seat sports car built for speed.  We’ve got more than an hour of driving ahead, so I insert
the key into the left-hand ignition, a peculiar Porsche
idiosyncrasy, and start the six-cylinder, mid-mounted engine. I
hear a pleasant buzz behind my head.  “This trip is already worth it,” I declare, illustrating
the danger of marrying a car nut.  The sports seats are narrow and extremely firm. Ideal for
cradling you during G-turns on the track; not so great after
being crammed on an airplane.  Porsche first released the Cayman in 2006 as a fixed-roof
sibling to the Boxster roadster. Both are light and have motors
located behind the cockpit. The R is lighter, faster and more
expensive than the regular $51,900 Cayman and $62,100 Cayman S
models.  The car takes to corners like a bloodhound sticks to the
trail of a chain gang escapee. Point it in the right direction
and its instincts are irrepressible.  Catching the 911  The conspiracy-minded among us believe there’s a good
reason Porsche has never released a Cayman with an engine as
powerful as the venerable 911 -- it just might whip its more
expensive uncle. The 911 has a rear-mounted engine, a quirk that
is also an engineering liability.  The R model Cayman we’re driving would give a base 911 a
run for its money. That’s $66,300 versus $79,000; 330 horses
versus 345. The R has dumped 121 pounds over the Cayman S,
weighing only 2,855 pounds. It also bumped up the engine by 10
horsepower. The bloodhound’s diet has given it more bite.  The vehicle gets a small fixed wing in the rear and rather
immodest Porsche lettering along the sides. Peridot is not the
only  available color .  Bark  We zoom onto the I-405 South, and I engage a switch that
opens flaps to the muffler -- a $2,810 option that lets the
engine bark more freely. Snick-snick-snicking through the
perfectly situated manual gears, we’re soon in sixth. A double-
clutch, PDK automated transmission is available for $3,660 more.  Those who spend time on the race track might also consider
the $8,150 ceramic composite brakes.  At this hour there’s still traffic, but fellow drivers are
bombing along at speeds far above the posted 65. A simple dip of
the gas is all that’s needed to keep up. The weight of the gas
pedal and steering are perfectly tuned and utterly harmonious --
better than any Porsche I’ve driven.  There’s no doubt that the Cayman R would handle
miraculously on the racetrack. In the real world, however, the
less-weight/more-power formula requires a bit of explanation.  Weight Watching  “What’s with these dorky pull straps?” my wife asks,
fingering a floppy piece of fabric where the interior door
handle should be.  “Taking off the handles saves weight,” I reply.  “Really? Then why does it have that huge clock?” she
asks, pointing to the dial atop the dashboard. Not a clock, I
explain, but the sport chronographer, which records laps times
on the racetrack. “Now that’s needless weight,” she says.  What she can’t see are the lighter aluminum doors and re-
engineered wheels, which also whittle away pounds. Oh, there’s
no air conditioner, either. That’s a $1,760 option.  We exit on a toll road leading toward the ocean, taking us
through rolling hills. It’s extremely dark and misting lightly.
It feels as if we have this part of  California  to ourselves and
I leave the stereo off, enjoying the sound of 19-inch tires
confidently grabbing slick pavement.  There’s something about the feel of a two-seat Porsche that
remains mechanical and linear, divorced from the cold digital
sensation of many new  sports cars . The Cayman R embodies this.  It’s after 4 a.m. when we finally arrive at our rented
house in Oceanside, north of  San Diego . Some dozen friends are
already here, gathered for an annual 10K charity foot race.
Every year I show up in a different sports car. It’s become part
of the event itself, somehow.  The next morning several early risers are sipping coffee
and standing around the Cayman R.  “Awesome ride,” says one. “But what’s up with that
color?”  The 2012 Porsche Cayman R at a Glance  Engine: 3.4-liter six-cylinder with 330 horsepower and 273  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 19 city; 27 highway.  Price as tested: $81,685.  Best features: Drives like a purist’s vehicle; space for  luggage.  Worst feature: Pricey add-ons.  Target buyer: The driver who likes a car lean and mean.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 