-- 
Portugal Plans One-Time Tax Surcharge on Citizens for $113 Billion Bailout

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-06-30T17:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/portugal-plans-one-time-tax-on-citizens-to-meet-113-billion-bailout-plan.html
Portugal  is preparing a one-time
income-tax surcharge to help it reach this year’s budget-deficit
target, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said.  The tax will apply to all income subject to personal income
taxes and the revenue raised will be equivalent to 50 percent of
the Christmas supplements all workers receive, excluding the
amount below the national  minimum wage , Passos Coelho said in
his first speech to parliament since his election this month.
The Christmas payment is equal to a month’s salary.  Portugal’s new government is committed to an austerity plan
that was a condition of a 78 billion-euro ($113 billion)
financial aid package from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . With the country’s debt and
borrowing costs surging, Portugal followed  Greece  and Ireland in
April in seeking a bailout.  “The state of the public accounts forces me to ask the
Portuguese for more sacrifices,” Passos Coelho said today at
the parliament in Lisbon. “We have objectives to fulfill that
leave us with no feasible alternatives.”  The austerity plan aims to reduce the deficit to the EU
ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 from 5.9
percent in 2011 and last year’s 9.1 percent.  The government needs additional measures worth about 2
billion euros to meet this year’s target, Passos Coelho said.
The tax surcharge will raise about 800 million euros toward that
goal, he said. Last year’s deficit was 15.8 billion euros, the
National Statistics Institute  said  yesterday. The  Finance
Ministry  will issue a detailed proposal for the one-time tax
within two weeks, Passos Coelho said.  Shrinking Economy  “All measures aimed at increasing government revenue are
positive, but this extraordinary measure is not enough to calm
markets,” said Filipe Silva, who manages 60 million euros of
debt securities including Portuguese government bonds at Banco
Carregosa SA in Oporto, northern Portugal. “What markets need
to know are what concrete measures will be taken about Greece.”  The economy is set to shrink this year and unemployment is
12.4 percent, even before the government pushes through demands
from the EU and the IMF. “Without budget consolidation, we
won’t have growth,” Passos Coelho said.  The government aims to bring forward to the third quarter
some of the measures included in the bailout program, including
a restructuring of state-owned companies and the state-asset
sales, the prime minister said.  Passos Coelho said the government will seek to sell its
holdings in electricity company EDP-Energias de Portugal SA and
power-grid operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA in the
third quarter. The government said in its program, issued on
June 28, that it would seek to sell the stakes by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  