-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens to Least in 15 Months Against Euro as Rate Bets Decline

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/pound-declines-against-its-major-peers-as-house-prices-unchanged-in-june.html
The pound slid to a more than 15-
month low against the euro on bets a faltering economy will curb
the  Bank of England ’s scope to raise interest rates, while the
 European Central Bank  lifts borrowing costs to tame inflation.  Sterling weakened versus all but one of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, depreciating the most versus  South Korea ’s
won. U.K.  consumer confidence  fell more than economists forecast
this month and mortgage demand is predicted to drop in the third
quarter, reports today showed.  Barclays Capital  pushed back its
forecast for policy makers to increase rates.  “The shift in monetary-policy stance away from inflation
hawkishness to a more growth-supportive position is the biggest
reason why the pound is weaker,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 London . “The growth picture is not what the market is looking
for, so we are returning to the possibility of interest rates
staying lower for longer. That keeps sterling a firm sell.”  Sterling weakened for a fourth day against the euro,
depreciating as much as 0.9 percent to 90.69 pence, the least
since March 16, 2010. The U.K. currency traded at 90.39 pence as
of 4:42 p.m. in London. It was little changed at $1.6058, after
earlier reaching $1.5973, the sixth successive day it has traded
weaker than $1.60.  Economic Decline  The pound has slumped this year against 12 of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg as Conservative Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s austerity measures to shrink the  budget deficit 
crimp growth and inflation squeezes incomes at the fastest pace
since the 1970s. Efforts to eliminate the bulk of the fiscal
shortfall by 2015 involve the deepest spending cuts since World
War II and more than 300,000 state-employee job losses.  Sputtering economic growth has prompted traders to reduce
bets on higher rates, with the implied yield on short-sterling
futures expiring in March falling two basis points today to 1.05
percent, down from a high of 2.08 percent in February.  Barclays Capital now sees the Bank of England benchmark
rate on hold until May 2012. The bank, which previously forecast
a rate increase in November, said in an e-mailed note today that
the change reflects weaker than previously expected economic
growth and recent comments from U.K. policy makers.  Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said on June 27
that a call by the  Bank for International Settlements  for higher
rates worldwide to curb inflation was “nonsense.” Governor
 Mervyn King  said this month that the euro-area debt crisis and
the threat of a default in  Greece  pose the biggest risk to the
stability of the U.K. financial system.  Rate Bets  Consumer confidence fell to minus 25 from minus 21 last
month, GfK NOP said today in a report. Economists predicted a
reading of minus 24, according to a median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Investors are betting the central bank will raise borrowing
costs next May, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average, data from Tullett Prebon Plc show.
As recently as February, traders were betting on a rate increase
in May of this year, the data showed.  Gilts fell for a fourth day, lifting 10-year yields five
basis points to 3.38 percent. The two-year note yield increased
one basis point to 0.82 percent.  U.K. government bonds have returned 2 percent this year,
compared with a 0.1 percent increase for German debt and a 2.6
percent return for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies. Greek bonds lost 16 percent amid concern the
nation would default, the indexes show.  Bad Loans  U.K. banks expect default rates to increase in the third
quarter after they were “broadly unchanged” in the second
quarter, the Bank of England said in its Credit Conditions
Survey published in London today.  “The credit survey suggests that rates aren’t going to go
up any time soon,” said Chris Huddleston, a trader at Investec
Bank Plc in London. “That’s leaning on the pound a little.”  The central bank will probably leave the benchmark interest
rate on hold at a record low of 0.5 percent until after Governor
King retires in 2013 as debt deleveraging curbs growth,  Gerard Lyons , chief economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a
speech yesterday at a conference hosted by the British Bankers’
Association in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  