-- 
Prince William to Watch Cowboy Stampede With Duchess on Canada Royal Tour

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/prince-william-to-watch-rodeo-with-duchess-on-canada-royal-tour.html
Prince William  and his new wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, began their first official foreign trip as
a married couple today in Canada -- a nine-day tour that
includes road hockey and a visit to a cowboy rodeo.  The couple arrived in the capital city Ottawa and laid a
wreath at the National War Memorial with Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , then spent a half-hour chatting with veterans and people
lining the streets before meeting Governor General David Johnston.  “We are truly looking forward to this adventure,” William
said in a brief speech at Johnston’s official residence.
Delivering about half his speech in French, he said, “we could
not be better accompanied than by the great Canadian family,”
then joked about his ability to speak French by saying “it will
improve as we go on.”  William is second in line to the British throne and his
April 29 marriage in  London  to  Kate Middleton  was seen by an
estimated audience of 2 billion. William, 29, is the grandson of
 Queen Elizabeth  II and son of the late Diana, Princess of  Wales ,
while the Duchess, 29, is the first woman from outside royalty
or the aristocracy to marry so closely to the British throne in
350 years.  William is following in his great-grandparents’ footsteps
during today’s visit to Ottawa. The war memorial was officially
unveiled on May 21, 1939, by King George VI and Queen Elizabeth
during the first-ever Canadian visit by a reigning monarch.  ‘Quite a Coup’  “They know they’re going to a generally warm welcome,”
said  Steve Hewitt , a lecturer in Canadian and American studies
at Birmingham University in central  England  and editor of the
Journal of Canadian Studies. “The Canadians think it’s quite a
coup to have got them to Canada first.”  Tomorrow, the couple will  attend events  related to Canada
Day, the anniversary of the country’s creation in 1867 under
Queen Victoria. Crowds on Parliament Hill could top the 2008
total of 460,000 estimated by the National Capital Commission,
which is responsible for promoting the Ottawa region. “We are
always prepared for best possible crowd turnout,” said Denise
LeBlanc, a spokeswoman for the commission.  The government published a 106-page media guide for the
 tour , which will be covered by more than 1,400 journalists. Most
downtown hotels in Ottawa sold out “many weeks ago,” said
Ottawa Tourism spokeswoman Jantine Van Kregten. “The royal
visit has sent interest through the roof.”  ‘Our Age’  “It’s exciting because they’re our age,” said Ashley
Thorvaldson, who turned 30 the day after the royal wedding and
said that was “the ultimate template” for her peers.
Thorvaldson, who brought a friend to see the couple, waited
behind a barricade at the War Memorial for a chance to see them.  The royal tour through July 8 also encompasses the
provinces of  Quebec , Prince  Edward Island  and  Alberta . “This is
going to be perhaps the largest, most watched royal visit in
Canada’s history,” Canadian Heritage Minister  James Moore  said
at a June 21 press conference where the detailed schedule was
released.  Moore said the Duchess is a fan of “ Anne of Green
Gables ,” Lucy Maud Montgomery’s 1908 novel, when he was asked
about other special cultural side-trips the couple may take. The
tour lists a stop at  Dalvay By The Sea , a resort in Prince
Edward Island that was used as a backdrop in a television series
based on the book.  The couple will also visit the city of Yellowknife in the
 Northwest Territories , where they will see a game of road hockey
and drumming by local aboriginal groups.  ‘Revive the Monarchy’  “They are balancing a number of youth-based events with
the very historic engagements that members of the royal family
have done for hundreds of years,” said Carolyn Harris, who is
completing a doctoral thesis on perceptions of the British and
French queens in the 17th and 18th centuries at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario. “There is a sense that William
and Kate’s popularity could revive the monarchy in future
generations,” she said.  Harris also said  Canada  was probably chosen because it’s a
member of the British Commonwealth and has not had the level of
criticism of the monarchy seen in countries such as  Australia ,
which held a referendum on abolishing the institution in 1999.  The French-speaking province of Quebec is the only place
where the couple isn’t sure of seeing friendly crowds,
Birmingham University’s Hewitt said.  The trip ends in Calgary where the couple will open the
city’s  Stampede , one of the world’s largest cowboy rodeos, and
another potential site of controversy. The Vancouver  Humane
Society , which calls the event “a spectacle of animal
cruelty,”  is asking  the couple to boycott the stampede.  After the Canadian visit, William and the Duchess head to
 Los Angeles .  “The royal couple visiting some remarkable places in the
country is something that I think is of great value to, not only
to Canada’s image internationally, but also tourism,” Moore
told reporters June 21. “This is their first visit, it will not
be their last.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 