-- 
RBA’s McKibbin Sees Greece as First Carriage in World Fiscal ‘Train Wreck’

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-30T03:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/rba-s-mckibbin-sees-greece-as-first-carriage-in-world-fiscal-train-wreck-.html
Greece is one of several nations
that will need to cut spending and boost taxes, slowing global
growth even as low interest rates raise the risk of inflation,
Australian central bank board member Warwick McKibbin said.  The fiscal outlook “is what I call the slow motion train
wreck -- the first carriage to break is going to be the Greek
economy, but we have a series of economies facing very serious
fiscal adjustment,” said McKibbin, a professor at Australian
National University whose board term ends July 30, in a speech
in Melbourne today. He said his comments reflected his personal
views, not those of the  Reserve Bank  of Australia.  Greece’s capital has been paralyzed for the past two days
by a general strike and protests from more than 20,000 people as
lawmakers deliberate on Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s $112
billion austerity plan. Having won passage for a bill setting
out his strategy for budget cuts, Papandreou must today win a
second ballot to execute measures ranging from tax increases to
asset sales.  “There’s almost guaranteed collapse or crisis in the  euro
zone  and there’s serious global inflation problems and a policy
response looming,” said McKibbin, who is also a senior fellow
at the Brookings Institution in  Washington . “All of these have
implications for relative commodity prices.”  In contrast, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  in a speech at the same
 Melbourne  conference today said: “Some have a dire view of
what’s happening in  Europe . I don’t share those views.”  Euro Advancing  The euro rose to a three-week high on prospects the
 European Central Bank  will raise borrowing costs next week to
curb inflation. The currency climbed to as high as $1.4504, the
highest level since June 10, before trading at $1.4498 as of
11:59 a.m. in  Tokyo .  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 28 that
policy makers are in “strong vigilance mode.”  Australia is experiencing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India , two economies that account for more than a third of
the world’s population. That’s bolstered demand for  Australia ’s
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which advanced
27 percent in the past year and reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Australian Boom  “Everyone seems to be focusing primarily on maximizing the
return of this resources boom. I think that’s the wrong focus,
we also need to focus on minimizing risk,” McKibbin said.
“China and India seem to be in everyone’s minds, but also there
is a key contribution from very loose monetary policy.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark rate near
zero since December 2008 and is scheduled to complete Treasury
purchases today under a $600 billion program of so-called
quantitative easing.  “If you ignore the monetary aspects of what’s happening in
the global economy, you are going to be over-optimistic in many
projections,” McKibbin said.  Australia’s central bank, in a May 6 policy statement,
forecast growth in 2011 at 4.25 percent. Consumer prices will
rise 3.25 percent over the period and core inflation will
quicken to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said. The RBA aims to
keep price growth between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  Greek lawmakers yesterday needed the protection of riot
police who frequently deployed tear gas in violent clashes with
protesters. A blaze at the Hellenic Post Office, on the ground
floor of the building housing the  finance ministry  opposite the
legislature, was doused by fire fighters.  Greek Yields  While approval today would pave the way for  Greece  to
secure a fifth tranche of money from the European Union to
prevent a default, the yield on the country’s two-year bond
yesterday remained above 27 percent for an 11th day.  The yield on the 4.6 percent note maturing in May 2013 has
jumped to 27.31 percent from 16.93 percent on April 13, when
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  raised the prospect
that Greece may have to restructure its debt.  Under the terms of the new austerity plan, Papandreou has
pledged to find buyers for state assets worth 50 billion euros
($72 billion) and impose levies ranging from 1 percent to 5
percent on wages. He also plans higher taxes on restaurants and
bars, higher heating-oil taxes and lowering the tax-free
threshold to 8,000 euros from 12,000 euros presently.  The Greek government’s struggles to gain aid needed to
avoid a default helped send Australian two-year government bond
yields to a nine-month low, on concern Europe’s debt crisis
would lead to a repeat of the credit crunch that followed the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “All these issues are going to determine what’s happening
in the global sphere and all of these will impact on the
Australian economy,” McKibbin said.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in minutes of the bank’s
June 7 meeting released last week that his board will weigh
developments in Europe against a forecast acceleration in price
growth in deciding whether to raise  interest rates . Stevens has
held the cash-rate target at 4.75 percent, the highest level in
the developed world, for the past six meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  