-- 
‘Ticked-Off’ Republican Senators Block Session on Three U.S. Trade Accords

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/republicans-seek-to-strike-worker-aid-from-korea-pact-as-kirk-urges-comity.html
Republicans led by Senator Orrin Hatch blocked a Senate hearing on three free-trade agreements,
as efforts to act on the long-stalled deals collapsed in
partisan rancor over aid to displaced workers.  Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee boycotted a
hearing today on the trade pacts with South Korea, Colombia and
Panama, denying Democrats a quorum and a chance to advance the
measures that have languished since 2007. The Republicans said
President Barack Obama and Democrats included aid to workers who
lose jobs to overseas competition over their objections.  “The president knew where we stood, and he decided to
ignore those who don’t agree with him,” Hatch, the top
Republican on the committee, said at a Capitol news conference.
“The president chose to go down this path, and he’s going to
have to live with this choice.”  As Democrats gathered in a Washington hearing room for the
3 p.m. hearing, Republicans held the news conference to blast
the administration’s handling of the agreements. The blow-up
denied both sides a bipartisan victory they said they wanted.
Democrats said it was a portent for debt-ceiling talks between
Republicans and Obama.  After pressure from Republicans to move ahead on trade,
Obama reworked agreements that his predecessor, George W. Bush,
made with South Korea, Panama and Colombia. The administration
won support from major business groups for the trade deals,
backing it has been unable to win on health-care and
environmental regulations.  ‘Dawdling’ Dispute  “Ironically, our colleagues who are not here today are the
same ones who have been attacking the administration over what
they called dawdling over these agreements,” Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in the hearing room.
“They don’t want anything passed here.”  Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and the committee
chairman, said Congress was now “farther away” from approving
the three agreements. After the hearing, he pledged to try to
find a way to pass both the trade deals and worker aid.  Legislation to implement the three trade bills is covered
by fast-track protection, which guarantees that once the bills
are submitted to Congress by the president they can’t be amended
and must receive up-or-down votes.  Before the administration submits legislation, committees
in the House and Senate conduct “mock markups,” which let
lawmakers seek to amend provisions in the bill. The Senate
hearing today was intended to be the first such session.  Trade Assistance  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus bill in 2009, it
was expanded to include service workers such as call-center
employees. Those added benefits expired in February.  “One of the ways that we can build bipartisan support, and
frankly, answer the fears of the American public is to have a
robust trade-adjustment package,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron
Kirk said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “If you
look at the cost of it over 10 years, I think it is a small
price to pay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  