-- 
Republican Trade-Deal Boycott Derails Obama Push for Swift Senate Vote

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/republican-boycott-of-free-trade-accords-derails-obama-push-for-swift-vote.html
A Republican boycott of a Senate
hearing on three free-trade agreements set back efforts by
President  Barack Obama  and business groups to get the long-
delayed accords completed before a recess in August.  The Senate Finance Committee was unable to consider trade
pacts with South Korea,  Colombia  and  Panama  yesterday because no
Republicans showed up, denying Democrats a quorum to advance
measures that have languished since 2007. Republicans balked at
including aid for displaced workers in the trade package.  “I don’t understand why the Republicans are playing it out
like this,”  William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign
Trade Council , a Washington-based group that represents
companies such as  Boeing Co. (BA) , said in an interview. “They spent
2 1/2 years waiting for Obama to send these up. He basically
folded, and as these things go the price was cheap.”  The additional worker-aid programs are estimated to cost
$320 million annually for the next two years, according to the
Senate committee.  The blow-up denied both sides a bipartisan victory they
said they wanted on deals supporters say may increase exports by
$12 billion a year and boost the still-struggling  U.S. economy .
A separate South Korean free-trade deal with the European Union
goes into effect today, which would put U.S. producers of autos,
pharmaceuticals and scientific equipment at a disadvantage in
the Asian economy.  Democrats said yesterday’s dispute was also a portent for
debt-ceiling talks between Republicans and Obama.  “It’s a big question mark as to where this goes,” Greg Mastel, a lobbyist and former chief of staff to Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , said in an interview. “Trade has
traditionally been one of the more bipartisan areas Congress has
worked on. If they can’t work out the FTAs, the debt limit could
be pretty difficult.”  Reworked Deals  After pressure from Republicans to move ahead on trade,
Obama reworked agreements that his predecessor,  George W. Bush ,
made with South Korea, Panama and Colombia. The administration
won backing from major business groups such as the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce for the trade deals, support it has been unable to
win on health-care and environmental regulations.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said the Republican protest put
Congress “farther away” from approving the agreements. After
the hearing, he pledged to try to find a way to pass both the
trade deals and worker aid, and the  House of Representatives  may
take up the accords as soon as next week.  Legislation to implement the three trade bills is covered
by fast-track protection, which guarantees that once the bills
are submitted to Congress by the president they can’t be amended
and must receive up-or-down votes.  Mock Markups  Before the administration submits legislation, committees
in the House and Senate conduct “mock markups,” which let
lawmakers seek to amend provisions in the bill. The Senate
hearing yesterday was intended to be the first such session.  Republicans made two objections in announcing their boycott
of the hearing. First, they said Baucus was rushing to move the
deals just as they were preparing to leave for a holiday-weekend
break.  “This thing was sprung on us two days ago and we got all
these amendments,” Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota
Republican, said in an interview. “They schedule it at 3
o’clock on a Thursday afternoon. Everybody’s getting out of
town.”  They also said they object to inclusion of the worker aid
program in the  South Korea  legislation, which they said amounts
to reckless spending and a violation of fast-track procedures.
Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the panel, has
led the charge against the expanded worker aid.  ‘Jam Us’  “The White House wanted to jam us, and we’re not going to
put up with being jammed,” Hatch said at a news conference.
“We’re not going to get shoved around like this.”  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus bill in 2009, it
was expanded to include service workers such as call-center
employees. Those added benefits expired in February.  The compromise announced by the White House on June 28
would preserve those benefits for service workers while trimming
the length of funding for training and health care.  “It doesn’t look unreasonable, but it’s not clear why they
would stick it into the” Korea legislation, said Philip Levy, a
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington  and
former Bush administration trade official. “The fact that this
is such as problem shows that this hasn’t been handled well at
all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  