-- 
Republicans Seek ‘Slash and Burn’ Cuts to Slow U.S. Economy, Schumer Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-06-30T15:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/republicans-seek-slash-and-burn-cuts-to-slow-u-s-economy-schumer-says.html
Charles Schumer , the Senate’s No. 3
Democratic leader, accused Republicans of seeking to slow the
 U.S. economy  for political gain in the debate over cutting
budget deficits. He insisted Democrats have the “upper hand”
in the negotiations.  Raising the rhetorical stakes while party leaders are far
apart over a plan to cut the deficit and increase the U.S. debt
limit, Schumer said Republican leaders are seeking deep spending
cuts as part of an effort to slow U.S. growth and hurt President
Barack Obama’s chances of winning re-election next year.  “It is becoming clear that insisting on a slash-and-burn
approach may be part of this plan,” Schumer said today at the
 Economic Policy Institute  in  Washington . “It has a double
benefit for Republicans: It is ideologically tidy and it
undermines the economic recovery, which they think only helps
them in 2012.”  The Treasury Department says lawmakers must raise the $14.3
trillion debt limit by Aug. 2 or risk a default on U.S.
obligations. The two parties are at odds over Republican demands
that only spending cuts, and no tax increases, be included in a
companion plan to cut record-high deficits.  Yesterday, Obama insisted higher taxes must be part of any
budget pact and warned of “significant and unpredictable”
consequences if Congress doesn’t act soon to raise the debt
ceiling.  McConnell Response  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said today the slowing economy
has little to do with Republican policies because Democrats
control the White House and the Senate.  “The president said yesterday that deficit reduction is
important to grow the economy and to create jobs,” Stewart
said. “The deficit has gone up dramatically under Democratic
control of the Senate and the White House.”  Schumer said Democrats have the advantage in deficit talks,
in part because Republican leaders last week quit bipartisan
negotiations led by Vice President  Joe Biden  over the tax issue.
The public will likely blame Republicans for any default on
obligations to bondholders, he said, and Democrats should have
little reason to give in on their main demands.  Those include higher revenue and a requirement that any
deficit-reduction deal leave intact benefits for Medicare
beneficiaries, he said. He declined to give the size of tax
increases Democrats want to see in a final plan.  ‘Testing the Limits’  Republicans who “say they are perfectly willing to default
on our obligations rather than give a single inch,” Schumer
said, are “testing the limits of these talks to see how
possible it is to get a deal fully on their terms.”  “I think they are bluffing,” he said. “We have a good
opportunity to prevail on our critical priorities.”  Schumer provided details on a “jobs agenda” Senate
Democrats plan to advance during the next six months in an
effort to jump-start work in the Senate, which has accomplished
little this year.  He said Democrats will propose a measure to boost highway
construction, clean-energy legislation and a measure to overhaul
the visa system for highly skilled immigrant workers. Schumer
said his party will pursue bipartisan legislation to press  China 
to raise the value of its currency and help U.S. manufacturers
compete against Chinese imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  