-- 
Rhodia’s Juery Says Target Intact After ‘Strong’ Price Gain

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-30T14:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/rhodia-s-juery-says-2011-target-intact-after-strong-price-gain.html
Rhodia SA (RHA) , the French specialty
chemicals maker being bought by  Solvay SA (SOLB) , is successfully
passing on higher raw-material costs through price increases,
allowing it to stick to an annual profit target, according to
Executive Vice President Pascal Juery.  “The strong increase in our selling prices is allowing us
to remain ahead of the raw-material cost curve,” Juery said in
an interview. “This isn’t something that may jeopardize our
guidance.”  Rhodia still targets earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of more than 1 billion euros ($1.5
billion) for this year, Juery said June 28. Ebitda, excluding
one-time items, totaled 905 million euros in 2010.  Being on course to meet targets will encourage shareholders
of Solvay in the wake of paint and specialty chemical maker Akzo
Nobel SA’s warning this week that it will report a surprise drop
in second-quarter profit because of higher input costs and
factory stoppages. Belgian company Solvay is buying-up the last
remaining shares of La Defense-based Rhodia in a deal valued at
6.6 billion euros.  “We can’t say that signs of economic slowdown that have
emerged in recent weeks in the U.S.,  Europe  and China translates
in a significant way on our order book,” Juery said.  Shares of Solvay rose 0.1 percent to 106.85 euros as of
10:28 a.m. in Brussels, where the company is based.  No Second Quarter Surprises  The world’s biggest soda-ash maker announced the purchase
of Rhodia in April, making it the latest specialty chemical
maker to be targeted. Emerging-market demand is driving growth
in surfactants and other ingredients that enhance oil recovery
and lift the efficiency of cosmetics, cleansing products and
pesticides.  Rhodia’s second quarter has shaped up as management
foresaw, Juery said. A strong increase in raw-material costs in
the first quarter has been followed by a period of stability or
even “slight decline” in expenses, excluding rare earths and
butadiene, said Juery.  The executive heads Rhodia’s consumer chemicals business
Novecare. The division is “clearly” growing at a pace of more
than 10 percent this year, putting it “rather” ahead of a plan
announced in December, the Rhodia executive said.  Active Pipeline  Juery is looking at possible acquisitions for Novecare in
 India  and eastern Europe, Juery said.  “India is one of the countries that we are looking at”
for acquisitions, Juery said. “We have a pipeline. We keep
looking at it in a very active way.”  In Europe and the U.S., Rhodia may acquire companies making
adjacent products such as skin-care ingredients that offer
synergies with existing businesses, Juery said.  Rhodia, which paid $489 million in 2010 for Feixiang
Chemicals, a Chinese maker of amines and surfactants, and $100
million in 2009 for McIntyre Group Ltd, a maker of surfactants
based near  Chicago . The company “will keep its financial
discipline,” Juery said. Paying 10 to 12 times Ebitda “isn’t
necessarily reasonable, though it depends on synergies.”  To meet rising demand in emerging markets, Rhodia may
boost its production capacity of fluorinated intermediates used
in pesticides, phone batteries and flat panels both in  France 
and  China  or  Korea , Juery said. Rhodia is already benefiting
from booming demand for its products derived from guar beans
used in shampoos, shale oil recovery, and anti-drift pesticides.  Rhodia, which is expanding its surfactant production
capacities in China, may do the same in India and is in talks
with ZAO Sibur Holding to create a joint venture to tap the
Russian market, Juery said. It may build a vanillin factory in
China in two or three year’s time, and could boost its
production capacity of non-toxic solvents derived from sugar
cane’s ethanol in  Brazil , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 