-- 
Rice Supplies Tightening in China May Increase Imports, Bolster Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-30T09:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/rice-supplies-tightening-in-china-may-increase-imports-bolster-inflation.html
Rice supply in  China , the world’s
biggest grower and consumer, may decline after drought and
floods damaged crops, potentially boosting inflation and
increasing imports.  The early indica harvest may drop in some areas, said eight
of 12 officials, traders and farmers surveyed by Bloomberg News
in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces, the top producers of the variety
which represents 17 percent of annual output. The crop may
increase or be about the same as last year, said four of those
surveyed from June 21 to June 25. Output of this type already
dropped last year to the lowest level since 2003, according to
the statistics bureau.  Lower production may bolster rice futures in China that
jumped 29 percent in the past year and increase imports that
doubled in the first five months. Surging food costs because of
drought and floods helped lift inflation to 5.5 percent last
month, the fastest pace in almost three years. The rate may
quicken to more than 6 percent in June, adding pressure on the
central bank to increase  interest rates , some economists said.  “Competition for the early rice harvest will be quite
intense given expectations for low output, likely driving up
prices,” said Zhang Ting, an analyst at Cngrain.com, a
researcher owned by China Grain Reserves Corp., which manages
the grain reserves. “Output may at best match last year” even
as the planted area probably gained, she said in an interview.  Faster Inflation  Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  climbed 48 percent in the
past year, trailing a 75 percent jump in corn. The export price
from  Thailand , the biggest shipper, gained 8.6 percent. The
lagging performance of rice may be “separating us from a food
crisis.”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the FAO,
said in March.  Inflation in China, the second-biggest economy, has been
driven by gains in meat, grain and vegetables. The cost of food,
almost a third of the  consumer price index , jumped 11.7 percent
in May from a year earlier, boosted by surging pork prices. The
price of packaged rice climbed 19 percent in the year through
June 24, according to the  Ministry of Commerce .  Rising prices in China may boost imports from  Southeast
Asia  including  Vietnam , Cngrain.com’s Zhang said. Purchases in
the first five months doubled to almost 300,000 tons, with
imports shipped from Vietnam surging, according to customs data.
Shipments were 366,192 tons for all last year, data show.  Early indica rice on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange
climbed to 2,661 yuan a ton on May 30, the highest level in more
than three months, and closed at 2,596 yuan today. The
procurement price for unhusked early rice on June 23 was 19
percent higher than a year ago, according to a Cngrain.com
 index .  Lakes Drained  The total rice harvest in China may gain 1 percent to 197.6
million metric tons in 2011 from last year, according to the
grain information center. State grain reserves amount to 40
percent of annual consumption, Zhang Ping, chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, said in March.  Central China experienced the driest three months on record
in the lead up to May, draining the biggest lakes and reservoirs
and cutting irrigation. Between March and May, seven provinces
including Hunan and Jiangxi recorded 60 days without
precipitation, delaying the transplanting of early season
seedlings, the China Meteorological Administration said June 2.  The drought was followed by devastating floods, which
damaged at least 338,000 hectares (835,216 acres) in Jiangxi and
Hunan this month, according to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  Harvest Delays  In Xiangyin county of northern Hunan, one of the areas
worst affected by drought, output may plunge as much as 40
percent from last year, according to Chen Youguang, general
manager of Zhiyou Rice Industry Co., which processes the grain.
Low temperatures also damaged the seedlings, while excessive
rain since June flooded some crops, he said.  “Many of these plants haven’t formed heads,” which should
have been completed by now, Chen said, standing next to green
paddies. The harvest may be delayed by half a month, he said.  The government will set a price floor of 102 yuan ($15.75)
per 50 kilograms for early-indica rice this year, 9.7 percent
higher than last year, the State Administration of Grain said in
March. Farmers will likely demand between 110 yuan to 115 yuan,
according to the traders surveyed.  In Zhuantou village, eastern Hunan, 60-year-old farmer Yang
Dawen said the drought was the worst he has seen. In addition to
the drought, floods this month wiped out some crops, he said in
an interview June 22. “Maybe I’ll get half as much as last
year” from the half acre planted with early rice, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  