-- 
Trichet Signals July Interest Rate Rise As Greece Tries to Avoid Default

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-30T09:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/trichet-signals-july-interest-rate-rise-as-greece-tries-to-avoid-default.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled officials remain determined to
raise borrowing costs next week even as Greece struggles to
stave off a default amid violent street protests.  “The monetary policy stance is still accommodative and
risks to  price stability  are on the upside,” Trichet told
lawmakers in Brussels today. “We are in a state of strong
vigilance and we stand ready to act in a firm and timely manner
to avoid that recent price developments give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures over the medium term.”  ECB officials are concerned that oil-driven inflation and
faster economic growth will fuel wage demands. His comments come
against the backdrop of Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
facing a second ballot in two days trying to pull his country
back from the threat of a default and persuade investors he can
implement a $112 billion-euro austerity plan.  The euro extended its advance against the dollar after
Trichet’s comments, climbing as much as 0.6 percent to $1.4521.
It traded at $1.4491 at 10:52 a.m. in  Frankfurt . German two-year
notes erased an advance, leaving the yield little changed at
1.56 percent.  The ECB’s governing council next convenes in Frankfurt on
July 7. The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by
25 basis points to 1.25 percent in April.  Greek Package  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt rose 33 basis
points today to 1,978 basis points, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps. That signals an 82 percent probability the
nation will fail to meet its commitments within five years. The
yield on the two-year Greek government bond was up 2 basis
points today at 27.566 percent.  European officials are racing to prepare a second bailout
package that could help  Greece  through 2014, while seeking
participation from the region’s banks.  Trichet reiterated the ECB’s opposition to “all concepts
that are not purely voluntary” and called for “the avoidance
of credit events or selective default or default.”  He declined to comment on nations’ proposals as “at this
stage we don’t yet have a position of governments we can
examine.” The ECB remains “very alert. We follow what’s going
on but I can’t give you a precise judgment,” Trichet said.  Fellow ECB officials Ewald Nowotny and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
said a French proposal for involving creditors in the Greek
rescue was “interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  