-- 
RIM Averts Shareholder Showdown in Agreement to Study Chairman Role Change

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/rim-said-investor-s-proposal-to-split-roles-withdrawn-as-committee-formed.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , facing a
shareholder vote on whether to split its chief executive and
chairman roles, agreed to study the overhaul of its management
structure to avoid a public showdown at its investors’ meeting
this month.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP had proposed a split in
the chairman and chief executive officer roles at the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company, where  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis 
are both co-CEOs and co-chairmen. Investors were scheduled to
vote on the measure at RIM’s shareholder meeting on July 12.  Instead, RIM reached an agreement with NEI to withdraw the
proposal so no vote will take place. The company will establish
a committee of independent directors to study its board
structure, the merits of a lead director versus a chair and the
“business necessity” for the company’s co-CEOs to hold
“significant” board-level titles, RIM said yesterday in a
statement.  “At this point, they want to acknowledge there’s an issue
that they want to look at and can’t ignore,” said Alkesh Shah,
an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York. “If they
hadn’t said they would at least consider this split, they would
have had a bigger problem.”  RIM has come under pressure to shake up management as the
BlackBerry smartphone maker loses market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
RIM said on June 16 that quarterly revenue may decline for the
first time in nine years, sending its stock down 21 percent the
next day. The shares have lost half their value this year before
today.  Proxy Firm Support  NEI’s proposal had won support from Glass Lewis & Co. and
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., proxy firms that advise
shareholders how to vote on such measures.  The committee of directors will also “propose and provide
a rationale for a recommended governance structure” that will
include clarification of the CEO and chairman roles, RIM said
yesterday in the statement. The committee will issue a report on
the matter by Jan. 31, 2012.  “RIM and NEI Investments are pleased to have reached an
agreement on this matter,” the company said in the statement.  Robert Walker , vice president, ethical funds at Northwest &
Ethical, who led the shareholder proposal, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Walker said in a June 24 interview that RIM’s shareholders
are increasingly in favor of management change and the
resolution would likely get the support to pass.  ’Perfect Storm’  “It is a bit of a perfect storm in terms of long-term
shareholder coalition around the concept that chairman and co-
CEO should be separated,” he said at the time.  Charlie Wolf , an analyst with Needham & Co., said the
proposal may have been withdrawn because it wasn’t likely to
pass.  “It was a silly proposal,” said Wolf, who is based in  New
York  and has a “hold” rating on the stock. “It was obviously
withdrawn because it had no chance of passing.”  RIM responded separately yesterday to what may have been an
open  letter  posted on the Internet by an employee, saying that
the company takes the operational challenges it faces
‘seriously’ by taking steps including cutting staff.  “Regardless of whether the letter is real, fake,
exaggerated or written with ulterior motivations, it is fair to
say the senior management team at RIM is nonetheless fully aware
of and aggressively addressing both the company’s challenges and
its opportunities,” the company said on its  BlackBerry blog .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  