-- 
Roche Loses Avastin Appeal in Third U.S. Panel Rejection in Breast Cancer

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-30T18:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/roche-loses-avastin-appeal-in-third-u-s-panel-rejection-in-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s failure to
persuade a U.S. panel to back Avastin in breast cancer is the
third such loss for the Swiss drugmaker as it looks for new ways
to expand sales of the world’s top-selling cancer medicine.  A Food and Drug Administration advisory committee voted 6-0
yesterday that Avastin’s use in breast cancer should be
withdrawn because it didn’t work as well in follow-up studies
and can cause deadly bleeding. Roche won conditional approval in
2008 over a similar panel’s objections and is appealing the
FDA’s plan to revoke that clearance.  Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said last week that
he expects Avastin sales to grow “mid-longer term.” Analysts
such as  Michael Leacock  of the Royal Bank of Scotland in  London 
trimmed $1 billion from their peak estimates after the FDA moved
Dec. 16 to withdraw use in  breast cancer , even as European
regulators opted to continue to allow approval.  “For therapies for cancer, we are willing to accept a high
rate of toxicity because the diseases we are treating are so
awful,”  Michael Sekeres , an FDA panel member and oncologist at
the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, said yesterday. “But that is
predicated on therapy effectiveness.”  ‘Off-Label’ Use  Avastin will remain on the market because it’s also cleared
for lung, brain, kidney and colon tumors. Doctors can prescribe
the drug “off label” in breast cancer even if approval is
revoked, though insurers may no longer pay the $8,100-a-month
price tag. Global sales last year were 6.46 billion Swiss francs
($6.22 billion), or 14 percent of Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche’s revenue.  The shares gained 70 centimes, or less than 1 percent, to
140.7 francs at the close of Zurich trading.  “Yesterday’s announcement, while disappointing, does not
come as a surprise,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel
AG in Zurich, wrote today in a note to investors. Weiss has a
“buy” rating on Roche’s shares.  Avastin remains on the market for breast cancer in  Europe .
The European Commission  approved  the drug for broader use paired
with Roche’s Xeloda for patients with metastatic breast tumors
who aren’t suited to other chemotherapy options, Roche said
today. The decision  reversed  an earlier recommendation.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will
continue to cover the drug for breast cancer as long as
“doctors are prescribing it,” said Don McLeod, a spokesman for
the Baltimore-based federal agency. “We often cover off-label
uses for drugs,” he said.  Coverage Decisions  Aetna Inc. (AET) , based in Hartford,  Connecticut , also continues
to pay for the medicine for advanced breast cancer, following
the guidelines from the  National Comprehensive Cancer Network  in
Fort Washington,  Pennsylvania , representing 21 leading cancer
centers, Tammy Arnold, an Aetna spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
UnitedHealth Group Inc. in Minnetonka, Minnesota also said in an
e-mail it would follow NCCN guidelines and continue to cover the
drug.  Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  will revisit its medical
policy on Avastin following a final determination from FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg , said Lori McLaughlin, a
spokeswoman for the insurer.  The FDA advisory panel took a little more than an hour for
its deliberations yesterday, less than half the time allotted.
The advisers also voted unanimously that Avastin didn’t have
benefits in breast cancer and that its risks weren’t justified.  The decision capped two days of testimony from patients
urging the panel to continue access while FDA scientists argued
the drug is too dangerous. Hamburg’s final ruling is at least
weeks away while the agency takes comments from the public
through July 28.  Label Change  “We expect that Hamburg will support the FDA’s position
and that this indication will disappear from the U.S. label,”
 Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd., wrote today in a note to investors. Scannell rates Roche’s
shares “market-perform.”  The debate over breast cancer may shed light on how the FDA
will consider future uses of Avastin such as in ovarian cancer.
Roche said June 4 that the treatment delayed progression of
ovarian tumors and cut the rate of death in two studies, though
there was no sign of improvement in overall survival.  The FDA gave Avastin accelerated approval for breast cancer
in February 2008, overruling its advisory panel, on the basis of
one study that suggested the medicine, combined with
chemotherapy, slowed tumor growth by 5.5 months more than
chemotherapy alone. Required follow-up tests found Avastin kept
cancer at bay for one to two months more than chemotherapy alone.
The drug was also tied to more life-threatening side effects
such as bleeding, stomach tears and high  blood pressure .  Rooting for Avastin  “We all wanted Avastin to succeed, but the reality is that
these studies that we’re talking about did not confirm that,”
said Natalie Compagni-Portis, the panel’s patient representative
from Oakland,  California .  An estimated 230,480 women and 2,140 men in the U.S. will
be diagnosed with breast cancer this year and 39,520 women and
450 men will die of the disease, according to the  American
Cancer Society .  “We are very disappointed by the committee’s
recommendation and hope the commissioner does not decide to
remove an important medicine for women with this incurable
disease who already have too few treatment options,” Charlotte
Arnold, a spokeswoman for Roche, said in an e-mail. “We remain
ready to collaborate with the FDA to find a solution that is in
the best interest of patients who need Avastin.”  New Theory  Roche asked that approval in breast cancer proceed while
the drugmaker tests a new hypothesis that higher levels of a
protein in the blood known as VEGF-A may identify patients who
might derive substantial benefit from Avastin.  The drug was approved in combination with the chemotherapy
paclitaxel as an initial treatment for metastatic breast cancer,
or when the disease has spread to other parts of the body. The
drug is indicated for use in patients without mutations of the
HER2 gene linked to aggressive tumor growth, which accounted for
45,000 diagnoses in the U.S. last year, according to Roche.  About a dozen patients and family members in the audience
began shouting and crying after the advisory panel’s vote,
saying they’d depended on Avastin for years and had no other
treatment options. Steve Walker, a  St. Petersburg , Florida,
scientist who lost his wife to cancer, called the hearing a sham
and said the panel members were selected by the FDA to vote
against the drug.  “I’m here with these breast-cancer patients to make sure
they get a fair deal and they didn’t,” Walker said after the
meeting. “This is outrageous.”  Seeking Meeting  Walker is co-founder of the nonprofit  Abigail Alliance for
Better Access to Developmental Drugs . The group doesn’t take
money from drugmakers and plans to request a meeting with
Hamburg or Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
to voice their concerns about the hearing, he said.  “This is our FDA -- doing a great job for cancer
patients,” Walker said.  The panel members at the Avastin hearing were chosen by
Hamburg’s office, not the drugs division that had called for
approval to be revoked, said  Karen Riley , an agency spokeswoman.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Gemzar is the only other non-hormonal,
first-line treatment for metastatic breast cancer approved in
the last 30 years for HER2-negative tumors, Roche said.
Indianapolis-based Lilly reported $1.15 billion in sales last
year for Gemzar, also approved for ovarian, pancreatic and lung
cancer. Lower-cost generics entered the market in November.  Eisai Co.’s Halaven won FDA approval in November for
patients who have had at least two prior chemotherapy regimens
regardless of their HER2 status. Those with mutations of the
HER2 gene have other options, such as Roche’s Herceptin and
London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb. Additional treatments
for breast cancer include surgery, hormone therapy and radiation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Silver Spring , Maryland, at   clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  