-- 
Tropical Storm Arlene Weakens After Moving Into Mexico

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-06-30T20:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/tropical-storm-arlene-weakens-after-moving-into-mexico-1-.html
Tropical Storm Arlene weakened as it
moved inland over  Mexico  and will dissipate tomorrow over
mountainous terrain, the U.S.  National Hurricane Center  said.  Arlene’s top winds dropped to 40 miles (80 kilometers) per
hour, a decrease from 65 mph earlier today, according to a
hurricane center advisory issued before 5 p.m. New York time.  “Continued weakening is forecast during the next 24 to 36
hours,” the center said, and Arlene may become a tropical
depression by day’s end.  Arlene was the first storm of the 2011  Atlantic hurricane
season , which began June 1. Since forming earlier this week in
the Bay of Campeche, the system has dropped about 8 inches (20
centimeters) of rain on Tuxpan and 6 inches on Tampico,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin America’s largest oil producer,
said its Madero refinery in the northern state of Tamaulipas is
running normally. The refinery has a capacity of 190,000 barrels
a day.  The storm’s wind and rain may affect 200,000 people across
the states of Veracruz, Tamaulipas, Hidalgo, Puebla, Queretaro
and San Luis Potosi, according to a statement on the  website  of
Mexico’s Interior Ministry.  In Veracruz, Governor Javier Duarte de Ochoa asked for the
central government to declare a state of emergency, according to
a  statement  on the state’s website.  The storm was about 60 miles north-northwest of Tuxpan and
moving west at 7 mph, according to the latest advisory from the
U.S. center.  Computer models show a low pressure system developing in
the  Pacific Ocean  in about two days, the hurricane center said.
Forecasters don’t know if this will be the remains of Arlene or
a new system, although they don’t expect it will strengthen
because the ocean water is cool.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  