-- 
Russia Leaves Rates Unchanged on Inflation, Global Economy

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-30T16:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/russia-leaves-rates-unchanged-on-inflation-global-economy-2-.html
Russia’s central bank left interest
rates unchanged, refraining from monetary tightening for the
first time since November as inflation slows and  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatens to sap a rebound in global growth.  Bank Rossii held its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent after
two increases this year, the Moscow-based bank  said  today on its
website. That matched the forecasts of 18 of 19 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The bank left the overnight auction-based
repurchase rate and the overnight deposit rate unchanged at 5.5
percent and 3.5 percent and didn’t alter reserve ratios.  “The central bank is first and foremost looking at the
external risks, and headline inflation is also slowing down,”
Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview. “But, crucially, they
still see underlying inflation pressures and I think they’ll
remain in a tightening mode.”  The central bank has been raising interest rates and
 reserve requirements  every month since December to soak up
excess cash and combat the fastest price growth among the so-
called BRIC countries. Policy makers are predicting a slowdown
in inflation in the second half, while also seeking to protect
economic growth as the global recovery appears to stumble.  ‘Appropriate’ Rates  The inflation rate was at 9.4 percent on June 27 from a
year earlier, the lowest in 2011, the central bank said today,
adding that rates are “appropriate” for the coming months.  “This decision was based on the assessment of inflation
risks and risks to the sustainability of economic growth,” it
said in the statement, citing uncertainty over the development
of the “external economic situation.”  The ruble climbed to the strongest level in more than two
weeks against the U.S. currency, advancing for a third day at
the 5 p.m. close in Moscow before the rate decision.  Russia ’s
currency gained 0.3 percent to 27.90 per dollar, extending its
advance this quarter to 1.9 percent.  Slower growth of retail deposits signals a drop in the
saving rate, which may stoke inflation risks, Bank Rossii said.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending and credit growth remain a risk to price
growth, said Augulyte, who expects the central bank to lift the
refinancing rate by another quarter-point in 2011 and also
predicts three more increases in the deposit rate this year.  Consumer prices will rise no more than 5.2 percent in the
first half and another 0.3 percent to 0.4 percent in the third
quarter,  Alexei Ulyukayev , a Bank Rossii first deputy chairman,
said June 17. The central bank is “comfortable” with current
 interest rates  and “very likely won’t need to change them” in
the coming months, he told the Vedomosti newspaper in an
interview published June 6.  The central bank is seeking to keep inflation from cutting
into consumer incomes before parliamentary elections in December
and a presidential vote early next year.  Consumer prices were unchanged for two weeks this month,
failing to grow for the first time since May last year. Prices
rose 9.6 percent in May from a year earlier, matching a 19-month
high. Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is targeting inflation of between
6 percent and 7 percent, the lowest level since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991.  Keeping Up  Russia’s economy should expand at least 8 percent annually
within five years to keep up with other major emerging
economies, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in January. Russia’s
economy grew 4.1 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 4.5 percent in the previous three months.  That goal has come under threat as Europe’s debt crisis
imperils a global recovery. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its
growth forecast for the world’s largest economy earlier this
month. The slowdown threatens to erode demand for Russia’s
commodity exports.  “There’s been alarming news from Europe, from the U.S.,
from  Japan ,” Elena Matrosova, a Moscow-based economist at BDO
International, a financial adviser that lists the central bank
among its clients, said yesterday by e-mail. “That’s where the
primary risks to the Russian economy are coming from.”  The central bank began lifting borrowing costs in December
after pushing the refinancing rate to a record low of 7.75
percent. Bank Rossii raised all of its key rates in February and
April and also raised the deposit rate, used to absorb
liquidity, a further two times in December and May. It raised
banks’  reserve requirements  three times this year.  Slowing money supply growth will also help rein in
inflation, the bank said in today’s statement.  Money held on correspondent accounts and deposits at the
central bank, a key indicator of liquidity, has averaged 798
billion rubles ($28.6 billion) this month, down from 1.4
trillion rubles in January, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 