-- 
Samsung, Novozymes, Microsoft, Prince: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-30T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/samsung-novozymes-microsoft-prince-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. escalated
its legal dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over smartphone patents,
filing a trade complaint that seeks to block U.S. imports of the
iPhone, iPod and iPad.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones
whose Galaxy devices compete with the iPhone and iPad, claims
Apple is infringing five patents, according to a filing with the
U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington June 28. The
ITC, which can block imports of products found to violate U.S.
patents, must decide if it will investigate Samsung’s claims.  The case by Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung adds to
lawsuits in at least four countries as the companies vie for
share of the mobile-device market and use the courts to try and
gain access to samples of products the other has in development.
The dispute began in April when Cupertino, California-based
Apple claimed in a U.S. lawsuit that Samsung’s Galaxy phone and
tablet computers “slavishly” copy the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung, which also supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in  Seoul ,  Tokyo ,  San Francisco  and
Mannheim,  Germany . Apple also has a civil suit pending against
Samsung in  South Korea .  The patents in the ITC case are related to ways to transmit
multiple services over a wireless network; the format of data
packets used for high-speed data transmission; integrating Web
browsing into a phone; a way to store and play digital audio;
and viewing digital documents using a touch-sensitive display,
according to the complaint.  “Each of the asserted patents is important to Samsung’s
success in the highly competitive industry of mobile electronic
devices by providing Samsung with features that are highly
desirable to consumers,” the company said in the complaint.  A representative for Apple wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the case.  If the ITC takes the case, a judge would hear arguments
within a year and the case would be completed within 15 to 18
months.  Samsung, which has U.S. headquarters in Richardson,  Texas ,
and a research facility in  San Jose , California, said it
“invests in U.S.-based personnel who provide product design,
research and development, and engineering to help design a
product that will work in the U.S. market.” The Apple devices,
it said, are made in  China .  The case is In the Matter of Mobile Electronic Devices,
including Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music and
Data Processing Devices, and Tablet Computer, Complaint No.
2824, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Novozymes Wins Enzyme Patent Case Against Danisco in Dutch Court  Novozymes A/S won an injunction against DuPont Co. unit
Danisco A/S in a Dutch court in a patent infringement case
covering the use of a salt-coated enzyme granule for steam-
pelleting of enzymes for  animal feed .  The litigation involves a patent granted to Novozymes in
November 2009. The company already won a similar case against
Danisco in  Denmark  on March 4. Novozymes says it is now entitled
to an immediate injunction against Danisco in the Netherlands in
relation to the infringement there.  “Novozymes is aggressively protecting our patents across
the world and also in the Netherlands,” said Mikkel Viltoft,
general counsel for Novozymes, in an e-mailed statement.
“Although the Netherlands isn’t one of the most important
markets for this product, we are happy with the outcome. This
decision sets an important precedent.”  U.S.-based Danisco officials were not immediately available
to comment.  Microsoft Gets U.S. Patent on Method of ‘Virtual Skywriting’  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software company,
received a patent on what it calls “virtual skywriting.’  The technology covered by patent 7,966,024 enables the user
of a mobile device to capture a photo of a real world scene,
including a sky portion. This image can then be linked with an
image of existing skywriting, enabling the addition of the
skywriting to the photo image.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said in the patent that
this is a form of “virtual graffiti.”  The company applied for the patent in September 2008. No
outside counsel is listed on the patent.  Microsoft Seeks Patent on Method to Silently Record VOIP Calls  Microsoft Corp., the world’s biggest software company, has
applied for a patent on a technology that will permit silent
recording of telephone calls made using the Voice Over Internet
Protocol.  According to the application filed with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, present-day phone recording technology doesn’t
work with calls made using VOIP.  The application notes that “sometimes, a government or one
of its agencies may need to monitor communications between
telephone users.” With the move to VOIP systems, a new
technology is needed, Microsoft said in its application.  The data associated with a request to establish
communication using VOIP can be “modified to cause the
communication to be established via a path that includes a
recording agent,” according to the application.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft applied for this patent
in December 2009. The application was published in U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office’s database of pending applications June 23.
No outside counsel is listed on the application.  Obama Urges Passage of Patent Reform as a Job-Growth Agent  President  Barack Obama , speaking at a news conference in
 Washington  yesterday, challenged Congress to act “right now”
on pending legislation on patents, infrastructure projects and
trade agreements that he said would help Americans find jobs.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chrysler Fails to Win Ban on ‘Imported from  Detroit ’ T-Shirts  Chrysler Group LLC, which sued Detroit clothing company of
trademark infringement for emblazoning T-shirts with the
carmaker’s “Imported From Detroit” slogan, has lost its battle
to have the shirts banned.  In a June 28 order and opinion, U.S. District Judge Arthur
Tarnow said the automaker failed to show it would suffer
irreparable harm if Moda Group LLC continued to sell its shirts.  The carmaker said it began using “Imported from Detroit”
in its ads to let consumers know “they could obtain the luxury
they associate with foreign imports from a manufacturer based in
the U.S.” Chrysler said it filed an application Nov. 23 with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to register the phrase as a
trademark.  The company ran an ad during this year’s  Super Bowl  to
introduce the phrase to the public. At the end of the spot --
which features Detroit rapper Eminem announcing “This is the
Motor City. And this is what we do” -- the screen fades to
black and the Chrysler logo and the words “Imported from
Detroit” appear.  Chrysler said it spent “millions of dollars” to create
and release the ad, which generated an immediate 1,619 percent
increase in traffic to the Chrysler 200 model Web page on Super
Bowl Sunday, Feb. 6. The automaker also claimed that after this
commercial aired for the first time, “the second most-searched
term” on Google was “Chrysler 200.”  Anticipating the popularity of the ad, Chrysler said it
applied to register the mark for use on clothing Jan. 18 and
began shipping its own “imported from Detroit” shirts Feb. 11.  The automaker said Moda began selling shirts bearing the
slogan without authorization. Chrysler sent Moda a cease-and-
desist letter Feb. 18, after which Moda said it would quit
selling the allegedly infringing items, according to court
papers.  The sales continued, and Moda began marketing additional
items bearing the slogan, including tote bags, Chrysler said.  In his ruling denying Chrysler’s request, he noted that
each company used its own “house marks” on their respective
shirts, and said “it is hard to believe” that a consumer
shopping at one of the Pure Detroit stores would think the
shirts were coming from the automaker.  The case is Chrysler Group LLC v. Moda Group LLC, 2:11-cv-
11074-AJT-MJH, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Prince Says Music Piracy Is Halting his Recording Career  Prince , the American musician who once changed his name to
an unpronounceable symbol following a dispute with his record
label,  told the U.K.’s Guardian  that music-piracy problems are
so severe that “I’ll just hold off recording.”  The performer, who was born Prince Rogers Nelson, compared
the present state of music piracy to both the gold rush and a
carjacking, saying “there’s no boundaries,” according to the
Guardian.  He also doesn’t market any of his songs as a ringtone, he
told the Guardian.  In the present era of digitized media, Prince said the only
entities making money are “the phone company, Apple and
Google,” according to the Guardian.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  U.K. Aerospace, Defense Lose $2.6 Billion Annually to IP Theft  The U.K.’s aerospace and defense industries lose 1.6
billion British pounds ($2.6 billion) a year to industrial
espionage and theft of  intellectual property , that country’s
Defense Secretary Liam Fox said at a London Chamber of Commerce
event,  according  to the U.K.’s Daily Mail newspaper.  Fox said the defense and security industries with “complex
supply chains” are particularly vulnerable to cyber intrusion,
the Mail reported.  The U.K.’s Ministry of Defense itself is the target of a
cyber attack every eight hours, according to the Mail.  The government is investing 650 million British pounds in a
new National Cyber Security Program to help government and
industry combat cyber attacks, the Mail reported.  IP Moves  Barnes & Thornburgh Hires Michael Carrillo for  Chicago  IP Group  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired Michael A. Carrillo for its IP
practice, the Indianapolis-based firm said in a  statement .  Carrillo  joins from Chicago’s  Neal Berger Eisenberg LLP . He
does IP transactional work and litigation, representing clients
in the financial, software and technology industries. He will
practice from Barnes & Thornburg’s Chicago office.  He has an undergraduate degree from Purdue University and a
law degree from the University of  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 