-- 
HSBC Holdings Will Eliminate 700 U.K. Financial Advice Jobs

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-06-30T14:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/hsbc-said-to-plan-elimination-of-700-u-k-financial-adviser-jobs.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, will cut about 700 employees who offer branch-based advice
on financial products as regulators force lenders to charge
clients for the service.  About 460 jobs will be cut in the financial advice team in
retail banking and wealth management, as well as 240 support
jobs such as compliance, human resources and finance, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Financial Services Authority’s  Retail Distribution
Review  will from the end of 2012 prevent the payment of
commissions to advisers, and lenders are preparing to charge for
the service.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank, said
in January it would cut 1,000 employees offering face-to-face
advice in branches.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender, said today it will cut 15,000 jobs to reduce
costs by 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) by 2014.  “HSBC has decided to bury its own bad news on the same
day,” David Fleming, a Unite labor union spokesman, said in a
statement. The union estimated the job cuts totaled 840. HSBC’s
Hemingway declined to comment on the difference.  Employees are being informed today of the reductions across
the U.K., a person familiar with the plans said earlier. HSBC
employs about 55,000 people in the U.K., the bank said.  “We will work extremely closely with all those colleagues
affected by today’s announcement so that we can try to find them
alternative roles thereby minimizing the number of people who
actually leave the HSBC Group,” Joe Garner, head of HSBC in the
U.K., said in the statement.  HSBC will create 50 “senior” financial planning adviser
jobs and 50 mortgage adviser jobs in its  wealth management 
business, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  