-- 
Scene Last Night: Russell Martin, Bill Bradley, Guy Laliberte

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-30T14:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/scene-last-night-joshua-bell-russell-martin-bill-bradley-guy-laliberte.html
At the world premiere of Cirque du
Soleil’s new show, “Zarkana,” a man climbed a ladder with a
woman standing on his shoulders. Another did flips off a moving
contraption that looked a lot like a hamster wheel.  “I’m glad I can touch my toes,” said former Senator Bill
Bradley during intermission at  Radio City Music Hall .  Also in the opening-night crowd: violinist Joshua Bell (who
worked with the show’s director, Francois Girard, on his film
“The Red Violin”); fashion commentator Robert Verdi; and John
and Lizzie Tisch.  “I loved the tightrope,” said Gerry Pasciucco, the chief
executive officer of financial products at American
International Group. “They must have tiny feet.”  While the show offered many human feats, offstage the man
who founded Cirque du Soleil, Guy Laliberte, wanted to talk
about a feat of nature: water.  Three and half years ago, Laliberte pledged $100 million
over 25 years to the nongovernmental organization  One Drop ,
which he founded and serves as chairman.  “Water is a source of life and a creative source of
development,” Laliberte said at the after-party held at
Roseland Ballroom.  He was standing in a roped-off area for One Drop
benefactors with  Russell Martin , the catcher for the  New York
Yankees  who is a One Drop ambassador. Across the room was Cirque
du Soleil board member Andre Desmarais, co-chief executive
officer of Power Corp. of  Canada , and his wife, France Chretien
Desmarais, who is One Drop’s vice chairman, overseeing
philanthropy. (She is also the daughter of former Canadian Prime
Minister Jean Chretien.)  A cello player and a midget roamed. Stands offered caramel
popcorn and hotdogs. Guests played ring toss while waiting in
line for macaroni and cheese.  Water Use  Banners offered statistics on water use per person per day.
Boston was at the top of the chart, at 177 gallons. New York
went through 125.8 gallons;  Mozambique , 2.6.  One Drop’s executive director, Lili-Anna Peresa, tucked
into a quiet corner as a cigarette girl offering carrot sticks
passed by.  “Guy’s message is to think out of the box and that’s what
we do at One Drop,” Peresa said. “We take an integrated,
holistic approach.”  One Drop brings safe water to  developing countries  along
with community education programs using local troupes, puppetry
and circus arts. Locals can also apply for microfinancing. One
woman was able to expand her garden. With the proceeds from
sales of vegetables, she bought a refrigerator. “Now she’s the
7-Eleven of her village,” Peresa said.  The organization is growing rapidly. This year’s budget is
$12 million, a 50% increase over last year’s. Next year the
budget will be $20 million, Peresa said.  That’s keeping Laliberte busy fundraising. This month
Assouline published a book of photographs he took during private
space travel, with proceeds marked for One Drop. Next year he is
participating in a poker tournament with 11.1% of the $1 million
buy-in to be donated to One Drop.  The  New York  benefit party, one of many tacked onto Cirque
du Soleil performances, raised $400,000. Other “La Soiree”
events are planned in Toronto on Sept. 7,  Montreal  on Oct. 2,
 Los Angeles  on November 10, Paris on Nov. 23, and  Las Vegas  on
Dec. 3.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 