-- 
Scripps Buyback Signals Company Won’t Sell, Analyst Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/scripps-sets-1-billion-buyback-in-sign-cable-programmer-won-t-seek-buyer.html
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI) ’s
$1 billion buyback authorization signals the cable TV company
and its controlling trust won’t seek a buyer, said Tom Eagan, an
analyst at Collins Stewart LLC.  The owner of Food Network and HGTV agreed today to buy 6.4
million shares for $46.66 each, or $300 million, from the Edward
W. Scripps Trust that holds 93 percent of the Cincinnati-based
company’s voting power. The other $700 million may be purchased
privately or on the open market, the company said in a
statement.  The move indicates Scripps may not try to sell itself, said
Eagan, who has a “neutral” rating on shares. On June 17, the
stock registered its biggest gain in two years after the trust
sought a probate court ruling that would clear the way for share
sales. With the repurchase, a sale is less likely, Eagan said
from  New York .  “We don’t see many of the larger media companies making a
bid for Scripps,” said Eagan. “Part of it is that the company
is big and part of it is the nature of the programming.”  The company has a market valuation of more than $8 billion,
making it an expensive purchase, Eagan said. Scripps owns non-
fiction networks, including Travel Channel, DIY Network and
Cooking Channel, which can be “a little bit harder of an ad
sell,” he said.  Scripps fell 19 cents to $48.88 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has two classes of
stock, common shares with no voting power and unlisted voting
stock, largely held by the trust.  Scripps spokesman Mark Kroeger declined to comment on the
prospects for a sale of the company.  Buyback Planned  Chief Financial Officer Joseph NeCastro told analysts last
month that a buyback would be announced soon. Scripps ended the
first quarter with $793.7 million in cash and near-cash, more
than double a year earlier, as net income jumped 39 percent.  The buyback announced today “demonstrates our faith in the
financial strength of our lifestyle-media businesses and the
company’s ability to generate strong free  cash flow ,” Chief
Executive Officer Kenneth Lowe said in the statement.  Lowe told Bloomberg Television on June 15 that the company
isn’t for sale.  The repurchase plan replaces a 5 million-share
authorization approved in 2008. Scripps shares have fallen 5.6
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  