-- 
LSE Dropping TMX Puts Rolet on Collision Course With Nasdaq

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-30T16:18:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/lse-dropping-toronto-bourse-bid-pushes-ceo-rolet-toward-nasdaq-s-greifeld.html
The biggest rally in three months
for  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  may be the clearest sign yet that
investors expect the New York-based exchange operator to buy
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Nasdaq OMX gained 4.7 percent to $25.14 yesterday, climbing
the most since April 1, after LSE dropped its offer for  TMX
Group Inc. (X) , saying too few shareholders supported the C$3.32
billion ($3.4 billion) merger. The gain in Nasdaq OMX was the
largest since the day it announced a plan to buy NYSE Euronext
with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , and signals speculation the
company will expand with LSE, according to Capstone Holdings
Group LLC and Aite Group LLC.  “If you look at the competitive landscape now and just try
to figure out who’s left, if they are looking for that Atlantic
tie-in, it just seems like a natural,” said Sang Lee, managing
partner at research firm Aite Group in  Boston . “Based on past
relationships, the fact that both of them have failed at getting
bigger in the last few months, it could be an interesting
combination.”  The TMX bid’s rejection left both companies without
partners amid the biggest wave of exchange takeovers ever,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The second-largest U.S.
exchange company failed three times to buy LSE in the past
decade, and Chief Executive Officer Bob Greifeld said this month
LSE is one of many companies he talks with about merging.  LSE Shares Rally  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, and Victoria Brough of London-based LSE declined to comment. LSE shares have
rallied 28 percent since Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta-based ICE
dropped their bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  on May 16. They surged 11
percent today, the most since march 2009. Nasdaq rose 0.7
percent at 12:16 p.m. in  New York .  Combining would give Nasdaq OMX a larger European
derivatives presence and a bigger chunk of listings
internationally. Greifeld, whose hostile offer for NYSE Euronext
was blocked by antitrust regulators, may have to convince LSE
CEO Xavier Rolet to accept a takeover before announcing it.
Rolet said this week that the bourse will “absolutely not” be
put up for sale should the TMX deal fall through, according to
the  Times newspaper  in London.  LSE “knows that they are takeover bait, regardless of what
they say,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Capstone in New York.  Exchange Mergers  There has been $37 billion in exchange merger announcements
since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  said Oct. 25 that it would pay
A$8.35 billion ($8.94 billion) for Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,
according to Bloomberg data that included all announced and
terminated bids. The Singapore deal was rejected by the
Australian government in April. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse
AG and NYSE Euronext announced their merger agreement on Feb.
15, a week after the TMX-LSE deal was revealed.  Greifeld and Rolet have said international alliances would
make them more competitive. Growing globally may be necessary as
the exchanges face a larger competitor in the NYSE Euronext-
Deutsche Boerse combination. In announcing the TMX deal, Rolet
said the company was “aiming at nothing less than becoming a
true powerhouse in the global exchange business.”  Asked what happens now after the failure of the TMX bid,
Doug Webb, chief financial officer of LSE, said “we are just
getting back to normal.” Webb spoke after a shareholder meeting
at LSE’s headquarters in  London  today that had been scheduled to
approve the deal.  LCH.Clearnet Stake  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in  Sweden ,  Denmark ,  Finland ,  Iceland , Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania. Nasdaq OMX is seeking a minority stake in
London-based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s largest swaps
clearinghouse. The move would fit into the company’s larger
strategy to broaden its revenue stream and expand
internationally, Greifeld said.  The LSE “would give Nasdaq a much better hold on
continental Europe versus it being on the extreme side like it
is now, in the Nordics and Baltics,” said Michael Wong, a
Chicago-based analyst with Morningstar Inc. “Nasdaq was looking
to do possibly a minority interest in LCH.Clearnet, so it looks
like Nasdaq definitely has some interest in London and the more
continental Europe.”  Largest Equity Market  Nasdaq OMX would broaden its listings business. The U.K.,
where the London Stock Exchange is the biggest venue, is the
largest equity market in Europe by the value of companies.
Greifeld would expand in derivatives. Nasdaq OMX, which leads
 CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and NYSE Euronext in U.S. options volume,
opened a U.K. electricity trading market this year. LSE operates
two derivatives markets, the EDX London Ltd. exchange and IDEM.  Since Nasdaq OMX and ICE dropped their bid for NYSE
Euronext on May 16, shares of LSE have outpaced the Bloomberg
World Exchanges Index by more than 27 percentage points. The
shares jumped 6.8 percent that day, the most since December
2009.  In its joint bid for NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX planned to
assume debt and give the Liffe derivatives business to ICE. NYSE
Euronext is valued at $8.89 billion, and Nasdaq OMX is $4.44
billion. A takeover of LSE would be more manageable as the
company was worth 2.59 billion pounds ($4.17 billion) as of
yesterday, half the size of NYSE Euronext.  “Their listings is wonderful, and everybody likes being in
London, but they’re really losing volume and squeezed on
margins,” said  Thomas Caldwell , CEO of Caldwell Securities Ltd.
in Toronto, which manages about C$1 billion, including LSE
shares. “Most people want to be the acquirer, but the way this
business is right now, we’re in the last round of big mergers
and you’re either the hunter or you’re hunted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  