-- 
SEC Needs Better Exams After Granting Exemptions, Watchdog Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-30T18:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/sec-needs-better-exams-after-granting-exemptions-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission needs to improve oversight of firms exempt from
certain regulations, the agency’s watchdog said, citing
“numerous” cases in which companies violated conditions of the
waivers.  SEC staff have “no formalized process” to track whether
firms are complying with the conditions of their exemptions,
Inspector General H. David Kotz said in a  report  posted today on
the SEC’s website. That may pose “substantial” risks “because
exemptive orders and no-action letters allow industry
participants to conduct activities that, without the relief,
could violate the securities laws and regulations,” Kotz said.  The SEC can issue exemptive orders and so-called no-action
letters to allow transactions that may not have been
contemplated when the securities laws were written. Those
transactions may otherwise violate rules, so the exemptions are
often conditional on the firm’s compliance with certain
standards, Kotz said. A no-action letter states that the staff
will not pursue an enforcement action in response to the
proposed activity.  The SEC divisions that grant exemptions and set conditions
do not coordinate adequately with examiners that monitor the
firms, Kotz said. Currently, inspectors don’t necessarily
identify the exemption as a risk factor during their exams, or
track compliance, according to the report. Examiners keep their
own “ad hoc” records, the report said, because there is no
centralized database.  Kotz recommended that the agency establish processes and
databases to increase coordination to ensure examiners properly
track whether the firms are complying with conditions. In a June
29 letter to division managers, Kotz asked for a corrective
action plan within the next 45 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  