-- 
Senate to Cancel July 4 Recess During Debt Talks, Reid Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-30T22:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/senate-to-cancel-july-4-recess-for-debt-talks.html
The Senate will cancel its July 4
recess to remain in session next week during debt-limit talks,
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, spoke a day after President  Barack Obama  said Congress shouldn’t be taking vacations while the
dispute over the national debt remains unresolved. The House is
on vacation this week and returns to Washington July 6.  Democrats and Republicans are at an impasse over how to cut
the deficit, which Republicans insist must be done before they
will agree to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline. Republicans are demanding large
spending cuts and no tax increases, while Democrats say higher
 tax revenue  must be part of a “balanced” plan.  Obama’s spokesman rejected an invitation from Senate
Minority leader  Mitch McConnell  to meet with Republicans today
at the Capitol. Republicans simply want to “restate their
maximalist position,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said at a briefing.  “Americans are tired of the posturing,” Carney said.
“They just want us to work.”  Standard & Poor’s  would downgrade U.S. debt to junk status
in the event of a default, John Chambers, chairman of the
company’s sovereign rating committee, said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  Corporate Jets  Obama accused Republicans during a news conference
yesterday of siding with corporate jet owners over children and
the elderly.  “Before we ask our seniors to pay more for health care,
before we cut our children’s education,” the president said,
“it’s only fair to ask an  oil company  or a corporate jet owner
that has done so well to give up that tax break that no other
business enjoys.”  In asking Obama to go to the Capitol today, McConnell of
 Kentucky  said on the Senate floor he wants the president to hear
from Republicans “why what he’s proposing won’t pass” on the
deficit issue.  “The president says he wants us to get working,” said
McConnell. “I can’t think of a better way than to have him come
over and hear directly from our conference about the legislative
realities in the Congress right now.”  Carney said the White House holds regular conversations
with leaders of both parties, and said Obama won’t cancel two
fundraisers scheduled for tonight in Philadelphia.  Wealthy Taxpayers  Reid and other Democratic leaders said they won’t back down
from their call for tax increases as part of the deal, adding
that wealthy taxpayers must sacrifice in an agreement that also
will include spending cuts affecting lower-income Americans.  “If we can’t bring revenue to the table, we’re not going
to have a serious conversation” on curbing deficits, said
Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic leader.  Reid also said he invited Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  to meet with all Senate Democrats on July 6. He said  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National Economic Council,
will meet with Democrats the following day.  “The whole caucus has to be involved” in working out a
solution to the debt-limit debate, said Reid regarding his
decision to keep the Senate in town.  Reid also faced pressure from Republicans to keep the
Senate in session. In May, 46 Senate Republicans signed a letter
objecting to any adjournment until Democrats proposed a plan to
help restore fiscal balance. Senate Budget Committee Chairman
Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican and lead author of the
letter, this week reiterated the call to keep the Senate in
Washington with debt talks continuing.  2012 Elections  Democrats continue to press for a large enough boost in the
debt limit to get past the 2012 elections.  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the third-ranking Senate
Democrat, rejected the idea of anything other than a long-term
deal. He said investors might be wary of purchasing  U.S. debt 
under any extension that lasts just a few months.  “If we were to do a very short-term deal, we don’t know if
the markets would accept that,” Schumer said. “Maybe that
would send a panic into the markets that we’re all worried
about.”  Yet leaders of the Republican-controlled House must contend
with a contingent of freshman members aligned with the Tea Party
who have expressed skepticism about the urgency of lifting the
debt limit.  Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican who last month
dropped out of a bipartisan group of senators trying to reach a
deficit-reduction deal, said on PBS’s “The Charlie Rose Show”
on June 28 that it is increasingly likely House Republicans
won’t act on the debt limit by the Aug. 2 deadline.  Conrad’s Plan  Senator  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota, the Democrat who
chairs the Budget Committee, said he plans to unveil his budget
blueprint next week. The plan, he said, would shave more off the
deficit than the leaders of Obama’s bipartisan debt commission
envisioned -- their plan projected savings of $3.8 trillion over
a decade -- and would include tax increases.  While the U.S. deficit is dominating the debate in
 Washington , the  interest rates  the federal government pays to
borrow funds have remained low amid a flight of money to safety
because of the Greek debt crisis. Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes declined from 3.73 percent on Feb. 8 to 2.86 percent on
June 24, though they have begun to rise since as the risk of a
default by  Greece  has eased in recent days. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes increased 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.15 percent at 12:57 p.m. today in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  