-- 
Sharapova’s Return to Grand Slam Final at Wimbledon Boosts Women’s Tennis

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-30T23:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/sharapova-s-return-to-grand-slam-final-at-wimbledon-boosts-women-s-tennis.html
Maria Sharapova  is back in a Grand
Slam tennis final for the first time since 2008, and the women’s
game is better off for it.  The former top-ranked player beat German wild-card Sabine Lisicki, 6-4, 6-3 yesterday to advance to her second Wimbledon
final. The 2004 champion will play for the title tomorrow
against the  Czech Republic ’s Petra Kvitova, who defeated
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2.  “I’m thrilled to be in the final,” Sharapova said in a
news conference. “I was pretty realistic. I hadn’t been past
the fourth round in a few years. So to be at this stage, I’m
just thrilled to have the opportunity to go for it.”  After winning the 2008 Australian Open, a shoulder injury
forced the Russian off the women’s WTA tour for nine months,
beginning in August. Although she came back two years ago,
Sharapova hadn’t reached a major semifinal until the French Open
this month.  “Women’s tennis, like a lot of individual sports, is in
large part driven by having star personalities,”  Jim Andrews ,
vice president of Chicago-based IEG Sponsorship Report, said in
a telephone interview. “You’ve got to have at least a few
marquee names that people are going to be interested in,
especially for the casual fans.”  Today’s Play  Second-seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays  France ’s Jo- Wilfried Tsonga in today’s first men’s semifinal on Centre
Court. That match is followed by defending champion  Rafael Nadal 
of  Spain  against  Andy Murray  of Britain.  Nadal is a 1-2 favorite to beat Murray with U.K. bookmaker
William Hill Plc. That means a successful $2 bet would return $1
and the original wager. Murray is 7-4 odds to reach the final.
Djokovic is 1-2 to defeat Tsonga, who is 7-4 to get through.  Sharapova ranks 776th on a list of more than 2,800 people
in terms of endorsement appeal, according to Chris Anderson of
The Marketing Arm, which compiles the Davie Brown Index that
measures celebrity status in the U.S. She’s on par with Oscar-
winning actress Susan Sarandon, National Football League
quarterback Donovan McNabb and singer Kelly Clarkson.  Sharapova, 24, became a global superstar after winning
Wimbledon at 17. With a game built on ground strokes and mental
toughness, she has become the world’s best-paid female athlete.  Endorsements, Winnings  The Russian, who also won the 2006  U.S. Open , earns $24
million in prize money and from endorsing companies including
Tiffany & Co., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd. and
Groupe Danone SA’s Evian water, according to Forbes magazine.
Her $15 million in career prize money alone is one-third higher
than that of the three other women semifinalists combined.  The sixth-ranked Sharapova will climb to No. 3 if she wins
Wimbledon.  Winning a second title at her favorite Grand Slam
tournament has been her goal since her comeback, Sharapova said
in an interview in  Rome  last month.  “I’d win Wimbledon again, absolutely,” she said at the
Foro Italico, when asked if she preferred a  French Open  or
Wimbledon championship. A French Open title would have completed
a career Grand Slam sweep.  “I was a junior and that was the first time I really fell
in love with it,” Sharapova said of her introduction to
Wimbledon. “It’s just that feeling that I have, it’s a feeling
when I go on the court there. Winning it obviously helps and I’d
love to repeat that. Nothing, obviously, will take your name
away from that trophy but I want to add it on there again.”  Rivalries  Women’s tennis has been lacking strong rivalries and a
dominant leader since Sharapova temporarily left the tour in
2008. Just like the current No. 1-ranked player,  Caroline Wozniacki  from  Denmark , Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia  and Dinara Safina of  Russia  have held the top spot without winning a major
title.  Seven-time Grand Slam champion Justine Henin, who was No. 1
for 117 weeks before she temporarily quit in 2007, retired for
good after this year’s Australian Open with an elbow injury.  Kim Clijsters , the reigning U.S. Open and Australian Open champion
from  Belgium , missed Wimbledon with an injury, while sisters
Serena and Venus Williams, who have won 20 major singles titles
between them, don’t play a full schedule.  Serena’s title defense at Wimbledon was ended in the fourth
round by France’s  Marion Bartoli . The American had been ranked
No. 1 after she won her 13th Grand Slam singles at Wimbledon
last year, before a foot injury and treatment for blood clots in
her lungs forced her off the tour for almost a year.  ‘Most Open’  “For the last few years this has probably been the most
open that women’s tennis has ever been,” Brad Gilbert, the
former coach of Wimbledon champion  Andre Agassi , said in a
conference call organized by broadcaster ESPN before Wimbledon.
There are now “15, 20 women that can win majors,” he added.  “Sharapova is the one that TV executives are going to want
in the finals, they are going to need her to draw ratings,” Jim Courier, an American formerly ranked No. 1 in the world, said in
a conference call this week. No one in the U.S. “is going to
pay much attention unless Maria is in the finals.”  Sharapova parted ways at the start of the season with long-
time coach Michael Joyce and is working with Thomas Hogstedt, a
former Swedish pro who had been with French Open champion Li Na
of  China .  “Thomas is excellent, and what he brought to the team is a
little more flamboyancy, get a little more aggressive,” Nick Bollettieri, Sharapova’s former coach, said in an interview.  Habits  Sharapova started her semifinal day as usual this year at
Wimbledon, on Court 16 of the practice section with Hogstedt
feeding her balls as she served at hitting partner and former
Wimbledon semifinalist Vladimir Voltchkov. Sasha Vujacic,
Sharapova’s fiancé and a National Basketball Association player,
quietly watched from the corner of the court.  Sharapova has struggled at times with her serve since her
shoulder surgery. Against Lisicki, she hit 13 double faults and
two aces, compared with four double faults and no aces for her
German opponent.  Sharapova’s serve will be a key in the finals.  “Maria has got to stay close to the baseline, get a good
solid first serve in and win the rally in the first three
shots,” Bollettieri said. “If it goes six, seven or eight
shots, Maria becomes less of a weapon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  