-- 
Shark Chase, Blood-Thirsty Tourists Jolt Town

-- B y   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T15:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/shark-chase-blood-thirsty-tourists-frazzle-town.html
The great white sharks swimming off
the waters of Chatham,  Massachusetts , are boosting its economy
by luring more tourists. Now the Cape Cod town is wondering
whether being so popular will have a bite.  As the Fourth of July weekend kicks off the summer vacation
season, Chatham is the best place on the cape to view the
predators, according to Greg Skomal, shark expert at the state’s
Division of Marine Fisheries. The several thousand gray seals
dwelling in the area are shark prey, he said.  “The seal population has reached some critical level that
the likelihood of seeing a white shark now has increased,”
Skomal said.  Shops and restaurants profited last summer as busloads of
visitors detoured to the town in pursuit of shark sightings,
resulting in constant traffic jams, said Lisa Franz, executive
director of the Chatham Chamber of Commerce. This year, with at
least two film crews visiting, some residents are bracing for
unwelcome attention.  “We wanted to be known as a nice, quiet, laid-back
community,” said Mike Ambriscoe, fire chief of the town, 
75 miles southeast of  Boston . “We’ve been having this problem 
where sharks have been visiting us. It certainly does put you 
in the limelight.”  In the past two summers, state experts have tagged 13 great
white sharks and confirmed the sighting of at least four others.
The U.S. Coast Guard issued a shark warning last year on July 2.
This year, fishermen in Martha’s Vineyard, 60 miles away,
spotted a great white on May 6.  Shark Circus  News of the sightings brought about 5,000 day-trippers into
town each month last summer, said Tim Roper, a selectman.  “Folks show up and ask, ‘What’s the best place to see the
sharks?’ or ‘What time do they start eating the seals?’ as if it
were a circus act,” Roper said.  Great whites can exceed 20 feet in length and weigh more
than 2 tons, according to the Marine Division’s website. In
comparison, a Honda Insight compact car is about 14.3 feet long
and weighs about 2,700 pounds, according to Edmunds Inc., an
automotive information company.  Skomal said people aren’t at risk of being attacked by
sharks on Chatham’s beaches as long as they visit ones away from
the seals that draw the predators.  “The first year this all happened, I was really nervous
about it and would say to others, don’t talk about it, we don’t
want shark merchandise,” Franz said. “The second year, I
embraced it. The third year, come on down, we’ll have a shark
statue for you.”  More Sightseers  The shark buzz and favorable weather boosted revenue by
about 20 percent for Beachcomber Boat Tours, which ferries
tourists to where the seals gather at Monomoy Island, said Paula
St. Pierre, owner. Chatham’s population is 6,579 most of the
year, swelling to about 25,000 in July and August, according to
the town website.  Chatham didn’t have as many gray seals to attract sharks
before the federal Marine Mammal Protection Act in 1972 made it
illegal to kill them and the population began to rebound.
Federal authorities are investigating the fatal shootings of six
seals in the area this year, said Michael Booth, spokesman for
the  International Fund for Animal Wildlife . Skomal said
fishermen tend not to like the seals, which they blame for
eating all their catch and driving away other fish.  “People are more interested in sharks than ever,” St.
Pierre said. “They have fantasies that they’re going to see
something like a National Geographic show.”  Customer Expectations  No customer has witnessed a shark attack a seal in her 12
years of operating boat tours.  “I just don’t want anyone to have any fantasies when they
go on the boat that they’re going to see a seal island attacked
with a shark jumping out of the water,” she said. “Who wants
to see that anyway? I don’t want to see that.”  Sharks have been identified with Cape Cod since 1975, when
 Steven Spielberg  used  Martha’s Vineyard  as the setting for his
movie of Peter Benchley’s novel “Jaws.” The book was set in
New York’s  Long Island .  Celine Cousteau, granddaughter of the late sea explorer
Jacques Cousteau, plans to spend weeks in town with a crew
gathering material for a documentary, “The White Sharks of
Chatham,” said Michael LeFort, co-producer. A team from the
 Discovery Channel  already came to film a documentary for its
Shark Week programming, Franz said.  Scientists don’t have much historical information on the
activities of great whites in the Atlantic, LeFort said.  “Everyone has an opinion on both sides,” he said about
the town’s reaction to the sharks. “I can tell you that there’s
more fear than celebration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Keeley in  New York  at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the Boston bureau chief:
 Tom Moroney  at   tmorrone@bloomberg.net . 