-- 
Slovenia’s Budget Gap Widens, Government’s Target in Jeopardy

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-30T08:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/slovenia-s-budget-gap-widens-government-s-target-in-jeopardy.html
Slovenia’s budget gap widened in the
first quarter from a year ago, raising concern that the
government may fail to meet its own-imposed target for the
shortfall by the end of the year.  The deficit in the first quarter was 10.3 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 8.8 percent in the same period
of 2010, the statistics office in Ljubljana said on its website
today. The government aims to cut the budget shortfall to 4.5
percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2012, according to Finance
Minister  Franc Krizanic .  “The gap should get close to the government’s target,”
Bojan Ivanc, an analyst at Ljubljana-based KD Bank d.d., in an
e-mail before the release. “A more worrying sign would be a new
possible capital contribution for Nova Ljubljanska and the
cashing in of guarantees because of bankrupt construction
companies.”  Slovenia, which like other European Union nations must
bring its budget gap to below 3 percent of GDP by 2013 in line
with stability rules, is financing state-owned companies,
including the bank Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and the national
air carrier Adria Airways d.d. These moves may swell the budget
shortfall as the economy struggles to recover.  In April, the statistics office said the deficit will
probably widen to 5.5 percent of GDP, from a previous estimate
of 4.8 percent, because of a 243 million-euro ($352 million)
capital boost for Nova Ljubljanska. Central bank Governor Marko Kranjec warned in May that Slovenia may see its  budget deficit 
and debt level balloon as happened in  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal , if it fails to rein in  government spending .  The minority government of Prime Minister Borut Pahor said
it will present a budget review next month, aiming for cuts
worth 455 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 