-- 
SMIC Chairman Dies, CEO Wang Voted Off Board, Stock Suspended from Trading

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-30T05:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/smic-chairman-dies-ceo-wang-voted-off-board-stock-suspended-from-trading.html
Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (981) ,  China ’s biggest chipmaker, said its
chairman died, the chief executive officer was voted off the
board and the company asked for a stock trading halt.  Shareholders rejected CEO David Wang’s reappointment as a
board director and the company requested its shares be suspended
from trading in  Hong Kong  pending the release of “price-
sensitive” information, the Shanghai-based chipmaker said in
statements today. Yesterday, it said Chairman Jiang Shang Zhou
died June 27, without providing a cause of death.  Matthew Szymanski, a spokesman at SMIC, didn’t respond to
an e-mail nor return calls made to his office and mobile phone.  Wang, appointed CEO in November 2009, helped SMIC return to
profitability last year after the company posted five straight
annual losses under founder Richard Chang. In April, China
Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, agreed to
invest $250 million in the chipmaker.  “It leaves open the question of whether the CEO will
remain at the company if he is not on the board,” said Steven Pelayo, who rates SMIC shares “neutral” at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
in Hong Kong. “The company is improving, and was delivering
much better."  Holders of 5.33 billion SMIC shares, or 58 percent of the
votes cast at yesterday’s annual general meeting, opposed Wang’s
reappointment, the company said. Shareholders also rejected
proposals to renew the board’s authority to issue new stock or
repurchase shares, it said.  SMIC shares rose 3.3 percent to 63 Hong Kong cents
yesterday. They’ve gained 13 percent this year, outperforming
Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  SMIC shareholders include state-owned Datang Telecom
Technology & Industry Holdings Co. and Shanghai Industrial
Investment (Holdings) Co.  In February, Semiconductor Manufacturing posted its first
annual profit since 2004 as the global economic recovery boosted
demand for chips that are used in mobile phones and computers.
The company said it would increase  capital spending  to $1
billion this year to upgrade technology and catch up with bigger
rivals including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  