-- 
South Korea Cuts Growth Forecast on Inflation

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-30T03:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-korea-cuts-growth-forecast-on-inflation.html
South Korea  cut a 2011 growth
forecast and raised an inflation estimate to beyond President
 Lee Myung Bak ’s target after global demand weakened and energy
costs climbed.  The economy will expand 4.5 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
said in a statement, down from a 5 percent estimate in December.
Consumer prices are expected to rise 4 percent, exceeding the
previous 3 percent projection. Today’s numbers are similar to
central bank forecasts.  A jump in industrial production reported today sent the won
higher and may indicate that the economy can tolerate more
interest-rate increases to combat inflation. Bank of Korea
policy board members are due to meet on July 14 as Asian
governments wrestle with price pressures even as growth shows
signs of cooling.  In South Korea, “policy makers may conclude that inflation
risks are far greater than the possible economic slowdown,”
Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul , said before today’s releases. “Given the past
intervals, the central bank may raise interest rate again in
September or October.”  Output climbed 8.3 percent from a year earlier in May after
gaining a revised 6.9 percent in April, Statistics Korea said.
The won rose 0.7 percent to 1,069.68 per dollar as of
12:28 p.m. in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.2
percent.  Major Economies  “Our target is to keep inflation below 4 percent with more
policy efforts,” Yoon Jong Won, a director-general at the
ministry, told reporters in Gwacheon. “Our new forecasts
reflect the recent expectations of slower growth and higher
inflation in major economies.”  In  China ,  Asia ’s biggest economy, inflation is running at
the fastest pace since 2008 as industrial output growth
moderates. The  Reserve Bank  of  India  raised its benchmark
interest rate on June 10 for the 10th time since the start of
2010 to limit price gains.  South Korea’s President Lee had already acknowledged that
he was likely to miss his target of limiting inflation to 3
percent this year to protect families on low incomes. Rising
prices may be fueling public discontent, with the president’s
approval rating falling to 29 percent this month from 76 percent
when he came to power in 2008, according to Seoul-based
Realmeter.  Growth ‘Sacrifice’  “The focus remains on fighting inflation, and the
authorities are willing to sacrifice some growth in order to
bring inflation down,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . She expects an interest-
rate increase in the third quarter.  Lee declared “war” on inflation in January, and the
government has imposed price controls and tolerated currency
appreciation as part of the campaign.  The central bank is estimating 3.9 percent inflation and
4.5 percent growth for this year.  The finance ministry said today it will maintain tight
fiscal spending and control market liquidity to avoid chronic
inflation.  The government will boost food supplies by encouraging more
imports and improving distribution channels while promoting
market competition with close monitoring and tighter rules on
irregular pricing practices. It will allow utility fee to rise
gradually and will permit different power tariffs to be charged
at peak and non-peak times, the ministry said.  Next year, economic growth will likely accelerate to the
upper end of the 4 percent to 5 percent range while inflation
will moderate to the lower end of the 3 percent to 4 percent
range, the ministry said today.  The current-account surplus is expected to narrow to $10
billion in 2012 from $16 billion this year, with export growth
slowing to 9.5 percent from 20.6 percent. Imports will likely
grow 25 percent this year and 11 percent next year as Dubai oil
prices are expected to hover around $110 per barrel, the
ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  