-- 
South Korea Raises Inflation Forecast to 4%, Cuts Economic Growth Estimate

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-30T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-korea-raises-inflation-forecast-to-4-while-cutting-growth-estimate.html
South Korea ’s inflation will exceed
President  Lee Myung Bak ’s target this year and growth will be
slower than previously forecast after global demand weakened and
energy costs climbed, Finance Ministry forecasts showed today.  Consumer prices are expected to rise 4 percent, the
ministry said in a statement, exceeding its initial 3 percent
projection. The government also lowered its estimate of economic
growth to 4.5 percent from the 5 percent it projected last
December.  “Our target is to keep inflation below 4 percent with more
policy efforts,” Yoon Jong Won, a director-general at the
ministry, told reporters in Gwacheon. “Our new forecasts reflect
the recent expectations of slower growth and higher inflation in
major economies.”  Increasing consumer demand and rising energy costs and
pushed inflation above the 4 percent ceiling every month since
January, prompting three interest-rate increases this year. Bank
of Korea board members will decide whether to raise the
borrowing costs again at their meeting on July 14.  President Lee declared “war” on inflation in January, and
the government imposed price controls and tolerated currency
appreciation as part of the campaign, as the rising cost of
living contributed to growing public discontent. Lee’s approval
rating fell to 28.8 percent in a poll this month, compared with
76 percent when he came to power in February 2008, according to
Seoul-based Realmeter.  Food Imports  The  finance ministry  said today it will maintain tight
fiscal spending and control market liquidity to avoid chronic
inflation.  The government will boost food supplies by encouraging more
imports and improving distribution channels while promoting
market competition with close monitoring and tighter rules on
irregular pricing practices. It will allow utility fee to rise
gradually and will permit different power tariffs to be charged
at peak and non-peak times, the ministry said.  Next year, economic growth will likely accelerate to the
upper end of the 4 percent range while inflation will moderate
to the lower end of the 3 percent range, the ministry said today.  The current-account surplus is expected to narrow to $10
billion in 2012 from $16 billion this year, with export growth
slowing to 9.5 percent from 20.6 percent. Imports will likely
grow 25.4 percent this year and 11.2 percent next year as Dubai
oil prices are expected to hover around $110 per barrel, the
ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  