-- 
Southern Union Investors Sue to Block $4.2 Billion Energy Transfer Buyout

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T00:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/southern-union-investors-sue-to-block-4-2-billion-energy-transfer-buyout.html
Southern Union Co., a natural-gas
pipeline operator that is the target of buyout offers, was sued
by investors who contend they aren’t getting enough for their
shares in a $4.2 billion bid by  Energy Transfer Equity LP. (ETE)   Executives of Houston-based Southern Union didn’t properly
shop around for higher bids for the energy company and
structured the Energy Transfer deal in a way to discourage other
offers, officials of  KBC Asset Management NV , a Southern Union
investor, said in suit filed in  Delaware  today.  “The company’s public shareholders will not receive
adequate or fair value for their Southern Union common stock,”
under Energy Transfer’s bid, lawyers for the fund said in the
 Delaware Chancery Court  suit. Investors would get partnership
units worth $33 each under the offer.  The suit comes almost a week after Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Williams Cos., another natural-gas provider, made an unsolicited
$4.86 billion all-cash bid for Southern Union. The offer values
Southern Union at $39 a share. That’s $6 a share, or about $750
million, more than the June 16 sale price announced by Southern
Union and Energy Transfer.  Energy Transfer’s officials said yesterday Southern Union
directors are violating the buyout agreement by discussing the
bid with Williams’s executives. Southern Union said they aren’t
breaching the contract with the talks, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Gas Pipelines  John Barnett, a Southern Union spokesman, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment today on the shareholder
suit.  Southern Union operates pipelines that move natural gas
from  Texas  to  Florida  and the Midwest, and owns a gas-
liquefaction plant in  Louisiana  that is seeking federal
permission to export the furnace and power-plant fuel.  Williams, which wants to use Southern Union’s lines to
connect to new sources of natural gas in the Permian Basin and
Granite Wash fields in Texas and  Oklahoma , said its offer isn’t
subject to a financing contingency. Energy Transfer’s offer
calls for it to issue new units and exchange them for existing
Southern Union shares.  Lawyers for the KBC fund contend that Southern Union’s
board is backing Energy Transfer’s bid in part because the offer
“provides substantial benefits” to some of the company’s
managers, including Chief Executive Officer George Lindemann and
Chief Operating Officer Eric Herschmann.  Other Perks  The pair stand to each get five-year consulting agreements
worth $50 million that come with other perks, such as use of
private jets and accelerated vesting of  stock options , the suit
said.  Those payments are “gratuitous and offer no legitimate
benefits to shareholders of Southern Union or ETE,” the fund’s
lawyers said.  KBC’s suit seeks to have a Delaware judge block the Energy
Transfer deal so Southern Union investors can seek more for
their shares, according to the complaint.  Southern Union also has been sued by the  Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority  and two Florida pension
funds over the Energy Transfer offer.  Septa, which operates trains and buses in the Philadelphia
area, along with the North Miami Beach General Employees
Retirement Plan and City of North Miami Beach Police Officers &
Firefighters Retirement plan, filed suit in Delaware Chancery
Court June 27 to challenge the deal. A similar suit also has
been filed in state court in Houston.  The KBC suit is KBC Asset Management NV v.  Southern Union
Co. (SUG) , 6622, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.) The Septa suit
is Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority v.
Southern Union Co., 6615, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  