-- 
South African Credit Growth Unexpectedly Decelerates to Annual 5.2% in May

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-30T08:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-african-credit-growth-unexpectedly-decelerates-to-annual-5-2-in-may.html
South African credit growth
unexpectedly slowed in May, reducing pressure on the central
bank to raise  interest rates  from a 30-year low.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose an annual 5.2
percent, down from 6.2 percent in April, the Pretoria-based
 Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The median estimate of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.3 percent.  The Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest rate three
times last year to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent to help spur
 consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of demand in
the economy. Credit growth was expected to accelerate after the
economy expanded 4.8 percent in the first quarter, the fastest
pace in a year.  “The still-modest growth in credit demand suggests that
although spending and production are rising, there is little
demand pressure on prices as both households and businesses
remain cautious,” Nedbank Group Ltd.,  South Africa ’s fourth-
largest bank, said in e-mailed comments. The central bank is
likely to delay interest rate increases until early 2012, it
said.  The rand traded at 6.7641 per dollar as of 9:47 a.m. in
Johannesburg, up from 6.7918 before the release of the data.  Household credit rose an annual 6.9 percent, while
corporate credit increased 3.7 percent, the central bank said.  “It is clear that the rate of expansion in private sector
credit remains relatively muted and has lagged the overall
economic recovery,”  Kevin Lings , an economist with Stanlib
Asset Management in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“We still expect credit growth, especially consumer credit, to
move modestly higher during the next 12 months”  The broad M3 measure of  money supply  increased an annual
6.1 percent in May, up from 6 percent in April. The median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for M3 to
expand 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  