-- 
South Korea’s Inflation Rate Breaches Central Bank Target for Sixth Month

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-07-01T02:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-korea-consumer-prices-advance-4-4-year-on-year-more-than-forecast.html
     July 1 (Bloomberg) -- South Korea ’s inflation exceeded the
central bank’s target for a sixth straight month in June, adding
pressure on the bank to boost borrowing costs again even as
export growth slows.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier, after
a 4.1 percent gain in May, Statistics  Korea  said today in
Gwacheon, south of Seoul. Exports expanded 14.5 percent last
month, the slowest pace since October 2009, missing analysts’
forecasts for a 17.6 percent gain, a separate report showed.  The government raised its inflation estimate for this year
to 4 percent yesterday and cut the growth forecast to 4.5
percent after global demand weakened and energy costs climbed.
The central bank is likely to raise interest rates twice more
this year as controlling inflation takes precedence, said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co.  “Policy makers are at a crossroads as prices are rising and
the growth momentum is weakening,” said Yoon, based in  Seoul .
“They may choose  price stability  over growth,” he said, adding
that the central bank may raise interest rates in August and
again later this year if price increases aren’t tamed. The  Bank
of Korea  will next meet on July 14.  The won rose 0.05 percent to 1,067.15 per dollar as of
11:27 a.m. in Seoul, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi stock index gained 1 percent.  Imports Climb  Exports increased to $48.2 billion last month from $47.6
billion in May, today’s report showed. Imports climbed 27.4
percent to $44.9 billion. The  trade surplus  was $3.3 billion.  “Growth, even if now expected to be slightly lower than
previously thought, remains robust enough for the Bank of Korea
to continue to normalize interest rates,” said  Frederic Neumann ,
co-head of Asian economic research in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings
Plc. He expects one Bank of Korea interest rate increase each in
the third and fourth quarters.  Reflecting voters’ discontent with the higher cost of
living, President  Lee Myung Bak ’s public support fell to 29
percent last month compared with 76 percent when he came to
power in February 2008, according to a June 20-24 poll by Seoul-
based Realmeter.  Gains in the currency are helping to curb inflation that
exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent target ceiling since
January. Exports are equivalent to about half the economy and
overseas demand has bolstered sales for carmakers including Kia
Motors Corp. this year.  Export Forecast  South Korea raised its forecast for exports this year to
$557 billion from the $513 billion it projected last December,
the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said today.  The 19.4 percent increase in exports will likely leave a
trade surplus of $29 billion, more than the earlier estimate of
$25 billion, the ministry said in a statement.  The won gained more than 5 percent so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s central bank raised its benchmark interest
rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent on June 10 to tame inflation
and curb record household debt.  Core prices, which exclude energy and food costs, advanced
3.7 percent in June from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
May 2009, today’s report showed.  The nation’s industrial production growth rebounded from a
seven-month low in May, expanding 8.3 percent from a year
earlier, the country’s statistics agency said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  