-- 
South Africa Trade Deficit Narrowed in May as National Exports Increased

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-30T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-africa-trade-deficit-narrowed-in-may-as-exports-increased.html
South Africa ’s trade deficit
narrowed to 1 billion rand ($147.5 million) in May as exports of
commodities, vegetables and vehicles increased.  The deficit, which was in line with the median estimate of
10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, contracted from 2.4 billion
rand in April, the Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service
said in an e-mailed statement today. The shortfall narrowed to
8.5 billion rand in the year to date from 13.5 billion rand the
year earlier.  The smaller gap “was underpinned by higher commodity
exports, specifically precious and base metals,” the revenue
service said.  The trade deficit has narrowed even as the rand’s 39
percent gain against the dollar since the beginning of 2009
constrained exports and made imports cheaper. The effect of the
stronger currency was partially offset by increases in the price
of gold and other metal exports.  “Exchange rate over-valuation has exacerbated pressure on
our current account deficit and increased our vulnerability to
future shocks,” Deputy Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said in a
speech in  Cape Town  yesterday.  Current Account  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, expanded to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the first quarter from a revised 1 percent
in the previous three months, the central bank said in its
Quarterly Bulletin released on June 21.  Exports rose 9 percent to 56.3 billion rand in May from the
previous month as shipments of precious and semi-precious stones
and metals increased by 1.82 billion rand, or 14 percent, the
revenue service said. Base metals exports rose 1.16 billion
rand, or 15 percent, while vegetable product shipments surged
660 million rand, or 40 percent. Exports of vehicles, aircraft
and vessels increased 532 million rand or 13 percent.  Imports gained 6 percent to 57.3 billion rand over the same
period, mainly due to increased purchases of machinery,
electrical appliances, equipment components, base metals,
plastic and rubber.  Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting the timing of
shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 