-- 
South Africa Won’t Earn More by Nationalizating Mines, Godsell, Spicer Say

-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 
2011-06-30T06:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/south-africa-won-t-earn-more-by-nationalizating-mines-godsell-spicer-say.html
South Africa ’s government would earn
more from the nation’s mining industry by regulating it rather
than owning operations, Business Leadership Chairman Bobby
Godsell and Chief Executive Officer Michael Spicer said.  Africa’s biggest economy should follow the example of
China,  Brazil , Russia and Zambia and move away from state
ownership of the industry, Spicer and Godsell, the former CEO of
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the continent’s biggest gold miner,
wrote in an opinion piece in Johannesburg-based Business Day
today.  The African National Congress agreed in September to study
nationalization to meet demands from  Julius Malema , head of its
youth arm. Mine operators in South Africa are compelled by law
to sell 26 percent of their assets to black investors by 2014
and boost numbers of black managers to help make up for
discrimination during apartheid before 1994. Some companies
missed targets for 2009, the mines minister said at the time,
adding that the industry had “not lived up to the spirit and
intent” of the law.  “If foreign owners were not compensated, foreign
governments including  China ,  India , Russia and Brazil, in
addition to foreign investors, would be likely to invoke
international treaties,” they wrote. “South Africa’s
membership of BRICS would immediately be in jeopardy and South
Africa would move from a respected member of the international
community to a similar pariah status to that it held during
apartheid.”  Force Debate  Companies forced the debate by failing to offer sufficient
stakes to black investors, or to develop workers and communities
around mines, Sandile Nogxina, the outgoing director-general of
the Department of Mineral Resources, told Business Day
yesterday.  Mining generates 30 percent of South Africa’s export
revenue, 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000 direct
jobs, according to the Mines Ministry. The country is the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, and the third-
largest gold producer.  South Africa, with more than $2.5 trillion in mineral
reserves, is the world’s richest nation by “commodity wealth,”
followed by  Russia  and  Australia , Citigroup Inc. said in April
last year.  Mining companies comprise 1.9 trillion rand ($280.4
billion), or 43 percent of the value of South Africa’s stock
exchange, Godsell and Spicer said.  “Why would anyone want to spend 1.9 trillion rand in state
resources when the benefits of the expenditures, downstream
beneficiation and employment are already substantially created
by the mining sector in South Africa,” they wrote. “The cost-
benefit analysis of nationalization just does not make economic
sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  