-- 
Spacey Hobbles, Leers in ‘Richard III’; Tenor Gets Lost: Warwick Thompson

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/spacey-hobbles-leers-in-richard-iii-tenor-gets-lost-warwick-thompson.html
The hero of Shakespeare’s “Richard
III” is called “a lump of foul deformity” by his future wife.
Rarely has foulness produced so many gallows laughs as it does
with  Kevin Spacey  as the cunning crookback.  In Sam Mendes’s new production at the  Old Vic  in London,
Spacey mines the part for all its comic potential. With his leg
in a distorted metal brace, and a hump bulging under his modern
suit, he stoops and hobbles across the stage. His angular
posture allows him to look out to the audience from under his
brows and flick us sly glances full of camp, conspiratorial glee
as he plots his next murder.  Spacey has as much fun breaking the fourth wall as he does
planning his many villainies, and his bitter cynicism has an
unstoppable energy. He takes some extraordinary risks too. When
taunting his enemy Rivers, he pops out a witty punchline while
twiddling an invisible cigar in front of his mouth. Richard III
as Groucho Marx? What a trip.  It all works beautifully in Mendes’s fluid and well-paced
production. An introductory screening of crackly old newsreel
footage suggests that the action is set in the 1930s. Spacey
angrily turns off the footage with a remote control, jolting us
into a loose hybrid 1930s-contemporary setting.  It suggests both the rise of National Socialism and any
number of modern tyrannical parallels.  Misplaced Winks  Just once or twice, Spacey overplays his hand. When Richard
initially refuses the crown for which he has plotted and
intrigued, his comical false modesty is too bald, too
telegraphic. He can wink at us in the audience: He shouldn’t be
caught winking by anyone in the world of the play.  No matter. It’s when he falls off the high wire that one
appreciates just what risks of tone and dramatic truth he takes
to bring Shakespeare’s monster to life.  Designer Tom Piper creates a suitably claustrophobic
performing space out of three walls of wooden doors. Old Queen
Margaret (Gemma Jones), one of Richard’s enemies and a
Cassandra-type figure in the play, marks crosses on them each
time there’s another murder or execution.  Haydn Gwynne is wonderfully imperious as Richard’s sister-
in-law Queen Elizabeth, and Annabel Scholey (as Richard’s future
wife Anne) injects a creepy eroticism into her courtship scene
with him.  No winter of discontent here, just glorious summer.  Rating: ****.  Opera Pastiche  There’s a different kind of summery fun to be had in the
new light-as-froth musical “Lend Me a Tenor” by Peter Sham and
Brad Carroll at the Gielgud Theatre.  Based on a 1986 comedy by U.S. farceur Ken Ludwig, it tells
the story of a 1930s opera company in  Cleveland  whose imported
Italian tenor goes AWOL just before a prestigious production of
Verdi’s “Otello.” It’s a cue for a roster of toe-tapping Cole Porter-type numbers, a series of mistaken identities, some
delicious operatic pastiches, and for a nerdy stage manager to
grab the spotlight and win the girl.  Under Ian Talbot’s quickfire direction the performers give
the impression that they’re making it all up on the spot, just
as they should. The 1930s costumes and tap routines are a
delight, and Paul Farnsworth’s set whips us from a plush hotel
room to the opera stage in the blink of an eye.  Damian Humbley (Max Garber) and Michael Matus (tenor Tito
Merelli) have terrific larynxes, and Sophie-Louise Dann shows
off her operatic chops as an ambitious diva from hell.  There’s a decent laugh every 30 seconds. It’s just the sort
of show that got America through the Depression, and do we ever
need it now. Rating: ****.  Early Stoppard  The same can’t be said of “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Are Dead” at the Haymarket Theatre. Tom Stoppard’s 1966 comedy,
directed by Trevor Nunn, imagines what the action of “Hamlet”
might look like through the eyes of two of its peripheral
characters. In between trying to work out what’s happening to
them, they discuss life, death and chance in long absurdist
dialogues.  It’s a heartless and repetitive piece, hard to warm to, and
with too many “hey, we’re just theatrical characters” moments.
Nunn’s production plows dutifully through them. Samuel Barnett
is an effeminate, flighty Rosencrantz and Jamie Parker plays a
more irascible Guildenstern.  It all feels like a dry run for Stoppard’s later, more
engaging intellectual comedies. Rating: **.  “Richard III” is at the Old Vic Theatre. Information:
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  “Lend Me a Tenor” is at the Gielgud Theatre. Information:
 http://www.tenorthemusical.com  or +44-844-482-5130.  “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead” is at the
Haymarket Theatre. Information:  http://www.trh.co.uk  or
+44-845-481-1870.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 