-- 
Spain’s Opposition Calls for Tax Cuts, Benefits for Growth

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-30T13:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/spain-s-people-s-party-calls-for-tax-cuts-benefits-for-growth.html
Spain’s  People’s Party , which polls
indicate will beat the ruling Socialists in elections due by
March, proposed tax cuts for employers as well as benefits for
parents and homeowners to help end a three-year slump.  The PP submitted 15 resolutions to the  Parliament  in Madrid
as part of a state-of-the-nation debate, the clearest indication
to date of the economic policies of the possible future ruling
party. Three proposals were adopted today, the legislature said
on its website, and none concerned the economic proposals, such
as tax and social-security rebates for companies hiring young
people, women and the long-term unemployed.  Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero faces
calls for early elections as he struggles to convince investors
 Spain  can trim the euro area’s third-largest budget deficit and
avoid following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a bailout. On
June 28, the Catalan nationalist party said it won’t support the
minority government’s 2012 budget, forcing Zapatero to seek
other allies to back the spending plan or risk early elections.  The PP, which has opposed the Socialists’ spending cuts,
had proposed bringing back a 500-euro ($723) annual benefit for
parents with children under age 3 and a tax rebate on home
mortgages. It also called for austerity, public-sector job cuts
and measures to rein in the health system’s deficit.  The PP, led by Mariano Rajoy, would clinch 45.9 percent of
the vote if general elections were held now, according to a poll
published by the newspaper El Mundo on June 5, compared with
32.1 percent for the Socialists.  Zapatero won’t seek a third term and the Socialists have
named Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba to lead the
party into the next general vote after suffering their worst
local election defeat in three decades last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 