-- 
Spain’s Three Main Parties Vote to Ease Foreclosure Rules

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-30T13:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/spain-s-three-main-parties-vote-to-ease-foreclosure-rules-1-.html
Spain ’s three largest parties backed
a resolution in Parliament to help mortgage-holders facing
foreclosure, after nationwide protests called for protection for
homeowners from banks after the collapse of the property boom.  Parliament approved today the motion drafted by the ruling
Socialists, the main opposition People’s Party and Catalan group
Convergencia i Union that called for an increase to the amount
of income that is shielded from creditors’ claims and an
increase to the value at which banks take foreclosed homes on to
their books, according to the text of the motion, which isn’t
binding.  Spaniards protesting in nationwide demonstrations since May
have called for easier rules for mortgage-holders who risk
losing their homes as the end of a debt-fueled property boom
pushed the  unemployment rate  to 21 percent. Under Spanish law,
the bank can claim the difference from the borrower if a
foreclosed property is sold for less than the outstanding
mortgage, and has access to borrowers’ present and future assets
and earnings.  Existing rules have kept the bad-loan ratio on mortgages
for homes at less than 3 percent, according to the Bank of
Spain, which defends the current system. Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said on June 27 that mortgage contracts can’t be changed
“retroactively.”  New Mortgages  The proposal also aims to avoid the use of “abusive”
clauses in mortgage contracts and encourage public-private
initiatives to clear Spain’s excess housing stock at
“affordable” prices. It encourages banks to inform clients
taking out new mortgages of the possibility of contracts that
allow borrowers to cancel the debt by handing over the property.
Those contracts already exist, although their use restricts the
amount clients can borrow to a lower proportion of the
property’s value, Salgado said June 27.  The proposal isn’t binding, but motions that win broad
support are often sent back to Parliament to be processed as
legislation.  The number of foreclosed properties has climbed 10-fold
since the end of the housing boom, property website  Idealista 
estimates. Idealista advertises more than 30,000 foreclosed
homes valued at 4.6 billion euros ($6.7 billion) on behalf of 40
banks and savings banks, compared with 3,000 in June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  