-- 
Sudanese Airstrikes Probably Caused Civilian Casualties, UN Agency Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-30T16:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/sudanese-airstrikes-probably-caused-civilian-casualties-un-agency-says.html
Airstrikes by the Sudanese army in
the border state of Southern Kordofan from June 25 to June 28
probably caused civilian casualties, the  United Nations  said.  “Reports of aerial attacks causing civilian casualties and
severe injuries in the Kauda area on June 27 have not yet been
verified, but are supported by photographic and eyewitness
reports,” the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs said in an e-mailed statement today. Raids were also
reported in other parts of the state, including the capital,
Kadugli, during the same period, according to the statement.  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and units of
Southern Sudan’s army in Southern Kordofan, northern Sudan’s
only oil-producing state, have forced more than 73,000 people to
flee their homes since June 5, according to the UN. The fighting
there and in the disputed border region of Abyei raised concern
of a resumption of a two-decade civil war that ended in 2005.  Authorities in  Southern Sudan  said fighting in Southern
Kordofan may have broken out when the Sudanese army tried to
disarm residents of the state, such as members of the Nuba
ethnic group, who fought with the south’s army in the civil war.
They accuse President Umar al-Bashir’s government of attempting
to occupy disputed border areas before the south becomes
independent on July 9.  Integration of Troops  The Sudanese government and the northern branch of Southern
Sudan’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,
agreed on June 28 that southern-allied fighters from the
northern states of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile would be
integrated into the Sudanese army, though the details are yet to
be worked out, according to the African Union High-Level
Implementation Panel on Sudan, led by former South African
President  Thabo Mbeki .  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent. The crude is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
 India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
third-biggest oil producer.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum accused the Southern
Sudanese army of starting the violence in both Southern Kordofan
and Abyei.  Sudanese authorities agreed yesterday with Southern Sudan’s
government to demilitarize the north-south border before
southern independence, the AU  Sudan  panel said. Under the
agreement, the Sudanese army, based in Khartoum, and Southern
Sudan’s forces, would redeploy 10 kilometers (6 miles) outside
the border within 10 days, the panel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 