-- 
Sudan Needs Diplomacy From U.S. to Avoid Renewed Conflict: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/sudan-needs-diplomacy-from-u-s-to-avoid-renewed-conflict-view.html
Sudan  is always in the headlines, it
seems, but the news is rarely good. Most recently, 113,000
people in Abyei, the oil-rich area between the north and the
south, fled their homes in fear of the northern troops who had
entered the region in May to assert their claim to it.  Thabo Mbeki, the former president of  South Africa , brokered
an agreement to demilitarize Abyei, and the  United Nations
Security Council  resolved to deploy 4,200 peacekeeping troops.
But the border through Abyei has yet to be clearly drawn and an
oil agreement between the north and south has yet to be reached.
Until these issues are settled, the threat of more bloody
conflict in the region remains.  President  Barack Obama  should work with  China  and the  Arab
League  to settle the lingering disputes.  Sudan’s long civil war between the Arab/Muslim north and
black/Christian south, in which millions were killed and
millions more were forced to leave their homes, technically
ended six years ago. Still, the terms of the peace agreement
have not been entirely fulfilled. The north and the south were
supposed to agree on their boundary in Abyei and on an equitable
way to divide oil revenue before the south held a referendum on
independence.  An oil agreement is needed because 75 percent of Sudan’s
oil, the country’s main economic asset, is found in the south.
The south is landlocked, and the oil must be exported through
the north.  Unfortunately, no agreement on the border or the oil income
could be reached. The referendum went ahead anyway, and on Jan.
9, almost 99 percent of the southern Sudanese voted for
independence. The  African Union  then appointed Mbeki to mediate
solutions on the outstanding issues.  Preventive Diplomacy Needed  At this point, support from the U.S., China and the Arab
League would strengthen Mbeki’s hand, especially with the north.
China is a major buyer of Sudan’s oil, and the Arab League has
clout with the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum. Obama, for
his part, has demonstrated a personal interest in Sudan by
appointing a special envoy in 2009.  Now, Obama should work with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and
Arab League Secretary General Nabil el-Arabi to encourage the UN
and African Union to schedule a referendum in Abyei to settle
its status. If the north and south can’t agree on rules for such
a vote, Mbeki should be given the authority to impose a
solution. Such a strategy worked in 1995 in Bosnia when the
Serbs, Croats and Muslims couldn’t agree on the status of the
strategic town of Brcko.  The U.S. should also build a coalition to carry a joint
warning to Khartoum that improving relations will be impossible
if the north continues to provoke conflict.  And the Chinese should be encouraged to tell northern
leaders that they oppose actions that threaten to disrupt the
flow of oil.  The history of conflict in  Africa  shows that the rest of
the world usually fails to act until after casualties reach into
the hundreds of thousands. In the case of Sudan, intensive
diplomacy now could break that tragic pattern.  That would be preferable to being forced to act after
renewed conflict causes more death in Sudan and a new wave of
refugees seeking shelter in  Egypt ,  Libya  and neighboring
countries.  Read more Bloomberg View editorials.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 