-- 
Sugar Australia Buys Thai, Brazil Supplies for Second Time in Three Years

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-06-30T02:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/sugar-australia-buys-thai-brazil-supplies-for-second-time-in-three-years.html
Sugar Australia , a unit of Wilmar
International Ltd.-owned Sucrogen, imported sugar for a second
time in three years to meet domestic demand after a cyclone in
February and wet conditions in growing regions cut supply in the
world’s third-biggest shipper.  The company purchased 42,000 metric tons of sugar from
 Thailand  in April and 26,000 tons from  Brazil  last month,
Russell Abotomey, general manager of sales and marketing, said
in a phone interview. Sugar  Australia  imported one shipment of
sugar about three years ago due to a shortage, he said.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi cut through Australia’s northeast,
slashing yield potential by about 30 percent in an area that
makes up 20 percent of total output, the  Australian Bureau  of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences said on June
21. Prices climbed to a 30-year high on Feb. 2 as demand
exceeded supply, helping send global food costs to a record.
Sugar has slumped 25 percent since then as global production
increased.  “Because of the shortfall in the crop from Queensland last
year, we’ve had a requirement to import these two shipments,”
Abotomey said from  Melbourne . “We don’t have a huge amount of
storage, they’d already exported some of the volumes so there
was a shortfall.”  Yasi caused an estimated A$500 million ($535 million)
damage while wet weather since then limited plantings,
producers’ group  Canegrowers  said last month. Australia’s sugar
output may rise 6.4 percent to 3.85 million tons in the year
ending June 2012, as damage from the cyclone offset increased
planting, the bureau said. Exports may increase 2 percent to
2.48 million tons from the year ago, it said.  “I would suspect we wouldn’t have to” import more sugar,
Abotomey said. The imported raw sugar will be blended with
Australian sugar and will likely be used in food and drink
products, he said.  To contact the reporter for this story: Phoebe Sedgman in
Wellington at   psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 