-- 
U.K. Government to Consult Insurers on Applying EU Gender Ruling

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-30T09:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-k-government-to-consult-insurers-on-applying-eu-gender-ruling.html
Treasury Minister Mark Hoban said he
will consult the  insurance industry  on changing U.K. law to
comply with a European Union court ruling that stops insurers
from taking people’s gender into consideration.  Hoban said that the government is also pressing the
European Commission, the EU’s executive branch, to issue
guidelines “as soon as possible.” The  EU Court of Justice , the
27-nation region’s top court, ruled in March that insurers won’t
be allowed to discriminate between sexes when pricing insurance
premiums from December next year.  “The judgment goes against the grain of common sense,”
Hoban said in a written statement to Parliament in  London  today.
“Financial-services providers should be allowed to make
sensible decisions based on sound analysis of relevant risk
factors.”  Auto-insurance premiums for female drivers could rise by as
much as 50 percent as a result of the decision, according to
accounting firm KPMG LLP. Young women will bear the brunt
because insurers are reluctant to cut prices for men of the same
age because they are more dangerous drivers,  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) 
Chief Executive Officer Henry Engelhardt said in March.  The ruling by the Luxembourg-based tribunal, which is
binding and can’t be appealed, will have a bigger impact in the
U.K. because most policies are written for named drivers.
Elsewhere in the EU, policies are car-specific, allowing any
driver and leaving less room for pricing disparities between
genders.  Hoban said that the government plans to amend the Equality
Act to implement the changes and that he will consult the
insurance industry by the fall. He said insurers need clarity on
how the ruling will be implemented across the EU and he will
continue to push Brussels for guidance.  Many European insurers calculate premiums according to the
risk associated with an individual. For example, they charge
women more for annuity coverage and less for mortality
insurance, as a result of their longer average  life expectancy .
The court’s decision will prevent them from continuing to do so.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  