-- 
U.K. Industry ‘Ill-considered’ in Defense Review, RUSI Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-k-industry-ill-considered-in-defense-review-rusi-says.html
The U.K.’s defence review was
“rushed” and failed to take proper account of the industry,
resulting in doubt across the sector, according to the  Royal
United Services Institute .  In a report published today, the London-based research
organization called for greater clarity for industry in the
“complex and uncertain” world of defence policy making.  “There is little doubt that the impression left was of a
process that was short term in nature, rushed and undertaken
without full regard to all of the forces, factors and variables
that coagulate to form defence and security capability,” the
paper said. “The onshore defence industrial base certainly
seemed to be a key enabling ingredient that was woefully ill-
considered and unrepresented by the 2010 policy review.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government announced an 8
percent cut in defense spending over four years when the
review’s findings were announced in October and said it would
delay the replacement of the Trident submarine-based nuclear-
missile system. It also scrapped an order for BAe Systems Plc’s
Nimrod reconnaissance aircraft, cut the number of Challenger II
tanks and opted for fewer, cheaper, planes for two new aircraft
carriers, one of which may be sold after completion.  Those cuts and others “have combined to build doubt across
industries within the defence and security sectors,” the report
said. The defence and security “space” is “complex and
uncertain for the people who create and exploit technology,
design, demonstrate and manufacture equipment and train the
military or in some other way support or maintain the activities
of the soldier, sailor or airman.”  ‘Widely Consulted’  Defense procurement minister Peter Luff insisted companies
were “widely consulted” during the review and said the
government wants to work with industry “to ensure our armed
forces are provided with the equipment they need, when they need
it.” A new forum that includes representatives of the defense
ministry’s suppliers will meet next month, he said in an e-
mailed statement.  The RUSI report, written by researchers Trevor Taylor, John
Louth and Henrik Heidenkamp, marks the start of the group’s
defence, industries and society program, which it said will be
“part of a major effort to create an authoritative and
evidence-based understanding of the place of industry in Western
defence and wider society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  