-- 
Credit Markets Rally as Company Debt Risk Drops by Most in 2011

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-30T20:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-in-biggest-weekly-drop-of-2011-as-greek-risk-wanes.html
Credit markets are rallying as
concern ebbs that  Greece  will default on its debt and investors
speculate the selloff earlier this month was overdone.  Credit-default swap indexes linked to everything from high-
yield corporate bonds to commercial-mortgage securities, which
deteriorated to the worst levels since October earlier this
month, have rebounded, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Investor appetite for risk improved this week as Greece’s
creditors reach agreements on plans to help the indebted nation
avoid default and lawmakers authorize the austerity plan
required to keep rescue aid flowing. Economic data in the U.S.,
which indicated a weak patch earlier this month, showed more
improvement in the housing market than forecast.  “The Greece situation is resolving in a way that’s been in
the near term pretty positive for the markets,” New York-based
Barclays Capital credit strategist Jeffrey Meli said in a
telephone interview. “It’s been quite a rally,” he said.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index fell
for a fourth day, declining 3.1 basis points to a mid-price of
91.8 basis points, the lowest since May 31, as of 4:48 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, has dropped
9.3 basis points this week, on pace for the biggest decline
since the five days ended July 9.  Subprime Derivatives  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, dropped 3.2
basis yesterday after the Greek parliament voted for an
austerity plan. Lawmakers backed a bill today to authorize tax
increases and asset sales. The swaps index is down from 101
basis points on June 24, the highest since Oct. 4.  Even as Labor Department figures showed jobless claims fell
by less than estimated last week, concern eased that the U.S.
economic recovery was slowing, after the number of contracts to
buy previously owned U.S. homes rose almost three times as much
as forecast as falling prices made properties more affordable.  Subprime-mortgage  credit derivatives , which were the most-
affected by the  Federal Reserve ’s auctions of home-loan bonds
once owned by American International Group Inc. that helped roil
broader credit markets, have been also bolstered by  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s offer announced yesterday to pay $8.5 billion to
investors for faulty loans.  Mortgage Bonds  One Markit ABX index tied to subprime mortgage bonds that
were rated AAA when issued in 2006 has climbed 12 percent this
week after dropping more than 18 percent the previous 11 weeks.
The index rose to 40.25 today from 35.9 on June 24, prices from
London-based Markit Group Ltd. show. A similar index tied to
junior AAA ranked commercial-mortgage bonds created in 2007,
known as the Markit CMBX, has climbed to 69.3 from an almost
nine-month low of 63.7 on June 27.  Prices on the indexes rise as investor confidence improves
reflecting a decline in the cost of protecting against losses.  Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank , moved to resolve
bondholders claims over soured mortgages yesterday, reducing the
uncertainty about future costs from defective mortgages in its
Countrywide unit. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
previously said expenses tied to demands from bond buyers other
than  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  could range from zero to as much
as $7 billion to $10 billion.  “That was a big number they’re paying out obviously, but
the uncertainty around that litigation had been a drag and it
gives you a way of ballparking the potential cost across the
system. The numbers look very manageable from the standpoint of
a creditor,” Meli said.  Greek Optimism  Optimists view the developments in Greece as “one less
reason to be bearish on the outlook” for the U.S., according to
 Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers
Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “The fact that a meteoric plunge towards default has been
staved off for three more months has equally encouraged some
optimism that the world’s leading economy might soon pick-up,”
he wrote in a note to clients today. “ Risk aversion  has
consequently tapered off.”  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers and the government
have agreed on a proposal to roll over Greek debt, Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. Banks have agreed to roll over
at least the Greek bonds they’re holding that mature through
2014, which amount to about 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion),
Schaeuble said in Berlin today.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  