-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally on Optimism Greece Will Avoid Debt Default

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-30T20:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-s-p-500-may-extend-its-four-week-high.html
U.S. stocks rallied, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest four-day gain since
September, amid increased optimism Greece will avoid default and
after American business activity improved.  Industrial, energy and technology companies led gains in
the S&P 500, rising at least 1.4 percent, as investors bought
stocks tied to economic growth.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  climbed at least 1.8 percent to
help the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  erase its quarterly loss.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  added 2.4 percent after a report that
private-equity firms want the computer maker to split up.  The S&P 500 advanced 1 percent to 1,320.64 at 4 p.m. in New
York, rising 4.1 percent in four days. The Dow average gained
152.92 points, or 1.3 percent, to 12,414.34 today.  “It’s not surprising that the market is rebounding,” said
 Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief investment strategist at UBS
Wealth Management Americas, which oversees $761 billion. “The
Greece situation will work out, concerns about a soft patch were
overdone and earnings will continue to be strong. The market
will do better in the second half.”  The Dow fell 1.2 percent in June amid concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis and weaker-than-expected economic data.
Over the last century, the 30-stock gauge had an average gain of
1.4 percent in July, according to data compiled by Bespoke
Investment Group. The index was up 7.2 percent in 2011 amid
better-than-estimated earnings and government stimulus measures.  Greece ’s Bailout  Global stocks rose today on expectations that Greece will
avoid defaulting on its debt. Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s drive to stave off the euro area’s first sovereign
default stayed on track after lawmakers backed a bill to
authorize an austerity plan required to keep rescue aid flowing.  Germany ’s biggest banks agreed on a proposal to “roll
over” Greek debt holdings, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said. That means reinvesting money from maturing bonds into new
Greek bonds. German banks have agreed to roll over at least the
Greek bonds they’re holding that mature through 2014, which
amount to about 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion), Schaeuble said.  “The big driver behind the rally has been Greece,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.7 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois . “The implementation of
an austerity plan is certainly an important step. That should be
less of an overhang for the market in July.”  Business Barometer  Stocks extended gains after the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer climbed to
61.1 this month from 56.6 in May. Economists called for the
index to drop to 54, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.
 Consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in 10 weeks, the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index gained 1.5 percent as 29
of its 30 stocks rallied. The Dow Jones Transportation Average
of 20 stocks, which is considered a proxy for economic growth,
advanced 1.3 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, added 3 percent to $106.46. United Technologies rose
2.4 percent to $88.51. 3M increased 1.9 percent to $94.85.  Hewlett-Packard climbed 2.4 percent to $36.40. The world’s
largest maker of personal computers is being urged by private
equity firms including Blackstone Group to break up and sell
some units to them, Reuters reported, citing people familiar
with the matter.  EBay Rallies  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  climbed 4.6 percent to $32.27. The world’s
largest online marketplace was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” by Bank of America Corp, which cited the Federal
Reserve Board’s vote yesterday to approve a less severe cap on
debit-card transaction fees than previously proposed.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  jumped 2.2 percent to $132.27. The world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar modules won $4.5 billion in
conditional loan guarantees from the U.S. Energy Department for
three projects it’s developing in  California .  The S&P 500 today surpassed its average price of the last
50 days of about 1,317, which shows potential for further gains,
according to analysts who study charts to make forecasts.  “It just confirms the strength of the rally that we’ve
seen here,” said  Richard Ross , global technical strategist at
Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York. “If it doesn’t provide any
resistance at all and the market continues to power through that
level, that would be a bullish signal for the market.”  Key for Rally  The benchmark gauge has made a high on the last day of a
week only once since peaking in April, and tomorrow may
determine whether the market can build on its current rally,
Strategas Research Partners said.  The  S&P 500  had its weekly intraday high on a Friday only
once over the past eight weeks, as the gauge sank 7 percent,
according to data from Strategas and Bloomberg. That marked a
shift in trend from the first four months of the year, when the
S&P 500 rallied 8.4 percent and Fridays accounted for 10 of the
17 weekly highs.  “We need to see this trend re-emerge,”  Christopher Verrone , head of technical analysis at the New York-based firm,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The bulls have had trouble
sustaining strength late in the week.”  The Institute for Supply Management is scheduled to release
tomorrow the factory index, which may show a decrease to 51.8
this month from 53.5 in May, according to the median forecast
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Worse-than-expected
economic reports and concern about the debt crisis in Europe
spurred losses for the S&P in six consecutive weeks from April
29 to June 10, the longest streak since July 2008. The index has
since climbed 2.9 percent through yesterday.  “If this is going to be more than an ‘oversold bounce,’ it
will be important for this trend to improve over coming weeks,”
Verrone said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  