-- 
U.S. Strategic Reserve Oil May Be Put in Storage by Traders

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-01T02:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-s-strategic-reserve-oil-may-be-put-into-storage-by-traders.html
Some of the oil being released from
the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve to bring down prices may be
held by traders for later sale rather than sent directly to
refiners for processing into gasoline or other fuels.  The U.S. Energy Department is  offering  30 million barrels
of light, low-sulfur crude for sale, half of the 60 million
barrels to be released by International Energy Agency member
nations to make up for the loss of Libyan oil exports during the
civil conflict. The government closed bidding for the oil
yesterday.  “The DOE has no preference for bids from refiners versus
traders and both have participated significantly in past
sales,” an official from the Energy Department wrote in an e-
mail. “There is nothing to stop buyers from putting the oil
they have purchased into their own storage.”  Traders can profit from buying the oil and selling more
valuable contracts for later delivery, if the SPR oil is sold at
a big enough discount to cover storage costs.  Libya ’s oil output
sank to 150,000 barrels a day in June, according to a Bloomberg
News survey, as civil unrest disrupted production and shipments.  “Every additional barrel of oil stored in the U.S. is a
barrel that does not need to be imported, ultimately freeing up
barrels to move to  Europe ,”  Lawrence Eagles , head of oil
research for  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM)  in New York, said in an e-mail.
“It worked very effectively after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 and
should do so this time around,” said Eagles, who headed the
IEA’s oil markets team during an earlier release.  Sale ‘Oversubscribed’  The sale was “substantially oversubscribed,” with more
than 90 offers to purchase oil, the department said in an e-
mailed statement. The department expects to award contracts by
July 11 and announce purchasers and sales prices at that time.  The oversubscription indicates that supply disruption is a
factor and that all 30 million barrels will be placed into the
market, an administration official said. The administration will
continue to monitor the oil supply and is prepared to act
further, according to the official.  The oil from the SPR will be sold relative to Light
Louisiana Sweet crude prices published by closely held Argus
Media Ltd. Financially settled swaps for July LLS were worth 52
cents a barrel less than August as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Storing oil on a tanker wouldn’t be a profitable option at
this time, assuming a cost of 45 cents a barrel per month, said
Katherine Spector, head of commodity products research at  CIBC
World Markets , in a telephone interview. “It’s a little hard to
see how that works unless it comes in below current prices or if
you’re taking a view” that crude futures will rise, she said.  Trading Companies  Representatives of trading companies including JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Hess Trading Company and Koch
Supply & Trading LP joined  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Statoil ASA
in questioning Energy Department officials June 28 about
shipping options and requests for waivers of the Jones Act.  The Jones Act restricts the shipment of goods between U.S.
ports to American-flagged vessels. Most oil is shipped on
foreign-flagged vessels.  A lack of American-flagged vessels of adequate size means a
buyer of SPR oil who wants to store the oil or send it to
refineries on the East Coast may require a waiver of the Jones
Act. There are two available tankers, according to a list on the
Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration  website ,
along with barges that can hold up to 233,951 barrels. The per-
barrel cost to ship oil typically is lower with a larger ship.  The tankers are the Overseas Chinook, currently in  Brazil ,
and the Overseas Cascade, anchored in the  Houston Ship Channel ,
according to AISLive shipping data compiled by Bloomberg. Each
can hold 300,000 barrels of oil, the minimum parcel that can be
loaded on a ship from the SPR, according to the notice of sale.  Government officials on the conference call said that oil
could be loaded on one foreign vessel and later delivered back
into the U.S. on a different foreign tanker, provided that
information on both ships was included in the waiver
application. A waiver would not be needed if oil were loaded and
then redelivered to the same berth at a particular terminal,
according to the officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 