-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending June 28 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-06-30T12:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-june-28-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Strong high pressure in the upper levels of the atmosphere
dominated the southern U.S. with the storm track over the
northern states.  This U.S. Drought Monitor (USDM) week began
with a strong cyclonic storm system moving through the central
U.S. and dragging a frontal zone across the southern Plains and
Southeast drought areas.  Beneficial rains (2 inches or more)
fell in some areas, but long-term precipitation deficits and
continued hot temperatures limited improvements to the drought
depiction.  The Upper Midwest, Northeast, and Mid-Atlantic: Two-plus-inch
rains fell over parts of  New York  and New England this USDM week,
but below-normal amounts fell to the south.   D0 expanded
further into southern  New Jersey  and into southeast Pennsylvania
and northeast Maryland where the 30 to 60-day Standardized
Precipitation Index (SPI) was quite dry.  The last 30 days have
been dry across Maryland, most of Pennsylvania, and western New
York, but the corresponding SPI values have been mixed,
indicating that the dry percent of normal precipitation values
are not rare occurrences for some stations based on their data
history.  Beneficial rains in the western Great Lakes resulted in the
removal of the D1 in the Minnesota Arrowhead and contraction of
the D0 over the Michigan Upper Peninsula.  D0 was left over
Michigan’s Keweenaw and northern Houghton counties where less
rain fell and deficits remained at many time scales.  Southeast: Beneficial (2+ inch with locally 5-inch) rains
prompted the contraction of D0 in northern Alabama, northern
 Georgia , and extreme northwest South Carolina, and slight
contraction of the D1 in northwest Georgia.  The D4 was dented
in central  Louisiana  over Grant Parish where the rains were
enough to make the 30-day SPI wetter than normal.  In east-
central  Florida , D1-D2 were pulled back from Orange to Volusia
counties, and in southern Florida areas of D1-D2-D3-D4
contracted.  The rainfall helped improve soil moisture
conditions on a statewide basis, but June 26 U.S.D.A. reports
still had 50 percent or more of the topsoil in each of the
Southeast states short or very short of moisture.  South
Carolina still had over 80 percent of the topsoil short or very
short. Long-term precipitation deficits remained, with the last
6 months 15 inches or more behind normal along coastal  Alabama 
and Mississippi and parts of southern Florida, and rainfall
deficits of 20 inches or more widespread for the last 12 months.
Hot temperatures this week resulted in continued above-normal
evaporation, with maximum temperatures in the 90?s and low 100?s,
setting new records in some locations early in the USDM week.  A
spot of D1 was added around Tuscaloosa County in Alabama, which
missed the rainfall this week.  While the rainfall helped,
several large wildfires still raged across Florida.  The lack of rainfall has resulted in extremely low river and
creek levels, with many wells going dry, and has begun to impact
southwest Georgia water utilities that rely on groundwater.  The
dry weather and hot temperatures have ravaged crops, with a
fourth to half of several crops (corn, cotton, peanuts, sorghum,
and soybeans) rated in poor to very poor condition across
several southeast states (Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama,
Georgia,  South Carolina , and North Carolina).  The hard soils
and hot temperatures have made successful sprouting of seed
difficult and, due to lack of forage, farmers are sending cattle
to feedlots or selling cattle.  The Plains:  This was another very hot and dry week for much of
the southern Plains.  Beneficial rains occurred in a few areas
of eastern and southern  Texas , but deficits have been so large
that little change was made to the USDM depiction.  Improvement
was made where 3 inches or more of rainfall was recorded.  D3
was pulled back in Navarro, west Henderson, and southwest Van
Zandt counties; D4 was pulled back in Willacy, southern Kenedy,
and eastern Hidalgo counties; and D4 shrank around Shelby to San
Augustine counties.  There were more than 150 reports of record hot maximum
temperatures in Texas, over 20 in  Oklahoma , and 15 in  Arkansas 
this week, with the hottest reports including 118 degrees F in
Paducah, Texas (June 27), 116 in Castolon, Texas (June 21), and
115 in Castolon and Penwell, Texas (June 26).  According to the
Electric Reliability Council of Texas, operator of the state’s
major power grid, electricity demand peaked at 62,752 megawatts
on the 27th, a record for June.  Several wildfires continued to
flame across west Texas into Oklahoma.  Through June 27, Del Rio
had the driest October to June in the 1906-2011 record, San
Antonio had the second driest October-June in a period of record
beginning in 1871, and Austin Mabry was third driest for
October-June in records going back to 1856.  D4 expanded along
the Rio Grande River around Laredo and Del Rio to reflect the
record to near-record dryness. June 26 U.S.D.A. reports listed
90 percent or more of the topsoil short or very short of
moisture in Texas and Oklahoma.  For Texas, 80 percent or more
of the pasture and rangeland was rated in poor or very poor
condition, and half or more of the winter wheat, corn, soybeans,
cotton, peanuts, and oat crops were rated poor or very poor.  Hot and dry conditions prevailed north of Texas.  D0 expanded
across eastern Oklahoma and most of Arkansas, with spillage into
southern  Missouri  and parts of southern  Kansas  and northeast
Texas.  May was extremely wet in Arkansas and Missouri, but the
last 4 weeks have seen little rain.  The recent dryness, coupled
with hot temperatures and increased evaporation, dried out the
topsoil and shrank stream levels, resulting in the D0 expansion.
The U.S.D.A. topsoil moisture statistic for Arkansas jumped from
60 percent last week to 77 percent short-very short this week.
In Oklahoma, the statistic jumped from 80 percent last week to
90 percent this week.  The U.S.D.A. statistics for percent of
pasture and rangeland in poor or very poor condition jumped
about 10 percent compared to last week for these states, with 52
percent poor to very poor in Oklahoma and 26 percent in Arkansas.
A fifth of the sorghum and two-thirds of the cotton crop were
rated poor to very poor in Oklahoma, while in Arkansas a fifth
of the soybeans and a fourth of the corn crop were rated poor to
very poor.  D1 and D2 also expanded in Oklahoma and adjacent
parts of Kansas.  Localized rain in southeast Nebraska resulted
in a shift in the position of the D0 there.  D0 expanded in
northwest Kansas into southwest Nebraska based on 30-60-day
dryness.  With record or near-record long-term precipitation deficits and
low stream and groundwater levels, the A impacts designation
from the Southwest to central Plains was removed, leaving an AH
impacts designation stretching from the Southwest to the
Southeast United States.  An A impacts area was added to the new
D0 in Arkansas and southern Missouri to reflect the short-term
nature of the dryness there.  The West: The week was drier than normal across most of the West,
with virtually no rain falling over the extreme Southwest where
temperatures were well above normal.  Scattered showers dropped
a few tenths of an inch of rain on eastern parts of  New Mexico 
and  Colorado , but not enough to warrant improvement.  There were
more than 35 reports of record hot maximum temperatures in New
Mexico during the past 7 days.  D0-D1-D2-D3 expanded in
northwest New Mexico and parts of Colorado.  D0 expanded across
 Arizona  into parts of southern Nevada and adjacent  California .
Hot temperatures and unseasonably strong winds continued to
desiccate the soil in northeast Arizona where the Navajo and
Hopi tribes have declared emergencies to try to deal with
failing wells.  D0-D1-D2 expanded in northeast Arizona with D0-
D1 spillage into adjacent southeast Utah.  June 26 U.S.D.A. reports listed 90 percent or more of the
topsoil short or very short of moisture in New Mexico; 80
percent or more of the pasture and rangeland in poor or very
poor condition for New Mexico, 60 percent for Arizona, and 40
percent for Colorado.  By June 28, several large wildfires were
burning in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, and California.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: Above-normal precipitation and
streamflow in east central Alaska resulted in contraction of the
northeast corner of D0 in the state.  In Hawaii, the last 7 days
were wetter than normal over the northern islands but drier than
normal over the southern islands.  Some areas on the south side
of the Big Island were drying out, but the current depiction
still represented the situation well, so no changes were made.
The week was drier than normal across much of Puerto Rico, but
rainfall has been above normal for the last 60-90 days.  Looking Ahead: An upper-level ridge will continue to dominate
the southern U.S. during the next 5 days (June 29-July 4), with
the storm track staying to the north.  Tropical Storm Arlene
will bring a chance for rainfall to Deep South Texas and an inch
or more of rain may fall along the coast from Florida to the
Carolinas.  Half an inch of rain is expected along the Gulf
coast and a few areas in the north, but otherwise the country
should have drier than normal weather. Temperatures are expected
to be above normal except in the Northwest and near the track of
Arlene.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook and 8-14 day outlook indicate above-
normal precipitation is expected for July 5-13 from the
Northeast and Mid-Atlantic coast to the central Rockies, with
below-normal precipitation across the west coast, Arizona to
west Texas, and most of Alaska.  The northern Great Plains to
 Great Lakes  are expected to be cooler than normal while the
southern half of the country will continue warmer than normal
beneath the upper ridge.  The Pacific Northwest is expected to
be warmer than normal, while cooler-than-normal temperatures
should dominate over western Alaska and near to warmer-than-
normal temperatures are expected over eastern Alaska.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  