-- 
Debt-Ceiling Deal Must Come by Mid-July to Avert Default, Officials Say

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/u-s-debt-deal-must-be-struck-by-july-22-to-prevent-default-official-says.html
Negotiators will need to reach
agreement on raising the U.S. debt limit no later than July 22
so that legislation can get passed in time to stave off a
default on U.S. debt, two Democratic officials familiar with the
talks said.  The Senate yesterday canceled its July 4 recess to remain
in session next week during debt-limit talks after President
Barack Obama a day earlier called on Congress to stop taking
vacations while the debt-ceiling talks are unresolved.  An agreement will have to be reached by some point between
July 15 and July 22 in order to write a bill and comply with
congressional rules requiring advance publication before
consideration, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss the negotiations.  The officials said the timeline was necessary in order to
raise the legal debt ceiling by Aug. 2, the date the Treasury
Department projects it will no longer be able to meet U.S.
obligations.  Democrats and Republicans are at an impasse over how to cut
the deficit, which Republicans insist must be done prior to
agreeing to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit before
the Aug. 2 deadline. Republicans are demanding large spending
cuts and no tax increases, while Democrats say higher tax
revenue must be part of a “balanced” plan.  Obama’s spokesman rejected an invitation from Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky to meet with
Republicans yesterday at the Capitol. Republicans simply want to
“restate their maximalist position,” White House press
secretary Jay Carney said at a briefing.  Tired of ‘Posturing’  “Americans are tired of the posturing,” Carney said.
“They just want us to work.”  Standard & Poor’s would downgrade U.S. debt to junk status
in the event of a default, John Chambers, chairman of the
company’s sovereign rating committee, said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Obama accused Republicans during a news conference June 29
of siding with corporate jet owners over children and the
elderly.  “Before we ask our seniors to pay more for health care,
before we cut our children’s education,” the president said,
“it’s only fair to ask an oil company or a corporate jet owner
that has done so well to give up that tax break that no other
business enjoys.”  In asking Obama to come to the Capitol, McConnell said on
the Senate floor that he wants the president to hear from
Republicans “why what he’s proposing” on the deficit issue
“won’t pass.”  ‘Legislative Realities’  “The president says he wants us to get working,” said
McConnell. “I can’t think of a better way than to have him come
over and hear directly from our conference about the legislative
realities in the Congress right now.”  Carney said that the White House holds regular
conversations with leaders of both parties and that Obama
wouldn’t cancel two fundraisers held last night in Philadelphia.  In talks with congressional leaders during recent weeks,
the White House put on the table ideas for $2 trillion in
deficit reductions, the two Democratic officials said.  That included $200 billion in cuts to Medicare and Medicaid
entitlement spending over 10 years if an agreement could be
reached, the two Democratic officials said.  The two sides also discussed cutting an additional $200
billion over the same period from other mandatory spending, such
as farm subsidies and federal pensions, said the officials. An
additional $1 trillion in cuts over 10 years would come from
discretionary spending, including cuts in the military budget.  Republican View  A Republican official familiar with the talks disputed the
characterization, saying the real value of the cuts the White
House proposed was lower. That official added that the White
House made its offer of spending cuts contingent on Republican
agreement to tax increases.  The White House proposed $400 billion in tax increases
through changes in tax rules, with almost three-quarters of the
revenue from a proposal to cap the value of income tax
deductions at 28 percent, the Democratic officials said. That
would reduce the value of income tax deductions for wealthy
filers who are taxed at a higher rate, an idea Obama has
previously failed to win passage of in Congress.  The White House also sought tax increases that, in addition
to corporate jet owners and oil companies, also target hedge
fund managers and businesses that currently lower their taxes by
using the last-in-first-out accounting method for inventory
costs, the Democratic officials said.  Wealthy Taxpayers  Reid and other Democratic leaders said they won’t back down
from their call for tax increases as part of the deal, adding
that wealthy taxpayers must sacrifice in an agreement that also
will include spending cuts affecting lower-income Americans.  “If we can’t bring revenue to the table, we’re not going
to have a serious conversation” on curbing deficits, said
Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat.  Reid also said he invited Obama and Vice President Joe Biden to meet with all Senate Democrats on July 6. He said Gene Sperling, director of the White House National Economic Council,
will meet with Democrats the following day.  “The whole caucus has to be involved” in working out a
solution to the debt-limit debate, Reid said.  Charles Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Senate Democrat,
rejected the idea of anything other than a long-term deal that
would raise the debt limit enough to get past the 2012 elections.
He said investors might be wary of purchasing U.S. debt under
any extension that lasts just a few months.  No Short-Term Deal  “If we were to do a very short-term deal, we don’t know if
the markets would accept that,” Schumer said. “Maybe that
would send a panic into the markets that we’re all worried
about.”  Yet leaders of the Republican-controlled House must contend
with a contingent of freshman members aligned with the Tea Party
who have expressed skepticism about the urgency of lifting the
debt limit.  Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican who last month
dropped out of a bipartisan group of senators trying to reach a
deficit-reduction deal, said on PBS’s “The Charlie Rose Show”
on June 28 that it is increasingly likely House Republicans
won’t act on the debt limit by the Aug. 2 deadline.  Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Democrat who
chairs the Budget Committee, said he plans to unveil his budget
blueprint next week. The plan, he said, would shave more off the
deficit than the leaders of Obama’s bipartisan debt commission
envisioned -- their plan projected savings of $3.8 trillion over
a decade -- and would include tax increases.  Interest Rates  While the U.S. deficit is dominating the debate in
Washington, the interest rates the federal government pays to
borrow funds have remained low amid a flight of money to safety
because of the Greek debt crisis. Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes declined from 3.73 percent on Feb. 8 to 2.86 percent on
June 24, though they have begun to rise since as the risk of a
default by Greece has eased in recent days. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes increased 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.16 percent at the close of trading yesterday in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  