-- 
Muddy Waters Is Looking at More ‘Suspicious’ Chinese Companies, Block Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-01T05:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/muddy-waters-block-says-he-s-still-betting-sino-forest-shares-to-retreat.html
Carson Block, founder of  Muddy Waters 
LLC, said he’s looking at “a number of suspicious” Chinese
companies that may have accounting irregularities after research
by the short seller on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  prompted the stock’s
largest drop in 17 years.  “Even good companies, in order to compete for capital, I
think a lot of companies cut corners on their financials,”
Block said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Hong Kong
today. “We’ve got a number of companies that were suspicious
and we’re looking at them.” Block said he doesn’t have a
timeframe for when he might issue a report on another company.  Five companies traded in  North America  that have been
targeted by Block since June 2010, including Sino-Forest, have
lost almost $5 billion in market value after he questioned their
accounting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A sixth,
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , has gained 22 percent since
Muddy Waters published a  letter  dated June 28 to management
asking about inventory and deferred costs on its balance sheet.  “If Spreadtrum has fantastic answers and everything is the
way it should be and we misinterpreted these points as red flags,
then the company’s transparency has improved and the stock is
going to go up,” Block said in a separate Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. He said on June 28 that he’s shorting the
stock and stands to profit if the price declines.  Short-selling involves the sale of borrowed stock to profit
from a subsequent decline. Block said in today’s interview that
he still has short positions in three of the companies for which
he has published reports.  Sino-Forest Declines  Sino-Forest, the Hong Kong-based operator of tree
plantations, plunged 64 percent on June 3, the largest drop
since March 1994, after Muddy Waters said the company overstated
its timber holdings. Chief Executive Officer Allen Chan has
denied the accusations. The stock rose 20 percent to C$3.20 on
the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday.  “We continue working on Sino-Forest, analyzing the
accounting closely,” Block said. He said he hasn’t yet decided
whether to release these findings publicly.  Sino-Forest’s shares fell 33 percent on June 14 after it
released first-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates
and said a probe will slow the pace of acquisitions. Sino-Forest
declined 4.5 percent on June 17, when the company posted
information on its website to counter Block’s assertion that one
of its customers is a subsidiary.  “The company has had the microphone and platform from
which to respond,” Block said yesterday. “When it has opened
up its mouth the stock and the bonds have gone lower. Rather
than the company having anything confidence-inspiring to say,
they’ve continued to spook investors.”  Business Transparency  Louisa Wong, a senior manager of investor communications
and relations at Sino-Forest, couldn’t immediately be reached by
telephone at her office in  Hong Kong .  “Our company has solid business fundamentals and we are
very interested in providing business transparency,” Diana
Jovin, a Spreadtrum spokeswoman, said by telephone from  Shanghai .  Block said yesterday he’s betting the decline in Sino-
Forest isn’t over.  Inconsistencies have been found in the valuation of Sino-
Forest’s holdings in  China ’s Yunnan province, the Globe & Mail
said June 18, citing Chinese government officials and forestry
experts it didn’t identify. The newspaper’s report was an
“incorrect portrayal” of the company’s business, Sino-Forest
said in a statement on June 20.  Paulson & Co. sold all its stock in the company, according
to a June 20 regulatory filing.  John Paulson ’s New York-based
hedge fund, which made $15 billion in 2007 wagering against
subprime mortgages, had been Sino-Forest’s biggest shareholder.  Accounting Concerns  Spreadtrum, the Shanghai-based chip designer questioned
this week by Muddy Waters about its accounting, said June 29
that Block’s letter to Chief Executive Officer Leo Li
highlighting accounting concerns is groundless. Spreadtrum
plunged as much as 34 percent on June 28, the day Block released
the letter to management, before narrowing the loss to 3.5
percent at the end of trading.  Spreadtrum gained 15 percent to $15.76 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange trading yesterday. Block said that in a
worst-case scenario he misread Spreadtrum’s financial statements,
and the company can provide a satisfactory response to his
questions. Block said his intention in publishing the Spreadtrum
letter was to protect investors by improving transparency and
not to push the stock down.  “I like to point out the issues and start a dialogue and
get people thinking about these red flags before we come out
with a report that sends the stock down,” Block said yesterday.
“I’m getting uncomfortable actually with this idea that, you
know, we’re ninja assassins that are going to take the stock
price down.”  -- Nikolaj Gammeltoft, Erik Schatzker, Helen Yuan. With
assistance from Jimi Corpuz in New York. Editors: Lena Lee,  John Liu   To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net 
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  