-- 
UN Tribunal Delivers Arrest Warrants in 2005 Killing of Lebanon’s Hariri

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-30T18:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/un-tribunal-delivers-arrest-warrants-in-2005-killing-of-lebanon-s-hariri.html
A  United Nations  tribunal handed
Lebanese authorities an indictment that includes arrest warrants
for people suspected of involvement in the 2005 killing of
former premier  Rafiq Hariri .  Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  announced the delivery of the
indictment in a televised address, without giving details of its
contents. LBC television and other local media said the arrest
warrants were for four people, at least two of them connected
with the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah group, one of the main backers
of Mikati’s newly formed administration.  “The indictments aren’t judgments, and accusations require
irrefutable evidence,” Mikati said.  A dispute over the UN inquiry brought down the government
led by Saad Hariri, Rafiq’s son, in January when Hezbollah and
its allies quit the Cabinet. The disagreement has threatened a
return to sectarian violence in a country that emerged from a
 15-year civil war  in 1990.  The UN court said in an e-mail that it wouldn’t comment on
the identity of those named in the indictment, which will remain
“confidential to assist the Lebanese authorities in fulfilling
their obligations to arrest the accused.” Lebanon has 30 days
make the arrests, with the aim of transferring the defendants to
the court in the Netherlands, the tribunal said. Lebanese media
said the court could try those accused in absentia.  Lebanese Attorney General Saeed Mirza and Hezbollah
spokesman Ibrahim el-Moussawi weren’t available for comment when
called after the indictment was announced.  Bias Alleged  Hezbollah had pressed Hariri to halt cooperation with the
court, saying it is unconstitutional, biased and part of a U.S.
and Israeli plot to target the Shiite group and its backer,
Syria. Billionaire Mikati announced a new government on June 13.  “The end of the killers’ era has begun, and the beginning
of the justice era is approaching,”  Saad Hariri  said in a
statement e-mailed by his office. Mikati’s government must
cooperate with the tribunal, he said.  Shortly before Mikati said the indictment had been filed,
his government announced a set of policy priorities that
included a vow to adhere to commitments under international law.  “I have a friendship with Hezbollah and I also have
contacts outside of Lebanon, but it doesn’t mean I follow
anyone’s agenda,” Mikati said in a Jan. 27 interview at his
Beirut office. “My own agenda is going to be followed and that
agenda is to maintain very good relations with the international
community, and Lebanon has to fulfill its commitments.”  Beirut Bombing  Rafiq Hariri was killed along with 22 others by a roadside
bomb in  Beirut  in 2005. The country has since witnessed at least
seven political assassinations, a monthlong war between Israel
and Hezbollah in 2006 and civil unrest three years ago in which
about 80 people died.  Hezbollah’s leader,  Hassan Nasrallah , said in November that
he won’t allow members to be detained and will “cut the hand”
of anyone who attempts to do so. He has also called on Lebanese
officials and citizens not to cooperate with the inquiry. The
 tribunal ’s investigators were attacked at a clinic in a southern
suburb of Beirut last October while collecting information.  One of the four people named in the indictment, according
to LBC, is a Hezbollah member and brother-in-law of Imad Mughniyeh, a commander of the group killed in a car bombing in
 Syria  in 2008 and blamed for the 1983 attack on the U.S. Marines
barracks in Beirut.  U.S. Funding  Lebanon finances 49 percent of the  Special Tribunal for
Lebanon , which was created in 2007 to probe Hariri’s killing. In
November, the U.S. pledged an extra $10 million, bringing its
total contribution to $30 million.  The indictment’s evidence “must be convincing,” said
Chibli Mallat, a Lebanese lawyer and visiting professor at
 Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “If it is not
convincing to the average person of common sense and natural
decency, the whole tribunal will collapse. The future of Lebanon
depends on this basic decency.”  Hezbollah and Syria have repeatedly denied any role in the
killing of Hariri. His death galvanized millions of Lebanese to
protest and led to the ousting of Syrian troops from Lebanon
after 29 years.  Hezbollah, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and
 Israel , won popularity in Lebanon by helping to force Israel’s
army to withdraw from the country in 2000, ending an 18-year
occupation, and fighting the Jewish state again in 2006.  ‘Uncover the Truth’  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed
“his strong support for the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, and
for its efforts to uncover the truth and send a message that
impunity will not be tolerated,” a statement released in  New
York  said.  “He calls on all states to support the independent
judicial process, in particular by cooperating with the Special
Tribunal in the execution of the indictment and arrest
warrants,” the statement said. “The Secretary-General expects
the new Government of Lebanon to uphold all of Lebanon’s
international obligations and to cooperate with the Special
Tribunal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  