-- 
Munger Treats ‘Hard-Core Addicts’ as Wesco Stock Exits Market

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/munger-treats-hard-core-addicts-as-berkshire-takes-wesco-off-the-market.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Charles Munger, who gained a following as a foil to his more famous
business partner,  Warren Buffett , is giving investors another
chance to ask him questions after he scaled back his duties.  Munger, 87, will appear in  Pasadena ,  California , tomorrow
at a meeting called “ A Morning with Charlie .” The conference
was promised to investors as a replacement for Munger’s annual
appointment hosting the shareholder meetings of Wesco Financial
Corp., a Berkshire subsidiary that is no longer publicly traded.  “It’s only for hard-core addicts,” Munger, Berkshire’s
vice chairman, said on April 30 at the company’s annual meeting
in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Munger won admirers for his blunt manner of speaking, which
contrasts with the more affable delivery of Buffett, 80. At
public events, Munger has praised  China ’s growth, chastised
critics of U.S. bank bailouts and said Wall Street firms acted
unethically in Greek public finance deals. At Berkshire, Buffett
relies on Munger for his judgment when weighing new investments.  “He says exactly what’s on his mind,”  Jeff Matthews ,
author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and Investing
Secrets of Warren Buffett,” said in an interview. “Who on
earth would tell Warren Buffett, ‘That’s the stupidest idea you
ever had?’”  The two Berkshire executives share a stage in front of tens
of thousands of people at annual meetings, where Buffett
conducts the proceedings and Munger periodically offers his
views. The Wesco meetings, at which Buffett didn’t appear, drew
hundreds of attendees.  Building Berkshire  Buffett met Munger in 1959, according to biographer  Alice Schroeder . Together, the men planned the stock picks and
purchases that built Omaha-based Berkshire into a $190 billion
seller of insurance, energy and consumer goods. Munger’s
influence helped transform Buffett, a picker of stocks in the
1950s and 1960s, into an investor who targeted successful
companies with established brands, said Matthews.  “What Charlie brought to Warren was an appreciation of
growth,” said  David Kass , a professor at the University of
 Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business. “Being willing
to pay more than the rock bottom price that Warren was only
willing to pay before.”  Munger assisted on deals like the 1972 purchase of See’s
Candies, a California chocolate maker, and a 2008 investment in
Chinese carmaker BYD Co.  Coca-Cola  The success of the See’s deal, according to Matthews, gave
Buffett the inspiration to buy $1 billion of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  stock
in the 1980s. That holding was worth more than $12 billion at
the end of 2010. Berkshire is the biggest shareholder of Coca-
Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker.  Munger is cutting back at Berkshire, where Buffett is
chairman and chief executive officer. This month, Munger stepped
down as Wesco’s chairman and CEO after closing a deal that
allowed Berkshire to raise its ownership stake to 100 percent
and remove the unit from the stock exchange.  Wesco, which has been controlled by Buffett since 1983,
runs businesses ranging from insurance and furniture rental to
steel storage. Munger remains president of the limited liability
company that, under Berkshire, holds Wesco’s assets.  Munger told Berkshire shareholders at the 2010 annual
meeting that civilization in China was advancing at a record
pace that was “fun to watch.” At a  University of Michigan 
event last year, he told an attendee who criticized bank
bailouts, “You’ve got it exactly wrong.” At a press conference
in Omaha in May, he said Wall Street bankers tried to “profit
from sin” by selling derivatives that helped the Greek
government conceal the size of its  budget deficit .  Fielding Questions  While on stage, Buffett and Munger are often asked to weigh
in on issues unrelated to Berkshire or business. One shareholder
at the most recent Berkshire meeting asked for their opinions on
teaching speed reading to children. Buffett said he wasn’t a
fast reader and that the ability to get through texts quickly
was a “huge advantage.” Munger then told a story about an old
roommate and said that speed was overestimated.  “I wouldn’t be discouraged if you have to do it a little
slower,” Munger said. “What the hell difference does it
make?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  