-- 
UniCredit, HSBC Seek to Dismiss Madoff Investor Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-30T15:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/unicredit-bank-austria-seeks-to-dismiss-foreign-investors-suit.html
UniCredit Bank Austria AG and other
defendants asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by foreign
investors in funds that put money with con man  Bernard Madoff ,
saying they were being cast as “scapegoats for Madoff’s
intentional criminal acts.”  The investors in January and February sued Herald, Primeo
and Thema funds, directors, service providers and parent
companies or affiliates, saying they neglected their duty and
ignored “red flags” signaling Madoff was running a  Ponzi
scheme . Defendants include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Bank Medici AG founder Sonja
Kohn and Madoff family members.  Denying they had a duty to the investors, the plaintiffs
said they’d been “improperly” lumped together based on
“manufactured claims” that “have no place in this U.S.
court,” according to a U.S. District Court of  New York  filing
yesterday.  The suit is one of many that competes with 1,000 suits
filed by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm. Irving Picard in
December sued HSBC and a dozen funds including Primeo, Herald
and Thema for $9 billion, saying they ignored red flags and
should have known of the fraud. He is demanding $19 billion from
JPMorgan and as much as $59 billion from UniCredit, Kohn and
other parties.  HSBC units in Bermuda, Luxembourg and Dublin acted as
custodian for 12 funds including Pioneer Investment’s Primeo
Select, Bank Medici’s Herald (Lux) and Thema International, as
well as Herald USA, Alpha Prime, Lagoon Investment, Senator,
Kingate Global, Defender and Global Investments.  $27,942 Profit  Primeo, based in the  Cayman Islands , was tied to Bank
Medici and Kohn, according to Picard’s suit. Primeo took $145
million, mostly its principal, out of the Madoff firm in the six
years before the 2008 bankruptcy, which Picard is seeking to
recover, he said in the suit. Its profit was a scant $27,942,
according to Picard. The fund is being liquidated.  The trustee said total six-year withdrawals by funds he
named in the HSBC suit were $2 billion.  HSBC has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York
to dismiss Picard’s suit, saying it didn’t know of the fraud and
lost $1 billion of its own money investing in funds that in turn
put money with Madoff.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
 North Carolina .  The case is In re Herald, 09-cv-00289, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  