-- 
Turkey Growth Outpaces China Piling Pressure on Central Bank

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-30T09:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/turkish-economic-growth-accelerated-to-11-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Turkey ’s economic growth accelerated
to 11 percent in the first quarter, outpacing  China ’s and adding
to the pressure on the central bank to rein in a credit-driven
boom that may threaten financial stability.  The state statistics office in Ankara announced the figures
today, at the same time it reported a record trade deficit for
May. Growth in the quarter was faster than in any other member
of the Group of 20 developed economies. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 13 economists was 9.7 percent, and the
previous quarter’s growth rate was 9.2 percent.  China’s economy 
grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci says the boom poses risks
to stability as the current-account deficit widens to record
levels. Basci’s solution has been to impose limits on bank
lending without raising  interest rates , a move he says would
strengthen the currency and hurt exports. Pressure for a more
orthodox response may escalate after today’s figures.  The first-quarter boom “underlines the need for monetary
tightening in the future, along the lines of conventional
interest-rate moves,”  Nigel Rendell , an economist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London, said in e-mailed comments. This is
“very strong growth in a world where economic growth is all too
frequently lacking.”  The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.6247 at 11:30 a.m. in
Istanbul. Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds fell 3 basis
points to 9.17 percent.  Election Win  The economy grew 1.4 percent from the previous quarter,
according to seasonally adjusted figures announced today. That
was slower than the 3.6 percent quarter-on-quarter growth in the
last three months of 2010.  The expansion in the $735 billion economy helped Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  win a third term in national
elections on June 12. Budget spending, excluding interest
payments on debt, rose an annual 12 percent in first five months
of the year, faster than the 8 percent growth that the
government plans for 2011.  Basci is seeking to rein in the boom using bank reserve
requirements rather than interest-rate increases that may lure
more short-term cash to the country, strengthen the currency and
further weaken exports already hurt by the slowdown in  Europe ,
Turkey’s main market.  The 12-month current-account gap more than doubled from a
year earlier to $63.4 billion in April, the most since records
began in 1984 and equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP. The
monthly  trade gap  rose to a record $10 billion in May, the
government statistics office said today.  ‘Absolutely No Sign’  There is “absolutely no sign that the economy is slowing
or responding to the central bank’s unorthodox policy,” Tim Ash, chief economist for emerging markets at RBS in  London , said
in an e-mailed comment. “The current account deficit is on
track to hit 10 percent of GDP unless policy adjusts.”  The central bank kept the benchmark one-week repo rate at a
record low of 6.25 percent on June 23. Since December it has
raised the share of one-month deposits that lenders must leave
as reserves at the central bank to 16 percent from 6 percent.  Loan volume expanded at an annual rate of about 36 percent
in the year to June 17, according to the bank regulator. Deputy
Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  is among officials who have said 25
percent would be healthier. Banking industry profits increased
8.7 percent to 21.9 billion liras ($13 billion) last year, the
regulator said.  Higher reserve requirements have helped push the index of
banking shares, which includes Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, co-owned
by Italy’s UniCredit SpA, down about 10 percent this year,
double the drop on the main  ISE National 100 index. (XU100)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 