-- 
Turkish Trade Gap Widened to Record $10.1 Billion in May as Imports Surged

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-06-30T07:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/turkish-trade-gap-widened-to-record-10-1-billion-in-may-as-imports-surged.html
Turkey ’s trade deficit more than
doubled in May from a year earlier, driving a further expansion
in a current-account deficit that’s already at record levels.  The deficit was $10.1 billion in the month, the biggest on
record, compared with $4.9 billion a year earlier, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
figure exceeded the median estimate of $9.4 billion from 12
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank has raised the amount of reserves banks
must set aside four times since December, seeking to reduce the
 consumer lending  that’s fueling demand for imports. Still, the
economy expanded 11 percent annually in the first three months,
the fastest rate among the Group of 20 developed economies.  “Higher-than-expected GDP growth and a wider trade deficit
just confirm the risk of overheating,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an
analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , said in e-mailed
comments. “This will put further pressure on the central bank
to raise rates, but if they stick to their policy, the lira will
likely remain under pressure.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci held the benchmark one-
week repo lending rate unchanged at a historic low of 6.25
percent on June 23. The bank predicts the current-account
balance, the widest measure of trade in goods and services, will
start improving in the last three months of the year.  The 12-month current-account gap more than doubled from a
year earlier to $63.4 billion in April, the most since records
began in 1984.  Exports in May rose 12 percent to $10.95 billion, the
statistics agency said today. Imports gained 43 percent to $21
billion, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 