-- 
Vale Jumps Most in Ten Months After $3 Billion Buy Back Plan

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-07-01T19:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/vale-to-spend-up-to-3-billion-to-repurchase-shares.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, rose the most in ten months in  Sao Paulo  after saying
it will buy back as much as $3 billion of its shares.  The stock rose as much as 4.5 percent, the biggest gain
since Sept. 1, to a two-month high of 46.63 reais and was
trading at 46.46 reais as of 3:22 p.m. New York time.  Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , plans to repurchase as many
as 84.8 million common shares and 102.2 million preferred shares
within a 180-day period, it said in a regulatory  filing  late
yesterday. The company is joining rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and
Rio Tinto Group in returning capital to shareholders and will
cancel the repurchased shares once the program expires.  Investors are pressing mining companies to boost returns
after rising iron-ore, coal and copper prices increased profits.
BHP, the world’s largest mining company, completed a $10 billion
share buyback yesterday, six months ahead of schedule, while  Rio
Tinto , the second-largest iron-ore producer, raised its dividend
by 40 percent and announced a buyback plan this year after
reporting record profit for 2010.  Vale “is coming out to the market with a clear signal that
its shares are undervalued,” Leonardo Correa, an equity analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in Sao Paulo, said in a note to investors.
“Management demonstrates it is positive on the cycle and does
not expect a hard landing in cash flow generation going
forward.”  Returning Capital  The stock has dropped about 4.1 percent this year, less
than the 8.5 percent decline in the benchmark Bovespa index. Rio
Tinto’s London-listed stock gained 1 percent in the period,
while Melbourne-based BHP has lost 3.3 percent through today.  Vale, which posted a record profit of $6.83 billion in the
first quarter, is forecast to report a 54 percent jump in profit
for the full year on an adjusted basis, according to the average
of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company
will maintain its record $24 billion spending plan for this
year, newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira
said May 20.  “The share repurchase is an important tool for returning
capital to shareholders, helping to improve the capital
allocation and hence maximizing shareholders’ value,” Vale said
in the statement.  Vale will buy the shares at market prices through seven
financial institutions including Banco Bradesco SA, Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, Banco Santander SA and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., according to the filing.  The announcement follows a previous $2 billion stock
buyback disclosed by Vale on Sept. 23. The company may
distribute at least $5 billion in dividends in 2011, with a
possible additional extraordinary dividend to be announced in
October, according to Barclays’ Correa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  