-- 
Vedanta’s Cairn Purchase Wins Approval With Conditions That May Curb Gains

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-07-01T04:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/vedanta-s-cairn-purchase-wins-approval-with-conditions-that-may-curb-gains.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  won approval
from the Indian Cabinet to take control of  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) ’s
local unit on condition it bears part of the royalty payments
now covered by state-run Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Vedanta and Cairn Energy need to agree that a portion of
the payments by ONGC, which owns 30 percent in a joint venture
development of the Rajasthan field with  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , will
be taken from the project’s oil revenue, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in  New Delhi  after a Cabinet meeting yesterday.  “Our contention was royalty is cost-recoverable, their
contention was it’s not,” Reddy said. “We stuck to our
contention.” Cairn  India  must also withdraw arbitration against
the government over tax on crude oil sales, he said.  Vedanta, a London-based metals producer without experience
in producing oil or natural gas, has waited more than 10 months
for access to India’s biggest onshore oil deposit in the north
of the country as the government studied ONGC’s demand to change
royalty terms. The state company is liable for payment of all of
the royalty on production from the oil deposit.  “I expect the deal to go ahead,”  Richard Rose , an analyst
at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London, said by phone. “These
conditions will be negative for the valuation of  Cairn India .
Cairn and Vedanta have already adjusted the purchase price on
expectation that the deal would be approved with conditions.”  ONGC Royalties  ONGC said in January that under the current terms it would
pay about 140 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) of royalties on
Cairn India’s behalf over the life of the Rajasthan field.  Cairn India declined 1.3 percent to 307.70 rupees at 9:29
a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has declined 7.5 percent this
year. ONGC gained 2.8 percent to 281.80 rupees after climbing as
much as 6.1 percent.  Vedanta rose 62 pence, or 3.1 percent, to 2,094 pence, the
highest closing level since June 2, in  London  yesterday, valuing
the company at 5.56 billion pounds ($8.9 billion). Cairn Energy
advanced 8.5 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 414.8 pence.  Vedanta will wait for official confirmation of the approval
and details of conditions before taking action, the company said
in a statement after the minister’s comments. Cairn Energy said
separately it would work with Vedanta to close the deal.  The two companies this week amended their transaction, with
Vedanta saying it would buy 10 percent of the unit from Cairn
Energy by July 11 and 30 percent after government approval. They
also dropped a no-compete fee, cutting the value of Cairn Energy
shares offered to Vedanta to $6.02 billion from $6.65 billion.
If the two accept the government conditions, Vedanta will raise
its stake in Cairn India to 58.5 percent from 28.5 percent.  Debt Sale  Vedanta, which sold $1.65 billion of debt on May 27 to help
fund the purchase, had offered Cairn Energy, which owns 62.1
percent of Cairn India, 405 rupees a share including the 50
rupee non-compete fee. Cairn Energy plans to use the proceeds to
give cash to stockholders and explore in Greenland.  Crude oil in  New York  is up 25 percent since the Vedanta-
Cairn deal was announced on Aug. 16.  Vedanta plans to raise a total of $6 billion to fund the
acquisition, drawing $3.5 billion from bank loans, about $1.5
billion from bonds and $1 billion selling shares, Chief
Financial Officer Din Dayal Jalan said on May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net 
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  