-- 
Venezuela May Fine Globovision 10% of Earnings on Riot Coverage

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-30T21:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/venezuela-may-fine-globovision-10-of-earnings-on-riot-coverage.html
Venezuela  may fine Caracas-based
news channel Globovision as much as 10 percent of its earnings
after opening an investigation into its coverage of prison riots
earlier this month, according to lawyers for the channel.  Globovision transmitted “messages of panic” by suggesting
the National Guard was massacring prisoners in the Rodeo prisons
west of Caracas,  said  Pedro Maldonado, director of Venezuela’s
telecommunications agency, Conatel, to reporters on state TV.
Ricardo Antela, the news channel’s lawyer, said on Globovision
that the channel may be fined by as much as 10 percent of its
earnings.  “It’s presumed that the editorial line of the channel is
looking to generate panic, uncertainty and disquiet,” Maldonado
said.  The station’s reporters were not given access to officials
in charge of controlling the riots, said Maria Fernanda Flores,
vice president of Globovision, in comments carried on the
channel. “We were doing what we were meant to be doing. It was
the government’s media that was unbalanced,” she said.  Globovision, which is known for its critical coverage of
President  Hugo Chavez ’s regime, has clashed with the government
several times in recent years.  The channel’s principal owners, Guillermo Zuloaga and
Nelson Mezerhane, are both in the U.S. after arrest warrants
were filed in Venezuela against them. Mezerhane, whose Banco
Federal CA and other companies were seized by the government, is
accused of fleeing with clients’ deposits, and Zuloaga faces
usury allegations for hoarding new vehicles at his Caracas
residence, according to the attorney general. Both men have
denied any wrongdoing.  A riot at El Rodeo I prison on June 12 left 22 dead,
according to the  Associated Press . The uprising later spread to
the adjacent Rodeo II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  