-- 
Venture Industry Calls SEC Exemption a Victory for Innovation

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/venture-industry-calls-sec-exemption-a-victory-for-innovation.html
Venture capitalists have long
distinguished themselves from private equity firms, claiming
that they help build companies, avoid borrowing money and pose
no risk to the broader economy. Regulators now agree with them.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission exempted
venture firms last week from a rule that requires private equity
funds and hedge funds to register with the regulator, saving
them millions in compliance fees and sparing their investments
from a greater degree of scrutiny.  The ruling marked a victory for an industry that champions
itself as having spent a half-century backing startups that
later emerged as technology stalwarts such as  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. Too much
regulation, the venture capital industry said, would harm its
ability to fund innovation and support job creation, while doing
nothing to protect the country from another financial crisis.  “The venture industry is never going to create systemic
risk, so let’s not screw up the golden goose that’s producing so
many jobs and doing so much to stimulate the economy,” said Bob Goodman, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners in Larchmont,
 New York , and a director at the  National Venture Capital
Association . “ Washington  has done the right thing.”  Similar Structures  Venture capitalists, private equity firms and hedge funds
are often grouped together because they are structured
similarly. Partners in each get paid a management fee, which is
typically about 2 percent of a fund’s assets, and a performance
fee of 20 percent or more of profit from the investments.  Venture firms are different in that capital is used to fund
new companies and often enables startups to bolster their
workforce.  Hedge funds  invest in assets, including stocks, bonds
and commodities. Private equity firms usually purchase all or
part of existing companies, often using borrowed capital, with
the goal of eventually selling their stake for a profit.  Firms that borrow are considered a greater financial risk,
because swings in the economy can hurt their ability to repay
the lenders. The credit crisis of 2008 was caused by individuals
and corporations defaulting on loans.  In 2010, venture funds in the U.S. raised $12.3 billion,
compared with $85.1 billion for private equity funds and $22.6
billion for hedge funds, according to data cited by the SEC.
Venture funds managed $176.7 billion in assets at the end of
last year, compared with $1.7 trillion at global hedge funds,
the agency said.  Disclosure Requirement  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 on June 22 to approve a Dodd-
Frank Act measure calling for about 750 private fund advisers to
publicly disclose data about their investors and employees,
assets under management and potential conflicts of interest.  Venture firms are excluded from having to report, assuming
they commit at least 80 percent of their capital to traditional
venture investments and don’t borrow funds to finance deals. The
rules only apply to new funds, while firms with less than $150
million in assets under management are automatically exempted.  In a letter to the SEC lobbying for an exemption, the NVCA
cited a 2009 study from research firm  IHS Global Insight , which
said that venture-backed companies in 2008 accounted for 12.1
million jobs, or 11 percent of private-sector employment, and
$2.9 trillion in revenue in the U.S.  While the NVCA succeeded in keeping members from having to
register, exempt firms are required to file a minimal amount of
information with the SEC, such as business activities and
controlling individuals. The SEC has a one-year window to ask
for more information.  ‘A Different Environment’  “This puts the venture capital community on notice that we
are playing in a different environment today than before the
meltdown,” said  Mark Heesen , chairman of the Arlington,
Virginia-based NVCA, which represents more than 400 U.S. venture
firms. “The government, like it or not, is going to be looking
over your shoulder.”  Firms with more than 20 percent of assets in nontraditional
venture investments will have to report with the SEC. For
example, investments in startups purchased on secondary markets
-- including exchanges like SharesPost Inc. -- would fall into
that category. Morgenthaler Partners, with $3 billion under
management, has separate funds dedicated to venture capital and
private equity, and thus may have to disclose. Ching Wu, a
spokeswoman at Morgenthaler, declined to comment.  Still, for the industry, the burden could have been
heavier. Venture capitalists have estimated in interviews that
costs to their firms for full SEC reporting would have been
$500,000 to $1 million a year. About 280 U.S. firms have more
than $150 million in assets, so an unfavorable ruling would have
cost the industry at least $140 million a year.  ‘Existential Threat’  Beyond the costs, regulation would hinder venture firms’
ability to operate because they would have to disclose data on
early investments when their competitive advantage is keeping
that information private, said Paul Maeder, chairman of the
NVCA. When they pay off, like Google or Facebook, a
multimillion-dollar investment can produce a multibillion-dollar
return.  “We viewed this as almost an existential threat to venture
capital,” said Maeder, who is also a general partner at
Highland Capital Partners in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “If all
or the majority of venture capital firms were required to
register, it would change the character of what we do. We’re
investing in stuff that none of us can predict five years in
advance.”  The ruling may provide further momentum for an industry
rebounding from a decade-long slump, which saw the dot-com bust
and global financial crisis put scores of startups out of
business.  Fundraising, IPOs  Fundraising rose 76 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier to $7.1 billion, the NVCA said. Last month,
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  became the first U.S. social-media company to
sell shares to the public, and is now valued at about $8.4
billion. Pandora Media Inc. held its initial public offering
this month, and Groupon Inc. filed its IPO prospectus.  One reason it’s taken so long for companies to start going
public again is the regulations that were created after the dot-
com crash, said  Dixon Doll , a former chairman of the NVCA and
co-founder of venture firm DCM in  Menlo Park ,  California . The
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 raised the legal and auditing fees
associated with being a public company in the U.S., making it
prohibitive for smaller companies, he said.  “The last thing in the world the U.S. venture industry
needs is more layers of government,” Doll said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  