-- 
EDF to Buy Up to 2,000 Megawatts of Vestas Wind Turbines

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-06-30T21:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/vestas-edf-energies-agree-onshore-wind-installations-deal.html
EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN) , a French
renewable energy developer, is seeking to lower its costs by
agreeing to use turbines from Vestas Wind Systems A/S for at
least half of its land-based wind farms in  Europe  and 30 percent
of its projects in the U.S.  EDF may buy as much as 2,000 megawatts of turbines under
the agreement that covers deliveries made from 2012 through
2014, Randers, Denmark-based Vestas said today in a statement.
Prices weren’t disclosed.  That includes 100 megawatts for projects in Europe that EDF
agreed in November to purchase, and a commitment today to
purchase another 80 megawatts. Vestas shipped almost 4,100
megawatts of turbines last year, according to its 2010 annual
report.  The deal gives EDF long-term visibility into its costs at a
time when wind projects are accelerating and developers are
looking for ways to make their projects more competitive with
traditional energy sources.  “EDF Energy Nouvelles is locking in long-term pricing and
probably getting some pretty good terms on the deal,” Amy
Grace, a New York-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
said in an interview today. The contract gives EDF “the
leverage of a large order using a multiyear framework
agreement.”  U.S. wind power installations are expected to increase to
7.5 gigawatts this year from 5 gigawatts in 2010. There were 10
gigawatts installed in 2009.  The agreement is “a major and crucial deal that will
enable us to provide competitive renewable energy solutions,”
EDF Energies Nouvelles Chief Executive Officer David Corchia
said in the statement.  EDF Energies Nouvelles is half-owned by Paris-based utility
 EDF SA. (EDF)  The company develops renewable energy projects in the
U.S. through its San Diego-based EnXco unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 