-- 
Corn Plunges Most Since November, Wheat Falls as U.S. Reports Acreage Gain

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T19:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/wheat-plunges-to-11-month-low-corn-drops-after-u-s-reports-acreage-gains.html
Corn futures tumbled the most since
November and wheat had the biggest plunge since January 2009 as
the U.S. government reported grain acreage and inventories that
topped estimates by analysts. Soybeans fell, and rice rose.  U.S. farmers planted 92.282 million acres of corn this
year, 1.8 percent more than projected by analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey, and the second-highest since 1944, the Department
of Agriculture said today.  Stockpiles  as of June 1 were 3.67
billion bushels, 12 percent higher than forecast.  “The USDA again surprised the market,” said Chad Henderson, a market analyst for Prime Agricultural Consultants
Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin . “Rising acreage will add 200
million bushels to this year’s corn crop. Demand rationing has
taken place, and supplies are much more comfortable for 2012.”  Corn futures for December delivery, the most-active by open
interest, slid by the exchange limit of 30 cents, or 4.6
percent, to settle at $6.205 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Nov. 16. The
grain has jumped 66 percent in the past year on surging demand
from ethanol makers and livestock farms.  Corn futures for July delivery, the contract closest to
expiration, fell 69 cents, or 9.9 percent, to $6.29.  Food, Fuel  Declining corn prices may reduce expenses for meat
producers including Tyson Foods Inc. and makers of grain-based
ethanol such as Poet LLC. Bigger grain supplies might ease
global food-inflation concerns after prices measured by the
 United Nations  climbed to a record in February.  Worldwide wheat and corn harvests will be bigger than
expected because of an improving outlook in the U.S. and  China ,
the International Grains Council said today in a report.  Increased U.S. acreage “helps to ease the global grain
supply shortage on paper,” said Michael Swanson, a senior
agricultural economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Minneapolis .
“Physically, we have to harvest those acres and have good
growing weather the remainder of the season.”  The U.S. is the world’s leading exporter of wheat, corn and
soybeans.  U.S. farmers boosted corn  seeding  even as wet weather
delayed fieldwork from  Ohio  to  North Dakota . On June 10, corn
futures for July delivery, the most-active at the time, rose to
a record $7.9975, spurring growers to plant through June,
instead of switching to soybeans, which have a shorter season.
Corn sowing typically is finished in May.  Four-State Review  The USDA said today in a statement that it plans to survey
farmers next month in Montana, Minnesota and North and  South
Dakota  on acreage planted for corn, soybeans and durum and
spring wheat.  “A large percentage of acres remained to be planted” in
those states following the survey in the first half of June, the
USDA said.  “If anything, we might see acreage come down a little from
here,” said Mike O’Dea, a risk-management consultant at INTL
FCStone in Kansas City,  Missouri . “Today, the market is
reacting to what’s in front of us.”  Farmers planted 13.627 million acres of spring wheat, 2.6
percent above estimates by analysts, the USDA said. U.S.
inventories as of June 1 totaled 861 million bushels, topping
forecasts by 4.6 percent.  Wheat futures for September delivery tumbled by the CBOT
limit of 60 cents, or 8.9 percent, to $6.1425 a bushel, the
lowest for a most-active contract since July 29. The decline was
the biggest since Jan. 12, 2009. The grain has climbed 28
percent in the past year after adverse weather reduced global
crop prospects.  ‘Wild Ride’  On the  Kansas City  Board of Trade and the  Minneapolis Grain
Exchange , wheat futures dropped as much as the exchange limits
of 60 cents.  Futures had “a wild ride,” said Carolyn Farndell, a
senior commodity associate at RBC Wealth Management in
Minneapolis. Wheat “stocks were higher than expected, they did
lower the spring-wheat acreage, and there’s also been some talk
circulating that the winter crop is coming in better than
expected,” she said.  Soybean futures for November delivery dropped 29 cents, or
2.2 percent, to $12.94 a bushel on the CBOT. The price has
climbed 43 percent in the past year.  Planting dropped to 75.208 million acres, less than
analysts expected and below the 76.609 million estimated in
March, as farmers switched to corn, the USDA said. Stockpiles as
of June 1 were 619 million bushels, 4.6 percent more than
forecast and above year-earlier supplies.  ‘Stocks Trump Acres’  “The acreage numbers are positive, but we think the stocks
trump acres,” sending futures lower, said  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa .  Rice futures for September delivery rose by the CBOT limit
of 50 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $14.845 per 100 pounds. The
price has gained 53 percent in the past 12 months.  U.S.  rice  planting totaled 2.676 million acres, down 26
percent from a year earlier, the government said today.  In the second quarter, wheat in  Chicago  dropped 20 percent,
corn was down 10 percent and soybeans declined 8.2 percent. Rice
gained 6.1 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
dropped almost 6 percent in the quarter, the most since the end
of 2008. A faltering global economy has damped demand for
commodities. Today, a government report showed more Americans
than forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last
week, indicating little progress in jobs recovery.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative
easing, also known as QE2, concludes today.  Corn is the largest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  