-- 
Shilling: China Heading for a Hard Landing, Pt. 4

-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 
2011-06-30T00:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/why-china-s-heading-for-a-hard-landing-part-4-a-gary-shilling.html
Past performance, in  China ’s case,
may be indicative of future results.  In late 2007, the Chinese government was scrambling to
control a  capital-spending  boom. The central bank was concerned
about 11 percent growth in gross domestic product, far above its
official target of 8 percent, and about money flooding in from
exports and direct foreign investment.  By Nov. 1, the People’s Bank of China  had raised its one-
year lending rate five times and reserve requirements eight
times to soak up excess liquidity.  My firm’s research predicted then that the government would
curb capital spending and excess liquidity just as exports
weakened. Then, as excess capacity mounted, direct foreign
investment would disappear and deflation would reign.  That’s essentially what happened in 2008 and 2009, as the
effects of China’s fiscal and monetary restraint coincided with
the worldwide economic slump. The growth rate dropped to 6
percent, which in China constituted a major recession.  Don’t be surprised if history repeats itself in the next
few years.  This time around, some signs of cooling are already
apparent. Besides dampened housing demand, the HSBC Flash China
Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index in June fell to 50.1,
its lowest level in 11 months. Passenger-vehicle sales grew 33
percent in 2010, when the government subsidized small-car
purchases, but only 3 percent this April over a year earlier.  Money, Banks, Stocks  Growth in the broadest measure of China’s money supply has
declined from 30 percent year-over-year in December 2009 to 15
percent year-over-year at the end of May. Bank loans fell 25
percent in May from April. Excavator sales  fell  10 percent in
May from a year earlier, possibly foreshadowing a construction
bust. The 14.3 percent decline in the Shanghai Composite Index
last year and the 10 percent drop since mid-April also don’t
bode well for growth.  Despite all these negatives, with recent data showing
first-quarter GDP expanding by a still-healthy 9.7 percent, and
consumer inflation at its highest levels since July 2008, China
has continued to tighten its economic policy. The government
raised banks’ reserve requirements to 21.5 percent in June, the
ninth such increase since November. And it will probably
continue to tighten until it sees decisive results -- that is, a
 hard landing .  What will happen next?  No Floating Yuan  For one thing, even though a hard landing could cause hot
money to flee the country and weaken the yuan, China will not
float its currency. Many Western governments argue that if China
allowed the tightly controlled yuan to float freely, it would
rise against the dollar and other major currencies. That, the
thinking goes, would discourage exports, encourage imports and
quickly eliminate China’s chronic trade surplus.  The Chinese have repeatedly told Western officials that
they will not be pushed into floating the yuan. They worry that
a jump in the currency’s value would wreak havoc on Chinese
exporters and force them to move production to cheaper venues. A
stronger yuan would also reduce the value of China’s foreign-
currency reserves.  Furthermore, exchange rates have only limited effects on
import or export prices and, therefore, imports and exports
themselves. The key determinant of a country’s exports is the
economic health of its trading partners. If their economies are
robust, they buy more of everything, including imports.  The dammed-up zeal to own the Chinese currency would
dissipate quickly if all barriers were removed and it became
clear that a more expensive yuan was not ending China’s trade
surplus. Pressure from foreign governments for a stronger yuan
would then evaporate, as would interest in owning more Chinese
currency in anticipation of higher values. And the removal of
restrictions that prevent Chinese from diversifying their
investments abroad might actually depress the yuan by
encouraging money to flow out of China.  Holding Treasuries  China also won’t be selling its $1 trillion in reserves of
 U.S. Treasuries  in great amounts, as some have feared. The
Chinese are well aware that doing so would be disastrous for
their economy, because the resulting nosedive in Treasury prices
and the dollar would decimate the value of China’s remaining
holdings of  U.S. debt  and other assets. A global depression
might well ensue, with China and other export-dependent
countries as the biggest losers.  Excess Capacity  Instead, China’s most likely reaction -- to focus still
more on exports --  will exacerbate its hard landing. If
 consumer spending  doesn’t increase substantially in the next few
years, China will have a serious problem using all the
industrial capacity it has built, partly to keep people
employed. Capacity is mushrooming so rapidly that even in
China’s booming economy, most manufacturers are still seeing
flat or falling utilization rates.  This unused capacity portends weak profits and trouble for
the loans that financed it. My judgment is that it will once
again be used for exports aimed at the U.S. and  Europe . And once
again, this will add to global excess supply and put downward
pressure on prices.  Then China, along with other export-dependent emerging
economies, will be competing fiercely in a world of slow growth
and deflation.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fourth in a five-part series.)  Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 3 .  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 