-- 
Will Senate Confirmation Gridlock Finally End?: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T04:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/will-senate-confirmation-gridlock-finally-end-margaret-carlson.html
Harry Reid , the Senate’s Democratic
leader, and  Mitch McConnell , his Republican counterpart, can
barely agree that the sun sets in the west.  Yet the process for confirming presidential appointees has
become so crippling to Republican and Democratic administrations
alike that the two partisan warhorses have just led the Senate
to adopt bipartisan legislation to ease the trauma.  It’s rare for the Senate to  vote  79-20 on anything. But the
final tally on Wednesday in favor of the  Presidential
Appointment Efficiency and Streamlining Act of 2011  was a
measure of how bad the confirmation process has become. It takes
a village of accountants and lawyers to help a nominee fill out
all the forms and make it through the political equivalent of a
strip search.  Nancy Brinker, chief executive officer of Susa n G.
Komen for the Cure, su rvived one vetting to become ambassador to
 Hungary  from 2001 to 2003. But when President  George W. Bush 
appointed her to be White House chief of protocol
in 2007, she discovered she had to go through it all again. “You
are presumed guilty until you get the job,” she said. With
nothing more sinister than “two parking tickets and a friendly
divorce” in her background, Brinker spent eight months filling
out new forms and answering old questions.  Limping Along  The process drains energy and life from each new
administration, leaving it limping along for months, even years,
without a full team of senior officials staffing the government.
The  Washington  Post  reported  that at the end of 2010 --
almost two years after President Barack Obama’s inauguration --
22 percent of administration positions requiring Senate
confirmation were either vacant or filled temporarily by acting
officials. During the swine flu outbreak in April 2009, there
was no one at the helm of the  Department of Health and Human
Services . When a terrorist tried to blow up a  Detroit-bound
airliner  in December 2009, the designated director of the
 Transportation Security Administration  was unconfirmed.  A Senate grilling is not the beginning of the confirmation
process -- it’s the end. It follows vetting by the White House,
FBI, Office of Government Ethics and Office of Personnel
Management. According to one report, a nominee endures 156
questions,
with subparts adding up to 965 questions in all.  A total of 3,338 pieces of information, ranging from the
intimate to the absurd, is required. That includes every
address, phone number and relationship a nominee has had in the
previous 15 years, along with the name of every foreigner met
abroad. Imagine what that means for a nominee like Assistant
Secretary of State  Robert Hormats , a former investment banker
who spent decades acquiring contacts around the world.  Mission Creep  Over the years there has been a kind of mission creep
on subcabinet positions. Although more and more appointees got
the full confirmation Monty, it was applied inconsistently. The
legislative affairs officer at the Department of Transportation,
for example, requires Senate confirmation. The head of
 information technology  for the government -- who spends about
$60 billion a year -- does not.  There are currently 1,200 executive-branch posts that
require confirmation. The Senate bill exempts 169
of them, which is a start. In addition,
it would cut in half the number of written questions and provide
a digital “smart form” that could be shared by all
investigators. (Currently, after a nominee is vetted by
executive branch agencies, the pertinent Senate committee starts
the process all over again from scratch.)  Partisan Gauntlet  To win confirmation as secretary of state,
 Hillary Clinton  had to produce a veritable autobiography -- even
though she’d already been first lady and a senator
herself. That wouldn’t change under the legislation, which
preserves the Senate’s right to fully scrutinize nominees for
senior policy-making positions.  Similarly, there’s no guarantee that a highly qualified
candidate -- think  Peter Diamond ,
who won the Nobel Memorial Prize in economics and recently
withdrew his nomination to join the Federal Reserve Board --
would find it any easier getting through the partisan
gantlet. In fact, having been relieved of the duty to grill a
couple hundred small fish, senators might find more time to
concentrate on the catch of the day.  Ornery Senators  The new legislation, which is expected to sail through
approval in the House and gain a quick signature from
 the president, originated in a 20-member bipartisan
commission under the auspices of the  Aspen Institute  and
 Rockefeller Foundation . That group, whose chairmen included
former Senators  Bill Frist  and Charles Robb, worked with a
bipartisan group of senators appointed by Reid and McConnell to
draft the bill. Its passage represents quite an accomplishment.
After all, few things are more difficult than trying to crimp a
senator’s prerogative to be ornery.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 