-- 
Willis Says Catastrophe Rate Rises ‘Limited’ After Earthquakes

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-06-30T14:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/willis-says-catastrophe-rate-rises-limited-after-earthquakes.html
Willis Re  said earthquakes in  Japan 
and New Zealand haven’t led to an overall rise in reinsurance
rates for coverage against losses from natural catastrophes.  “Recent heavy natural catastrophe losses are not having a
wide impact on the market pricing as rate increases are largely
limited to loss-affected contracts,” said James Vickers,
chairman of the broker’s International & Specialty unit in an e-
mailed statement.  During the July 1 renewal period most reinsurers agree
contracts with customers in parts of the U.S. market,  Australia 
and Latin America.  Insured losses in the last 16 months from catastrophes
including cyclone Yasi and flooding in Australia, the Tohoku
earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and the Christchurch earthquake
in New Zealand were $86 billion, while reinsured losses totaled
$48 billion, Willis Re, the reinsurance arm of  Willis Group
Holdings Plc (WSH) , the world’s third-biggest insurance broker said.  Natural catastrophe rates in Japan and New Zealand are
increasing “in the region of 50 percent, but in other
territories, with no losses or changes in catastrophe models,
rates remain unchanged,” Vickers said.  Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA (FSR) , a Luxembourg-based
reinsurer, estimates prices in the U.S. are going up by 10
percent because of more demand for reinsurance, Gary Prestia,
the chief underwriting officer for the reinsurer’s  North America 
unit, said in a separate e-mailed statement.  “The average natural catastrophe loss for reinsurers in
the first quarter of 2011 is in the region of 10 percent of
their shareholders’ funds at the end of December 2010,” Willis
said in its report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 