-- 
Justice Department  Orders Criminal Probe of Detainee Deaths in CIA Case

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-06-30T21:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/two-detainee-deaths-under-criminal-investigation-by-u-s-.html
Attorney General Eric Holder ordered
a criminal investigation into the deaths of two prisoners in
U.S. custody overseas following a U.S. Justice Department review
of CIA interrogations.  The department determined that an expanded criminal
investigation into allegations of CIA mistreatment of other
detainees isn’t warranted, Holder said in a statement today.  The probe is examining the 2002 death of Gul Rahman in a
facility in Afghanistan and 2003 death of Manadel al-Jamadi at
the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, according to a person familiar
with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity and wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly. Holder didn’t identify the
detainees and Tracy Schmaler, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Holder appointed a federal prosecutor in Connecticut, John Durham, in 2009 to review whether Central Intelligence Agency
officials should face criminal charges. Durham examined CIA
involvement in the interrogation of 101 detainees who were in
U.S. custody after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Durham’s review
examined whether CIA interrogators violated prohibitions on
torture or used other illegal techniques.  “Mr. Durham has advised me of the results of his
investigation, and I have accepted his recommendation to conduct
a full criminal investigation regarding the death in custody of
two individuals,” Holder said.  The two deaths were previously examined by federal
prosecutors who declined to bring cases, outgoing CIA Director
Leon Panetta said in a statement.  ‘Broader Inquiries’  “I welcome the news that the broader inquiries are behind
us,” Panetta said. “We are now finally about to close this
chapter of our agency’s history.”  The review included matters never previously examined by
the department, Holder said. Durham identified cases to include
in his review by using government reports, a report by the
International Committee of the Red Cross and other sources,
according to the attorney general.  Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director for the American Civil
Liberties Union, said more cases should have been investigated
by the Justice Department.  The investigation of the two deaths “is not at all
proportionate to the scale and scope of the wrongdoing,” Jaffer
said in an interview. The CIA interrogation program subjected
prisoners to “unimaginable cruelty.”  Reigniting Criticism  Holder’s decision to pursue the two cases may reignite
criticism from Republicans that he originally faced after
announcing the review in 2009.  The Bush administration interrogation practices after Sept.
11 included waterboarding, or simulated drowning, which Holder
has described as torture. Former Vice President Dick Cheney has
defended the way the Bush administration conducted
interrogations, saying the techniques helped save American
lives.  The Obama administration released memos written by Bush
Justice Department lawyers that authorized use of waterboarding
and other methods.  Holder’s statement reiterated previous Obama administration
statements that the U.S. wouldn’t prosecute CIA officers who
“acted in good faith” and followed the legal guidance given by
the Justice Department on interrogations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  