-- 
Yuan Gains for a Sixth Quarter as China Takes Measures to Stem Inflation

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-06-30T10:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-30/yuan-gains-for-a-sixth-straight-quarter-as-china-seeks-to-stem-inflation.html
China ’s yuan rose for a sixth
straight quarter on speculation inflation is accelerating,
spurring speculation policy makers will allow more appreciation
to stem price gains.  Inflation may reach 5.3 percent for the first half and 4.9
percent for the year, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing estimates by the State Information Center.  Li Daokui , an adviser to the central bank, said yesterday price
increases will be relatively high in June due to the rise in the
cost of agricultural products and pork. The People’s Bank of
China set the yuan’s  reference rate  1.3 percent stronger this
quarter.  “The yuan strengthened on the back of China’s efforts to
fight inflation in the first half,” said Edmond Law, deputy
head of foreign-exchange at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .
“A stronger currency allows the country to tame imported
inflation as commodity and food prices have been high.”  The yuan strengthened 1.3 percent this quarter and was
little changed today at 6.4640 per dollar as of the close at
4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.4605 on June 23, the
highest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The People’s Bank of China raised the reference rate to
6.4716 per dollar today. The yuan is allowed to move 0.5 percent
either side of the fixing.  Offshore Market  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.55 percent
this quarter and 0.13 percent today to 6.3834 per dollar at 4:36
p.m. in Hong Kong, a 1.3 percent premium to the spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan rose 1.3 percent this quarter to 6.4653.  The central bank may raise  interest rates  next month as
inflation may accelerate to 6.5 percent in June,  Li Huiyong  and
Meng Xiangjuan, analysts at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.,
wrote in a research report today.  The People’s Bank of China has raised borrowing costs four
times since September to curb price pressures. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week China can keep full-year inflation below 5
percent. Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  