-- ‘Argo’ Wins Best Film Bafta; Affleck Named Best Director
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-11T01:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/-argo-wins-best-film-bafta-affleck-named-best-director.html
“Argo,” the story of a stealth
mission to rescue a group of U.S. hostages from Iran in 1980,
was voted best film at the  British Academy Film Awards , or
Baftas, last night. Its director  Ben Affleck  also won.  “Argo” had picked up prizes in the exact same categories
at the Golden Globes in January. It is now one of nine
contenders for best picture at the  Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences  awards, or Oscars, in Los Angeles on Feb. 24.  “I wanted to get as far away from Boston as I could, and
ended up in Iran,” joked the bearded Affleck as he walked up
the red carpet at London’s Royal Opera House. Flanking him all
evening was  George Clooney , also sporting a full beard, who, as
“Argo” coproducer, won his first-ever Bafta.  The four runners-up for best film were “Les Miserables,”
an adaptation of the hit stage musical; “Life of Pi,” the
story of a man stuck on a lifeboat with a tiger; “Lincoln,”
 Steven Spielberg ’s saga about the 16th president’s abolition of
slavery; and “Zero Dark Thirty,” on the hunt for and killing
of  Osama Bin Laden .  Last night’s other big victors were  Daniel Day-Lewis , for
his role as President  Abraham Lincoln  in Spielberg’s 150-minute
“Lincoln;” and the 85-year-old French actress Emmanuelle Riva
-- who won in absentia -- for her part as the bed-ridden stroke
victim in  Michael Haneke ’s “Amour.”  Diplomats Escape  “Argo” is the true story of six U.S. diplomats who manage
to escape captivity in post-revolutionary Tehran by posing as a
Canadian film crew. It’s based on the memoirs of CIA officer
Tony Mendez (played by Affleck), who masterminded the mission.  Affleck said he initially went searching for Persian-
speaking actors in Turkey until Clooney told him about the
“massive” community of first- and second-generation Iranians
in L.A.  “There were people who were doing theater, people who were
doing films, people who stepped in ready to go,” Affleck told
reporters backstage, as coproducers Clooney and Grant Heslov
stood by. “We didn’t have to explain anything to them.”  “Even more important and more profound was, so many people
who were part of this movie had gone through the experience of
fleeing Iran,” he said.  Affleck, who was also on the best-actor Bafta shortlist for
“Argo,” said the odds of any actor beating Day-Lewis were
“400,000 to one.”  Spielberg Request  On the podium moments earlier, Day-Lewis said he initially
turned away Spielberg because he didn’t feel compelled to
impersonate the 16th U.S. president.  “At the time when he first presented it to me, not only
did I not feel that need, but I thought quite positively that
that would be a wonderful thing for somebody else to do,” said
Day-Lewis, his thinning salt-and-pepper hair styled in a crew
cut.  He eventually said yes because “there’s a need in you to
express something of yourself through the life of another human
being.”  Director  Quentin Tarantino , who was a best-director nominee
for his slavery-themed “Django Unchained,” scored a win for
best original screenplay, while cast member  Christoph Waltz 
bagged the best-supporting-actor prize.  Tarantino was asked whether, having attacked Nazis in
“Inglourious Basterds” and slave owners in “Django,” he
planned another movie that would visit vengeance on history’s
bad guys.  Tarantino Trilogy  “I think there’s something about this that begs a
trilogy,” said Tarantino, his black tie loosened over a
wrinkled white shirt. “I don’t know what the third one’s going
to be yet, but I wouldn’t be surprised.”  The best-supporting actress Bafta went to  Anne Hathaway  --
also a Golden Globe winner in the same category -- for her part
as the impoverished Fantine in “Les Miserables.”  As ever at the Baftas, the weather was uncooperative. Non-
stop rain left the red carpet soggy and paved with see-through
umbrellas. One red-carpet TV reporter apologized for the climate
as best-actress nominee  Jennifer Lawrence  headed in.  “It’s okay, it’s London!” cheered the now-blonde
Lawrence, a dark coat bundled over her Dior gown. “The summers
are wonderful, but February...”  Lawrence’s co-star in “Silver Linings Playbook,” best-
actor nominee  Bradley Cooper , appeared in the mandatory tuxedo -
- a change from his sloppy look on screen.  “To be able to act in sweat pants and sneakers and a trash
bag the whole movie was fantastic: It was very comfortable,”
said Cooper, who was greeted with shrieks of “Bradley,
Bradley” from drenched groupies.  Started in 1947 and honoring films produced worldwide and
shown in U.K. cinemas, the Baftas are now held before the Oscars
and get more attention as a gauge of the year’s standout titles.  
To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 