-- ‘Identity Thief’ Is Weekend’s No. 1 Film, $36.6 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-02-11T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/-identity-thief-swipes-box-office-crown-with-36-6-million.html
The  Jason Bateman  comedy “Identity
Thief” opened as the top weekend movie in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, with $36.6 million in ticket sales for Comcast Corp.’s
Universal Pictures.  Last week’s top film, “Warm Bodies,” dropped to second
with $11.5 million. “Side Effects,” about the dire results
that follow a housewife’s use of a new antidepressant, was third
in its debut with $10 million in sales for Open Road Films,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Box-office revenue declined for a fourth weekend, during
the typically slow pre-Oscar period when studios avoid releasing
major new films. That ends next weekend when Warner Bros. issues
the supernatural love tale “Beautiful Creatures,” from the
young adult novel by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl. Twentieth
Century Fox brings out “A Good Day to Die Hard,” the fifth in
the  Bruce Willis  action series.  “It’s so early in the year that any changes, up or down,
can really affect the percentages,” said  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit, in a telephone
interview. “If ‘Identity Thief’ hadn’t done so well, this
weekend would’ve been even worse.”  Bateman plays a man whose finances are wrecked by a free-
spending woman who assumes his identity.  Melissa McCarthy  co-
stars as Bateman’s nemesis. The movie also features  Amanda Peet 
and John Cho.  ‘Side Effects’  In “Warm Bodies,” based on Isaac Marion’s novel, a zombie
epidemic sweeps the earth.  Amid the chaos, a slacker zombie named “R,” played by
Nicholas Hoult, retains enough of his humanity to remind himself
not to be creepy when approaching pretty human girls. He rescues
an attractive young woman, Julie, from fellow zombies and
romance ensues. The film, from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ,
features Teresa Palmer as Julie.  “Side Effects,” directed by  Steven Soderbergh , features
 Rooney Mara  as the wife of a Wall Street executive. Her use of a
new antidepressant drug to treat anxiety leads to unforeseen
consequences.  Channing Tatum  plays her husband and  Jude Law  and
 Catherine Zeta-Jones  portray the woman’s therapists.  Among Oscar nominees still in theaters, Weinstein Co.’s
“Silver Linings Playbook” was fourth with sales of $6.9
million. The movie, starring  Bradley Cooper ,  Jennifer Lawrence 
and  Robert DeNiro , follows an adult son who returns to his
parents’ home after months in a psychiatric hospital.  Oscar Nominees  The film was nominated for best picture and Lawrence and
Cooper received Oscar nominations for their leading roles. De
Niro and Jacki Weaver garnered supporting actor nominations.  “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters 3D,” an update of the
Grimms’ fairy tale, was fifth with $5.8 million. The movie is
from  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Inc. and stars  Jeremy Renner  and Gemma Arterton.  Revenue from the top 12 films fell 48 percent to $89.6
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first six weeks of the year are down 1% to $1.05
billion. Attendance is down 1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
8 and Feb. 9 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  