-- Ally Sees Full U.S. Repayment by 2014 on Auto Lending
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-11T16:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/ally-sees-full-u-s-repayment-by-2014-on-auto-lending.html
Ally Financial Inc. , the second-
largest remaining investment by the U.S. Treasury’s bailout
fund, will repay the government by 2014 on the strength of its
auto-finance business, its chief executive officer said.  Ally can make a significant payment this year toward the
$14.6 billion still outstanding from the Treasury’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program, CEO  Michael Carpenter  said in a Feb. 9
interview. Ally in 2012 financed the most new- and used-vehicle
sales in the U.S. for the second consecutive year.  “We are 100 percent confident that we can repay the
American taxpayer completely,” Carpenter, 65, said at the
National Automobile Dealers Association’s convention in Orlando,
Florida. “Whether that’s this year or next year, I don’t know.
But it’s in that time frame.”  Ally is selling assets outside the U.S. to narrow the
company’s focus to autos and its online retail bank while
fending off claims tied to its Residential Capital unit, which
went bankrupt because of losses on subprime home mortgages.
Ally’s auto unit has expanded its used, leasing and subprime
financing offerings ahead of expirations this year of agreements
that guarantee business from  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler
Group LLC.  GM Financial, the largest U.S. automaker’s credit arm,
agreed in November to purchase Ally’s international auto-finance
businesses in Europe, Latin America and China for $4.2 billion.
In October, Ally agreed to sell its Canadian operations to Royal
Bank of Canada, receiving $4.1 billion, and reached a deal to
sell its Mexican insurance business to Ace Ltd. for $865
million.  U.S. Autos  Once Detroit-based Ally completes those deals, U.S. auto
financing will be “basically our only business,” Carpenter
said Feb 9.  “Our customers don’t have to worry that we’ll wake up on
Monday morning and decide we don’t think this is as attractive
as we used to and back away,” he said.  Banks including Wells Fargo & Co. have pursued auto
financing after consumer debt within the industry performed
better than most other categories during the financial crisis.
U.S. sales of cars and light trucks climbed by at least 10
percent each of the last three years, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Ally received $17.2 billion from the U.S. in a rescue that
began more than four years ago. The lender, formerly known as
GMAC Inc. and owned by GM until 2006, effectively became the
captive finance units for GM and Chrysler, keeping credit
flowing to new-vehicle buyers following the automakers’
bankruptcies, said  Bill Muir , Ally’s president and head of its
auto operations.  Diversified Offerings  “For us, that was not a sustainable model,” Muir said in
an interview at the NADA convention. “We were dependent on what
the manufacturer wants.”  Used-vehicle financing and leasing were  46 percent  of
Ally’s originations last year, up from 14 percent in 2009.
Subsidized-rate loans, made to consumers at below-market rates
for the automaker’s marketing campaigns, have dropped to 20
percent of originations from 58 percent during that span. With
so-called subvented loans, the automaker compensates the lender
for the difference for the below-market rates.  “We now have morphed to our business reflecting what’s
important to the dealer,” Muir said. “We’ve trended toward a
much more balanced group of business, which by the way has
better margins.”  Chrysler-Santander  Ally’s agreement with Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler
that guarantees a minimum percentage of its vehicles sold with
subvented loans, expires at the end of April.  Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA , last week reached an
agreement with  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s biggest bank, to
replace its deal with Ally. Santander Consumer USA Inc. will
form Chrysler Capital, which begins operations May 1. GM’s
agreement with Ally ends at the end of this year.  Santander’s arrangement with Chrysler has negative
implications for Ally’s credit because it will erode Ally’s
share of financing to Chrysler car buyers and dealers, Moody’s
Investors Service said today in a report. Moody’s cited an
immediate loss of subvented loans from Chrysler, a “small
fraction” of Ally’s originations.  “We’re still happy to do subvented buying, but it’s not
our reason for existence anymore,” Ally’s Muir said Feb. 9.  ‘Meaningful’ Threat  The “more meaningful” threat to Chrysler’s deal with Ally
is any potential erosion in Ally’s dealer finance business,  Mark Wasden , a New York-based analyst for Moody’s, wrote in today’s
report. Ally financed 58 percent of Chrysler dealer inventory
through Sept. 30 last year, he wrote.  “For Ally, strong penetration of dealer relationships is
central to its overall business proposition and differentiates
it from other auto lenders,” Wasden wrote.  The U.S. Treasury and the watchdog for its bailout program
sparred last month over whether the department has an adequate
exit plan for Ally.  Christy Romero , the special inspector
general for the TARP, wrote in a report that while Treasury has
listed several options for divesting its Ally investment,
including a public or private sale of stock, Treasury hadn’t
decided which of these exit paths to take.  Timothy Massad , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a  letter  to the inspector general
released last month that the exit plan involves the
reorganization of ResCap, Ally’s mortgage unit, and the sale of
the company’s international operations.  Treasury’s Exit  “We can make a significant repayment to Treasury this
year, for sure,” Carpenter said. “Whether we can get them all
the way out this year, probably not is the real answer.”  Ally is the second largest remaining TARP investment behind
GM, which hadn’t repaid $21.6 billion as of the end of last
year, according to the special inspector general for the TARP.  “We don’t want them as our shareholder, and they don’t
want to have the investment,” Carpenter said of the Treasury
Department’s 74 percent stake in Ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Orlando, Florida at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  