-- ASX Keeps Clearing, Settlement Monopoly, Government Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-11T05:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/asx-to-maintain-clearing-settlement-monopoly-government-says.html
ASX Ltd. , the operator of
Australia’s main stock exchange, will maintain its monopoly on
the clearing and settlement of equity trades for at least two
years, the government said.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  accepted advice from the Council of
Financial Regulators to defer for two years any license
application from an equities clearing facility seeking to
compete in the Australian market, according to an emailed
statement today. ASX is required to develop a code of practice
with key stakeholders to ensure transparent and non-
discriminatory access to its infrastructure.  ASX Chief Executive Officer  Elmer Funke Kupper  and Chairman
 Rick Holliday-Smith  argued last year that competition may raise
risks to market stability and push transactions overseas out of
the reach of Australian regulators. LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,
Europe’s largest clearing house, had applied for a clearing and
settlement license within Australia, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said in a report in October.  “While competition would be expected to deliver efficient
outcomes, now may not be the appropriate time for changes that
will have further cost implications for the industry, given
current market conditions and the magnitude of regulatory change
already under way,” Swan said in the statement.  Surging Shares  ASX will put in place a code of practice for its cash
equities clearing and settlement services within the next six
months, the company said in a statement today. This will be
reviewed after two years, it said.  “The fact that they’ve now delayed the decision is a bit
of a surprise,”  Ross Curran , an analyst at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Sydney, said in a telephone interview today. “It’s
one that is positive for ASX given it gets to maintain its
monopoly.” He has an “underweight” recommendation on the
shares with a price estimate of A$30.  Of the 17  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg who rate ASX, four
advise buying the stock, while six recommend selling. The shares
soared 15 percent this year through the end of last week,
compared with a 6.9 percent advance on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index. ASX is due to report first-half profit on Feb. 21. The
shares slid 0.2 percent to close at A$35.88 in Sydney.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government in August ended a
review of ASX’s domination of the clearing-house business, which
guarantees buy and sell orders to protect against defaults.  The country’s main stock exchange suffered declining
equity-trading volumes after losing its monopoly as Australia’s
only public bourse with the entry of Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Chi-
X Australia in November 2011.  The ASX’s monopoly on clearing and settlement services was
cited by Swan as a reason for him rejecting a takeover bid in
2011 from  Singapore Exchange Ltd.   The Council of Financial Regulators that made the
recommendation to Treasury is comprised of members from the
central bank, regulators and the government. Its ruling on
clearing and settlements applies to cash equities, not to over-
the-counter markets or exchange-traded markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  