-- Barcelona Goes 12 Points Clear After 6-1 Rout; Inter Milan Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-10T23:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/barcelona-goes-12-points-clear-after-6-1-rout-inter-milan-wins.html
Six different players scored for
Barcelona in a 6-1 rout of Getafe that extended the Spanish
soccer league leader’s advantage to 12 points over Atletico
Madrid, which lost 2-1 at Rayo Vallecano.  Alexis Sanchez  opened the scoring after six minutes
yesterday and Barcelona added goals from  Lionel Messi ,  David Villa , Cristian Tello,  Andres Iniesta  and  Gerard Pique .  “The players were at an extraordinary level,” Barcelona
assistant coach Jordi Roura said on his team’s website. “They
were intense from the first minute.”  Atletico Madrid was unable to stay within nine points of
Barca in the late game as first-half goals by Alhassane Bangoura
and Leo secured a 2-1 win for Vallecano, which had five shots on
target to 11 by Atletico.  Cristiano Ronaldo  tuned up for this week’s reunion with
former club Manchester United in the Champions League by scoring
three goals in Real Madrid’s 4-1 win against Sevilla two days
ago. Third-place Real is four points behind Atletico.  In Italy, Juventus leads the standings with 55 points after
a 2-0 win over Fiorentina two days ago. Second-place Napoli fell
five points behind after a 1-1 draw at Lazio, which has 44
points in third.  Mario Balotelli  scored with a penalty kick as AC Milan drew
1-1 at Cagliari, a result that allowed Inter Milan to leapfrog
its city rival into fourth place by beating Chievo 3-1 at home
in the late game.  Bayern Munich moved to a record-tying 54 points after 21
games in Germany’s Bundesliga with a 4-0 victory over Schalke
two days ago. Borussia Dortmund is 15 points behind in second
after a 4-1 home loss to Hamburg, with Bayer Leverkusen a point
further back after drawing 3-3 at Borussia Moenchengladbach.  Six-Point Lead  In France, Paris Saint-Germain has a six-point lead over
Lyon after it beat Bastia 3-1 three days ago and its nearest
rivals failed to win yesterday.  Second-place Lyon had the chance to cut PSG’s lead to three
points, though lost 3-1 at home to Lille last night. Marseille,
which ended with nine men after Kassim Abdallah and Jordan Ayew
were red-carded, earlier drew 1-1 at Evian to move within two
points Lyon.  In the Netherlands, leader PSV Eindhoven has a three-point
advantage following a 2-2 draw at Vitesse Arnhem two days ago.
Ajax drew 1-1 with Roda JC and Feyenoord defeated AZ Alkmaar 3-1
yesterday.  PSV has 47 points, with Ajax and Feyenoord on 44.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 