-- Berlusconi Ally May Seek Local Currency for Use Alongside Euro
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-10T13:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/berlusconi-ally-may-seek-local-currency-for-use-alongside-euro.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s biggest
political ally in the campaign for Italian parliamentary
elections said he may support a plan to create a local currency
that could be used alongside the euro in the region of Lombardy.  “Creating an alternative circuit, not a substitute but an
alternative, is useful and can be used in moments of difficulty
and economic crisis to give real help to companies,”  Roberto Maroni , head of the Northern League, said yesterday in a video-
recorded interview with Il Giorno posted on the newspaper’s
website. “There are studies underway and we’re thinking about
it. I can’t rule out that in the end we too decide to do it.”  Maroni said there were 13 examples in Europe of regional
and business groups that have adopted an internal currency.
Maroni is running for governor of Lombardy, the northern Italian
region where the country’s business capital, Milan, is located.  Berlusconi is counting on the Northern League, which has
about 5 percent support in opinion polls, to boost his chances
in the Feb. 24-25 parliamentary vote. Euro-skepticism has gained
traction among voters in Italy as the country sinks deeper into
recession and unemployment rises. Berlusconi, a three-time
former prime minister, has said Italy should remain a member of
the 17-nation single currency.  Maroni said research on an alternative currency is being
carried out at Milan’s Bocconi University, the school where
Prime Minster  Mario Monti  taught economics and served as
president. “We’re looking very closely at it,” Maroni said.  Lead Narrows  Berlusconi leads a coalition running second in the
parliamentary campaign with 27.8 percent support nationally,
according to an SWG Institute poll of voting intentions
published on Feb. 8. That includes 5.2 percent support for the
Northern League and 19.5 percent for Berlusconi’s own People of
Liberty party.  Pier Luigi Bersani , a former communist and labor-union
favorite, is the front-runner at 33.8 percent, according to the
SWG poll. Berlusconi, who has traditionally derived his support
from entrepreneurs and conservative Italians, has narrowed the
gap with Bersani from as much as 10 percentage points in some
polls in December.  Beppe Grillo’s euro-skeptic campaign was third in the SWG
poll with 18.8 percent support. That’s up from 16.8 percent in a
Jan. 16 poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in Rome at   afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  