-- German Bunds Beaten by Spain Means Yields Above Treasuries
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-11T19:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/bunds-beaten-by-spain-means-yields-above-treasuries-to-jpmorgan.html
Germany is losing a yearlong
borrowing-cost advantage over the U.S. as healing in the 17-
nation euro area lures investors to greater returns in Italian
and Spanish bonds.  German securities had their worst January since at least
1986 and options traders hold almost three times more bets on
further declines than a rally, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That contrasts with Treasuries, where wagers through
derivatives are about even. JPMorgan Chase & Co. says Germany’s
10-year yields will exceed U.S. rates for the first time since
February 2012 by the end of the third quarter.  Demand for the euro area’s benchmark assets is waning after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  dispelled concern
the bloc may break up and as banks pay back emergency loans two
years earlier than required. With confidence recovering from
last year’s debt crisis, German two-year note yields climbed to
a 10-month high in January from below zero, while  relative 
borrowing costs tumbled in Italy and Spain, the region’s third-
and fourth-largest economies.  “Bunds could come under pressure as we expect to see more
diversification into higher-yielding peripheral bonds,” said
 Oliver Eichmann , a money manager at DWS Investment GmbH in
Frankfurt, Germany’s biggest mutual fund, which oversees $379
billion. “We prefer Treasuries in the near term.”  Draghi allayed investors’ concern the euro region would
collapse after he pledged in July to do “whatever it takes” to
hold the currency bloc together. The Stoxx Europe 600  Index  of
equities has rallied 12 percent since then and a composite gauge
of euro-area services and manufacturing output improved to 48.6
in January, the highest level since March.  Crisis Remedies  After taking over the ECB from  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Nov.
1, 2011, Draghi introduced remedies to the debt crisis that
erupted in Greece about three years ago including interest-rate
cuts, an injection of 1 trillion euros ($1.34 trillion) into
banks and an offer to buy government bonds.  Investors who believed Draghi’s July pledge earned 13
percent on Italian bonds, including 1.5 percent in January,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Two-year
note yields dropped as low as 1.275 percent on Jan. 10, just
above the record 1.273 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1993.  Italy’s notes  yielded  150 basis points, or 1.50 percentage
points, more than German two-year securities as of 12:56 p.m. in
London. That’s down from 720 basis points more near the end of
2011.  Spain’s bonds returned 1.7 percent last month. The two-year
yield gap with German debt has narrowed to 257 basis points from
as much as 671 in July.  Yield Spread  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed Draghi’s
plan, the gains in so-called peripheral-market debt came partly
at the expense of her own securities, which slumped 1.8 percent
in January. Treasuries lost 0.95 percent last month.  German two-year yields have surpassed equivalent rates in
Japan and narrowed the gap with similar-maturity U.S. debt to
the smallest in about a year. They’ve risen 28 basis points
since July to 0.19 percent, while the  yield  on U.S. notes
increased just four basis points, and German rates temporarily
climbed above Treasuries last month. Japan’s two-year note yield
fell to a record 0.023 percent on Feb. 7.  Germany sold 3.39 billion euros of six-month bills today at
a yield of 0.02 percent, the first  positive yield  for the
securities since June.  Europe’s smaller, less-traded and more-troubled economies
handed investors even greater returns. Irish, Greek and
Portuguese bonds rose 2.4 percent, 22 percent and 3.2 percent,
respectively, in January, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Italian Appeal  Investors who sold bunds and used the money to buy Spanish
or Italian bonds after Draghi signaled on Aug. 2 he would
backstop troubled countries’ debt earned more than 16 percent
through Jan. 31, the bond indexes show.  “We are dipping our toes in selective European credits,
such as Italy,”  Jonathan Lemco , a senior sovereign-debt analyst
at Vanguard Group Inc., the largest provider of U.S. bond funds,
said by phone from Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, on Feb. 5. “The
European currency union will hold together for the foreseeable
future.”  The difference in yield between 10-year bunds and
Treasuries has narrowed to 34 basis points from 44 basis points
in December. Bund yields were last above their U.S. counterparts
in February 2012. In the past five years, the German securities
have traded with a yield  discount  of as much as 90 basis points
to Treasuries, and have yielded as much as 90 basis points more.  The gap was little changed last week as German and U.S.
securities jumped amid political unrest before Italian elections
later this month.  JPMorgan Estimates  JPMorgan forecasts the rate on German bonds will rise to
1.85 percent by the end of the third quarter, from 1.61 percent
on Feb. 8, while the yield on similar-maturity Treasuries will
drop to 1.80 percent, from 1.95 percent last week.  Investors buying German bunds at the current yield would
lose 1.7 percent if they reached the level forecast by JPMorgan,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. A similar investment on 10-year
Treasuries would gain 4 percent.  “The balance of risk is shifting more toward the U.S. from
Europe,”  Pavan Wadhwa , the head of U.S. dollar rates strategy
at JPMorgan in New York, said in a telephone interview Feb. 1.
“Europe is in the process of stabilizing. Bunds will sell off
relative to Treasuries.”  The ratio of options granting the right to sell the 10-year
bund futures contract for June 2013 relative to those conferring
the right to buy it was at 2.77 on Jan. 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. For Treasuries, the balance was 1.09.  Economic Outlook  While the median of 52 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg is for the euro-region to contract 0.1 percent in
2013, retreating for a second year, the outlook is improving
faster than analysts predicted. Data are beating projections by
the most since January 2011, according to the Citigroup Economic
Surprise  Index .  The services industry in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,
expanded last month at the fastest pace since June 2011. While
Spain remains mired in recession, economic sentiment increased
for a fifth month in January. Italian industrial production rose
in December after falling for three consecutive months.  The extra yield that investors get for holding 10-year
Italian bonds instead of German bunds narrowed to 243 basis
points on Jan. 25, from 546 on July 25.  Berlusconi, Rajoy  Since then, the difference expanded to 298 basis points,
after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the lead of
front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani  before an election on Feb.
24-25. Berlusconi has said he’ll roll back current Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s austerity policies.  Spain’s yield spread narrowed to 379 basis points today
from a high of 650 last year. The spread widened from as little
as 324 basis points last month after Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  faced calls to resign from the opposition
following newspaper reports said he accepted illegal cash
payments. He said the allegations were unfounded.  German 10-year yields will increase to 1.96 percent by the
end of this year, according to the average of 28 forecasters
compiled by Bloomberg. Ten-year Treasury yields will rise to
2.27 percent, separate estimates show. In the U.S., the Federal
Reserve is buying debt at the rate of $85 billion a month to
spur growth.  Inflation Prospects  “We prefer bunds as our outlook for the European economy
is not terribly positive,” said  Michael Siviter , a London-based
money manager at Invesco Ltd., which oversees $683 billion.
“The fact that the Fed is willing to pursue more aggressive
policy means that inflation is more likely, whereas Europe is
almost pursuing a deflationary policy, which should mean bond
yields stay relatively low.”  Inflation expectations as measured by the yield difference
between 10-year Treasuries and their index-linked counterparts
were at 2.54 percentage points today, while a similar gauge in
Germany was at 1.92 percentage points.  Draghi’s measures risk proving too successful, either by
encouraging complacency among lawmakers, or by raising borrowing
costs and driving up the currency. He said on Feb. 7 that the
euro’s appreciation risked damping inflation, a comment the
market took to mean that further interest-rate cuts remained a
possibility. The common currency weakened that day as yields on
two-year German notes declined four basis points.  Financial institutions in the region are handing back
emergency loans from the ECB two years earlier than required, a
sign of growing confidence. Banks in the euro area said on Feb.
8 they planned to repay a further 5 billion euros, after giving
back 137.1 billion euros at the first  opportunity  and 3.5
billion euros the following week.  “The world is not going to implode,” said  Richard Schlanger , who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in Boston.
“The euro is going to survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  