-- Buzz Builds at Westminster for ‘The Fifinator’ Doberman
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/buzz-builds-at-westminster-for-the-fifinator-doberman.html
In the run-up to the  Westminster
Kennel Club  dog show, which opens Monday, the buzz surrounding a
4-year-old Doberman Pinscher named Fifi was audible.  She’s known as “The Fifinator” among her thousands of
fans, who themselves are known as Fifians.  “She’s my sentimental favorite,” said  David Frei ,
director of communications for Westminster, during an interview
at a Manhattan hotel.  “I put money on that one,” said David Fitzpatrick, the
professional handler of the 2012 champion, a Pekingese named
Malachy. “It’s just an instinct.”  Fifi ended 2012 ranked No. 3 by the  American Kennel Club , a
128-year-old organization that promotes and oversees purebred
dog competition. She was one of seven finalists last year at
Madison Square Garden, besting Westminster’s top Boxer, Akita,
and other exemplars of breeds in the so-called Working Group.  About 2,700 dogs are expected at Westminster in 187 breeds
and varieties. While she has her own Facebook page -- which has
received more than 6,500 “likes” -- Fifi is neither shown by a
professional nor subsidized by a multimillionaire in a field
dominated by wealthy backers.  Josh Dean , author of “Show Dog,” a 2012 book about the
purebred circuit, said people invest in top dogs and
professional handlers (who can earn six-figure pay) for the
reflected glory.  “It’s competition like anything else,” he said. “You’re
going to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to win some
medals and ribbons. But that really is the motivation.”  Big Spenders  Jocelyn Mullins, a 44-year-old breeder and co-owner of
Fifi, said her dog was outspent 10-to-1 by rivals on advertising
in such publications as “ Dog News ” and “Dogs in Review.”  “The other dogs have been in every single issue of every
publication that’s out there,” she said last week from her home
in Dublin, Ohio, a suburb of Columbus. “We’ve been able to
accomplish an amazing amount with our resources.”  According to the AKC, the  Doberman Pinscher  originated in
Germany about a century ago, taking its name from a tax
collector, Karl Friedrich Louis Dobermann, who sought a guard
dog as well as a companion. The AKC  breed standard  said the
gait is to be “free, balanced and vigorous,” its coat
“smooth-haired, short, hard, thick” and permitted colors are
“black, red, blue and fawn (Isabella).”  “This is not supposed to be a beauty pageant. It’s
supposed to be an evaluation of breeding stock,” Mullins said,
adding of Fifi, “And she has a stunning personality.”  Amassing Debt  Fifi’s official name is CH Protocol’s Veni Vidi Vici.
Mullins has incurred substantial debt -- she won’t say how much
-- traveling the country showing the dog. She said she’s
fighting the perception that a top contender needs a
professional handler to excel.  “She walks in that ring as though she owns it,” Mullins
said. “I could’ve found someone to show her and pay the bills,
but it wouldn’t be the same.”  Her top Westminster rivals include a  German Wirehaired
Pointer  named Oakley and an English Springer Spaniel, Peyton.  The best-in-show judge is Michael Dougherty, a professional
handler who works in public relations and co-owns, with his
wife, the Windsong Resort for Pets in Escondido, California.
Featuring a “pup pool” with a waterfall, it is the area’s
``finest boutique pet resort,” according to its  website .  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Greg
Evans and Craig Seligman on  movies .  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 