-- Chrysler Says Santander Unit to Speed Financing Approvals
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-11T06:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/chrysler-says-santander-unit-to-speed-financing-approvals.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
carmaker forming an auto-financing venture with  Banco Santander
SA , said the unit wants to cut the almost four-hour industry
average time it takes to approve a vehicle purchase.  Chrysler Capital, the service that Santander Consumer USA
Inc. will create to finance car and light-truck purchases and
leases, may set up a full online approval process for customers
to use before they visit a dealership,  Peter Grady , Chrysler
Group’s vice president of dealer network development and fleet
operations, said in an interview.  “That’s a big dissatisfier for a consumer,” Grady said of
the financing approval process in an interview at the National
Automobile Dealers Association convention Feb. 9 in Orlando,
Florida. “It’s all explainable, but it’s got to change.”
Chrysler may seek to cut the time in half, he said. “You’ve got
to have those crazy, audacious goals.”  Chrysler, controlled by  Fiat SpA , this month completed an
almost yearlong search for a new lending partner in the U.S.
after telling  Ally Financial Inc.  that it would let their
agreement expire at the end of this April. Chrysler Capital,
which will begin operating May 1, will also provide dealers with
wholesale loans for buying vehicles from the manufacturer.  Owners of the U.S. automotive unit of Santander, Spain’s
biggest bank, include private-equity firms Warburg Pincus LLC,
KKR & Co. and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC, which together
purchased a 25 percent stake in 2011’s fourth quarter. Sponsor
Auto Finance Holding Series, a company owned by funds affiliated
with the firms, paid $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  ‘Highest Priority’  “Stability of funding for our dealers has been the highest
priority” for Chrysler, which left bankruptcy in 2009, Grady
said. “We were looking for a bank with some significant heft”
that could “provide the financial backstop that would be needed
in a downturn if another capital market disruption occurred.”  Chrysler decided against purchasing a stake in its venture
with Santander because the automaker’s credit rating would have
increased Chrysler Capital’s borrowing costs, Grady said.  Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 1 upgraded its rating on
Chrysler this month to B1, four levels below investment grade.
Standard & Poor’s rates Chrysler B+, also four levels into junk.  Chrysler selected Santander in part because of its
expertise with so-called automated decisioning, which uses data
modeling to speed the assessment of loan applications and set
appropriate terms for the borrower, Grady said.  “Santander Consumer USA does that today, in the subprime
space,” Grady said Feb. 9. “There are certain things that they
know that make them take a little bit more risk and approve more
deals because they mine the data.”  Santander Deal  Chrysler said last week that its agreement with Santander
is for 10 years. Santander will create a separate business unit
as part of the deal that also will finance dealership
construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines
of credit. Santander will provide Chrysler with a nonrefundable
upfront payment and a quarterly share of revenue, according to a
statement, which doesn’t give specifics.  Santander will get the right to specified minimum
percentages of Chrysler’s subsidized-rate financing programs,
the automaker said in a Feb. 6 regulatory filing. In return, the
lender will commit to certain approval and penetration rates.  Santander will shoulder the risk of losses on loans covered
by the agreement and the two parties will share in any residual
gains or losses from consumer leases, according to Chrysler’s
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Orlando, Florida, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  