-- Coal Miner’s $1.4 Billion Rail to End Imports: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-11T11:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/coal-miner-s-1-4-billion-rail-to-end-imports-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. , set to build a $1.4
billion railway link through its three richest mining regions,
said the untapped pits will help the world’s second-biggest
thermal coal importing nation end overseas purchases.  The 203-mile (327-kilometer) network, to be funded by the
company and built by Indian Railways in five years, will free up
300 million metric tons of coal annually in the states of Odisha,
Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, Coal India Chairman  S. Narsing Rao 
said in an interview. Indian power companies pay about 40
percent more than local prices to import 70 million tons of coal,
about 20 percent of their annual consumption.  “The railway line can eliminate the need for imports of
thermal coal in five years,” Rao said in an interview from his
office in Kolkata. “Given the reserves we have, we should not
have to depend on other countries for electricity generation.”  The  state-owned company , which is the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, needs to step up output to comply with
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s 2012 directive to ensure
adequate supply and prevent blackouts in an economy expanding at
the slowest pace in a decade. Failure to guarantee supplies to
utilities will result in a penalty for the firm whose production
growth has stalled in the past three years.  Stalled Projects  Coal India  shares  have advanced 2 percent in the past year,
compared with a 9.7 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock fell
0.1 percent to 338.45 rupees, the lowest closing price in almost
eight months.  Power projects worth at least $35 billion announced by
billionaires including  Anil Ambani  and  Gautam Adani , have
stalled because of fuel shortages. A  peak shortfall  of 9 percent
in electricity supplies leads to outages that shave about 1.2
percentage points off India’s annual economic growth, according
to government estimates.  The company’s proposal for the railway link has been
delayed for more than six years, pending approval from the
railway and environment ministries. The government last year
formed an inter-ministerial panel to push the project following
Singh’s order.  “The heavy penalty Coal India has to pay if it fails to
supply its customers is driving it to do everything it can to
boost production,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R.
Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  Volumes, Prices  Coal India, which must pay as much as 40 percent of the
value of any supply shortfall as penalty, reported a 19 percent
increase in profit to 30.8 billion rupees ($575 million) for the
second quarter ended Sept. 30. A rising wage bill suppressed
revenue gains and led to earnings missing analyst estimates.  Coal India, which accounts for more than 80 percent of the
nation’s output, last raised prices two years ago. It had cash
worth more than $12 billion as of Sept. 30.  “The company’s sales volumes are not increasing the way
they should and there’s no visibility on prices,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst at CIMB Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai, who
has an equivalent of a sell rating for the stock. “For
commodity stocks, you need to have good volumes and prices. Both
are missing here.”  Of the 52  analysts  that cover the company, 35 recommend
purchasing the stock, while five advise selling it, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Social Unrest  India’s annual thermal coal demand is expected to climb 43
percent to 730 million tons by 2017, while supplies from local
mines may increase 38 percent to 565 million tons, the Planning
Commission’s energy adviser I.A. Khan said in an interview.
Cheaper local coal will lower the cost at existing plants, while
ensuring energy security to upcoming projects.  Coal India has said it will start importing to meet its
supply contracts. While the company’s output is forecast to rise
6.4 percent this year to a record 464 million tons, it will
still fail to meet demand.  “Law and order issues have been the biggest impediment to
output,” Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said last month.  Some mines in the eastern states of Odisha and Jharkhand on
an average remain shut for three days in a month because of
social unrest, Coal India Personnel Director  R. Mohan Das  said
in an interview, without elaborating on the loss. Delays in
environment approvals and difficulties in acquiring land have
also affected production, he said.  India, which generates 57 percent of its  electricity from
coal , plans to add 118 gigawatts of generation capacity in the
five years ending March 2017, Khan said. Power companies added
about 55,000 megawatts in the five years ended March 31, the
most in a five-year period. The country has installed generation
capacity of 211 gigawatts.  “India is doing everything to increase coal production,”
said  Debasish Mishra , a partner at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
India Pvt. in Mumbai. “The railway plan needs to be
supplemented with speedy approvals and efficient project
management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  