-- Connecticut Metro North Service May Be Limited on Monday
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-10T00:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/connecticut-metro-north-service-may-be-limited-on-monday.html
Metro-North Railroad  service in
Connecticut may be limited on Feb. 11, Governor  Dannel Malloy 
said, after parts of the New Haven line were buried under as
much as 36 inches (0.9 meter) of snow.  “Metro-North has restarted very, very limited service,”
Malloy said today in a news briefing. “I’m giving everyone an
early warning that we do not believe that Metro-North will be in
a position to establish regular commutation on Monday.”  Across New England, people were digging out from a blizzard
that stalled travel from New Jersey to Maine, while sparing New
York City from much disruption.  Malloy lifted a travel ban in Connecticut at 4 p.m., though
he urged residents to stay off roads that are “not as safe as
we’d like them to be.” Metro-North commuters needing to be in
New York City on Feb. 11 “might want to move yourself there
sooner by car,” the governor said.  New York’s portion of Metro-North resumed service on some
lines after 11 a.m., according to a statement on the system’s
website. Metro North is operated by the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, the biggest U.S. mass-transit system.  Service on the MTA’s Long Island Rail Road was limited to
and from Farmingdale on the Ronkonkoma Branch, and to and from
Huntington, Babylon and Port Washington due to snow and ice on
the third rail. Hourly shuttles were running between Atlantic
Terminal and Jamaica. Service on all other branches was
suspended, according to the railroad.  Amtrak Service  Amtrak said limited service between Boston and New York,
which was halted during the storm, will resume tomorrow. Trains
between New York and Albany will operate on a normal Sunday
schedule.  Amtrak service from New Haven, Connecticut, to Springfield,
Massachusetts, remained canceled.  In Boston, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
said its goal was to restore commuter service on Feb. 11.  New Jersey Transit restored northern and central New Jersey
bus service at 8 a.m., but some train service remained halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  