-- Denmark Invokes Draghi to Stop Basel Mortgage Upheaval
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-11T08:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/denmark-invokes-draghi-to-stop-basel-mortgage-upheaval.html
Denmark is ready to do for its two-
centuries-old mortgage system what European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  has done for the euro: whatever it takes.  Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  says the
government is “disappointed” its demands were overlooked by
Basel bank regulators last month as the nation lobbies to ensure
its home-finance model isn’t wiped out by proposed liquidity
rules.  “That’s a key issue for us,” Vestager said in an
interview in Copenhagen. Denmark is fighting for a mortgage
system that “has endured any stress test that you can come up
with,” she said.  By echoing Draghi’s July pledge to use every tool at his
disposal to protect the euro, Vestager is sending a clear
warning to international regulators that Denmark won’t rest
until its demands are met. At stake is the nation’s $600 billion
mortgage-bond market, the world’s biggest, relative to the size
of the population.  “Danish housing finance is extremely cheap, stable and
trustworthy,” Vestager said. “We’ll do whatever it takes to
guard it.”  Banks in AAA rated Denmark meet their liquidity needs by
holding the covered bonds, which are backed by home loans. The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision wants to limit use of the
securities, even though they’re rated higher than more than half
the nations in the euro area. Instead, Basel would make lenders
more reliant on government debt.  $36 Billion  Denmark, which doesn’t have a seat on the 27-member Basel
Committee, argues the group is ignoring the lessons of the debt
crisis. Thanks to its fiscal restraint, Denmark’s public debt
burden is about half the euro area’s average, meaning there
aren’t enough sovereign bonds to fill the liquidity shortfall
the Basel rules would create. Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest
issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages, estimates the gap
is 200 billion kroner ($36 billion).  “The recent Basel announcement still focuses very much on
the issuer and not on the objective characteristics,” Vestager
said in the Feb. 7 interview. The rules assail a “very old and
well-working mortgage system,” she said.  Implementing the so-called Basel III liquidity rules would
force Danish banks to sell off mortgage bonds, drive up home
finance costs and send tremors through the whole economy,
according to  Steen Bocian , head of economic research at Danske
Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest lender.  Napoleonic Wars  Danish mortgage bonds, which made it through the Napoleonic
wars without any defaults even as Denmark’s government went
bankrupt in 1813, need to be given the same liquidity status as
sovereign debt, the government in Copenhagen argues.  Yet Basel isn’t the only group to question the safety of
the bonds. Moody’s Investors Service argues the spread of
adjustable-rate mortgage bonds, which now make up about half the
market, has created a refinancing risk because bonds as short as
a year are used to fund 20-year mortgages. The industry counters
that any change in borrowing rates is passed on to the borrower,
while the issuer only bears a far more remote risk of default.  The central bank has also urged issuers to consider phasing
out interest-only mortgages amid concern the loans fanned
imbalances that culminated in Denmark’s housing bubble, which
burst in 2008. Since their peak a year earlier, house prices
have slumped more than 20 percent, sending the nation into a
recession.  Beating Treasuries  Still, investor demand for mortgage bonds has grown, and
the  Nykredit Index  of the most-traded notes backed by home loans
soared to a record in December. It ended last week less than 1
percent shy of its Dec. 10 peak.  The Nykredit index has returned about 35 percent since
September 2008, the month Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed. In the same period, U.S. Treasuries with maturities
longer than a year returned 24 percent, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS Indexes. The figures include re-invested
interest.  The current Basel proposal limits banks’ use of covered
bonds to 40 percent of liquid assets. It also requires lenders
to book the securities at 85 percent of their market value.  Though global central bank chiefs, meeting last month in
Basel, Switzerland, agreed to some concessions, including
extending the deadline to meet the rules to 2019 from 2015,
Denmark’s pleas were ignored.  “We thought a lesson was learned with the recent
experience with the bonds issued by states,” Vestager said.  Ignore Basel  The European Commission is working on legislation to
implement the Basel recommendations, and agreed last year to
submit assets to a series of tests to determine liquidity,
rather than basing assumptions on an asset’s class.  Top ranked benchmark Danish mortgage securities are, on
average, as liquid as the nation’s government debt, even in
periods of market stress, the central bank said in a Nov. 22
working paper. The study confirmed a 2010 finding.  Denmark’s financial regulator has already told banks to
ignore the Basel rules. The decision shows Denmark won’t impose
rules on its banks it expects will harm the industry and the
economy. Vestager says she’d rather assume that Basel and the
commission in Brussels will accommodate Denmark’s demands.  “We think it will work out,” she said. “As long as we
can agree on the fact that it’s objective criteria rather than
the issuer, then there is space for us as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  