-- The Silence of the Drones
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-02-10T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/the-silence-of-the-drones.html
In times of war, the law is not
silent. War is not a moral wilderness: At the Second Lateran
Council in 1139, the use of the crossbow was banned among
European knights. Throughout history, there have been codes that
even the hell of war could not override.  I own up to being conflicted about the use of  drone
strikes . Those 19 young Arabs who struck the U.S. on Sept. 11,
2001, shredded the old notions and rules of war, erased the line
between combatants and noncombatants, brought soot and ruin onto
American soil. Our country had to be made ready for this new
kind of war.  We waged big military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq,
but the terrorists waged a twilight war of their own, bereft of
scruples and limits. There would be no treaty of surrender we
could enforce, no capital city to be subdued. Chased from
Afghanistan, they turned up in Yemen and Somalia. They were
soldiers of the catacombs, and they thrived in ungoverned
spaces.  Targeted killing was the  response  of a great military power
to the frustrations of this “asymmetrical” war. We didn’t know
that larger world of Islam from which this war arose. We were
sandbagged by regimes and rulers that feigned friendship with us
as they winked at the terror that came our way.  What was one to make of the New Mexico-born radical imam
 Anwar al-Awlaki  inciting his devotees to a holy war -- all in
good Americanese? He wore no uniform, slipped into the badlands
of his ancestral Yemen and mastered the new means of
communication.  Awlaki’s Fate  In the strict legalism of things he was an American
citizen, but he bore this country a deadly animus. No tears need
be shed for him. The strike that killed him, in Yemen in
September 2011, was a deed of just retribution. Presidential
spokesman  Jay Carney ’s defense of the drone strikes as legal,
ethical and wise can stand in the case of Awlaki. The executive
had been granted broad powers under the Authorization for Use of
Military Force in the aftermath of Sept. 11, and two presidents
were given the leeway to prosecute this war on terrorism.  In truth, the public didn’t want to look too closely into
the doings of our government. We left it to our intelligence
agencies and our military to keep us safe. But there came a time
-- after the doings of the night shift at Abu Ghraib became
public -- when the writ granted our officials was withdrawn.
Liberals declared an all-out ideological war against the
administration of  George W. Bush .  The horror, the horror: The renditions and the enhanced
interrogation techniques and, yes, the 50 or so drone strikes
used during the Bush years became, to the  liberals , a matter of
national shame. A rising politician in the Democratic Party, a
former teacher of constitutional law at the University of
Chicago at that, rode this sense of outrage to the pinnacle of
political power. He posed as a moralist.  Barack Obama  was certain that rendition and waterboarding
and the prison at Guantanamo Bay were recruiting tools of the
jihadis. We had sullied America’s reputation in lands beyond,
and he would heal the damage. Our practices had run afoul of
time-tested traditions and institutions, and in his stewardship,
he promised, our values would again be a compass for our deeds
abroad.  In hindsight, the great reckoning for Obama came at the end
of the first year of his presidency.  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab ,
a young Nigerian, a disciple of Awlaki, came close to bringing
down an airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009. It was
farewell to Kumbaya foreign policy: The world was a menacing
place.  Against the background of the stirring Obama oratory, and
the euphoric claim that the president’s personal biography was a
bridge to the world of Islam, the young Nigerian could have
snuffed out the promise of the Obama presidency. From that close
call, the president emerged a determined leader in the war on
terrorism.  Stealth War  He had his trusted aide,  John Brennan , in a windowless
office in the White House, and Brennan knew the world of
intelligence and terrorism. He knew the Arabian Peninsula, as he
had served as an intelligence officer in Saudi Arabia -- a
country where secrets and things unacknowledged are the coin of
the realm.  Together the president and the spook oversaw a stealth war,
and the president became his own targeting officer. (Obama going
over kill lists recalls President  Lyndon Johnson ’s poring over
the map of Khe Sanh in search of bombing targets in Vietnam; the
marked difference is the anguish of LBJ, and by the telling, the
serene confidence of Obama that this is a war of necessity and a
just campaign.)  The drone strikes were the choice of a president who had
given up on winning “hearts and minds” in the North-West
Frontier of Pakistan. Secure in the knowledge that he can’t be
outflanked from the right by the Republicans, Obama served up a
policy that was economical -- and remote. Congress didn’t
intrude, and save for the purists at the American Civil
Liberties Union, there was no powerful intellectual lobby
calling for accountability.  The passion had drained out of the progressives who had
hounded Bush,  Dick Cheney  and  Scooter Libby . Brennan had to step
aside once when he was put up to head the Central Intelligence
Agency, as a man tainted with the Bush legacy. His confirmation
is certain this time around.  There remains the discrepancy between an extensive campaign
of drones and a passive foreign policy that maintains -- the
president’s very words -- that an era of war is ending. Forgive
those Syrians left at the mercy of their dictator’s cruel war:
It is hard to explain to them why those drones don’t somehow
find their way to  Bashar al-Assad ’s bunker. We do anti-
terrorism. Wars of rescue are not an American specialty
nowadays.  ( Fouad Ajami  is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian
Rebellion.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Fouad Ajami  at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 