-- Egypt Sexual Assaults Politically Motivated, Council Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-10T13:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/egypt-sexual-assaults-politically-motivated-council-says.html
Sexual assaults on Egyptian female
protesters have been led by organized gangs, the head of a
government-backed women’s rights panel said, in what appears to
be the first such acknowledgment by officials relating to crimes
that have gained increasing prominence.  “There are organized gangs who commit sexual harassment
during protests with the aim of scaring women and orienting them
away from political participation,” Mervat Tallawy, head of
state-run National Council for Women, said today in a press
conference in Cairo. “Some of these cases amount to rape,” she
said, referring to reported cases of women protesters being
assaulted in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, the focus of anti-government
demonstrations.  Tallawy decried the marginalization of women in Egypt and
the increase in violence against female protesters, blaming
Islamic groups and political parties for “demeaning’ women in
their public statements since the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Numerous cases of assault and rape were reported during
rallies marking the second anniversary of the revolt.  “All regulations since the revolution have undermined
women’s rights,” said Tallawy. “Now is the time we stand
united, men and women, to end sexual harassment”  A Salafi preacher, Ahmad Mahmoud Abdullah, known as “Abu
Islam,” posted an online video on Feb. 6 in which he said most
female demonstrators “are crusaders,” and go to Tahrir because
they want to be raped. “Those women have no shame, no fear and
not even femininity,” he said. “They are devils.”  Tahrir Stigma  Maysara, the preacher’s son and the managing director of
the Al-Ummah Islamic television channel, at which Abu Islam
works, said his father meant that the women who still go to
Tahrir after all the reported cases of assault do so knowing the
risks. “There are drugs, sexual harassment and adultery in
Tahrir square, then why are those women going?” he said by
phone today. “My sister or wife would never approach such a
place.”  The council will within days conclude drafting a law to
toughen penalties for sexual harassment crimes, said Talawy.
“This culture of mocking women’s complaints against sexual
harassment and rape needs to change,” she said in comments
aired on the Al-Jazeera Mubashir Misr satellite television
channel. “The rapists are to be ashamed, not the female
victims.”  Operation Anti-Sexual Harassment/Assault, an initiative set
up by Egyptian human rights organizations and individuals,
counted at least 19 cases of violent attacks against women
during protests marking the two-year anniversary of the
revolution, according to their official Facebook page. In one of
these cases, a mob raped a young woman using a penknife,
severely injuring her.  “Horrific, violent attacks on women including rape in the
vicinity of Tahrir Square demonstrate that it’s now crucial
President Morsi takes drastic steps to end this culture of
impunity and gender-based discrimination, and for all political
leaders to speak out,” said Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, deputy
director for the Middle East and North Africa at Amnesty
International, in a statement published on the group’s website
on Feb. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  