-- Egyptians Rally Against Mursi on Anniversary of Mubarak Ouster
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-11T15:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/egyptian-opposition-groups-call-for-new-protests-after-clashes.html
Egyptians rallied against President
 Mohamed Mursi  to mark the second anniversary of his
predecessor’s ouster, in a show of force that could precipitate
more violence.  Security forces beefed up their presence outside the
presidential complex in anticipation of marches descending on
the area on the second anniversary of  Hosni Mubarak ’s departure,
the state-run Middle East News agency said. Dozens of protesters
temporarily blocked the 6th of October bridge spanning the Nile
in central Cairo, chanting slogans against Mursi and his Muslim
Brotherhood, it said.  An opposition coalition including the Egyptian Popular
Current, one of the groups planning marches today, said Mursi
“has broken a record in lying and breaking promises.” Another
group, the April 6 youth movement, organized a march from the
stock exchange to Tahrir Square.  The protests build on weeks of unrest that have battered
Mursi’s approval ratings. His critics say he is turning into an
Islamist copy of Mubarak, seeking to advance the interests of
his Muslim Brotherhood and failing to pull Egypt out of an
economic quagmire or end police brutality.  The standoff between the president and his mostly secular
opponents come after the Egyptian pound weakened to a record low
against the dollar, helping push inflation up, while the economy
has been growing at the  slowest pace  in two decades. Tensions
have boiled over into violence in recent weeks and resurfaced at
protests last weekend that left one person dead.  Storming Palace  Masked youths dubbing themselves the Black Bloc said on
Facebook that today will witness the “storming of the palace,”
asking Mursi to choose between “departure or chaos.” The
authenticity of the statement by the group, which is blamed by
authorities for some of the recent violence, couldn’t be
independently verified.  April 6 co-founder Mohamed Adel said his group’s march will
be peaceful and is demanding retribution for protesters killed
in clashes with security forces last year.  “We have a full list of peaceful measures that we can use
to escalate and to exert pressure until justice is served,”
Adel said by phone today. April 6 took part in the anti-Mubarak
uprising and later threw its weight behind Mursi’s presidential
bid during a run-off against Mubarak’s last premier.  Mursi’s approval rating has slid since he became Egypt’s
first democratically elected civilian leader in June, according
to a poll by local researcher Baseera. Conducted at the end of
January, it showed 39 percent of voters would re-elect him
tomorrow, an 11 percentage-point drop from the previous month.  Rating Slide  The poll by Baseera showed Mursi’s overall approval rating
slipped to 53 percent from 63 percent in December, with the
lowest approval coming from young people and those with
university degrees. The survey of 2,303 people on Jan. 30-31
cited a margin of error of about 3 percentage points.  Brotherhood officials have criticized the opposition for
the repeated protests, arguing that the rallies and ensuing
violence have stymied government efforts to stabilize the
country. They have urged parties to focus instead on legislative
elections due in the coming months.  “The opposition should shoulder the biggest share of
responsibility for any violence, for calling for protests while
everyone knows in advance the tensions they will inflame and the
violence they will cause,” Ahmed Aref, a spokesman for the
Muslim Brotherhood, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “Some opposition forces use street unrest to try to seize
the power that they could not win through the ballot box,” Aref
said. “They’re not capable of gaining people’s votes through
realistic programs and powerful candidates.”  IMF Talks  Political bickering has prolonged talks between Egypt and
the International Monetary Fund over a $4.8 billion loan.
Egyptian officials say the deal is necessary to help an economy
that stalled as the 2011 uprising and the turmoil that followed
kept investors and tourists away.  Demonstrators on Feb. 8 threw Molotov cocktails and rocks
at the main presidential palace as thousands rallied against
Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood, in protests that spread to
other parts of the country. More than 50 people were killed in
clashes in the week after the Jan. 25 second anniversary of the
start of the uprising against Mubarak.  The violence, exacerbated by death sentences handed down in
connection to the country’s worst soccer stadium clash, led
Mursi to enact 30-day emergency measures in three provinces. He
later backed away from them after curfews were defied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net 
 Salma El Wardany  in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  