-- Egypt Inflation Climbs Most in Two Years as Pound Weakens
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-10T13:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/egypt-s-inflation-rate-jumps-most-in-two-years-as-pound-weakens.html
Egyptian consumer prices last month
posted the  biggest increase  in more than two years after the
pound weakened to a record and foreign reserves slid.  Prices rose 1.7 percent compared with 0.2 percent in the
previous month, according to the state-run Central Agency for
Public Mobilization and Statistics. The  annual rate  climbed to
6.3 percent from 4.7 percent, the data show. High prices were
one of the reasons that triggered the 2011 uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak .  The pound has weakened 7.8 percent against the dollar since
Dec. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the central
bank started capping the amount of dollars each lender can buy
at currency auctions. The regulator said the policy seeks to
conserve reserves, which have plunged more than 60 percent since
the revolt to $13.6 billion last month.  “The trend is expected because of the devaluation but the
magnitude is above expectations,” said  Mona Mansour , chief
economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital, who has
forecast an annual inflation rate of about 5.8 percent. “We see
more inflationary pressures because we are expecting further
devaluation for the currency.”  The currency crisis may prompt the central bank to raise
interest rates by as much as 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, this year to stabilize the pound and tame inflation,
 Mohamed Abu Basha , an economist at Cairo-based investment bank
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, wrote in a report on Feb. 6.  Food prices rose 2.5 percent on the month, while the costs
of tobacco and alcoholic beverages climbed 7.7 percent,
according to CAPMAS data.  Core inflation, which excludes some food items and
regulated products, accelerated to an annual rate of 5.23
percent in January from 4.44 percent a month earlier, according
to central bank data released today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  