-- Elbit 2020 Yield Drops Most in 2 Weeks on Debt Proposal Report
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-02-10T15:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/elbit-2020-yield-drops-most-in-2-weeks-on-debt-proposal-report.html
  Elbit Imaging Ltd. ’s 2020 bonds
rallied, sending the yield down the most in more than two weeks,
on investor optimism the Israeli investment company will present
a debt plan. Government bonds rose.  The yield on Elbit Imaging’s 5 percent bonds maturing April
2020 fell 430 basis points, or 4.3 percentage points, the most
since Jan. 23, to 58.21 percent at the close in Tel Aviv. The
company’s  shares  rose for the first time in a week, gaining 4
percent. The government’s 4.25 percent benchmark bonds due in
2023 yielded 4.06 percent, down one basis point.  Elbit Imaging, which last week said it is trying to reach a
framework that will enable the debt-ridden company to meet its
commitments, may transfer control to U.S. funds York Capital and
DK Partners as part of a settlement with bondholders, daily
TheMarker  reported  today. S&P Maalot on Feb. 5 cut Elbit’s
rating by five levels to ilCC, two grades above default, saying
it’s possible the company may miss debt payments in the
immediate term.  “A solution developing to the company’s debt problems,
even with a possible haircut, is a positive move,” said  Adar Etzioni , head of research at Migdal Capital Markets Ltd., by
phone from Tel Aviv. “Further the prospect that foreign funds
are seeing value in the company are pushing bonds and shares
up.”  York and DK Partners each have invested 250 million shekels
($68 million) in Elbit bonds and are now the largest
bondholders, the newspaper said. Tel Aviv-based Elbit, which
invests in real estate and medical companies, last week asked to
delay 82 million shekels in principal payments due Feb. 20, as
it called for talks with bondholders. The company said today its
debt buy-back deals with financial institutions were ended early
as a result of a decline in the market price of the debentures
and the failure to meet the loan-to-value covenants.  Selling Assets  Elbit faces more than 600 million shekels in debt payments
this year and has reserves of about 80 million shekels, Moody’s
Midroog said last month as it lowered the rating on several
Elbit bonds to B2, five levels above default. Elbit, which has
sold assets in the U.S., U.K. and the Netherlands, is also
seeking to divest its assets in India.  “The company announced last week that it is working on a
solution which will take into account the interests of all
bondholders,” Motti Scherf, spokesman for Elbit, said today by
phone. A message left for Jeremy Blank, a representative for
York Capital in Israel, was not returned.  Israeli funds raised last week doubled to a net 702 million
shekels, Meitav Investment House Ltd. reported today. Corporate-
bond funds pulled in 473 million shekels in the week ended Feb.
7 compared with 322 million shekels a week earlier, it said. The
Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked and
fixed-rate corporate bonds, increased for a second day, adding
0.1 percent to 283.65, the highest level on record.  Average annual inflation expectations declined two basis
points to 2.16 percent, according to the two-year break-even
rate, the yield difference between the inflation-linked bonds
and fixed-rate government debt of similar maturity. The
government’s target range is between 1 percent to 3 percent.
Israel’s shekel strengthened 0.1 percent to 3.6937 on Feb. 8,
boosting its gain this month to 0.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  One-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, declined one basis point
to 1.7 percent that same day. The central bank has gradually
lowered the key interest rate by 1.5 percentage points since
2011 to 1.75 percent to spur the economy, which has suffered
from the fallout of the European debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  