-- Emaar Surges to Four-Year High on Dubai Property Rebound
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-10T12:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/emaar-surges-to-four-year-high-on-dubai-property-rebound.html
Emaar Properties PJSC  rose to the
highest level since the beginning of Dubai’s real-estate crash
more than four years ago amid bets profit at the developer of
the world’s tallest tower will benefit from a property recovery.  The stock soared 5.7 percent to 5.01 dirhams, the highest
level since November 2008, at the close in Dubai. That’s the
strongest since the start of one of the world’s worst property
crashes in Dubai, which sent prices plunging more than 65
percent. About 46 million shares were traded, more than three
times the three-month daily average. The stock’s price estimate
was raised to 6 dirhams at HSBC Holdings Plc last week.  “New projects that Emaar is launching and the successful
sales that they are hitting will create further value when these
projects are finished,” according to  Yazan Abdeen , who helps
oversee about $300 million as ING Investment Management’s Middle
East and North Africa fund manager in Dubai. “The first quarter
will be expected to be even more solid as far as recurring
income is concerned” given the economic recovery, he said.  Emaar surged  30 percent in January,  the best start of a
year since the company went public in 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Last month, the developer sold out all
units offered as part of a luxury hotel development in Dubai.  Dubai is returning to large projects that dominated the
market before the crash after the city’s economy expanded 5
percent in 2012, the fastest pace in five years, according to
government estimates. The emirate last year announced plans to
develop the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels and gardens larger
than London’s Hyde Park, which Emaar will co-develop.  Recurring Revenue  The “Dubai rebound is real,” HSBC said in a note last
week, maintaining its overweight recommendation on the stock.
“We expect Emaar to continue performing well on the back of
strong Dubai real estate launches.”  Full-year profit  at the developer, which derived 50 percent
of revenue from its hospitality and retail business in 2012, may
advance 9 percent, according to the  mean estimate  of 11 analysts
on Bloomberg. Emaar, which also operates in China, India,
Pakistan and Syria, derived 15 percent of sales from outside of
the U.A.E. last year.  The developer’s 14-day  relative strength index  surged to 78
today from 70 at the close last week. A reading above 70
indicates to some analysts that a security is poised to drop.
 Twelve analysts  recommend investors buy the shares while three
say hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar led a gain of 2.2 percent in the benchmark  DFM
General Index  today and was the  second most-traded  stock in the
Persian Gulf as of 3:09 p.m. in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  