-- Euro Ministers Seek New Crisis Momentum as Unrest Returns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-02-11T08:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/euro-ministers-seek-new-crisis-momentum-as-unrest-returns.html
European finance chiefs will seek to
win back crisis-management momentum to navigate through emerging
political pitfalls after markets signaled last week that the
three-year crisis is far from over.  Ministers from the 17-member euro area meet in Brussels
today to discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece as a tightening
election contest in Italy and a political scandal in Spain
disrupt market calm. Group of 20 finance chiefs and central
bankers will gather in Moscow Feb. 15-16.  “We don’t know yet how we’re going to get out of the
crisis,”  Wolfgang Franz , the chairman of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers, told  Welt am Sonntag .
“If the crisis is a marathon, we’ve got two-thirds of the
course behind us. But the last third is always the hardest.”  European Union leaders who last week reached a seven-year
budget agreement that for the first time cuts spending will look
ahead to Italy’s Feb. 24-25 elections as polls show the vote
might fail to deliver a governing majority. European stocks last
week posted a second weekly drop as investor concern about
policy roadblocks in Italy and Spain revived.  Yields on Italian 10-year bonds climbed to a year-to-date
high of more than 4.5 percent as former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the lead of front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani .
The euro’s climb was broken last week, falling 2 percent against
the U.S. dollar to $1.3365, after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  voiced concern that euro strength could
hamper the recovery. The currency was at $1.3373 at 9:45 a.m. in
Frankfurt.  ‘Price Stability’  Draghi’s statement came after the euro climbed as high as
$1.37 on Feb. 1, injecting a new dimension into efforts to
overcome the crisis. The ECB president joined Merkel’s
government in countering calls by French  President Francois 
Hollande to steer the value of the euro lower to boost growth.  “The exchange rate is not a policy target, but it is
important for growth and price stability,” Draghi said on Feb.
7. “We want to see if the appreciation is sustained, and if it
alters our assessment of the risks to price stability.”  While Draghi reiterated that growth in the euro area should
gain steam later this year, a rise in the euro could dampen a
recovery by weighing on exports and cooling inflation.  Merkel adviser Franz, who is president of the ZEW
institute, cited the Italian election, the Cypriot bailout,
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s scandal and continuing
programs in Greece and Portugal as possible crisis hurdles.  Lead Shrinks  “That the worst of the euro crisis behind us, I’d rather
not yet weigh in on that,” Franz told Welt in the interview.  Italians may have to return to the polls if the election
later this month results in a so-called hung parliament, Stefano
Fassina, who oversees economic policy for front-runner Bersani,
said in a Twitter statement last week.  A media blitz by Berlusconi has gained traction and shrunk
Bersani’s once-sizable lead. The final polls of the campaign
showed Feb. 8 that while Bersani still leads, he may need to
forge an alliance with outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Bersani could win an outright majority in the Chamber of
Deputies, with an average six-point lead over Berlusconi’s bloc,
five polls from Feb. 8 show. Still, he may fall short of a
Senate majority, which could force him to team up with Monti and
risk alienating allies in his center-left coalition.  Next week’s presidential election in Cyprus could also
influence the crisis schedule. The country has been in talks to
become the fifth recipient of rescue aid, though euro area
leaders are awaiting a new leadership that may be more amenable
to demands such as privatizing state assets.  Cyprus Bailout  Nicos Anastasiades , who leads the main opposition DISY
party, is poised to win the Feb. 17 election, according to three
final polls. A runoff in Cyprus will be held Feb. 24 if none of
the candidates next week wins an outright majority.  The Cyprus bailout is fraught because any aid package could
approach the size of the island nation’s 18 billion-euro ($24
billion) economy even as accusations are made about tax fraud
and deposits by Russian billionaires.  ECB Executive Board Member  Joerg Asmussen  warned that a
failure to agree on a package for Cyprus would throw the
progress achieved by policy makers into danger. He told
 Handelsblatt  he expects a decision by the end of March.  “If we allow a system-relevant country to fall, we risk
the progress” achieved last year, Handelsblatt cited him as
saying. Cyprus will default without a rescue, he said.  Allegations Denied  In Spain, Rajoy’s government sought to rebut corruption
allegations that spurred a rise in the country’s borrowing
costs. The  10-year bond yield , which dropped below 5 percent a
month ago, rose above 5.5 percent Feb. 7.  Last week in Berlin, Rajoy repeated his denial of
allegations in El Pais newspaper that he or members of his
People’s Party received illegal payments. Merkel offered her
backing to Rajoy at a Feb. 4 press conference, lauding the
premier for his efforts to repair the Spanish economy.  Today’s euro group meeting, which will be attended by
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ,
will be followed by a tribute to Luxembourg Premier  Jean-Claude Juncker , who stepped down as euro group chairman this year.
Dutch Finance Minister  Jeroen Dijsselbloem  succeeded him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  