-- Euro Touches 2-Week Low on Slowdown Signs; Yen Pares Gain
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-02-11T06:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/euro-touches-2-week-low-on-slowdown-signs-yen-holds-gain.html
The euro touched a two-week low
against the dollar on signs the region’s economy is slowing amid
political uncertainty in Italy and Spain.  The 17-nation currency held a three-day loss versus the yen
before data forecast to show  industrial production  in France
fell and with finance chiefs from the bloc set to meet in
Brussels to discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece. The yen trimmed
earlier gains against the U.S. currency after  Haruhiko Kuroda ,
one of the potential candidates to head the Bank of Japan, said
additional monetary easing can be justified for 2013.  The
central bank holds a policy meeting this week.  “There’s negative momentum behind the euro at the
moment,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac
Banking Corp. “You have more European risks apparent than a
month ago.”  The euro touched $1.3325, the lowest since Jan. 24, before
trading at $1.3384 at 6:10 a.m. in London, 0.2 percent above the
close at the end of last week in New York. The shared currency
was little changed at 123.92 yen, after losing 2.6 percent in
the past three sessions. The Japanese currency traded at 92.59
per dollar from 92.68, after earlier gaining as much as 0.3
percent.  Industrial production  in France, Europe’s second-largest
economy, probably declined 0.2 percent in December from the
previous month, when it rose 0.5 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the statistics office releases data today.  Political Uncertainty  European finance chiefs will seek to win back crisis-
management momentum after markets signaled last week that the
three-year crisis is far from over. Ministers from the 17-member
euro area meet in Brussels today.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has faced calls to
resign after newspaper reports alleged he accepted illegal cash
payments. Opinion polls have shown former Italy Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , who was convicted of tax fraud last October, closing
the gap on front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani  ahead of elections on
Feb. 24-25.  The yen pared gains before the BOJ announces its monetary
policy decision on Feb. 14. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said last
week he will step down with two of his deputies on March 19,
about three weeks before his term is due to end.  Kuroda, president of the Asian Development Bank, said in an
interview in Tokyo today the BOJ has “many” policy tools to
achieve its 2 percent inflation target. Credit Suisse Group AG
Chief Japan Economist  Hiromichi Shirakawa  has said Kuroda is
“the leading candidate” to succeed Shirakawa.  Excessive Decline  The yen was supported after technical indicators signaled
recent declines were excessive. The yen’s 14-day relative
strength index against the dollar was at 32 on Feb. 8, near the
30 level some traders see as a sign an asset’s price may reverse
direction after falling too rapidly. The yen’s RSI versus the
euro was at 39.  The yen’s 14 percent drop against the U.S. dollar in the
past three months has spurred criticism from South Korea to
Russia that Japan is competitively devaluing its currency.
Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of
20 nations are scheduled to gather in Moscow Feb. 15-16.  Finance Minister  Taro Aso  said on Feb. 8 the currency has
been dropping too rapidly before Group of 20 finance chiefs meet
this week.  “The yen’s sudden move from 78 or 79 to 90 was not
something we anticipated,” he said.  The dollar-yen rate has reached a short-term peak,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Currencies Discussed  “The G-20 at the end of the week is likely to see some
discussions of currencies, which could make yen shorts
nervous,”  Richard Yetsenga , head of global markets research at
ANZ, wrote in a note today.  Futures traders decreased bets the yen will decline against
the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed. The difference in the number
of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
decline in the yen compared with those on a gain -- so-called
 net shorts  -- was 68,413 on Feb. 5, compared with net shorts of
71,246 a week earlier.  “Positioning in the yen got too stretched, and it looks as
though it needs a little bit of a correction before it can
proceed lower,” said Westpac’s Speizer. “We’re going to have
mixed rhetoric from the politicians, which has given the yen
quite a lot of volatility.”  Aussie Weakens  The Australian dollar traded near the lowest since October.
The statistics bureau said in Sydney today the number of  loans 
granted to build or buy houses and apartments declined 1.5
percent in December from the previous month when they fell a
revised 0.7 percent.  “Today’s data is quite soft,” National Australia Bank
Ltd. economist  Spiros Papadopoulos  wrote in a note today.
“Further gains in house prices will be hard to come by in
coming months, and also confirms to us that further interest-
rate cuts will be required to boost overall housing activity.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board kept the overnight cash rate target at 3 percent on Feb.
5. Stevens said the inflation outlook “would afford scope to
ease policy further.”  The Aussie declined 0.2 percent to $1.0303 after completing
four weeks of declines. It touched $1.0256 last week, the lowest
since Oct. 23. New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to
83.38 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  