-- Franc Is Still Overvalued, SNB’s Zurbruegg Tells Aargauer
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-02-11T07:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/franc-is-still-overvalued-snb-s-zurbruegg-tells-aargauer.html
Swiss National Bank  Governing Board
member  Fritz Zurbruegg  said the franc remains too strong and
uncertainty about Europe still makes the central bank’s currency
cap necessary.  “The Swiss franc is overvalued even at today’s exchange
rate against the euro,” Zurbruegg was cited as saying in an
interview with Aargauer Zeitung published today. “The minimum
exchange rate remains the appropriate instrument for the
foreseeable future to ensure price stability.” The Zurich-based
SNB confirmed the remarks.  The SNB imposed a ceiling of 1.20 francs to the euro in
September 2011 to help exporters and fend off deflation after
the currency almost reached parity with the euro. The franc has
since weakened as the easing European sovereign-debt crisis
sapped demand for havens.  While the franc has depreciated 1.6 percent against the
euro this year, it’s still 11 percent stronger than the five-
year average and 27 percent above an October 2007 low of 1.6828.
Today, it weakened as much as 0.3 percent to 1.22923 versus the
euro and was trading at 1.22768 at 8:30 a.m. in Zurich. It was
at 91.75 centimes versus the dollar.  To protect the limit, the central bank has piled up record
 foreign-currency reserves , with holdings rising more than 50
percent to 427 billion francs ($466 billion) since the ceiling
was introduced.  ‘Currency Manipulator’  “Particularly in the second and third quarter of 2012, we
had to intervene heavily to defend the ceiling,” Zurbruegg was
cited as saying. “The expansion of the balance sheet is a
result of this policy. But that was inevitable in order to
combat the massive over-valuation of the Swiss franc.”  Switzerland overtook China as the world’s leader of foreign
exchange-rate management in 2012, according to a BGOV Barometer
published in December.  “In the short term, Switzerland is by far the biggest
manipulator, not just in relation to the size of its own
economy, but astonishingly also in absolute terms,”  Joseph Gagnon , an adviser to the International Monetary Fund, told
Germany’s  Boersen-Zeitung  in an interview published Feb. 9.  By focusing on purchases of German and French government
bonds in its efforts to protect the franc, the SNB has “driven
up the euro, increased bond spreads between core and peripheral
nations and hampered European integration,” Gagnon, an
economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics,
was cited as saying. The European Central Bank should encourage
the SNB to also buy peripheral state debt to diversify its
portfolio, he said.  ‘Extreme Risks’  The SNB, which has repeatedly said it can’t be called a
currency manipulator, holds AAA and AA rated bonds, with
internal guidelines requiring it to keep a “substantial part”
of its holdings in government bonds to meet “secure
investment” standards.  While “extreme risks” in financial markets have
disappeared as confidence in the 17-nation euro area returns,
“we still have risks in Europe and therefore there are dangers
of major exchange-rate movements,” Zurbruegg said. “Therefore,
the minimum exchange rate is important.”  Zurbruegg also sees no inflation dangers for Switzerland in
the foreseeable future and said the SNB continues to monitor
“critically rising” real-estate prices.  He declined to tell the Swiss newspaper whether the SNB had
asked the government to implement a so-called anti-cyclical
capital buffer for banks to cool the property market, saying the
introduction of such a measure would have to be communicated by
the Federal Council.  Asked about the capital situation at Switzerland’s two
biggest banks,  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , Zurbruegg
praised the lenders’ “considerable progress.”  “The gearing ratio at the two big banks nevertheless is
quite high,” he said, according to Aargauer Zeitung.
“Therefore, we welcome their efforts to improve the capital
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  