-- Gates Backs Independent Review of Drone Strikes on Americans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-02-10T20:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/gates-backs-independent-review-for-drone-strikes-on-americans.html
Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates  said drone strikes against U.S. citizens should be subject
to independent review, throwing his support behind an effort to
restrict presidential action when it comes to killing American
citizens.  Gates said on today’s CNN’s “State of the Union” program
that he believes the Obama administration has applied stringent
safeguards in the targeted killing of American citizens
suspected of terrorism “but who is to say about a future
president?”  The issue, which received little attention during President
Barack Obama’s first term, became a central focus during the
Senate confirmation hearing of  John O. Brennan , nominated to be
the new chief of the Central Intelligence Agency. Both
Republicans and Democrats continued to press the issue on the
Sunday morning talk shows.  “The president, a politician, Republican or Democrat,
should never get to decide someone’s death by flipping through
some flashcards,” Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican,
said on the CNN program.  Senators last week challenged Brennan about the legality of
targeted drone strikes against U.S. citizens linked to al-Qaeda,
including questioning the legal foundation the administration
uses to make those strikes. That basis became public in a set of
Justice Department memos to the committee handed over just hours
before the hearings began.  Information Withheld  The administration has refused to provide basic information
about the scope of the program, including the death toll.  Gates was Democratic President Barack Obama’s first defense
secretary, and his support for an added layer of review will
further strengthen the case, made by some lawmakers, that the
sole decision-making authority on some drone strikes should be
taken out of the White House.  Taking the decision to kill American citizens out of the
hands of the president and subjecting it to judicial or
congressional review “would give the American people confidence
that there was, in fact, a compelling case,” the former defense
secretary said.  Congressional Oversight  Senator  John McCain , speaking on the “Fox News Sunday,”
said that he opposes a so-called drone court because it would be
“an encroachment on the powers of the president.” He also said
the program should be under the control of the Defense
Department, where it would have more congressional oversight,
rather than the CIA.  “Since when is the intelligence agency supposed to be an
air force of drones that goes around killing people,” said
McCain, an Arizona Republican and member of the Armed Services
Committee.  Democrats weighed in as well, insisting that oversight of
the drone strikes, which have proven one of the most successful
weapons against the leadership of various terrorist
organizations, isn’t a partisan issue.  “I’ve looked into this and haven’t found one public
hearing on drones,” Representative  Keith Ellison , a Minnesota
Democrat, said on ABC’s “This Week” program.  “I’m glad the President invited the conversation,”
Ellison said. “I think we ought to take him up with it.” He
was referring to administration’s vow to discuss the legal basis
for strikes, including the release of documents.  Wartime Precedent  Some lawmakers insisted that the targeting of U.S. citizens
in drone strikes has precedent in previous conflicts.
Representative  Mike Rogers , a Michigan Republican, compared it
with instances of Americans joining enemy forces in World War I
and World War II.  “If you join forces with the enemy, we have a long-
standing tradition in this country that you lose your
constitutional protections,” said Rogers, who heads the House
Intelligence Committee.  He said  Anwar al-Awlaki , an American cleric suspected of
involvement in terrorist operations, was no longer protected by
due process when he “engaged in belligerent activities against
the United States.” A drone strike killed Awlaki in September,
2011, incinerating the car in which he was riding.  Rogers said oversight over the process of selecting targets
and approving drone strikes already exists through the
intelligence committees in both the House and Senate. He said
his committee goes to the CIA monthly to review hits on
terrorist targets and that, as chairman, he reviews “every
single air strike.”  “This is a serious matter but I do think that the
oversight rules have been, I think, consistent,” Rogers said.  Brennan’s Pledges  If confirmed as CIA director, Brennan, a 25-year veteran of
the agency, said he would ensure “that any actions comport with
our law” and at the same time make sure  “that we do
everything possible before we need to resort to lethal force.”  Representative  Tom Cole , an Oklahoma Republican, said on
the ABC program that he believed Obama had opened himself up to
political risk by becoming so directly involved in the strikes,
including personally approving the target list.  Gates said that in some cases the strikes have amounted to
“being able to execute, in effect, an American citizen.”  The former defense secretary said he was an early supporter
of drones because of their value in intelligence gathering over
the battlefield. He defended them as a precise weapon that
results in fewer civilian casualties.  “If they see people moving into the area, they can hold
off,” he said on CNN, and “wait until a target is by himself
or a facility is abandoned.”  “I’m a big advocate of drones,” Gates said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  