-- Gillard Tells Australian Sports to ‘Come Clean’ Over Drugs
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-02-11T06:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/gillard-tells-australian-sport-to-come-clean-over-drug-report.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called on teams to disclose any use of banned drugs
after a government  probe  found widespread use of illegal
substances across several professional sports.  “Come clean,” Gillard said yesterday at a press
conference in Queenstown, New Zealand, following annual talks
with her counterpart  John Key . “For clubs that have had
problems, it’s better off to step forward and be very clear
about them.”  The Feb. 7 report by the Australian Crime Commission linked
organized criminal groups with elite athletes, warned of
possible match fixing and said coaches and doctors were party to
doping. Constrained by law, the commission didn’t identify teams
or individuals, raising concern innocent players and clubs are
being tarnished.  The report has rocked Australia, home to almost 23 million
people for whom sport is part of the national identity. The
Australian Football League is the favorite spectator sport,
watched by about 19 percent of men and 13 percent of women,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics . The National
Rugby League is the third-most popular after horse racing.  Gillard, who supports the AFL’s Western Bulldogs, said fans
want to know if their clubs have been implicated. The
commission’s allegations center on the AFL and NRL, Justice
Minister  Jason Clare  said yesterday in an interview with the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Club Probe  Essendon Football Club, which had  already  asked the AFL and
the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority to investigate
supplements given to its players in 2012, is being probed over
the suspected use of performance-enhancing drugs, AFL Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Gillon McLachlan said yesterday. One
player at a second club is under investigation for possible
performance-enhancing drug use.  The AFL and NRL were today given permission to inform teams
identified in the commission’s report. Once notified, clubs may
choose to go public, John Lawler, ACC Chief Executive John
Lawler said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Australian Crime Commission cannot name clubs and
individuals, as they are protected under Section 60 of the
Australian Crime Commission Act 2002 which protects the rights
of persons against reputational damage and the right to a fair
trial,” Lawler said in the statement.  NRL Teams  Six NRL teams were named in the commission’s investigation,
the Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported yesterday, without
identifying them. Speaking to the ABC, Clare said the AFL and
the NRL know the teams that have been implicated. Once the clubs
have been informed by their respective leagues, the teams should
then make public their involvement, Clare said.  “The veil of suspicion is hanging over all clubs,” he
said. “Silence is not going to be the solution. I encourage all
clubs that are affected to put their hand up and work with the
authorities to make sure that we get this out of the game.”  The findings from the commission’s yearlong probe, which
employed phone taps and identified the use of peptides and
hormones, coincide with increased scrutiny of sports after  Lance Armstrong  admitted to doping throughout his cycling career and
European police said as many as 680 soccer matches may have been
the target of attempted fixing.  With crime gangs providing banned drugs, the commission
found there was increasing evidence of personal relationships
between athletes and criminal identities and groups that may
have resulted in match fixing and betting fraud. In some cases,
athletes were being administered substances that haven’t yet
been approved for human use, according to Clare.  Clare told the ABC yesterday the involvement of organized
criminal groups went beyond the import of illegal substances.  “They’re involved in front companies that run the compound
pharmacies to make these drugs,” he said. “They’re involved
with working with the doctors who write the scripts for the
individual players. They’re also involved with companies that
have contracts with major sporting codes as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  