-- Iran Internal Battle Simmers as State Fetes Anniversary
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-11T08:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/iran-internal-rivalry-continues-as-state-celebrates-anniversary.html
Iran’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
signaled that his dispute with a potential successor,
parliamentary Speaker  Ali Larijani,  is still alive as the
country celebrated the 34th anniversary of the Islamic Republic.  Speaking to thousands at a rally in Tehran yesterday,
Ahmadinejad alluded to bickering with Larijani that became
public last week as the two men traded accusations of fraud and
wrongdoing before the June presidential election. That face-off
before parliamentarians led to the impeachment of one of
Ahmadinejad’s associates and the temporary arrest of another.  Ahmadinejad said there were “issues” that he wanted to
share with Iranians. “Because I don’t want to turn bitter the
sweetness of the revolution’s anniversary, and for our dear
leader, I will do so at a later date,” he said in comments
aired live on state television. He was referring to Supreme
Leader Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei ’s Feb. 7 order that the ruling
elite end its public squabbling.  During the annual ceremony held at the Azadi, or Freedom
Square, Ahmadinejad vowed that Iran won’t cede its “rights” in
the face of U.S. and European sanctions aimed at curbing its
nuclear program, and lauded the nation’s progress in industries
such as agriculture and energy.  Larijani Attacked  Larijani was forced to cut short his address yesterday at a
gathering in the holy city of Qom to commemorate the revolution
after he was attacked by Ahmadinejad supporters, the  Iranian
Labour News Agency  reported.  About 100 followers of the president interrupted Larijani,
the main speaker at the event, by shouting slogans and then
throwing clay prayer tablets and shoes, ILNA said. He was led
away after protesters tried to reach the area from which he was
speaking, ILNA said.  The news prompted criticism by several members of
parliament who said police and Intelligence Ministry officials
must investigate the incident, the Tehran-based Etemaad
newspaper reported today.  “This anti-revolutionary move emanates from a deviant way
of thinking,”  Alaeddin Boroujerdi , head of the parliament’s
national security and foreign policy committee, was quoted as
saying. “This deviation must be strongly confronted in line
with the law.”  His comments referred to the “current of deviation,” a
term coined by Ahmadinejad’s critics to describe an ideological
movement they say is led by the president and his allies and
detrimental to the Islamic Republic.  Lost Favor  Ahmadinejad, once a protege of Khamenei, fell out of favor
with the top cleric during his second term after challenging his
authority. Larijani, a follower of Khamenei, is seen as a
potential candidate in the June 14 presidential election, in
which Ahmadinejad is constitutionally unable to run. Larijani
lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 vote and later stepped down as a
nuclear negotiator over his disagreements with the president.  The two politicians’ dispute is as much rooted in social
standing as differences of beliefs on how to manage the state,
said Mahjoob Zweiri, a professor of contemporary Middle East
politics at Qatar University.  Larijani’s father was a senior cleric and he’s one of five
sons who have all held public office. Ahmadinejad by contrast is
the son of a blacksmith and rose to power after a two-year stint
as Tehran mayor, riding on his pledge to distribute the
country’s oil riches amongst the poor.  ‘Political Realities’  Ahmadinejad relies on his image as a man of the people, and
“believes you have to respond to the needs of people,” Zweiri
said. “Larijani sees that you have to act with regards to
political realities, you have to act as a state. He presents
himself as the statesman, a professional politician.”  Larijani has said that the Ahmadinejad government’s bad
management is responsible for 80 percent of Iran’s economic
problems, and “Robin Hood methods” haven’t helped the country.  Thousands of people gathered at the Azadi square earlier.
With Tehran’s schools shut for the day, hundreds of students
were visible in the crowd. Local reporters in the capital
covering the event for foreign media were asked by authorities
to stay in designated areas.  The state-run Press TV news channel had uninterrupted
coverage of the celebration. Some demonstrators were shown
holding banners that read “we will resist until the end” and
“we heed your call, oh Khamenei,” as well as pictures of the
supreme leader and his predecessor, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini,
the founder of the Islamic Republic.  Financial Sanctions  Yesterday’s state-backed rallies in Tehran and other major
cities follow another round of U.S. financial sanctions that
came into force four days ago to pressure the country to curb
its nuclear program, which Iranian officials maintain is solely
civilian. Last week,  Khamenei  rejected an approach by U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden  to hold direct talks over the issue.
Khamenei said negotiations while the U.S. “holds a gun” to
Iran “won’t solve a thing.”  Iran is to resume discussions on its nuclear program with
the U.S., the U.K., France, Germany, Russia and China on Feb. 26
in Kazakhstan. The last round of negotiations between Iran and
the group, known as P5+1, were held in Moscow in June and failed
to yield results. Iran, battling harsher U.S. and European Union
sanctions, is faced with a weakened currency and an inflation
rate nearing 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  