-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Won’t Cede to Pressure on Nuclear Work
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-10T12:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/iranian-president-says-won-t-cede-to-pressure-on-nuclear-program.html
World powers failed to stop Iran from
becoming a country that masters nuclear knowhow, and will
“never” be able to stop its technological advancement,
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said at a rally in Tehran.  “No power is able to impose its will on the Iranian
nation,” Ahmadinejad said during a ceremony in the capital
today to mark the 34th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution.
“They failed to stop Iran from accessing nuclear technology.
This will never happen.”  State television showed thousands of people massed at the
Azadi, or Freedom, square in Tehran, where the president made
his address. The state-run Press TV news channel had
uninterrupted coverage of the state celebration, with images of
crowds gathering in other major Iranian cities such as Isfahan,
Mashhad and Tabriz.  Some demonstrators were shown holding banners that read
“we will resist until the end” and “we heed your call, Oh
Khamenei”, as well pictures of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the
founder of the Islamic Republic, and his successor, Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Local reporters in Tehran
covering the event for foreign media were asked by authorities
to do so from designated areas alone.  Sanction Round  Today’s state-backed rallies follow another round of U.S.
financial sanctions that came into force four days ago to push
the country to curb its nuclear program, which officials
maintain is solely civilian. Last week,  Khamenei  rejected an
approach by Vice President  Joe Biden  to hold direct talks over
the issue. Khamenei said negotiations while the U.S. “holds a
gun” to Iran “won’t solve a thing.”  Iran is to resume stalled multilateral discussions on its
nuclear program with the U.S., U.K. France, Germany, Russia and
China on Feb. 26 in Kazakhstan. The last round of negotiations
between Iran and the group, known as P5+1, were held in Moscow
in June and failed to yield results.  In his speech, Ahmadinejad enumerated areas, including
industry, agriculture, energy and medicine, in which he said his
country had boosted production or exports in the past three
decades. The president didn’t mention the country’s economic
challenges, such as a weakening currency and an inflation rate
nearing 29 percent, which are partly the result of increased
trade and financial sanctions from the U.S. and European Union.  Nuclear Poll  Some 56 percent of Iranians say the international sanctions
have hurt their livelihood a great deal, according to a  Gallup
survey  carried out in December. Some 47 percent said the U.S.
was mostly responsible for the sanctions, while 10 percent saw
the Iranian government as most to blame. Some 63 percent of
Iranians believe the nation should continue developing its
nuclear program even with the sanctions, Gallup said.  Ahmadinejad, who’s leaving office in August, also alluded
to his worsening dispute with parliamentary speaker  Ali Larijani . The president said there were “issues” that he
wanted to share with Iranians. “Because I don’t want to turn
bitter the sweetness of the revolution’s anniversary, and for
our dear leader, I will do so at a further date,” he said in
comments aired live on state television.  Khamenei on Feb. 7 reiterated his order that the ruling
elite end public bickering ahead of the June presidential
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  