-- Italian Bonds Lure Danish Cash as Spain Seen Too Risky
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-11T09:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/italian-bonds-lure-danish-cash-as-spain-seen-too-risky.html
As Danish pension savings flow into
Italian government bonds to boost returns, Spain is becoming too
risky a bet even for money managers hungry for yield, according
to one of the Scandinavian nation’s biggest investors.  Sampension, which oversees about $36 billion in assets,
“significantly” increased its holdings of Italian bonds in the
middle of 2012,  Kasper Ullegaard , who heads the Copenhagen-based
fund’s fixed-income unit, said in an interview. While the
investor has sold its Spanish bonds, it’s holding on to its
Italian securities, he said.  Ullegaard is betting that Italian bonds will extend last
year’s rally while Spanish debt has probably passed its peak.
The investment strategy reflects an assumption that the euro
area’s third- and fourth-largest economies are on divergent
paths underpinned by different fiscal outlooks.  Italy’s budget deficit will narrow to 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 2.9 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said on Nov. 7. While Spain’s public
finances will improve, the deficit will be 6 percent this year,
still double the 3 percent limit euro members are required to
stay within, according to the commission’s November estimates.  Wider Spread  The yield spread between Italian and Spanish 10-year debt
widened today for the first time in a week to 83 basis points
from 81 basis points on Feb. 8. Five-year credit default swaps,
which show the cost of insuring against non-payment, rose six
basis points for Spanish debt, compared with three basis points
for Italian bonds, according to data available on Bloomberg.  The yield on benchmark 10-year Italian debt eased to 4.55
percent at the end of last week, from a high of 7.3 percent on
July 25, one day before European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to do whatever it takes to save the euro. Yields
on similar-maturity Spanish bonds eased to 5.36 percent at the
end of last week, from a high of 7.6 percent on July 24.  Spain’s economy contracted 0.7 percent in the final three
months of last year from the previous quarter, when it shrank
0.3 percent, according to official figures. The nation’s
declining economic prospects are exacerbating government efforts
to rein in its finances as it grapples with the euro area’s
highest unemployment rate.  Spanish joblessness was 26.1 percent in December, compared
with 11.2 percent in Italy and an average of 11.7 percent in the
single currency bloc, Luxembourg-based Eurostat said on Feb. 1.  ‘More Value’  “There’s still more value potential in Italian bonds,”
Ullegard said. “The  bonds  are more volatile than some of the
other government bonds out there, but the premium you get from
owning them will more than make up for that volatility.”  Italian bonds with maturities longer than one year returned
21 percent last year, the most since 1996, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Spanish bonds returned 6 percent. This
year, Italian debt has delivered investors 0.5 percent, compared
with 0.9 percent on Spanish bonds. Government bonds sold out of
Sampension’s home market, Denmark, are the world’s worst-
performing debt class so far in 2013, having lost investors 2.3
percent. The returns are measured in local currencies.  “The reason why we’ve chosen to take home profit on some
of our Spanish bonds is that we don’t think Spain has the same
level of long-term support from good fundamentals,” Ullegaard
said.  Selling Denmark  Sampension last year sold Danish government bonds as it
moved into southern European debt. That shift has so far earned
the fund a profit of about 1 billion kroner ($181 million), or
700 million kroner more than a similar investment in Danish
notes would have yielded, according to Ullegaard.  Italy still faces political hurdles. Former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  has been narrowing the lead of front-runner
 Pier Luigi Bersani  in opinion polls up to Feb. 24-25 elections.
Berlusconi has been spooking bond investors amid pledges to cut
taxes and end a levy on first homes implemented by Prime
Minister  Mario Monti .  Still, risks related to the outcome of the elections are
limited, according to Ullegaard.  “A lot of Italian bonds are owned by local financial
institutions, so it wouldn’t be politically wise to cause some
sort of value deduction, because it would destroy the home
market,” he said.  The euro area’s crisis isn’t yet over and “there may be a
risk of some sort of meltdown for other government bonds out
there, but much less so for Italy,” Ullegaard said. “Any
potential change for the worse would happen in small steps over
time, which would allow us to exit in a reasonably calm and
orderly fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  