-- Jordan’s King to Consult Parliament to Choose New Prime Minister
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r
-- 2013-02-10T13:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/jordan-s-king-to-consult-parliament-to-choose-new-prime-minister.html
Jordan’s King  Abdullah II  said he
will consult parliament before choosing a new prime minister as
the Islamic Action Front, the political wing of the biggest
opposition group, called for further political reform.  The monarch will engage in “consultations over the
government’s formation with the lower house and parliamentary
blocs,” the Royal Court said in an e-mailed statement today.
The new government should pursue the reform of laws, including
those on “illicit gains, civil service retirement and income
tax, along with the landlords and tenants law,” the king told
parliament in Amman today.  Prime Minister  Abdullah Ensour  submitted his resignation
Jan. 29 following legislative elections won by the king’s
loyalists. Jordan’s Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s largest
opposition group, boycotted the polls in protest at the
electoral law which it says favors the king’s supporters. The
opposition groups have organized street protests to call for
constitutional monarchy, an elected government, more political
reform and an end to corruption.  “In any democratic country, the majority bloc at
parliament selects a prime minister without resorting to any
superior authority,”  Hamzah Mansour , secretary general of the
Islamic Action Front, said by phone after the king’s speech.
“The king knows that there are no genuine and effective
parliamentary blocs in this parliament that represent the
overwhelming majority of the people.”  Street Protests  The king’s decision to consult parliament can only work
“if there is a national consensus on the elections law that led
to this parliament,” he said. “This mechanism is not what we
want, we want a comprehensive reform process that starts with
radically changing the country’s elections law.”  “We want the government to have full jurisdiction over the
state affairs without any interference,” he said.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the Middle East,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to support its budget and current-account
deficits. The kingdom faces challenges including economic ones
from lower aid from abroad, an influx of Syrian refugees, street
protests about increasing prices and a rise of Islamist-led
governments in Egypt and Tunisia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  