-- Nigeria Beats Burkina Faso for Third Africa Cup of Nations Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-11T00:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/nigeria-beats-burkina-faso-to-win-soccer-s-africa-cup-of-nations.html
Sunday Mba scored the only goal to
give Nigeria its first Africa Cup of Nations soccer title in 19
years and third in total.  Mba scored five minutes before halftime in yesterday’s
final against Burkina Faso at Soccer City stadium in
Johannesburg, clipping the ball over Mohamed Koffi before
volleying it past goalkeeper Daouda Diakite into the far corner.  The victory makes Nigeria’s Stephen Keshi only the second
man to win the tournament as a player and coach after Egypt’s
Mahmoud El Gohary. Keshi captained the Super Eagles when they
secured the title in 1994. Nigeria also won the trophy in 1980.  “Winning this tournament is for my nation,” Keshi said in
comments on the event’s website. “When I came on board over a
year and a half ago, I wanted to make Nigerians happy. I told my
captain that we coming here to win this trophy and he didn’t
believe me.”  As the winner of Africa’s continental championship, Nigeria
will join world champion Spain, Copa America title holder
Uruguay and Oceania champion Tahiti in Group B at this year’s
eight-team  Confederations Cup  in Brazil.  Playing in its first final since 2000, Nigeria got the
decisive goal when the ball ricocheted to Mba on the edge of the
penalty area. The midfielder flicked the ball over Koffi with
his right foot, and as the ball dropped on the other side of the
defender, Mba hit a left-footed volley past Diakite.  Burkina Faso, ranked 92nd by world governing body FIFA, was
a surprise finalist after entering the 16-team event without a
win in the tournament since 1998, a run of 17 matches. The
nation’s previous best performance was reaching the semifinals
as host in 1998.  “Nobody was expecting us to go this far,” Burkina Faso
coach Paul Put told reporters. “There is still a long way to go
for Burkina Faso, but the future is bright.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  