-- Northeast Digs Out From Blizzard After Bracing for Worst
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y ,   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-10T16:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/northeast-digs-out-from-blizzard-after-bracing-for-worst.html
Russell Mason pointed to the hole in
the side of his yellow seafront home near the entrance to Boston
Harbor. That’s where the cellar door was, until the hurricane-
force wind gusts of a blizzard slapped it away.  “We get the worst of it,” said Mason, 58, whose
neighbor’s furniture bobbed in a pond across the street. “We
get the destruction every time.”  The blizzard that lashed the U.S. Northeast beginning Feb.
8 dumped record amounts of snow in parts of New England, killing
at least five people and leaving more than half a million homes
and businesses without power. President  Barack Obama  declared a
state of emergency in Connecticut, freeing federal aid for
cleanup. As much as 40 inches (102 centimeters) of snow fell in
Hamden and 36 inches were reported on state rail lines.  Residents of the region continued digging out and patching
up today. In  Boston , a traffic ban until late yesterday let
snowplows clear streets and pedestrians to take over normally
busy thoroughfares. By nightfall, the cars parked in front of
Victorian brownstones on Marlborough Street looked like lines of
igloos.  In Connecticut, Governor  Dan Malloy  warned that not all
Metro-North Railroad lines may be cleared for tomorrow’s
commute.  Tough Commute  “If there’s a reason you need to be in New York City on
Monday, you might want to move yourself there sooner by car,”
he said yesterday at a news briefing.  Boston got 24.9 inches, the fifth-heaviest snowfall on
record, according to the National Weather Service. The most was
27.6 inches in February, 2003. By mid-morning today, about
240,000  Massachusetts  utility customers were still without
power, down from more than 400,000 yesterday. At its height, the
storm knocked out service to more than 650,000 from New York to
Maine, utilities said. The figure stood at 354,000 today.  “Considering the severity of the storm, we’ve come through
this pretty well,” Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  said
today in an interview broadcast by CBS. Patrick said he is
focused on recovery efforts, including getting Boston’s transit
system ready for tomorrow’s commute. The system has been shut
down since Feb. 8, when the storm hit.  Sandy Comparison  The storm had officials and businesses preparing for the
worst-case scenario, coming three months after Hurricane Sandy
devastated the Northeast with 85-mile-an-hour winds and flooding
that killed more than 125 people in 10 states.  The Oct. 29 hurricane ravaged shore communities from New
Jersey’s Atlantic City to Bridgeport, Connecticut. Congress
completed a $60.2 billion disaster-aid package last month to pay
for damages in the storm’s wake.  Sandy and a subsequent snowstorm a week later knocked out
power to 8.66 million homes and businesses in 21 states, some
for more than a week, according to the U.S.  Energy Department .  The blizzard, in contrast, cut power to about 652,000 homes
and businesses, most of them in eastern Massachusetts and Rhode
Island, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Massachusetts, Patrick ended a ban on normal traffic at
4 p.m. yesterday. Malloy lifted a similar Connecticut ban at
that time. Patrick said the ban helped road crews clear streets
and highways in much of the state by late yesterday.  Seaside Damage  Hull resident Mason, whose home was damaged, said the wind
rattled his windows with such intensity that he “thought there
was a poltergeist” at work.  At the nearby Hull police station, Lieutenant Dale Shea
warmed up yesterday afternoon after a 12-hour shift. Clearing
snow from the roads during the storm was like “shoveling
against the tide,” he said.  “With the wind and the snow, you made a pass and then it
was like you were never there,” Shea said.  The hilly seaside town was coated in white snow and ice,
and from a distance the homes looked like barnacles clinging to
a rock.  The Associated Press reported at least five storm-related
U.S. deaths, including an 11-year-old boy in Boston who was
overcome by carbon monoxide as he sat in a running car to keep
warm.  In Connecticut, a woman clearing snow was killed by a hit-
and-run motorist, Malloy said at a news briefing. He said the
number of stranded cars and trucks on roads in the state was
beyond counting.  Abandoned Cars  “One of the biggest problems we are facing is stalled
automobiles,” Malloy said yesterday. “We are trying to dig
them out and tow them away.”  “I still want to urge residents to stay off the roads if
at all possible,” the governor said in a statement. “The
longer we can keep traffic out of town centers and off of our
highways, the more effective our recovery effort will be.”  In New York’s Long Island, more than 150 cars and trucks
were snowbound on roads and highways during the storm. Some
drivers stayed put all night while others were rescued.  Wind gusts roared from parts of Long Island to Cape Cod,
Massachusetts, with an 83 mile (133 kilometer) an hour burst
reported on Cuttyhunk Island at the height of the blizzard.  In New York City, about 11 inches of snow fell in Central
Park and La Guardia Airport got 12 inches, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.  “It looks like we’ve dodged a bullet,” New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said yesterday at a news briefing. “We think
we’re in great shape. We were lucky.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  Portland Record  Portland, Maine, got 31.9 inches, topping the old record of
27.1 inches set in 1979, said John Cannon, a weather service
meteorologist in Gray, Maine.  Long Island had lower winds than forecast, said John
Bruckner, president for power provider  National Grid Plc .  Entergy Corp .’s Pilgrim nuclear station in Plymouth,
Massachusetts, shut down safely during the storm when it lost
its outside power supply, according to the Massachusetts
Emergency Management Agency. It remained shut today.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said Long Island was the
hardest-hit area of the state, with Nassau County receiving
between 12 and 24 inches of snow and Suffolk County more than 30
inches in some areas.  Suffolk Damage  “Suffolk has sustained significant damage and significant
hardship as a result of the storm,” Cuomo said. He said today
that more than a third of the state’s road-clearing equipment
and crews have been sent to Suffolk County to help open streets
and highways before tomorrow’s commute.  The governor said he had directed some of the state’s
utility crews to Connecticut and Massachusetts to help restore
services in those states.  The storm arrived days after the 35th anniversary of the
“Blizzard of ’78,” which buried Boston in a then-record 27.1
inches of snow and killed 99 people in Massachusetts and Rhode
Island. Two February blizzards, in 2003 and 2011, surpassed that
epic storm’s snowfall, both by less than an inch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  