-- Obama Should Woo Japan to Join Pacific Trade Pact
-- B y   P a u l   S r a c i c
-- 2013-02-10T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/obama-should-woo-japan-to-join-pacific-trade-pact.html
As U.S. President  Barack Obama 
prepares for his State of the Union address, he has a chance to
deliver a surprise message that would strengthen relations with
a major ally, improve his leverage with congressional
Republicans, and give a positive jolt to U.S. and international
markets. It would take only one sentence. Obama could announce
that he fully supports Japan joining the  Trans-Pacific
Partnership  negotiations.  Now covering 11 economies that together conduct more than
$1 trillion of trade each year, the TPP is a multinational free-
trade agreement started by Brunei, Chile, Singapore and New
Zealand a decade ago. The Obama administration notified Congress
in late 2009 that it would be joining the talks.  In addition to eliminating tariffs, the TPP aims to
confront nontariff issues such as the protection of intellectual
property and the distorting effects of state-owned enterprises.
Administration officials have expressed hope that the TPP would
lay the foundation for an Asia-Pacific free-trade zone.  Although the TPP is a trade agreement, it has enormous
geopolitical ramifications as a potential economic counterweight
to the rise of China, which has been busy forging its own
regional and bilateral  agreements . In fact, Obama has repeatedly
referred to the TPP as a critical part of his administration’s
plans to “rebalance” U.S. foreign policy toward Asia. Yet Japan,
the third largest economy in the world and the only Asian nation
whose economy rivals China, hasn’t yet formally asked or been
invited to join the TPP.  Import Opposition  One challenge for the administration is that the United
Auto Workers, the AFL-CIO and the American Automotive Policy
Council, which represents Detroit’s automakers, oppose (or in
the AFL-CIO’s case, have “serious concerns regarding”) Japanese
participation. Currently, automobiles imported from Japan face
tariffs as high as 25 percent. Already, a weakening yen
threatens to lower the dollar price of these imports, and the
Center for Automotive Research  estimates  that lower U.S. tariffs
would result in a 6.2 percent increase in Japanese auto imports
to the U.S.  More broadly, the U.S. continues to have significant issues
with Japan’s attitude toward trade and investment. As  Ron Kirk ,
the outgoing U.S. trade representative, put it in the
supercilious tone favored by  U.S. negotiators  dealing with
Japan: In order for Japan to be included in the talks, it “must
be prepared to meet the TPP’s high standards for liberalizing
trade and to address specific issues of concern to the U.S.
regarding barriers to agriculture, services, and manufacturing
trade, including non-tariff measures.”  Should Obama invite Japan to become part of the TPP
negotiations during his State of the Union address, the very
real issues that Kirk raised would have a clear forum in which
to be discussed. Also, the U.S. already has free-trade
agreements with six TPP members: Australia, Canada, Chile,
Mexico, Peru and Singapore. Without Japan on board, the TPP
would be little more than a vehicle to add some additional
standards to the North American Free Trade Agreement and include
a few tiny (Brunei?) Pacific-facing nations.  Even if Obama is willing to face down the auto industry and
organized labor, it isn’t clear that his counterpart in Japan,
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe , can withstand his own TPP opponents.
His predecessor  Yoshihiko Noda  wanted to bring Japan into the
TPP negotiations, but was forced by domestic political concerns
to move slowly.  Now Abe faces the same constraints and must confront
Japanese agricultural interests that oppose any agreement that
might threaten their traditional protected status. Japanese rice
producers, in particular, enjoy the benefit of a  778 percent
tariff  on imports from foreign competitors. It is worth noting
that the prospect of dismantling such barriers is precisely why
the farm lobby in the U.S., unlike those connected with the auto
industry, strongly supports including Japan in the TPP.  Volatile Electorate  Unlike Obama, Abe depends on the popularity of his
political party, the Liberal Democratic Party, to remain in
office in Japan’s parliamentary democracy. The LDP crushed the
ruling Democratic Party of Japan in last year’s lower house
elections, but recent Japanese political history shows a
volatile electorate.  The percentage of the vote that the LDP received in rural
districts was consistently much stronger than in mixed or urban
districts. Of course, precisely these districts are most likely
to be tied to agriculture and therefore opposed to Japan joining
the TPP. In recent days, many of their LDP representatives have
 stepped up  their agitation against joining negotiations, which a
party policy research panel has begun exploring. This may
explain why Abe, who at first seemed more supportive of Japan
joining the TPP than his predecessor, has lately given
indications of wavering support.  Abe’s position on the TPP would be considerably
strengthened if Obama were to mention Japan and the TPP in his
speech. To provide some context, in 2011, when Obama mentioned
India and China in his State of the Union address, the  Yomiuri
Shimbun , one of Japan’s most important newspapers, headlined its
coverage of Obama’s address with the words “Japan Goes
Unmentioned This Year Too.” Imagine the headlines in Japan the
morning after a specific invitation to Japan was extended by a
U.S. president.  Obama might find that he had also strengthened his hand at
home with Republicans in Congress, who generally favor trade
agreements and who have criticized the president for being slow
to act on this front. In fact, he might shrewdly be able to link
an announcement about Japan with a request for the type of trade
promotion authority (fast-track) enjoyed by President  George W. Bush  until 2007.  Finally, if Obama were to welcome Japan into the TPP
negotiations during the State of the Union address on Feb. 12,
the impact would also be felt in another Asian capital. Tensions
are rising between Japan and China over the Senkaku (or Diaoyu)
Islands in the East China Sea. A specific mention of Japan
during such an important speech would send a message to Beijing
about the strength of the U.S.-Japan alliance and discourage
those in China who doubt whether the U.S. would come to Japan’s
aid should hostilities arise.  ( Paul Sracic  is professor and chairman of the Department of
Political Science and Rigelhaupt Pre-Law Center at Youngstown
State University in Ohio. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Paul Sracic  at  sracicp@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 