-- Obama to Propose Spending to Boost Jobs in State of Union
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-10T18:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/obama-to-propose-spending-to-boost-jobs-in-state-of-union-speech.html
President  Barack Obama  will use his
State of the Union address this week to focus on job creation
and the struggles of American families, marking a renewed
emphasis on the economic issues that defined his first term.  The president will offer proposals for spending on
infrastructure, clean energy and education, according to a
senior official briefed on the speech. He will also stress the
agenda laid out in his inauguration address, pushing Congress
for action on immigration, gun control and climate change.  Obama previewed his Feb. 12 speech in remarks before House
Democrats meeting in Virginia last week, where he advocated “an
economy that works for everybody.”  “I’m going to be talking about making sure that we’re
focused on job creation here in the United States of America,”
he said.  Democrats and Republicans are targeting their post-election
messages on the economy as the latest  unemployment  report shows
the nation continues to only slowly create jobs. Payrolls rose
157,000 in January after accelerating more than previously
estimated at the end of 2012, the Labor Department said on Feb.
1. The jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  The economy unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter at a
0.1 percent annual rate, restrained by a plunge in defense
spending and dwindling inventory growth.  Obama is expected to use his address to push for
immigration legislation that includes a pathway to citizenship
for the country’s estimated 11 million undocumented workers and
on gun-control proposals, including a ban on assault weapons and
universal background checks for gun buyers.  Moving Quickly  The president wants to move quickly on a package of
domestic issues before Republicans and Democrats turn their
attention to the 2014 mid-term elections, making it harder to
advance major legislation. A Washington Post-ABC News poll last
month gave Republicans in Congress an approval rating of 24
percent, compared with a 37 percent rating for Democrats. Sixty
percent of Americans have a favorable impression of Obama in the
same poll.  Republicans are redoubling their own efforts on the
economy. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  last week gave a
speech designed to redirect his party to former President George
W. Bush’s message of “compassionate conservatism” after a
series of bitter standoffs with Democrats over debt and federal
spending over the past two years drove down Republican approval
ratings.  “We’ve got to be talking about helping folks,” Cantor, a
Virginia Republican, said on NBC Television’s “Meet the Press”
program this morning. “We have conservative principles that
actually can work for their life.”  No Agreement  That doesn’t mean the two sides are close to agreeing on
policy.  Obama and Republicans are locked in a standoff over how to
avert $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts set to take
effect on March 1 unless Congress acts to stop or replace them.  The president and congressional Democrats back an equal mix
of revenue and alternative spending cuts to farm subsidies and
other programs to replace the so-called sequester. Republicans
are ruling out additional revenue increases.  If the reductions to both domestic and defense programs
take effect, “the result could be a huge blow to middle-class
families and our economy as a whole,” Obama said in his weekly
radio address yesterday.  Cut Delay  Senate Democrats are close to proposing a $120 billion plan
for a 10-month delay in the cuts, according to a Senate
Democratic aide. The plan would set a minimum 30 percent
effective tax rate for the highest earners, a provision known as
the “Buffett Rule” after billionaire investor Warren Buffett.
It would also deny companies the ability to deduct the costs of
moving jobs and investments out of the U.S., the aide said.  On NBC, Cantor reiterated Republican opposition to
increasing revenue by ending tax preferences for oil and gas
companies and wealthy individuals.  “He just got his tax hike on the wealthy,” Cantor said of
Obama. “You can’t in this town every three months raise
taxes.”  Even so, Cantor signaled Republicans are unlikely to offer
new legislation to avert sequestration. Last year, the House
passed a bill to replace the reductions with curbs to
entitlements and other programs including federal food stamps.
“It’s up to the president, really, to act now,” said Cantor.  Tea Party  As Cantor and other Republican leaders want to emphasize
the economy and jobs, the Tea Party wing of their party is
committed to keeping the spotlight on the national debt.  “We are not getting close to scratching the surface of the
problem,” Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, a Republican, said on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Paul, who will deliver a Tea Party response to Obama’s
State of the Union address, said supporters want the large
budget cuts called for in the sequester plus significantly more.
“The sequester is a pittance,” he said.  Seeking Alternatives  Republicans prefer to find alternative spending cutbacks,
including to  Medicare  providers and by reducing pension benefits
for federal employees, said Cantor.  While the cuts loom, Obama has devoted the early weeks of
his second term to the rest of his economic agenda, kicking off
campaigns for stricter gun-control measures and to revamp
immigration law.  A first step on immigration policy could be offering a road
to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S.
as children, said Cantor, without ruling out additional
legislation aimed at a pathway for adults as well.  “These are children, who due to no fault of their own,
were brought here,” Cantor said. “We’ve got a place all of us
can come together, and that is the kids.”  Cantor was among 160 House Republicans who voted against
such legislation in 2010 when it passed the House, then
controlled by Democrats. That measure, known as the Dream Act,
died in the Senate.  Climate Change  The 2010 legislation would have provided a way to
citizenship for children of undocumented immigrants who came to
the U.S. before age 16, stayed at least five years and earned a
college degree or served in the military.  Another area Obama may concentrate on is climate change.
The president’s mention of the need to address that concern in
his inaugural speech raised expectations that he’ll spend
political capital on environmental issues.  With many in Congress unwilling to take up the issue, Obama
will use the power of the presidency to put new restrictions on
industrial carbon emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency
plans to move forward with regulations on new power plans and is
considering limits for existing coal-fired plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  