-- Modified Smallpox Vaccine Stymies Liver Cancer in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-02-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/modified-smallpox-vaccine-stymies-liver-cancer-in-study.html
A genetically modified smallpox
vaccine shrunk tumors in liver cancer patients and extended
survival more than a year, a study found.  The therapy from closely held  Jennerex Inc. , called JX-594,
or Pexa-Vec, is being tested in people with advanced
hepatocellular carcinoma. The 16 patients who received a high
dose of the medicine lived a median 14.1 months after injection,
compared with 6.7 months for 14 patients on a low dose,
according to the  study  published today by the journal Nature
Medicine.  “The treatment options for advanced HCC are limited, with
few promising agents currently in development,”  Tony Reid , a
professor at the University of California, San Diego, and co-
lead author of the paper, said in a statement. The study
“highlights the unique possibility of a meaningful survival
benefit combined with short-term, transient and manageable side
effects.”  Hepatocellular carcinoma is a cancer that forms in the
tissues of the liver and can spread to other parts of the body.
The disease was diagnosed in 28,720 people in the U.S. last
year, and 20,550 people died from the illness, according to the
 National Cancer Institute.   In the study published today, patients received the
medicine three times during a four-week period. About 35 percent
of those in the high-dose group were alive 18 months later, the
study said. The current five-year survival rate for liver
patients is about 15 percent, according to the  American Cancer
Society.   Competing efforts  San Francisco-based Jennerex is competing with companies
including  Amgen Inc. ,  Oncolytics Biotech Inc. , PsiOxus
Therapeutics Ltd. and  Transgene SA  to develop vaccines using
oncolytic tumor viruses, pathogens that infect and destroy
cancer cells. The approach may enhance the tumor-fighting
effects of standard treatments such as chemotherapy and
radiation or work alone.  Researchers studying Jennerex’s therapy used the same
strain of virus that’s used in the smallpox vaccine, called
vaccinia virus, because of its natural ability to replicate in
cancer cells. They modified the virus to enhance its cancer-
fighting properties.  The approach differs from so-called cancer vaccines, such
as  Merck & Co. ’s Gardasil shot that targets a virus that causes
cervical cancer or Dendreon Corp.’s Provenge, which stimulates
an immune response against prostate cancer cells.  While vaccinia virus is similar to smallpox, it doesn’t
contain smallpox and can’t cause the disease, according to the
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  The company’s name is based on Edward Jenner, an 18th
century English scientist who developed the first vaccination
with an inoculation against the related cow-pox virus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  