-- Passport’s Burbank Says Saudi Arabia Best Emerging Market
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2013-02-10T12:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/passport-picks-saudi-arabia-best-emerging-market-on-bets-to-open.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
oil exporter, may allow foreigners to invest directly in stocks
in the next year, said  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San
Francisco-based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC.  “The place that we probably have by far the biggest weight
relative to other people would be Saudi Arabia, which is our
favorite emerging market,” Burbank said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television Feb. 7. Passport has about 17 percent of
its capital invested in the Arab world’s largest bourse. “We
think the market’s going to open up in the next year.”  Direct foreign investment in Saudi stocks would attract $25
billion to $30 billion in inflows, Burbank said. The kingdom,
which said it will open the market gradually, allows non-
resident foreigners to invest in shares through equity swaps and
exchange-traded funds. Foreigners account for about 2 percent of
investments in the bourse, Burbank said.  Investors are seeking access to Saudi Arabia as the
government pursues a spending plan of more than $500 billion in
an effort to boost the non-oil economy. MSCI Inc., whose gauges
are tracked by investors managing $7 trillion, last year resumed
Saudi coverage and said it would consider including the nation
in frontier or emerging market indexes if it allows direct
access to foreigners.  ‘Domestic Economy’  “What we’re interested in is the domestic economy,” said
Burbank, whose $1.3 billion Passport Global fund rose about 3.4
percent in January, according to a performance update to
investors obtained by Bloomberg. “The kingdom is taking in so
much revenue and redirecting it now into the domestic economy.”  Saudi Arabia’s economy grew 6.8 percent last year after
raising its 2013 expenditure target by almost a fifth to a
record 820 billion riyals ($219 billion). That beat the 5.6
percent median estimate of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
The growth rate is “pretty extraordinary in these times,”
Burbank said.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange has a market capitalization
of 1.44 trillion riyals ($384 billion), compared with $120
billion for gauges in the United Arab Emirates and $308 billion
for Turkey, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi
stocks have a  dividend yield  of 3.5 percent, compared with 2.7
percent for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index.   Petrochemicals stocks in the kingdom are attractive given
high margins, Burbank said, without specifying which companies
Passport is invested in.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp ., the
world’s biggest petrochemicals company, is poised to report a  15
percent increase  in 2013 profit, according to the average
estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index  rose 0.2 percent to
7,012.17 at the close in Riyadh today, the highest level since
Feb. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  