-- Paterno Family-Commissioned Report Faults Freeh’s Investigation
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-02-11T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/paterno-family-commissioned-analysis-faults-freeh-findings-1-.html
The family of former Pennsylvania
State University football coach  Joe Paterno  released a report
yesterday that said  Louis Freeh ’s investigation into a child sex
abuse case was “fundamentally flawed.”  Former U.S. Attorney General  Dick Thornburgh  and other
experts, hired by the Paterno family, said they determined in a
review of evidence that Paterno didn’t attempt to hide any
information or impede the probe into former assistant coach
 Jerry Sandusky .  Freeh’s findings, released last year, failed Penn State,
the university’s board of trustees and Sandusky’s victims by not
finding the truth, according to the Paterno family’s report.  “The Freeh report is a profound failure,”  Wick Sollers ,
an attorney at Atlanta-based law firm  King & Spalding LLP  that
was asked by the Paterno family to review Freeh’s findings, said
in a statement. “It isn’t a little wrong on the minor issues.
It is totally wrong on the most critical issues. That the Board
and the NCAA relied on this report, without appropriate review
or analysis, is a miscarriage of justice.”  In July, the report from former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director Freeh found Paterno, former Penn State
President  Graham Spanier  and other officials failed to protect
children from sexual abuse by Sandusky. The findings were
released after a seven-month investigation, ordered by a special
committee of Penn State’s board of trustees.  Freeh told reporters during a July press conference that
the red flags involving Sandusky were numerous and Paterno and
others ignored them. Freeh said the former Penn State head coach
was an “integral part” of the concealment.  ‘Self Serving’  The “self-serving” report commissioned by the Paterno
family “does not change the facts established in the Freeh
report or alter the conclusions reached in the Freeh Report,”
Freeh wrote in a statement yesterday.  “I stand by our conclusion that four of the most powerful
people at Penn State failed to protect against a child sexual
predator harming children for over a decade.”  Sollers responded in a statement that Freeh “refuses to
address the critical factual and procedural failures in his own
report.”  Penn State said in an e-mailed statement that the purpose
of the Freeh investigation was to highlight failures in the
school’s governance and compliance structure and to make
recommendations to correct those failures.  The university said that it has implemented a majority of
the 119 recommendations in the report and will adopt the
remainder by the end of 2013.  No Evidence  The analysis by Thornburgh, a former Pennsylvania governor;
attorney Sollers; former FBI profiler Jim Clemente; and Fred
Berlin, the director of the Johns Hopkins Sexual Behaviors
Consultation unit, found no evidence that Paterno deliberately
covered up incidents of child molestation to protect Penn State
football.  There wasn’t any reason to believe Paterno understood the
threat posed by Sandusky any better than qualified child welfare
or law enforcement officials, the analysis  said .  The National Collegiate Athletic Association sanctioned
Penn State in July and fined it $60 million for its failure to
prevent the sexual abuse by Sandusky, who was convicted of
molesting 10 boys during a 15-year period when he was a football
coach. The 69-year-old Sandusky, an assistant coach for 31 years
under Paterno, was sentenced in October to a minimum of 30 years
in prison.  In addition to the fine, the NCAA, the governing body for
college sports, stripped Penn State’s football program of 112
wins from 1998 through 2011 and barred the Nittany Lions from
bowl games for four years, matching the longest post-season ban
in NCAA history.  Paterno, who set records for longevity and on-field success
as Penn State’s football coach, died Jan. 22, 2012, at the age
of 85. He was fired in November 2011 after 46 seasons at Penn
State, following criticism he failed to contact police when told
of a case involving former assistant coach Sandusky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  