-- Poland Should Continue Rate Cuts Further, Zielinska Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-02-11T16:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/poland-should-continue-rate-cuts-zielinska-says.html
Poland’s central bank, which last
week lowered borrowing costs for a fourth month, should keep
cutting interest rates to boost economic growth, monetary-policy
maker  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka  said.  “Given the weak economic data and the lack of any
inflationary impulses, the 100 basis-point reduction we’ve done
so far isn’t enough,” Zielinska-Glebocka, a member of central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said in a Feb. 9 phone
interview. “Deeper cuts may be necessary.”  The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski cut its  benchmark
seven-day reference rate  a quarter-point to 3.75 percent on Feb.
6. Governor  Marek Belka  told a news conference afterwards that
the bank is maintaining its informal easing bias, meaning
another cut or a decision to keep rates unchanged are “equally
probable.” That softened his prediction in January that a pause
in the easing cycle would follow any rate cut this month.  “Once we decided on a slow and gradual approach, there’s
no point in talking about a pause in the cycle,” Zielinska-
Glebocka said. “We need to get rate cuts done in a concentrated
period of time before shifting to a wait-and-see mode,
especially given expectations the economy could begin recovering
in the second half of the year.”  Household Consumption  Poland’s  economy , the only one in the EU to avoid a
recession in 2009, grew 2 percent last year, less than half the
pace in 2011. Individual consumption, which makes up 62 percent
of gross domestic product, added 0.5 percent to economic output
in 2012, the least since comparable data was introduced almost
two decades ago.  The zloty, which has weakened 2 percent to the euro since
the start of the year, traded at 4.1625 at 5:15 p.m. in Warsaw,
down 0.3 percent from Feb. 8. The government’s 10-year bond
yield rose 5 basis points to 4.04 percent.  Zielinska’s statement on the need to concentrate rate cuts
before an economic rebound “will be very important to the
market and we may expect that investors will again start to
price in deeper interest-rate cuts,” Jaroslaw Janecki, a
Warsaw-based economist at Societe Generale, said by phone.  Growth Slows  Derivatives traders predict two more quarter-point cuts by
August, based on the spread between 6-month forward-rate
agreements and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth slowed to less than 1 percent from a year earlier in
the fourth quarter and will hold at that level in the first
quarter, according to Zielinska. December retail sales dropped
the most since 2005 and the Labor Ministry estimated the
unemployment rate at 14.2 in January, the highest in six years.  “I’m assuming we’ll get the worst of the downturn in these
two quarters, which will form the bottom of the cycle,”
Zielinska said. “After that, there’ll be a slow recovery in the
months following the first quarter.”  Poland’s economic growth will slow to 1.5 percent this
year, the weakest since 2002, based on the bank’s inflation and
GDP forecast published in November. The bank’s new projection,
due in March, will be “crucial” for the next rate decision,
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, also a member of the council, told TVN
CNBC Biznes today.  Chojna-Duch, who supported deeper cuts in the past, warned
the bank should be “cautious” with further rate decreases amid
the possibility of a euro-area recovery in the second half of
2013. She refused to say whether she would vote for lowering
borrowing costs in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  