-- Putin Turns Black Gold to Bullion as Russia Outbuys World
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-11T12:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/putin-turns-black-gold-into-bullion-as-russia-out-buys-world.html
When  Vladimir Putin  says the U.S. is
endangering the global economy by abusing its dollar monopoly,
he’s not just talking. He’s betting on it.  Not only has Putin made Russia the world’s largest oil
producer, he’s also made it the biggest gold buyer. His central
bank has added 570 metric tons of the metal in the past decade,
a quarter more than runner-up China, according to  IMF data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The added gold is also almost triple the
weight of the  Statue of Liberty .  “The more gold a country has, the more sovereignty it will
have if there’s a cataclysm with the dollar, the euro, the pound
or any other reserve currency,”  Evgeny Fedorov , a lawmaker for
Putin’s United Russia party in the lower house of parliament,
said in a telephone interview in Moscow.  Gold, coveted by Russian rulers including  Tsar Nicholas II 
and the Bolshevik leader whose forces assassinated him,  Vladimir Lenin , has soared almost 400 percent in the period of Putin’s
purchases. Central banks around the world have printed money to
escape the global financial crisis, sapping investor appetite
for dollars and euros and setting off a scramble for safety.  In 1998, the year Russia defaulted on $40 billion of
domestic debt, it took as many as 28 barrels of crude to buy an
ounce of gold, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That ratio
tumbled to 11.5 by the time Putin first came to power a year
later and in 2005, after it touched 6.5 -- less than half what
it is now -- the president told the central bank to buy.  Putin’s Call  During a tour that November of the Magadan region in the
Far East, where  Polyus Gold International Ltd . and  Polymetal
International Plc  have operations, Putin told Bank Rossii not to
“shy away” from the metal. “After all, they’re called gold
and currency reserves for a reason,” Putin said, according to a
Kremlin  transcript .  At the time, gold was at an 18-year high of $495 an ounce
and the Moscow-based central bank held 387 tons, or 2.2 percent
of its $165 billion total  reserves . The share reached 3.5
percent within a month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold for immediate delivery fell a third day today,
dropping 0.6 percent to $1,657.80 an ounce as of 4:35 p.m. in
Moscow. It rose 7 percent last year, the 12th straight year of
gains. Analysts expect the metal to advance again in 2013, to
$1,825 by the end of the year, according to the median of 26
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, declined to comment today
on Putin’s interest in gold.  Lucky Guy  “Putin’s gold strategy fits in with his resource
nationalism, statist agenda,” said  Tim Ash , head of emerging-
market research at Standard Bank Plc in London. “It’s kind of a
defensive play, but it worked, right?” Ash said in an interview
in Moscow. “You need luck in politics and business, and clearly
the guy has it.”  Other world leaders haven’t been as lucky.  Gordon Brown , as
U.K. finance minister, sold almost 400 tons of gold in the 30
months to March 2002, when prices were at two-decade lows.
London tabloids have referred to the period as  Brown’s Bottom .  Quantitative easing by major economies to support financial
asset prices is driving demand for gold in the emerging world,
said  Marcus Grubb , head of investment research at the World Gold
Council. Before the crisis, central banks were net sellers of
400 to 500 tons a year. Now, led by Russia and China, they’re
net buyers by about 450 tons, Grubb said by phone from London,
where his industry group is based.  ‘Significant Switch’  “That’s a very significant switch, and obviously a very
positive one for the gold market,” Grubb said.  While Putin is leading the gold rush in emerging markets,
developed nations are liquidating. Switzerland unloaded the most
in the past decade, 877 tons, an amount now worth about $48
billion, according to International Monetary Fund data through
November. France was second with 589 tons, while Spain, the
Netherlands and Portugal each sold more than 200 tons.  Even after Putin’s binge, though, Russia’s total cache of
about 958 tons is only the eighth largest, the World Gold
Council said in a Feb. 8 report. The U.S. is No. 1 with about
8,134 tons, followed by Germany with 3,391 tons and the
Washington-based IMF with 2,814 tons. Italy, France, China and
Switzerland are fourth through seventh. While gold accounts for
9.5 percent of Russia’s total reserves, it accounts for more
than 70 percent in the U.S., Germany, Italy and France.  Truth Street  Russia keeps about two-thirds of its stockpile in a
greenish gray stone-and-glass building on Ulitsa Pravdy, or
Truth Street, in central Moscow. The road is named after Pravda,
the official newspaper of the Communist Party, which also was
headquartered there.  Then-Prime Minister Putin became the first Russian leader
to visit  the complex  on Jan. 24, 2011, according to the
government’s website. He toured the 17,000 square-meter
facility, which includes 1,500 square meters of storage, with
First Deputy Chairman  Georgy Luntovsky , posing for photographs
 lifting an ingot . Most of the bars weigh 10 to 14 kilograms (22
to 31 pounds) and are boxed in plastic or wooden crates
alongside an emergency supply of banknotes.  Technically, state metals depositary Gokhran has the
exclusive right to buy all gold mined in the country. In
practice, it lets commercial banks buy from producers directly,
usually in the form of project financing, said Sergey Kashuba,
chairman of the Russian Union of Gold Producers in Moscow.  When the central bank buys gold, it’s from those commercial
banks, led last year by  OAO Sberbank , OAO  Nomos Bank , VTB Group
and OAO Gazprombank, Kashuba said. Russia produced 205 tons of
gold last year, making it No. 4 after China, Australia and the
U.S., according to U.S. Geological Survey  estimates .  Tight Security  Security is tight along the entire production chain,
Kashuba said. Just two organizations are allowed to move
partially refined gold from miners in the Far East and northern
Siberia to processing facilities in other parts of the country,
he said. One is FeldSvyaz, a courier service that reports
directly to Putin. The other,  SpetsSvyaz , was split off from
Stalin’s NKVD secret police in 1939 to transport precious metals
and state secrets, according to its website.  Russia has gone through bouts of hoarding before. Tsar
Alexander II ordered his government to start amassing bullion in
1867, just months after selling Alaska, now the No. 2 gold-
producing U.S. state, for $7.3 million. His grandson,  Nicholas II , introduced the gold standard in 1897, then needed a loan
from France to ward off speculators and save the system in 1906.  Lenin’s Link  Nicholas, Russia’s last tsar was forced to free the ruble
in 1914 as war broke out in Europe. Lenin’s revolutionary
government reinstated the gold link along with a new currency in
1922. While Soviet rubles were nominally backed by gold, sales
of the metal to citizens were halted in 1930, making the peg
meaningless.  When Lenin’s Bolsheviks seized power in Petrograd, as St.
Petersburg was then known, in 1917, one of their  first targets 
was the State Bank and its gold, which they captured at 6 a.m.
on Nov. 7, according to Bank Rossii’s website. They soon
nationalized all the banks, confiscating any gold found in
vaults and deposit boxes.  Communist Secrecy  Communist secrecy regarding the country’s gold holdings
fueled speculation that party elites had amassed a huge hoard of
bullion that they spirited out of the country before the Soviet
Union disintegrated in 1991.  Viktor Gerashchenko , the last Soviet central banker and a
two-time chairman of Bank Rossii, has repeatedly denied such
speculation, including last February.  “When people ask about the party’s gold, my answer is
always: Are you an idiot or something?” Gerashchenko, 75, told
 Afisha magazine .  For now, with more than five years left in Putin’s term,
Russia plans to keep on buying.  “The pace will be determined by the market,” First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland, on Jan. 25. “Whether to speed that up or slow it
down is a market decision and I’m not going to discuss it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  