-- Renault Duster Finds Bright Spot in India as Europe Drops
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-02-11T09:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/renault-duster-finds-bright-spot-in-india-as-europe-slides-cars.html
Renault SA  has found the Goldilocks
spot for India’s rising middle classes with its Duster compact
SUV: just big enough, safe enough and cheap enough to send sales
in the South Asian country surging.  In the seven months since it began selling the sport-
utility vehicle in July, Renault shipped 27,285 of the autos in
India, compared with 3,964 for all its other models for the year
ended March. The Duster’s beefed-up hatchback look, priced in
the reach of India’s aspiring yet cost-conscious consumers,
helped narrow the gap with  Volkswagen AG  as SUV demand growth
outpaces that for other cars in Asia’s third-largest auto
market.  The French automaker in November said it expects India to
become one of its top 10 markets this year, helping counter
slumping sales in Europe.  “The Duster has created a niche for Renault,” said
 Deepesh Rathore , India managing director for IHS Automotive in
New Delhi. “The SUV segment has been growing and Volkswagen
doesn’t have a model to compete.”  Volkswagen’s Touareg starts from 5.85 million rupees
($110,000) -- 64 times the  median household income  in the
country and almost seven times more than the Duster. That’s
pegged the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company’s sale of the model
to 50 units between April and January.  Indian car buyers bought 57 percent more SUVs in the first
10 months of the fiscal year, Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers data show, spurring carmakers to rush new models
to showrooms. Total car sales, excluding SUVs and vans, fell 1.8
percent in the period. Almost one in 10 fatal road accidents
happen in India, according to the  World Health Organization ,
making the second-most populous country the most dangerous for
driving.  ‘Better Protection’  “SUV buyers feel that they offer better protection on the
poor roads,” said Rathore.  Renault, which only reentered the Indian market in 2011,
sold 37,508 vehicles in total in the 10-month period. Sales at
Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, slumped 16 percent to
53,149 as demand for its Polo, Vento and Jetta cars remains
tepid amid high interest rates and a slowing economy.  Shares  of Renault fell as much as 2.1 percent in Paris and
were down 1.4 percent at 42.99 euros as of 10:29 a.m. local
time. That pared the stock’s gain this year to 5.7 percent.  Renault’s success with the Duster and the lead enjoyed by
former partner  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd ., India’s biggest SUV
maker, is triggering a flurry of utility vehicle introductions.  Ford Motor Co., bidding to stem an 11 percent decline in
the first 10 months of the year ending in March, will introduce
its EcoSport compact SUV this year and  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd .,
the country’s biggest carmaker, may add a similar small model
next year.  Fiat’s Jeep  Fiat SpA, which has seen car sales plummet in India to
lower than those of Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volkswagen’s
Audi, said in December it plans to introduce its Jeep brand to
help achieve 5 percent market share in the country. A small, so-
called B-segment SUV will be offered in 2015, Enrico Atanasio,
managing director for Fiat Group in India, said then. The new
model will compete against the Duster and the EcoSport.  Suzuki Motor Corp .’s unit is working on a compact SUV
model, based on the XA-Alpha concept that it showed at the New
Delhi Auto Expo last year, according to  Mayank Pareek , who heads
sales at New Delhi-based Maruti. Pareek declined to elaborate on
when the model will come on sale.  “A lot of customers who bought hatchbacks in the last few
years are now looking to upgrade and don’t want to upgrade to
sedans,” Pareek said in a telephone interview on Feb. 5.  Middle Classes  India’s middle class is estimated to increase 10-fold to
583 million people by 2025, McKinsey & Co. said in a May 2007
 report . Median household income in the 12 months ended March
2012 was estimated at 90,800 rupees, the Mumbai-based research
company Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. said in a July
 survey report  on its website.  Industrywide SUV sales growth in India may accelerate to as
much as 64 percent in the year ending March 31, India’s
 automakers’ group  said last month. Local vehicle sales,
including cars, will miss all sales growth targets this year,
the group said today, after cutting its car sales forecast in
January, the third time since April 1.  Mahindra, which introduced its XUV500 in September 2011,
had a waiting list of three months on the model,  Pawan Goenka ,
president of the Mumbai-based company’s automotive and farm-
equipment division, said in October. The automaker said last
month it had boosted production capacity for three of its
models, including the XUV500 and Quanto compact SUVs, to meet
increased demand. Renault didn’t respond to emails seeking
details on the waiting time for the Duster.  Economic Slowdown  Volkswagen, which is vying with General Motors Co. for the
top spot in China, and its Skoda Auto AS unit have mostly
focused on hatchbacks and compact sedans in India. High interest
rates in a country where almost 80 percent of vehicle purchases
are funded through loans and slowing economic growth have damped
demand for cars in India.  India this month forecast the weakest  economic growth  in a
decade as subdued investment and elevated inflation add pressure
on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to extend policy changes. Gross
domestic product will rise 5 percent in the 12 months through
March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the slowest pace
since 4 percent in 2002-2003, a Central Statistical Office
statement showed Feb. 7.  Volkswagen  India declined to comment on the company’s plans
to counter the sales slowdown.  Renault’s Duster-led performance in India contrasts with
the carmaker’s 19 percent plunge in sales last year to 1.05
million cars in Europe, where industry wide shipments fell 7.8
percent. CEO  Carlos Ghosn  has said the European market may fall
3 percent in 2013 in its sixth straight annual decline.  Emerging Markets  Renault acquired Romanian automaker Dacia in 1999 in a bid
to use cheap models to attract first-time buyers in Eastern
Europe and other emerging markets. The Duster, which is one of
five Dacia models, is sold in Western Europe under that brand.
The company began exporting Dusters to the United Kingdom and
Ireland in November, as part of a plan to use India as a hub for
right-hand drive versions of the model, it said in a statement
on Nov. 30.  The Duster is also the best-selling Renault model in
Russia, where the French carmaker leads the market. The
Boulogne-Billancourt-based company, which is scheduled to report
2012  earnings  on Feb. 14, sold 189,852 cars in Russia last year,
amounting to 7.3 percent of its global deliveries. A slowing car
market in the third-largest among the so-called BRIC economies
may damp Renault’s efforts to offset slumping demand in Europe,
making its Indian sales more vital.  “Middle class customers are the folks who care most about
value,” said Abdul Majeed, head of the automotive sector for
India at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Chennai. If automakers offer
an SUV for 500,000 rupees-700,000 rupees “suddenly people are
able to realize the value the model offers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  