-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose on Labor Market Gains
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-10T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-on-labor-market-gains.html
Sales  at U.S. retailers probably
grew in January as an improving job market helped consumers cope
with an increase in the payroll tax, economists said before a
report this week.  The projected 0.1 percent rise would follow a 0.5 percent
advance in December, according to the  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 68 economists before Feb. 13 figures from
the Commerce Department. Another report may show factory
production is expanding.  Employment gains are shoring up consumer sentiment and
boosting sales for retailers such as  Gap Inc.  and  Target Corp. ,
even as a two percentage-point rise in the tax that funds Social
Security trimmed paychecks. Higher home values and stock prices
are also bolstering household wealth, giving an added lift to
the purchases that account for about 70 percent of the economy.  “The longer-term prognosis here is a little bit better,”
said  Michael Brown , an economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC
in Charlotte, North Carolina. “We are starting to see personal
income grow a little bit due to additional job creation.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc. surged 4.5 percent in January
from the same month in 2012, the biggest year-to-year gain since
September 2011.  San Francisco-based Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain,
posted an 8 percent gain in sales, double the average estimate
of 4 percent in a survey by Retail Metrics. Minneapolis-based
Target, the second-largest U.S. discounter, posted a gain of 3.1
percent, above projections of 1.7 percent.  More Jobs  Employers added 157,000 workers to payrolls in January
after a revised 196,000 rise the prior month and a 247,000 surge
in November, Labor Department data showed Feb. 1. Revisions
added a total of 127,000 jobs in the last two months of 2012.  The stock market also is showing signs of strength. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 index  climbed  5 percent in January, its
biggest gain for the month since 1997. The S&P 500 has rallied
for six straight weeks, closing on Feb. 8 at the highest level
since November 2007.  Demand for automobiles as consumers replace older cars and
trucks is benefiting automakers such as Ford Motor Co. and
 General Motors Co.   Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.2 million annual rate in
January after 15.3 million in December, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  Ford ’s deliveries surged 22 percent
last month compared with January 2012 and General Motors sales
climbed 16 percent, the companies reported Feb. 1.  Household purchases climbed at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the final three months of 2012, up from 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, Commerce Department data show.  Payroll Tax  Improving confidence and more jobs may help stem any
setback this quarter as consumers grapple with an increase in
the payroll tax, which Congress allowed to revert to its 2010
level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent starting in January. A
worker earning $50,000 a year is taking home about $83 less a
month because of the higher levy.  “Over the next month or two, I think we’re seeing
consumers sort of internalize the tax-policy changes,” said
Well Fargo’s Brown. “I think we’ll sort of move past that.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment gauge rose to 74.8 in February from 73.8 the prior
month, economists surveyed project a preliminary report on Feb.
15 report will show. It would be the second consecutive gain
after the index reached a five-month low in December.  In addition to improving consumer demand, factories are
also benefitting from a pickup in exports and business
investment. Industrial production climbed 0.2 percent in January
after a 0.3 percent advance the previous month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median before the Federal Reserve data Feb. 15.  Exports increased 2.1 percent in December from the prior
month to $186.4 billion, the second-highest on record, figures
from the Commerce Department showed last week.  Other reports this week may show manufacturing in the New
York area shrunk at a slower pace this month and business
stockpiles were little changed in December, according to
economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Jamrisko  in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  