-- S&P Granted Top Grades to Doomed Lehman CDO as Downgrades Rose
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-02-10T22:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/s-p-granted-top-grades-to-doomed-lehman-cdo-as-downgrades-rose.html
A unit of New York Life Insurance
Co. issued a $1.5 billion collateralized debt obligation named
after a Northern sky constellation in April 2007. The deal burst
when it defaulted less than a year later.  The Corona Borealis CDO, underwritten by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., is one of dozens of deals named in the Justice
Department’s Feb. 4 lawsuit accusing the world’s largest credit-
rating company of deliberately misstating the risks of mortgage
bonds as it sought to keep its share of the booming business of
repackaging home loans for sale as securities.  Eastern Financial Florida Credit Union lost its investment
after purchasing a portion of the Corona Borealis CDO, relying
in part on Standard & Poor’s assessment of the securities, 
according to the Justice Department’s complaint filed in federal 
court in Los Angeles. The U.S. is seeking penalties against S&P
and its New York-based parent, McGraw-Hill Cos. that may amount 
to more than $5 billion, based on losses suffered by federally 
insured financial institutions.  S&P was aware of its influence over such firms, and
knowingly “devised, participated in, and executed a scheme to
defraud investors,” according to the complaint.  Ed Sweeney, an S&P spokesman in New York, declined to
comment.  Eastern Financial, founded in 1937 as the original credit
union for Eastern Airlines, was forced to merge with Space Coast
Credit Union after being seized by regulators in April 2009.  AAA Rankings  S&P gave more than half of the Corona Borealis deal its
highest AAA grade, according to a prospectus from July 2, 2007.
Its largest competitor, Moody’s Investors Service, offered an
equivalent Aaa on the same portions. About 50 percent of the
deal was linked to subprime mortgage bonds carrying grades of
BBB or below, according to the Justice Department lawsuit. BBB
is the second-lowest rung of investment grade on the rater’s
scale.  When S&P blessed the deal with top rankings in April 2007,
it wasn’t yet known exactly which securities would be included
in the transaction. CDO issuers could lay out which types of
bonds would be included in deals at the time of the sale while
still in the process of acquiring the debt.  CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds and package them
into new securities with varying risks in which revenue from the
underlying bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  Lehman Collapse  New York Life’s deadline for purchasing the collateral was
July 9, 2007, according to the prospectus. Eligible collateral
included credit-default swaps used to wager on the likelihood of
subprime home-loan failures. The completion of the deal was
contingent upon garnering AAA grades from the rating companies.  On June 28, 2007, S&P “authorized immediate large-scale
negative rating actions on non-prime RMBS,” according to the
government complaint. The downgrades didn’t affect the ratings
on the Corona Borealis deal, which defaulted in February 2008,
the complaint says.  Lehman, the biggest underwriter of mortgage-backed
securities as the U.S. real estate market peaked, filed for the
largest bankruptcy in history in September 2008, prompting a
global credit freeze that led to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Corona Borealis, Latin for northern crown, is a
constellation in the northern sky, according to the Encyclopedia
Britannica. In Greek mythology the stars are the crown the god
Dionysus presented to the Cretan princess Ariadne, who was
deserted by Theseus after helping him escape the Labyrinth with
a thread of jewels.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  