-- Senator Graham Says He’ll Block Hagel, Brennan Nominations
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-11T12:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/senator-graham-says-he-ll-block-hagel-brennan-nominations.html
U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham  said he
will attempt to block the nominations of  Chuck Hagel  to be
secretary of defense and  John Brennan  to head the Central
Intelligence Agency until he gets answers about what President
 Barack Obama  did personally at the time of the deadly attack on
the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya.  The South Carolina Republican, speaking yesterday on CBS’s
“Face the Nation,” said a six-person security team that had
been dispatched from Tripoli was held up at the airport during
the eight-hour attack.  “Did the president ever pick up the phone and call the
Libyan government and say ‘let those people out of the
airport?’” Graham said.  There will be “no confirmation without information,”
Graham said. “This is complete system failure and I’m going to
get to the bottom of it.”  Separately, Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican,
said yesterday that he’s leaning against voting to confirm
Hagel, citing the former Nebraska senator’s opposition to then-
President  George W. Bush ’s plan to send additional troops to
Iraq.  Though Graham vowed to oppose the nominations, he said he
wouldn’t use a procedural tactic known as a filibuster, the main
vehicle for blocking Senate action. “I’m not filibustering,”
Graham said.  Republican Criticism  Obama’s nomination of Hagel, a Republican, to succeed the
retiring Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has been criticized by
Republicans on matters such as his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran and his comments about the influence of
what he once called “the Jewish lobby.”  Democrats control 55 of the 100 seats in the Senate, and
Michigan Senator  Carl Levin , a Democrat who heads the Senate
Armed Services Committee, predicted last week that all of them
will back Hagel once the nomination gets to the Senate floor. In
addition, at least five Republicans have said they would help
muster the supermajority of 60 votes that would be needed to
overcome an attempt to block a vote on him.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, downplayed the risk of any attempt to block Hagel’s
nomination.  “Republican senators have told me privately they are not
going to initiate the first filibuster in history” against a
prospective secretary of defense, Durbin said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  ‘Not Appropriate’  Rhode Island Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat, said on CBS
that Graham’s threat is “not appropriate.” It’s “an
overreaction that is not going to serve the best interests going
forward of the national security of the United States,” said
Reed.  Commenting yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program,
McCain said that Hagel was wrong to oppose the so-called surge
in Iraq and that he knows he was wrong yet refused to say so
under questioning at a Senate hearing. When asked if it was fair
to say that he was leaning against voting to confirm Hagel,
McCain agreed.  On Feb. 9, former Vice President  Dick Cheney  described
Obama’s picks for secretary of state, director of the CIA and
secretary of defense as “second-rate people.”  John Kerry , the
2004 Democratic presidential nominee and former Massachusetts
senator, has already been confirmed as secretary of state.  Asked on CBS about the comments, Representative  Mike Rogers , a Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House
Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, declined to share
Cheney’s assessment. “It may be a little beyond where I’m
going,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  