-- Sept. 11 Prosecutors Deny Eavesdropping as Hearings Begin
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-10T04:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/sept-11-prosecutors-deny-eavesdropping-as-hearings-begin.html
Prosecutors seeking the death
penalty for  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  and four other men accused of
orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks told a
military judge that they haven’t eavesdropped on confidential
attorney-client conversations.  The government’s court filing this weekend comes as another
round of hearings gets under way at the U.S. naval base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the five men are being tried. The
first issue before the judge on Feb. 11 is an emergency motion
by the defense seeking to bar the military from listening in to
lawyer conversations with the accused.  In court papers made public by the military yesterday,
prosecutors denied eavesdropping on the defendants. “No entity
of the United States government is listening, monitoring or
recording communications between the five accused and their
counsel at any location,” prosecutors wrote in a legal brief.  Defense lawyers’ suspicions were triggered after a
courtroom audio feed was briefly suspended without the judge’s
permission during legal arguments at the last set of hearings,
which ended Jan. 31.  Until then, defense lawyers thought that only the judge or
his court security officer could interrupt the sound
transmission to observers outside the courtroom at the base.  Suspend Proceedings  Prosecutors later told defense lawyers that a government
official known as an original classification authority, or OCA,
also controlled courtroom audio. That spurred a defense request
to suspend proceedings at the military tribunal until the
defense learns whether “someone” is listening to lawyer
conversations among themselves and with their clients.  There is a 40-second delay of statements broadcast from the
courtroom to ensure that classified information isn’t disclosed.
When a cutoff of the audio is triggered, listeners outside the
courtroom hear a static-like sound known as white-noise.  In their court papers, which were made public by the
military, prosecutors told the judge, Army Colonel  James Pohl ,
that “there is absolutely no prohibition, nor is it in any way
inconsistent with the protections for classified information for
an OCA to review the closed circuit audio-video transmission to
conduct a classification review.”  They do not identify who the OCA is or where the person is
situated.  “A brief interruption of the audio and video transmission
in this case prompted by the OCA, or any other party for that
matter, does not amount to a per se violation of the attorney-
client privilege,” prosecutors said. “What third parties
observe from a remote location far removed from the courtroom is
irrelevant and has no bearing on these proceedings.”  Provides Guidance  Following the judge’s order of Jan. 29, the OCA now only
monitors the proceedings and provides “guidance” to the court
security officer as to whether “classified information has been
disclosed,” they said.  Prosecutors say in their filing that the military is
capable of listening in to meetings defense lawyers have with
their clients in a Guantanamo Bay facility known as “Echo 2”
because rooms there are used for purposes other than attorney-
client meetings.  “Security personnel have never activated the audio feature
during defense visits,” military lawyers say in their brief.  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan, the
Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  A trial is at least a year away. The men face the death
penalty if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  