-- Snedeker Wins Pebble Beach Pro-Am After Two Runner-Up Finishes
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/snedeker-wins-pebble-beach-pro-am-for-fifth-pga-tour-title-1-.html
Brandt Snedeker  won the Pebble Beach
National Pro-Am by two strokes, continuing his hot start to the
U.S. PGA Tour season after runner-up finishes to  Phil Mickelson 
and  Tiger Woods  the previous two weeks.  Snedeker shot a final-round 7-under par 65 yesterday at
Pebble Beach Golf Links on California’s Monterey Peninsula for a
four-round total of 19-under-par 267. Chris Kirk, who began the
final round one shot behind joint leaders Snedeker and James
Hahn, was second at 17 under after closing with a 66.  Snedeker received $1.17 million and pushed his season
earnings to $2.86 million from  five events . Four of Snedeker’s
five PGA Tour titles have come in the past 22 months, including
his win at last season’s Tour Championship, where he collected a
$10 million bonus as the recipient of the FedEx Cup. He’ll climb
to fourth in the Official World Golf Ranking and is now the
highest-ranked American behind Woods.  “To have a stretch of golf like I had the last couple
months is something you dream about,” Snedeker, 32, said at a
news conference. “It’s something you think that you can do, but
you don’t know really know until you actually put it together,
and I have. I’m really enjoying this and hopefully can parlay
this into the best year of my career.”  Snedeker had finished second to Woods at the Farmers
Insurance Open at Torrey Pines on Jan. 28 and was runner-up to
Mickelson at the Phoenix Open at TPC Scottsdale on Feb. 3.  Snedeker has shot below par in 18 of 19 rounds this season
and has broken par in 33 of 37 rounds on the PGA Tour dating
back to the first round of August’s Wyndham Championship. The
week before that event, he missed the cut at the PGA
Championship, and Snedeker said his next goal is to win one of
golf’s four major titles. The Masters Tournament is scheduled
for April 11-14 at Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia.  Relishing Augusta  “I know that if I play the way I played the last three
weeks that there’s very few people in the world that can beat
me,” Snedeker said. “I will relish that challenge being there
Sunday trying to beat the best player in the world or whoever it
may be down the back nine at Augusta. That’s something I look
forward to instead of dreading maybe four years ago.”  The Pebble Beach Pro-Am paired professional golfers with
amateurs, including celebrities such as actor  Bill Murray  and
New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick . The teams rotated
between Pebble Beach, Monterey Peninsula Country Club’s Shore
Course and Spyglass Hill over the first three days, with the
leaders playing Pebble Beach for yesterday’s final round.  Snedeker and his amateur partner, Toby Wilt, tied  Michael Letzig  and John Erickson for first place at 31-under par. It
marked the ninth time in tournament history that a player won
the individual and pro-am team title in the same year.  Mickelson, who was seeking to win at Pebble Beach for the
second straight year and fifth time overall, finished in a tie
for 60th place at 1-under par after shooting a final-round 72.  The tour now moves about 350 miles (560 kilometers) south
to the greater Los Angeles area for the Northern Trust Open at
the Riviera Country Club in Pacific Palisades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  