-- Trains Restart as U.S. Northeast Fights Back From Storm
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-11T04:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/some-public-transportation-reopens-as-northeast-digs-out.html
Commuters from  Boston  to New York
were urged to be patient and allow extra travel time today as
transportation officials reboot transit systems shut down by a
record-setting blizzard.  “I know that people are impatient, but I remind everybody
that this was a record snowfall, the likes of which our state
has never seen, or had not seen since the 1880s,” Connecticut
Governor  Dannel Malloy  said yesterday at a news briefing.  Transit officials across Connecticut, Massachusetts, New
York and Rhode Island were forecasting a return to almost full
service after crews dug out tracks and bus routes blanketed by
as much as three feet of snow that began falling Feb. 8.  New York’s  Metro-North Railroa d was to have regular
operations between Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut, with a
reduced schedule beyond to New Haven. Service on much of the
 Long Island Rail Road  was to resume except in eastern areas
hard-hit by the snowstorm. New York City subways and buses were
to operate on a normal weekday schedule. Amtrak returned to
limited operations between New York and Boston yesterday.  In Massachusetts, “I think we will be able to get the
subways and the commuter rails running” by today’s morning
commute, Governor  Deval Patrick  said in an interview broadcast
by CBS. Some subway and bus lines in and around Boston were
running yesterday.  Suspended Trains  In Long Island, where parts of Suffolk County received more
than 30 inches of snow, LIRR trains were suspended east of
Speonk and east of Ronkonkoma to Greenport, according to a
Metropolitan Transportation Authority statement. Buses will run
between Ronkonkoma and Greenport only if roads have been
cleared, and there will be no busing on the Montauk Branch.  “Those are the exceptions,” said Salvatore Arena, a
spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which
operates the service. “Those sections that are not running
represent a fair amount of land mass, but you have to remember
the bulk of the riding public is west,” or closer to New York
City.  Bus service on the Suffolk County Transit system was to
operate normally today, according to the agency’s website.  All New Jersey Transit bus and rail service was restored
Feb. 9, according to the agency’s website.  In Boston, while some lanes on main roads remained snow-
covered yesterday, other routes were clear.  ‘Great Shape’  “Major thoroughfares are in great shape,”  Peter Judge , a
spokesman for the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency,
said yesterday in an interview with Fox News.  “By first thing on Monday morning, the commute, if you are
driving, is probably not going to be hampered that much,” Judge
said.  Boston’s public schools will have another day off, said
Mayor  Thomas M. Menino , who ordered schools shut on Feb. 8 as
the storm approached. Four daycare centers would be open for the
children of parents who have to work, he said yesterday.  Not everyone was worried about the workweek. Lisa Taffe,
35, was enjoying yesterday’s sunny, snowy morning in Boston by
sledding with her family.  “This is the kind of day that you want every winter day to
be,” she said. “Perfect, gorgeous, tons of snow.”  “I’m not going to worry about tomorrow,” said Taffe,
holding a six-month-old baby swaddled in a bright orange down
jumper. “There is nothing you can do about it.”  The storm, which lasted about 24 hours in Boston, left as
much as 40 inches (102 centimeters) of snow in parts of
Connecticut and more than 30 inches in some Massachusetts
communities. It set a new record in Portland, Maine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  