-- South Sudanese Rebels Kill More Than 100 People in Jonglei State
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2013-02-10T16:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/south-sudanese-rebels-kill-more-than-100-people-in-jonglei-state.html
More than 100 civilians and soldiers
were killed on Feb. 8 by anti-government militia fighters and
cattle raiders in Southern Sudan’s Jonglei state, according to
State Governor Kuol Manyang and military spokesman Philip Aguer.  Cattle herders from the Lou Nuer tribe and an army platoon
that was accompanying them were attacked as they travelled from
their wet season home to the Sobat River, where they water their
cattle during the dry season, the officials said. The attack was
carried out by uniformed fighters of a militia group led by
David Yau Yau and members of his Murle tribe who weren’t wearing
uniforms, the officials said.  “It was a huge force that attacked, leaving 103 people
dead, mostly children and women,” Manyang said by phone today
from Bor, the state capital. Fourteen soldiers were killed,
including the platoon commander, as well as 17 of the attackers,
Aguer said from Juba, Southern Sudan’s capital.  Yau Yau, a former theology student and candidate for
governor, defected from the army last year and launched a
rebellion. South Sudan’s army said 24 of its soldiers died in an
Aug. 23 ambush by the militia group.  Ethnic and militia violence in Jonglei, an eastern state
bordering Ethiopia where  Total SA  has a stake in an oil
exploration concession, has marred Southern Sudan’s independence
from Sudan. The country seceded in July 2011 after a referendum
that was part of a peace deal which ended a two-decade civil
war. Southern Sudanese authorities accused Sudan of airdropping
weapons to the militia within sight of a United Nations
peacekeeping mission post in Pibor County on Sept. 22.  UN peacekeeping mission spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said that
while peacekeepers saw a “white, fixed-wing aircraft” drop as
many as eight packages, the UN couldn’t identify the contents or
who dropped them. Sudan’s army has denied supporting Yau Yau or
any rebel group in South Sudan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jared Ferrie  in Juba via Nairobi at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  