-- State Street Cautious on Indonesia Price Dilemma: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n ,   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-02-11T04:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/state-street-cautious-on-indonesia-price-dilemma-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia’s combination of
accelerating inflation and record-low  bond yields  is prompting
State Street Global Advisors and Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. to cut holdings.  The average yield on Indonesian sovereign debt has risen 16
basis points since reaching an 11-month low of 5.8 percent on
Jan. 7, within 22 basis points of the 5.58 percent record on Feb.
10, 2012. Local-currency notes have declined in 2013 after
generating a return of 13 percent last year, the best
performance among 10 Asian local-debt markets compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Consumer prices rose 4.57 percent last month, the
most since October, official data show.  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is under
growing pressure to raise the price of subsidized fuel to curb
the current-account deficit as his window to act narrows ahead
of elections in 2014. A 44 percent increase in the minimum wage
in Jakarta, along with similar gains elsewhere in the
archipelago, and a 15 percent rise in electricity prices this
year, are also adding to the  inflationary  pressure.  “In the case of Indonesia we ought to be a bit more
cautious at this level where the yields are trading,”  Ng Kheng Siang , head of Asia-Pacific fixed income at State Street Global
Advisors in Singapore, said in a Jan. 29 interview. “Some of
the measures that potentially will be rolled out would further
impact on inflation.”  Fuel Bill  The government spent 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) on
subsidizing fuel last year, compared with a target of 137.4
trillion rupiah, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said on Jan.
7. As well as being a drain on the state budget, the rising bill
has contributed to the current account swinging to a deficit of
$16.2 billion in the three quarters through September 2012 from
a surplus of $4 billion a year earlier.  That has put pressure on the rupiah, which has fallen 0.1
percent this year to 9,643 per dollar as of 11:35 a.m. in
Jakarta, following a 5.9 percent decline in 2012 that was
largest among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen.  Brent crude traded in London, a benchmark for more than
half the world’s oil, has risen 7 percent this year and 22
percent since the end of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bank Indonesia expects consumer-price gains to remain in a
range of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2013. The upper limit
could easily be breached if subsidized fuel prices increase by
10 percent or more, according to estimates from PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia and PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s
largest lender by assets.  Defensive Stance  “Next year will be an election year and any decision will
have to be taken fairly soon,” said  Rajeev De Mello , who
manages $7 billion of debt as the Singapore-based head of Asian
fixed-income assets at Schroder. “Indonesian bonds had offered
relatively high yields but now they’ve come down. I’m defensive
on Indonesia now,” he said, adding that he moved his exposure
to Indonesia to underweight in late 2012, meaning he holds less
than the benchmark index he follows.  Foreign ownership  of Indonesian government bonds has
dropped by 1.1 trillion rupiah since reaching a record 274
trillion rupiah on Dec. 6, 2012, official figures show.  Bank Indonesia will keep its  reference rate  at a record-low
5.75 percent for a 12th month tomorrow, according to all 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The benchmark rate will probably
be raised by at least 25 basis points by year-end, according to
12 of 21 economists in a separate survey.  Rupiah Volatility  The central bank signaled the need to boost short-term
borrowing costs to lure capital inflows when it raised the rate
it pays lenders on overnight deposits, known as the Fasbi, in
August to 4 percent from 3.75 percent. Policy makers may need to
boost the Fasbi rate gradually as the rupiah declines, while
keeping the benchmark rate unchanged, Deputy Governor Hartadi
Sarwono said in November.  The rupiah’s one-month implied volatility, which measures
expected exchange-rate swings used to price options, has
increased 80 basis points this year to 6.5 percent. That
compares with 5.45 percent for Thailand’s baht and 4.25 percent
for the Philippine peso.  “The central bank may need to step in and raise interest
rates,” said Ng at the asset management unit of State Street
Corp., which has $24.4 trillion in assets under custody.
“That’s going to be helpful to reduce the volatility in the
rupiah.” Ng said he has an underweight position on Indonesia.  Indonesia’s 10-year bond yield of 5.25 percent compares
with 3.79 percent for the Philippines, 3.55 percent for Thailand
and 3.48 percent for Malaysia. The 10-year yield may climb to
5.97 percent by end-2013, according to the average forecast of
six analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Domestic Demand  The  gross domestic product  of Southeast Asia’s largest
economy increased 6.2 percent last year, the third year in a row
that it has exceeded 6 percent. Domestic consumption accounted
for 64 percent of the expansion.  “Indonesia is a domestic demand-led economy and is not
influenced much by external conditions,”  Kenichiro Ikezawa , a
Tokyo-based fund manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
oversees about $54 billion, said in a Feb. 5 interview. “We can
take advantage of its growth potential. Yields have been
dropping, but they are still higher than many Asian nations.”  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for a proposed fuel-price increase last year.  Loose Policies  “Electricity tariffs and raised minimum wages will drive
inflation expectations higher in 2013, even without an increase
in fuel prices,” Handy Yunianto, head of fixed-income research
at Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta, said in a Feb. 5 interview.
Inflation may accelerate to 7.5 percent, the fastest pace since
March 2009, should there be a 30 percent increase in subsidized
fuel prices, he said.  The cost of protecting Indonesia’s five-year debt against
non-payment has risen nine basis points this year and reached a
four-month high of 152 basis points on Feb. 4, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. It
was 145 basis points on Feb. 8.  Standard & Poor’s said in April last year it has refrained
from joining Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service in
awarding Indonesia investment-grade status as the country’s push
to lure investment is at risk from “policy slippages” such as
the failure to cut fuel subsidies.  “The place where we’re more conservative is Indonesia,”
 Adam McCabe , deputy head of Asian fixed income at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc in Singapore, said in an interview on Jan. 24.
“The policies are too loose. If they were to do nothing and the
market feels they are losing credibility then the country risk
premium increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  