-- U.S., Allies Winning in Afghanistan, U.S. General Allen Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-10T11:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/u-s-allies-winning-in-afghanistan-u-s-general-allen-says.html
U.S. and allied forces are winning
the war in Afghanistan, the departing NATO commander, U.S.
Marine General  John Allen , said in Kabul today.  Afghan forces are almost completely leading operations,
Allen said, adding that he’s “comfortable” with progress
there. The U.S. and its allies plan to hand over security to
Afghanistan’s forces by the end of 2014.  Allen said he’s concerned that the improvement in the
workings of the Afghan government will lag gains in combat.
Afghan rhetoric to improve governing “isn’t enough,” he told
reporters today. “The rhetoric has to be accompanied by real
and meaningful reform” that builds on the continued security
progress, Allen said.  President  Hamid Karzai  “has spoken the right words. Now we
must see the fulfillment,” Allen said. Reforms “must reduce the
capacity of the criminal patronage networks to grip and weaken
the institutions of state” and “genuinely” take care of “the
rights of minorities,” particularly women, he said.  U.S. Marine Corps General  Joseph Dunford  is replacing Allen
as the top NATO commander in Afghanistan. Allen is President
 Barack Obama ’s nominee to serve as Supreme Allied Commander of
NATO and U.S. Forces in Europe.  Allen outlined Dunford’s major challenges in the remaining
23 months of the NATO and U.S. mission which includes continuing
the campaign against the insurgency and building U.S. advisory
capacity while simultaneously preparing for major withdrawal.  ‘Daunting Task’  Dunford must develop “detailed plans to recover the better
part of 100,000” NATO and U.S. troops and 100,000 contractors
from Afghanistan while continuing the military campaign, Allen
said. The new NATO commander must also “close the better part
of 200 bases -- we are getting to the ones that are hard now --
the relatively big ones both in terms of scope and locations,”
he said.  “It’s a daunting task,” Allen said. “What he has to
balance is that the campaign remains the primary objective of
our presence here” and “returning home does not become the
principal goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Kabul at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  