-- Tunisian Politicians Quit Cabinet Amid Political Tensions
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-10T16:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/tunisian-politicians-quit-party-over-technocrat-government-plans.html
Ministers from the Tunisian
president’s secularist party have pulled out of the Cabinet as
the North African country grapples with political tensions.  “The ministers of the Congress have resigned because the
party’s demands that the justice and foreign ministers be
changed haven’t been met,” Samir Ben Omar, a member of the
Congress for the Republic Party’s executive committee, said by
phone today.  Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  had said he would form a new
technocrat government after the assassination of a leading
opposition figure. Jbeli’s push drew condemnation from the
moderate Islamist Ennahda Party, from which he hails.  The Feb. 6 killing of Democratic Patriots party leader
Chukri Beleid, which his wife blamed on Ennahda, sparked clashes
between thousands of protesters and the security forces. The
assassination and unrest that followed marked the most serious
crisis in Tunisia since protests more than two years ago began
the so-called Arab Spring uprisings across the region. Jbeli and
the secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned the
assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into violence.  “The resignations are a pre-emptive strike in anticipation
of Jbeli dropping them from the Cabinet,” Salem Labyad, a
professor at the University of Tunis, said by phone. “The
Congress’s decision will have no effect or political
ramifications as Jbeli is insisting on forming a technocrat
government.”  Jbeli said in an interview with Al-Jazeera television aired
yesterday that he will step down if his attempt to form a
technocratic government fails.  Thousands of people joined anti-government protests as
Beleid was buried. Yesterday, thousands of Islamists staged
rival rallies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  