-- Tunisian Politicians Quit Cabinet as Violence Continues
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-02-10T23:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-10/tunisian-politicians-quit-cabinet-as-violence-continues.html
Ministers from the Tunisian
president’s secularist party have pulled out of the Cabinet, the
latest step in an growing political crisis accompanied by street
violence that threatens to upend the country’s democratic
transition.  “The ministers of the Congress have resigned because the
party’s demands that the justice and foreign ministers be
changed haven’t been met,” Samir Ben Omar, a member of the
Congress for the Republic Party’s executive committee, said by
phone yesterday.  The resignations are another blow to the country’s already
shaky coalition government following the assassination of a
leading opposition figure on Feb. 6 and the threat two days ago
by Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  to resign if he isn’t allowed to
form a new technocrat government.  Analysts said the resignation may in fact be a way to pre-
empt the prime minister’s actions, since a technocratic
government, which Islamist Jbeli has said is needed to restore
confidence in the political system, would leave the Congress for
the Republic Party out of government in any case.  “The resignations are a pre-emptive strike in anticipation
of Jbeli dropping them from the Cabinet,” Salem Labyad, a
professor at the University of Tunis, said by phone. “The
Congress’s decision will have no effect or political
ramifications as Jbeli is insisting on forming a technocrat
government.”  Assassination  The assassination of Chukri Beleid, the prominent leader of
the leftist Democratic Patriots party, set off waves of protests
that in some areas has disintegrated into pillaging and
violence. Over the weekend, 80 youths armed with stones and
clubs attacked a police station and other security posts in the
city of Zaghouan, west of Tunis, according to the Associated
Press.  The events marked the most serious crisis in Tunisia since
protests more than two years ago began the so-called Arab Spring
uprisings across the region. Belaid’s wife has blamed her
husband’s killing on Islamist Ennahda, the prime minister’s
party. Jbeli and the secular president,  Moncef Marzouki ,
condemned the assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged
into violence.  Jbeli’s plan to form a technocratic government was
disavowed by other leaders of Ennahda. The prime minister said
in an interview with Al Jazeera television broadcast Feb. 9 that
he will step down if his attempt to form a technocratic
government this week fails.  Prior to the killing, Tunisia’s political transformation,
which began in December 2010, had been touted as a model for a
coalition between secular and Islamist political forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  