-- ‘Hunger Games’ Targets People; ‘Deep Blue Sea’ Founders
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/-hunger-games-targets-people-deep-blue-sea-founders.html
“The Hunger Games” is a smart,
barreling adaptation of the hugely popular young-adult novels
that mash up gladiator-like death games with last night’s
reality TV.  Directed by Gary Ross ( “Seabiscuit” ), “Hunger Games” is
based on the first of three (so far) novels by Suzanne Collins
(who co-wrote the script with Ross and Billy Ray). It
effectively trades on the very bloodlust for competition that it
condemns.  The action takes place in a post-apocalypse  North America ,
renamed Panem and ruled by a totalitarian regime that stages
annual death-match competitions, fought by teenagers and
televised to an eager public. It’s the  Third Reich  with a
heaping load of “Survivor,” headed by a ruthless leader (the
perfectly glum Donald Sutherland).  Jennifer Lawrence  (as compelling as she was in  “Winter’s
Bone” ) plays 16-year-old contestant Katniss Everdeen. As
skilled with a bow and arrow as she is soulful (she volunteers
to take the spot of a younger sister chosen by lottery to
compete), Katniss and her male partner Peeta Mellark (Josh
Hutcherson) represent District 12, a hardscrabble place that
could pass for the Depression-era Appalachia of a Dorothea Lange
photo.  David Bowie  Katniss and Peeta are whisked off to the Emerald City-like
Capitol, where the sepia tones and careworn faces of District 12
give way to fuchsia and chartreuse decadence. The elaborately
costumed and coiffed residents evoke glam-era  David Bowie  via
Dr. Seuss.  Plucked, waxed and given reality show make-overs, the
contestants are then trained for battle, leaving them more
prepared for the first moment of combat than the audience might
be. Smaller, younger kids are quickly dispatched, and though
“Hunger Games” isn’t as bloody as it could be, we’re clearly
not in  Kansas  anymore.  After the initial, brutal scramble for weapons, the
survivors head for dense forest to hunt one another, their every
move captured by hidden cameras. Gamekeepers in a high-tech
control room manipulate the action for better TV, and sponsors
intercede for favored competitors, prompting the savvier
contestants to invent crowd-pleasing gimmicks like romances and
sad-sack backstories.  Though it never credibly addresses how a populace became
depraved enough to tolerate, much less cheer, the slaughter of
innocents, “The Hunger Games” is good enough to occasionally
recall the great “Network” in its lethal presentation of
America’s true favorite pastime -- television.  “Get people to like you,” says Katniss’ grizzled,
alcoholic mentor (Woody Harrelson). On TV, that’s the survival
skill that counts.  “The Hunger Games,” from Lionsgate, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Deep Blue Sea’  The English once had a myth, promoted in the novels of D.H.
Lawrence and E.M. Forster, that sex was the domain of the lower
orders. Edward VIII gave it a whack, and the children of  Queen
Elizabeth  laid it to rest.  But in 1952, when Terence Rattigan wrote “The Deep Blue
Sea,” it was still kicking around. Terence Davies’ movie, like
the play, opens with the attempted suicide of Lady Collyer
( Rachel Weisz ), who has left her prim husband, a judge, for a
down-and-out stud who drinks too much and forgets her birthday.  Davies pumps the already overwrought emotion in this grim
material to demented levels. He stages the suicide attempt like
a drawn-out love scene, to the amped-up wail of Samuel Barber’s
Violin Concerto. Instant camp.  And questionable casting: Tom Hiddleston, as the stud,
looks as slippery as a seal pup, and Simon Russell Beale, as the
sexless husband, is adorable.  “The Deep Blue Sea,” a Music Box Films release, is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1/2 (Seligman)  
( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 