-- Madoff FBI Files Reveal How He Fooled His Own Employees
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/madoff-fbi-files-reveal-how-he-fooled-his-own-employees.html
After several drinks at a Greek
restaurant on  Manhattan ’s Third Avenue in the summer of 2006,
two computer programmers at Bernard Madoff’s investment firm
asked their supervisor whether the boss’s business was a scam.  Chief Financial Officer Frank DiPascali laughed off the
question, telling George Perez and Jerome O’Hara that Madoff was
honest. DiPascali would later tell the FBI he wondered why they
took so long to ask.  His chronicle of the dinner, and the lengths to which
Madoff went to convince employees that his massive fraud was a
legitimate business, were revealed for the first time in FBI
reports made public last week. Attached to court filings by ex-
Madoff employees facing fraud charges, they contain interviews
with DiPascali -- Madoff’s chief aide -- who in 2009 pleaded
guilty to his role in the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  Once, when Perez and O’Hara confronted Madoff and asked why
there was no sign of stock trades, Madoff exploded, DiPascali
told the FBI.  “You are not going to tell me how to run my business,”
Madoff insisted during a meeting in the office of the firm’s
operations chief, Daniel Bonventre, according to DiPascali.
“Trades occur overseas.”  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 and is serving
a 150-year term for cheating investors out of $20 billion in
principal. Five employees -- Perez, O’Hara, Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno and Joann Crupi -- are accused of aiding Madoff in his
fraud. Defense attorneys said they’ll use DiPascali’s comments
to establish their clients were unaware of Madoff’s scheme.  Starting in 1968  Bonventre and Bongiorno began working for Madoff in 1968,
with Bongiorno rising to the level of supervisor and account
manager. Crupi, an employee since 1983, tracked daily bank
account activity, prosecutors said. Perez and O’Hara started at
the firm in the early 1990s.  The five were arrested in 2009 and 2010. In addition to
DiPascali, who began working for Madoff in 1975, former
employees David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz and Eric Lipkin
have pleaded guilty and are aiding prosecutors.  Most of the FBI reports are snippets of DiPascali’s
debriefings from mid-2009 to mid-2010, with one coming as
recently as February. Yet to be sentenced and free on bail,
DiPascali has been cooperating with the government.  His description in the heavily redacted files of the
2006 dinner is the most detailed account yet of how Madoff
deceived subordinates.  A Crook?  Asked if his boss was a crook, DiPascali said he gave Perez
and O’Hara the same explanation Madoff had given him.  “The explanation involved the idea that, because Madoff
was trading not as an agent but as principal, making these
trades out of his own inventory that was kept at various places
overseas, he was able to allocate these trades to customers
after the fact, back-date their trades, and do other things with
the accounts a broker acting as an agent would not be able to
do,” the FBI report states. DiPascali “reassured them that
Madoff had so many investments and assets.”  Identified in some FBI reports only as “Individual,”
DiPascali dated Madoff’s deception to the early 1970s, when
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC was housed in a
small office on  Wall Street . In their guilty pleas, Madoff and
DiPascali traced the Ponzi scheme to the 1980s or later.  ‘Vocally Proclaim’  “Madoff would very vocally proclaim he had just had
achieved great financial success with a deal he had been
arranging in  Europe  or somewhere else,” DiPascali told the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation . The report stated that “while
not understanding it at the time, Individual eventually realized
those pronouncements were calculated by Madoff to perpetuate”
the impression that “trading activity was somehow backed up by
his deals and investments overseas.”  Early on, Madoff began planning for a fraud that might last
for years, DiPascali told agents.  “Well before it actually happened,” Madoff expected that
outside auditors would want to see his firm’s books, and he
asked his lieutenant, DiPascali, to “start creating them,”
they wrote in an FBI report.  “To accomplish this task, Individual needed the expertise
of O’Hara and Perez,” the report stated. “Without revealing
the true reason why Madoff wanted the records, Individual needed
to come up with a plausible story as to why O’Hara and Perez
needed to create records that they undoubtedly presumed already
existed.”  Fooling Auditors  DiPascali succeeded, convincing the programmers that
auditors would require only a subset of data to be included on
trade blotters they could produce, according to the FBI report.
Still, DiPascali said he faced “an even larger hurdle” in
persuading them to fabricate the actual data, one report states.  So DiPascali reminded Perez and O’Hara that Madoff’s
purported “split-strike” strategy entailed the purchase of
large blocks of securities in piecemeal fashion, creating
voluminous records that would confound outside auditors. To
simplify matters, he told them he’d gather a list of Madoff
counterparties.  “Then Individual, O’Hara and Perez could populate more
detailed blotters, using the ‘actual’ counterparties with whom
BLMIS traded, without it being necessary to replicate precisely
the data associated with each trade,” an FBI report states.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York , and DiPascali’s lawyer, Marc Mukasey,
declined to comment on the FBI documents.  Grew Suspicious  Eventually, O’Hara and Perez grew suspicious. After dinner
with DiPascali at the Greek restaurant, they confronted Madoff
and urged him to quit the financial advisory business, DiPascali
told the FBI.  “Madoff began by politely reminding them he had been doing
this for 40 years, that they were computer programmers -- for an
obsolete system no less -- and they simply did not understand
what they were talking about,” DiPascali told the FBI. Seated
at a desk reviewing some figures, Madoff then regaled them with
tales of his exploits in the industry, DiPascali said.  According to the FBI documents, it wasn’t just the
programmers whom Madoff duped. Madoff told DiPascali to hide
from Bonventre the refusal of O’Hara and Perez to participate in
what the reports said were “special programming” projects.
Crupi also appeared to have faith in Madoff, DiPascali told
investigators.  “DiPascali surmised that Madoff may have fed Crupi the
same tidbits of information as Madoff had fed to him over the
years,” leaving the impression that Madoff had “things under
control,” an FBI report states.  ‘A Home Run’  One of those tidbits was Madoff’s occasional outburst that
a stock upstairs at his offices in Midtown Manhattan -- where he
ran a legitimate trading business -- had “hit a home run,”
DiPascali told the FBI. At other times, when Crupi asked why she
was finding the prices of the stocks she was purportedly buying
in the prior day’s newspaper, Madoff told her “the trades were
happening in the trading room even though she did not see
them,” DiPascali reported.  “Crupi had convinced herself over the years that Madoff
had a vast array of assets all over the world,” DiPascali told
the FBI. “In Crupi’s mind, Madoff was illiquid in 2008 because
the worldwide economic downturn had tied up all of Madoff’s
assets.”  After Madoff’s arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, Crupi and Bonventre
told authorities “exactly the same” story, one FBI report
states. Asked why their comments matched, “DiPascali surmised
that Madoff was probably telling Bonventre the same lies he told
Crupi.”  Lied to Subordinates  DiPascali lied to subordinates until the moment of Madoff’s
arrest, he told the FBI. The day before, after Madoff instructed
him to issue checks to favored employees, DiPascali said he
realized that he couldn’t do so until convincing Bongiorno “to
cash out” certain accounts.  “DiPascali needed to fabricate a story to convince
Bongiorno,” an FBI report states. “DiPascali did not know how
Bongiorno would handle the truth” so he “concocted a story”
about an upcoming audit that required her to cash out.  George Mehler, a lawyer for O’Hara, declined to comment,
saying only that their court motion “speaks for itself.”
Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch; Bongiorno’s attorney,  Maurice
Sercarz ; and Perez’s lawyer, Larry Krantz, declined to comment.  “There’s presumably more to come,” Crupi’s lawyer, Eric Breslin, said of the FBI reports, submitted as part of the ex-
workers’ request in Manhattan federal court that prosecutors
disclose additional details about the government’s allegations.  In papers filed with the FBI reports, the lawyers for Perez
and O’Hara said the documents, which had been withheld for
almost two years, “dramatically bolstered” their defense. They
complained about multiple redactions in FBI reports and said
they’re now “in the dark” as to when their clients are accused
of having learned of Madoff’s fraud.  The disclosures “are nothing short of remarkable,” Mehler
and Krantz wrote. “Given this disclosure, the current
indictment is hard to understand at all.”  The case is U.S. v. Bonventre, 10-CR-228, U.S. District
Court,  Southern District of New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  