-- Maersk Halts North Europe-Asia Bookings as Terminals Almost Full
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-03-23T03:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/maersk-halts-north-europe-asia-bookings-as-terminals-almost-full.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the
world’s biggest container-shipping company, suspended bookings
on North Europe-to-Asia routes as it struggles with a backlog of
shipments that has left terminals close to full capacity.  The carrier may take until early May to clear the backlog,
which is the result of an increase in demand and service cuts by
other lines, the Copenhagen-based company said in an e-mailed
service update today. It didn’t say how long the halt, which
doesn’t affect Asia-Europe bookings, may last.  “Terminal density at some ports is nearing yard
capacity,” the shipping line said in reply to Bloomberg News
questions. “If bookings are not halted, this could negatively
impact productivity, further slow down carriers’ ability to
clear the heavy backlog/overflow and impact other trades.”  Other shipping lines have halted bookings on the route
until May, Maersk said, citing customers, after operators pared
capacity earlier in the year because of slower Asia-Europe
demand and efforts to pare losses. Demand for Europe- Asia 
shipments has also withstood rate increases in February, March
and one planned for April, Maersk said.  Maersk Line said Feb. 17 that it will cut 9 percent of
capacity on the Asia-Europe route after a glut of new ships
caused rates to slump. The unit has predicted a second straight
annual loss this year.  The shipping line raised rates from North Europe to Asia by
$100 per 20-foot container on Feb. 1 and by $50 starting March 1.
A further $100 increase is due to take effect April 1. The
carrier has also raised Asia-Europe rates this year.  Container lines idled 289 vessels, able to hold a combined
913,000 20-foot boxes, as of March 12 to pare overcapacity,
according to  Alphaliner . That could rise to 1.1 million
containers by year-end, the shipping-data provider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  