-- AIJ Chiefs May Face Japan Criminal Probe for Hiding Losses
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-03-23T08:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/aij-stripped-of-registration-after-falsifying-investment-reports.html
Two directors of  AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. , the Japanese investment firm suspected of hiding
more than $1 billion of losses on pension money, may face a
criminal probe for their role in the case, regulators said.  AIJ President Kazuhiko Asakawa, 59, and director Shigeko Takahashi, 52, allegedly conspired to conceal trading losses and
fabricate reports on the assets managed to attract pension funds,
the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission said in
 Tokyo  today. The firm oversaw 145.8 billion yen ($1.8 billion)
of clients’ money and lost 109.2 billion yen from derivatives
trades directed by Asakawa over nine years, the SESC said.  The case has spurred authorities to conduct checks on 265
Japanese fund managers amid growing concerns that retirement
assets are at risk in a country where more than a fifth of the
 population  is over 65. Corporate  Japan  has been tainted by
recent scandals including Olympus Corp.’s covering up of losses.  Regulators today searched AIJ’s Tokyo headquarters and
revoked its registration. They ordered brokerage ITM Securities
Co. to halt business for six months for allegedly selling the
funds with the knowledge that reports of their value were false.  AIJ’s clients included 84 pension funds representing
880,000 workers ranging from taxi drivers to medical
practitioners.  Nihon Unisys Ltd. (8056) , a computer software developer,
said today that it will book a 5.5 billion yen charge on losses
from investments with the firm.  Advantest Corp. (6857) , a maker of
memory chip testers, and  Yaskawa Electric Corp. (6506) , an industrial
robot maker, are among companies that put pension money with AIJ.  Wrong-Way Bets  Asakawa steered AIJ’s derivatives trading, which centered
on Nikkei 225 options and  Japanese government bond  futures, the
SESC said. Wrong-way bets on bond  interest rates  fueled the
losses, an SESC official said at a briefing today, speaking on
condition of anonymity, citing the commission’s policy. Some of
the instruments were traded through an unidentified brokerage
firm in  Singapore , the SESC said.  Assets remaining at AIJ include 8.1 billion yen in cash
held in Japan and  Hong Kong , the SESC said. AIJ purported to
manage 209 billion yen in a fund as of March 2011, when its true
assets amounted to 25.1 billion yen, according to figures from
an unnamed custodian, the commission said.  Regulators are probing whether Asakawa hid money in secret
bank accounts, a government official with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday.  Prison Time  Two phone calls to AIJ’s office in Tokyo today were
directed to an automated recording that didn’t take messages.
Efforts by Bloomberg News to locate Asakawa and Takahashi at
their Tokyo addresses have been unsuccessful since AIJ was
suspended a month ago.  Convictions following any criminal proceedings would
involve a maximum three years in prison or a fine of up to 3
million yen, or both, the SESC said in a statement.  AIJ and ITM gave false reports to at least 66 pensions, the
commission said. Through affiliates, AIJ owns about 80 percent
of ITM, which is located in the same building, the SESC said.  “A six-month suspension sounds a bit severe, although I
haven’t confirmed such an administrative order yet,” Yasuo
Tsuneyoshi, a manager of ITM’s planning department, said by
telephone today. “ITM has never conspired with AIJ.”  State broadcaster NHK today showed video of at least a
dozen SESC officials entering AIJ’s office building in Tokyo’s
Nihonbashi district, surrounded by press photographers. Plans
for the inspection were leaked to local media days earlier.  Angry Lawmakers  The case has raised the ire of lawmakers, whose requests to
speak in parliament with Asakawa, a former Nomura Holdings Inc.
branch manager, were rebuffed.  Japanese corporate pension funds have been seeking
alternative investments to stocks and bonds to bolster returns.
Eighty-seven percent of corporate pensions under the nation’s
employees’ retirement fund system target a 5.5 percent annual
return, health ministry data show, even as  benchmark interest
rates  have been stuck close to zero since the 1990s and the
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  is about a quarter of its 1989 peak.  AIJ has said its Cayman Island-registered AIM Millennium
fund had annualized returns of more than 14 percent and returned
241 percent since it started in May 2002, according to an
October 2011 newsletter to investors.  Japan has the world’s second-biggest pension market, with
assets of $3.47 trillion, after the U.S., which has $15.27
trillion, according to Towers Watson & Co.’s 2011 Global Pension
Asset Study. Of the Japanese total, about 80 trillion yen is in
corporate pensions, according to data from the health ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  