-- Mali Coup Leaders Order Soldiers Back to Barracks, Impose Curfew
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2012-03-23T07:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/mali-coup-leaders-order-soldiers-back-to-barracks-impose-curfew.html
Mali ’s coup leaders ordered
soldiers to return to barracks and imposed a curfew to halt
vandalism on the streets of Bamako, the capital.  The curfew will be from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., Lieutenant Amadou
Konare, spokesman for the National Committee for the Recovery of
Democracy and the Restoration of the State, said yesterday on
state television. All of the country’s borders are closed until
further notice, he said.  Army officers yesterday said they had toppled President
Amadou Toure’s government and suspended the constitution over
the state’s handling of a Touareg rebellion in northern Mali.
The military formed a transitional council that will organize
elections and plans to restore power to a democratically elected
leader, Konare said. Mali vies with Tanzania to be  Africa ’s
third-biggest gold producer, after  South Africa  and Ghana.  Captain Amadou Sanogo, the head of the transitional
council, said the military is committed to fighting an uprising
by the ethnic Touareg Azawad National Liberation Movement as
well as fighters from al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb in
northern Mali.  Soldiers in Mali have complained about their lack of
preparation and resources in a campaign to quash a two-month
uprising by the Touareg separatists who are seeking autonomous
rule in northern Mali. Hundreds of soldiers’ wives last month
marched on the presidential palace to protest the danger their
husbands are being exposed to in the military campaign.  “We will fight them to the last degree,” Sanogo said,
adding that some rebel fighters have offered to join the army’s
cause.  Companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s
third-largest producer of the metal, and  Randgold Resources
Ltd. (RRS) , have operations in the country. Mali produced about 44
metric tons of gold in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 