-- Allianz CEO Expects 2012 to Be ‘No Less Challenging’
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-23T09:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/allianz-ceo-diekmann-expects-2012-to-be-no-less-challenging-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, expects 2012 to be “no less challenging” than last
year, Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann wrote in a letter
to shareholders.  “In our property-casualty segment we expect solid growth,
in particular supported by favorable price effects in several
markets, as well as an improved operating result,” Diekmann
wrote in the  annual report  published on the Munich-based
insurer’s website today. “In Life/Health we believe the revenue
level will remain stable and our operating result will slightly
increase -- despite the ongoing difficult market conditions.”  Insurers are seeking higher prices for their policies as
interest rates near record lows, natural-disaster losses and
writedowns on investments related to the sovereign-debt crisis
weigh on earnings and capital buffers. Allianz said in the
report it “will continue to take action in 2012 in response to
the challenging market environment, particularly low  interest
rates ” at its life- and health-insurance units.  Diekmann reiterated a target that Allianz set last month
for operating profit of 7.7 billion euros to 8.7 billion euros
this year, compared with 7.87 billion euros in 2011.  “Based on current estimates we expect our 2013 operating
profit to improve and to be driven again by positive
contributions from all operating segments,” Allianz said in the
report.  The insurer aims “to maintain our excellent results in
asset management,” Diekmann wrote in the letter, adding that in
the U.S. and  Germany , following a decline in operating profit,
“additional measures are needed.”  While the German management plans to “boost growth and
earnings in 2012 and subsequent years,” Diekmann wrote Allianz
doesn’t expect a strong boost from the market in the U.S. as
early as 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  