-- AMR Seeks to Reject Union Contracts in Bankruptcy Court
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/amr-seeks-to-reject-union-contracts-in-bankruptcy-court.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines (AMR)  plans
next week to start a bankruptcy-court process for rejecting
union contracts after failing to reach a deal to cut labor
costs.  American will ask for court approval to void the contracts
unless there is a “profound change” in negotiations with
unions, AMR’s bankruptcy attorney  Harvey Miller  said at a court
hearing yesterday in  Manhattan .  “We must start the process if we are going to bring these
cases to a successful conclusion within a reasonable period of
time,” Miller told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane.  The plan escalates AMR’s efforts to win lower labor costs
in contract talks that began in 2006. AMR is now seeking $1.25
billion in annual labor savings, including 13,000 job cuts, as
it reorganizes in bankruptcy.  “A deadline will focus the union leadership teams,” said
Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It will come down to their making a choice of
getting the best deal in negotiations or rolling the dice with
the judge.”  AMR won court approval yesterday to extend to Sept. 28 its
control over the reorganization and retain the exclusive right
to file a bankruptcy plan. Jack Butler, a lawyer for AMR’s
unsecured creditors, said in court that the plan will lead to
“complete conversion” of unsecured debt to equity.  Bankruptcy law permits companies in court protection to
seek permission to rework contracts to help them restructure.
Bargaining can continue even after the filing of a motion to
void labor accords at the third-largest U.S. airline.  ‘Real Threats’  American will file a motion seeking to reject collective
bargaining agreements next week,  Jeff Brundage , AMR’s senior
vice president for human resources wrote in a letter yesterday,
saying the airline faces “mounting financial pressures and real
threats in the market.”  “We are preparing for this step now because we must face
our current challenges head on and can no longer afford to
wait,” he wrote.  Fort Worth , Texas-based American’s stated aim has been to
speed the expense cuts by winning agreements on work rules and
other changes through union negotiations. That quest has proved
difficult, with the labor-management discord spilling into the
latest talks in a rerun of the tensions that preceded AMR’s Nov.
29 bankruptcy filing.  Standing Ready  The Transport Workers Union, whose members include baggage
handlers and mechanics, prefers to reach a consensual deal with
American while standing ready to “defend our members” by going
to court, President  Jim Little  said in an e-mailed statement
regarding AMR’s plan to cancel contracts in court.  “The abrogation scenario is simply not going to fly,” Tom Hoban, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots Association , said in an
interview. With the two sides far apart, AMR’s plan to void the
agreements is “not entirely unexpected,” he said.  The company “has no interest in achieving a constructive
relationship with labor, based on trust and respect,” the
 Association of Professional Flight Attendants  said in an e-mail
update to its members. “Instead, it is perpetuating its long-
standing practice of preferring contention over consensus. This
is regrettable.”  Biggest Work Groups  The three unions are the biggest work groups at American,
and the cancellation motion would cover contracts for pilots,
flight attendants and seven work groups under the TWU.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 protection after annual losses
that began in 2008, making it the last of the U.S. industry’s
full-service carriers to seek to restructure in bankruptcy.  Labor was the biggest chunk of $2 billion in proposed
expense cuts in the Feb. 1 plan, which would eliminate the jobs
of about 18 percent of American’s 73,800 employees. Lower
operating costs also will help AMR reap $1 billion more in
annual revenue by 2017, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  has
said.  A takeover of AMR looms as a possibility if the carrier
can’t restructure successfully on its own.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
has confirmed its interest in a possible bid, and TPG Capital
and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  also are evaluating bids, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Hired Advisers  “We have disclosed that we have hired advisers to
investigate the American situation,”  US Airways  CEO Doug Parker
told reporters March 21 in Phoenix. “That work continues. I
suspect it will for quite some time.”  The company’s vulnerability to a takeover would increase
with a successful bid to scrap labor contracts, said Straebler,
the analyst.  “The unions would be open to a better deal from a third
party like US Airways,” Straebler said in an interview.  AMR moved ahead March 21 with plans to reorganize its
American Eagle regional unit, telling the carrier’s unions that
annual spending must be trimmed by $75 million while paring as
many as 600 jobs. The company didn’t detail plans for American
Eagle when spelling out the savings sought at American on Feb.
1.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S.  Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  