-- Anti-Doping Chief Calls for More Blood Testing to Catch ‘Cheats’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-23T00:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/anti-doping-chief-calls-for-more-blood-testing-to-catch-cheats-.html
Athletes using performance-
enhancing drugs such as human growth hormone are “getting away
with it” because not enough blood testing is being done, the
president of the  World Anti-Doping Agency  said.  In 2010,  WADA  accredited laboratories analyzed 258,267
samples taken from in- and out-of-competition testing worldwide.
Out of that amount, “effectively only 5,000” were blood
samples, WADA president John Fahey said in an interview in
Lausanne,  Switzerland , where the doping agency has a regional
office. The rest of the testing was done on urine samples.  In 2010, there were only 3 positive cases of human growth
hormone (HGH), according to statistics on the WADA website. HGH
can only be detected in blood.  “What we’re seeing happening is another disappointment to
us,” Fahey said. “Sports generally are not spending enough on
anti-doping agencies and not putting enough blood testing
forward. That being the case, I suspect HGH cheats are getting
away with it. What is an effective and robust program? It’s a
hell of a lot more than 2 percent of the samples being blood
samples. It’s probably got to be 15 percent, or maybe 20 percent
blood samples to be effective.”  In September, WADA’s executive committee recommended that
all anti-doping organizations ensure that “no less than 10
percent of all samples collected were blood specimens.”  HGH is considered a performance-enhancing drug because of
its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after training,
while not being detectable in urine, unlike anabolic steroids. A
test for HGH was first introduced at the  2004 Athens Olympics .  More Intrusive  Fahey said not enough blood testing is being done partly
because it is “more intrusive” on the athletes as it involves
having a needle being put in their arm. It’s also more expensive
at the laboratory, he added. Unlike urine, blood samples have to
be cooled when being transported which can double the costs.  U.K. Anti-Doping , which is responsible for implementing
and monitoring the country’s drug-testing program, is on target
to analyze 10 percent of more than 7,000 tests from blood
samples, spokeswoman Nicola Newman said in an email.  “The type of test is increasingly driven by intelligence
and science,” Newman said.  In 2009, former Great Britain rugby league player Terry
Newton became the first athlete to test positive for HGH. He was
given a two-year ban from the sport in February 2010, and died
seven months later. Newton was found hanged at his home in
Greater Manchester, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported at
the time.  Fahey, a former finance minister in his native  Australia ,
praised cycling as a sport that does a lot of blood testing.  Deal With Problem  “Cycling had a very bad record going back ten years or so
ago,” Fahey said. “They have at least stopped denying the
problem, and worked with a program to deal with the problem.”  Last month, the Court of Arbitration for Sport rejected
Spanish cyclist  Alberto Contador ’s claim that he failed a drug
test because he consumed a contaminated steak, and banned him
for two years. Contador was also stripped of his 2010 Tour de
France title, just like American cyclist  Floyd Landis  in 2006.  Last year, the UCI Antidoping Foundation conducted 13,057
drug tests in cycling, of which 5,154 were done on blood samples
according to statistics provided by the  International Cycling
Union . All professional cyclists now have a biological passport,
which is an individual, electronic record of the results of all
doping tests over a period of time.  WADA is working on a more sophisticated test that can
detect HGH even if it is used “many days” before a sample is
taken, Fahey said. He declined to say when it would be
introduced, in order not to alert potential offenders.  WADA was founded in 1999 as an international independent
agency, funded by governments and the  International Olympic
Committee . The group monitors the World Anti-Doping Code, which
knits together anti-doping policies of countries around the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 