-- AOL Said to Hire Evercore to Find Patent-Portfolio Buyer
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-24T14:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/aol-said-to-hire-evercore-to-find-buyer-for-800-patent-portfolio.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  hired  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  to find a buyer for its more than 800 patents and explore
other strategic options, according to three people with
knowledge of the situation.  Private-equity firms, including Providence Equity Partners
Inc., TPG Capital and  Silver Lake (SLR) , have approached AOL about
taking the company private, yet those overtures haven’t resulted
in a deal, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter hasn’t been disclosed.  Evercore is trying to help the company wring value from a
patent portfolio that AOL shareholder Starboard Value LP said
may yield more than $1 billion in licensing income. AOL is
exploring the options amid slow advertising growth and a decline
in its dial-up Internet subscribers. The company’s revenue has
dropped 29 percent since its 2009 spinoff from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   “It could be that someone is trying to use their patent
portfolio as a life preserver,” said James Conley, a  professor 
at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. “The
cash from the dial-up business is going away, and late in the
game the leadership may be realizing that, ‘Golly, we could get
some money from these patents.’”  Many of AOL’s patents cover Internet advertising and
communications services, and the portfolio could fetch as much
as $1 billion from a large technology company, said Christopher Marlett, co-founder of  MDB Capital Group , an investment bank in
 Santa Monica ,  California , focused on intellectual property.  Google, Microsoft?  “More than likely the buyer on this would be someone like
Google or  Microsoft (MSFT) ,” Marlett said. AOL’s “intellectual
property could be a significant percentage of the overall value
of the company,” he said.  Maureen Sullivan , a spokeswoman for New York-based AOL,
declined to comment, as did representatives of Evercore, Google
Inc., Microsoft Corp. and the private-equity firms.  AOL’s share price has climbed 81 percent since Aug. 10,
when it reached its lowest level since the spinoff, amid
speculation it might be sold to a private-equity firm. Shares of
AOL rose 4.1 percent to $18.49 yesterday, giving the company a
market value of $1.75 billion. AOL has become too expensive for
the financing of a leveraged buyout, people familiar with the
matter said.  Private-equity firms are often drawn by a company’s ability
to generate cash. AOL’s appeal is diminishing as its dial-up
business dries up, the people said. Sales in that division have
plunged each of the past four quarters.  Shrinking Sales  The unit provided $803 million, or 36 percent, of total
revenue in 2011. AOL’s fourth-quarter  net income  declined 65
percent from a year earlier to $22.8 million on sales of $576.8
million. In the fourth quarter of 2009, AOL reported sales of
$809.7 million.  AOL’s portfolio includes “some of the foundation patents
for the Internet,” Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said
at a Barclays Capital conference this month.  “It’s beachfront property in  East Hampton ,” he said.
“It’s basically extremely valuable.”  Armstrong said in a December interview that he was open to
going private. It “doesn’t matter” whether AOL remains public
or goes private, he said. Remaining an independent entity is the
“first desired course of action,” he said.  Private-Equity Talks  Armstrong had been in talks with private-equity firms
before, as recently as September, when the CEO approached
potential financial partners about combining AOL with  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) , two people said at the time. AOL said in August that it
had retained investment bank Allen & Co. and law firm  Wachtell
Lipton Rosen & Katz (1347L)  as advisers. Allen & Co. later gave up its
mandate to be Yahoo’s adviser, said one of the people.  Starboard, which increased its stake to 5.2 percent from
4.5 percent late last year, said in a Feb. 24 statement that
it’s “increasingly uncomfortable” with the direction the
company and the board leadership are taking.  The investor nominated five directors -- including  Jeffrey Smith , Starboard’s co-founder and CEO -- to AOL’s board at the
time.  “We are troubled that the company remains closed-minded to
alternative value creation initiatives,” Smith said in a letter
accompanying the statement. AOL could exploit its more than 800
patents covering Internet technologies such as e-commerce, which
may generate “in excess of $1 billion of licensing income,” he
wrote.  AOL fired as many as 40 people in the group that includes
its AOL Instant Messenger service, while executives Eric van
Miltenburg and Jason Shellen departed, three people said earlier
this month. The cuts in AIM were related to the division’s
underperformance, and they could be followed by the elimination
of more staff in other departments, these people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  