-- Bats Global IPO Turns Ugly After Apple Halt, Quote Error
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-23T19:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/apple-trade-on-bats-triggers-circuit-breaker-stock-rebounds.html
You think you had a bad day?  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , the six-year-old equity exchange,
saw its debut as a public company go haywire, as system errors
that caused its computers to spew bad quotes and halted  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  forced the cancellation of its first day of trading.  “It’s a pretty inauspicious start,” Sam Ginzburg, a
partner and head of  capital markets  at First New York Securities
LLC, a New York-based proprietary trading firm, said today in a
phone interview.  Data received by Bloomberg showed Bats’s shares, the first
ever to be listed on its Lenexa, Kansas-based market, traded for
pennies following the initial public offering at $16. Those
transactions were later voided and Bats said no trades in its
stock today would stand. At the same time, a single execution on
its venue of 100 shares of Apple, the world’s most valuable
company, triggered a circuit breaker that paused the shares.  The malfunctions may refocus scrutiny on modern American
market structure, where two decades of  government regulation 
have broken the grip of the biggest exchanges and left trading
fragmented over as many as 50 venues. Bats, whose name stands
for Better Alternative Trading System, rose to prominence in
tandem with the proliferation of electronic firms that now
dominate the buying and selling of stock in the U.S.  Spokesman  Randy Williams  couldn’t be reached for comment.  ‘More Newsworthy’  “It’s not wildly unusual for exchanges to have system
issues, but because they happen to go public today it makes it
more newsworthy,”  Mike Shea , a managing partner at Direct
Access Partners LLC in New York, said in a phone interview.  A single trade for 100 shares executed on a Bats venue
 briefly  sent Apple down to $542.80, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  order  was executed at 10:57 a.m.  New York 
time. Two more transactions, which sent the stock back above
$598, were made before the halt. The stock stayed around that
level once trading resumed five minutes later.  Bats sent a notice about 10 minutes before the Apple trade
saying it was investigating “system issues” affecting
companies with ticker symbols ranging between A and BF. Apple’s
is AAPL. Bats’s ticker is BATS.  Bats said in a regulatory filing that it “experienced very
low downtime” last year. BZX Exchange, its main market, was
accessible to users 99.94 percent of the time. BYX Exchange, its
second market, was available 99.998 percent of the time, the
company said. The main market processed an average of about
29,000 order messages per second last year, Bats said.  ‘Reliability’  “Historically, Bats has been very reliable, but this is a
question going forward,”  Bruce Weber , dean of the Lerner
College of Business and Economics at the  University of Delaware 
in  Newark ,  Delaware , said in a phone interview. “The
competition that entrants like Bats has brought is good. They
have to provide the reliability investors expect to sustain
their role.”  The third-largest U.S. stock exchange operator raised
$100.7 million in its initial public offering yesterday after
selling shares at the bottom of the proposed range. Bats sold
6.3 million shares for $16 each on behalf of existing
stockholders. The company had offered them for $16 to $18,
according to a regulatory filing.  Broker Owners  Founded by a high-frequency trader in 2005, Bats was
steered to prominence by brokers trying to hold down fees as the
New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market bought their
biggest electronic rivals. The company executed  10.9 percent  of
U.S. equities volume last month, compared with 10.7 percent a
year earlier, it said.  The exchange operator raised money less than two years
after a crash erased $862 billion in less than 20 minutes from
U.S. share values, a plunge that some critics linked to the
fragmented electronic market structure that helped Bats thrive.
The company was initially built to service high-frequency firms
like Tradebot Systems Inc., whose chief executive officer
founded Bats. Automated trading firm Getco LLC in  Chicago  and
Wedbush Inc., owner of a Los Angeles-based investment bank whose
clients include high-speed firms, bought equity stakes.  Electronic Inquiry  An official with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division said last month that the agency is
examining equity trading practices that gained dominance in the
past decade amid the shift automation. Daniel Hawke, head of the
market-abuse unit, said the SEC is looking into techniques such
as co-location, in which exchanges let traders place computers
close to the market’s systems to shave time off executions.  Bats itself got a request from the SEC for information on
the types of orders customers use on its venues. The request,
disclosed in a regulatory filing Feb. 23, sought information
about how order types have evolved at the company. Bats said
regulators asked for documents “related to the development,
modification and use of order types, and our communications with
certain market participants,” including some of Bats’ owners.  About 55 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from firms
using high-frequency trading strategies,  Adam Sussman , a partner
and director of research at Tabb Group, said in December. More
than half of that -- 32 percent of total stock volume -- is from
market makers supplying bids and offers, he said.  “As all the exchanges have gone more toward electronic
trading, and high-frequency, algorithmic trading, there are more
risks of these things happening,” said Nick Einhorn, an analyst
at  Renaissance Capital LLC , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO
research and investment firm. “Obviously, it’s not a
particularly good start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  