-- Harper Says Canada to Speed Energy Reviews in Bid for Asia Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-03-23T08:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/harper-says-canada-to-speed-energy-reviews-in-bid-for-asia-sales.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his government plans to reform its regulatory system
so energy projects can get faster approval as the country looks
to sell more oil and gas to  Asia .  “It’s essential that we be able sell our energy products
outside of  North America  to partners, countries other than the
United States,” Harper said today in Bangkok at a news
conference with Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. “That
will require some significant infrastructure projects to go
forward, and we’re obviously, as we’ve indicated, looking at
taking steps necessary to ensure we can get timely regulatory
decisions.”  Harper’s Conservative government has vowed to accelerate
the regulatory review process for projects such as pipelines, as
the country seeks to build oil-exporting capacity after
President  Barack Obama  in January denied TransCanada Corp. a
permit for its Keystone XL pipeline to the U.S. Harper is making
his first official visit to  Thailand  on a six-day trip in which
he will also travel to  Japan  and  South Korea , two other
potential markets.  Canada  sits on the world’s third-largest pool of oil
reserves, and currently exports the overwhelming majority of its
crude to the U.S.  Canada Trade  Canada had a combined merchandise trade deficit of C$5.7
billion ($5.7 billion) with Japan, South Korea and Thailand last
year, according to Canadian government figures.  Harper and Yingluck today agreed to study the economic
potential of a free-trade agreement between the two countries,
which did C$3.5 billion in merchandise trade in 2011, up 14.8
percent from a year earlier.  The Canadian prime minister said he’s confident his
government can reach a trade pact with Thailand. Since taking
office in 2006, Canada has concluded free-trade agreements with
nine countries, including Colombia, Jordan and Peru.  Yingluck urged Canadian companies to invest in Thai
industries including electronics, machinery, automobiles,
information technology and clean energy. The two countries
discussed the expansion of energy cooperation, she said in a
statement.  Human Smuggling  They also agreed to cooperate to combat human smuggling,
terrorism and cross-border crime, she said.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) , Thailand’s biggest
publicly listed oil and gas explorer, acquired a 40 percent
stake in an oil-sands project in Canada for $2.28 billion in
November 2010, the biggest acquisition by a Thai company.  Harper last month led a delegation of more than 40 business
executives and five ministers to deepen links with  China .  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty plans to include new
measures to expedite environmental approvals for energy projects
in the government’s March 29 budget, a person familiar with the
document said.  In a Feb. 11 interview with Bloomberg News, Natural
Resources minister Joe Oliver said regulatory changes will
include hard deadlines for reviews.  “One of the things we absolutely need is firm and
enforceable timelines from the beginning of the process to the
end,” Oliver said.  The government began hearings in January on the proposed
Northern Gateway pipeline by Enbridge Inc. to move crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to British Columbia’s coast, where it could
be shipped to Asian markets. The pipeline has become a
flashpoint with environmentalists and Harper’s government.  Public Hearings  Regulators have received more than 4,000 requests by
individuals to testify at public hearings. Environmental and
aboriginal groups say the project will increase the risk of an
 oil spill  off the coast of British Columbia. The regulatory
panel has said it plans to complete the review by the end of
2013.  The government will be looking more closely into complaints
that environmental groups backed with foreign money are seeking
to overload the regulatory process, Harper has said. Canada also
sees Asian countries as promising markets for its natural gas.  Apache Corp. (APA) , the second-largest U.S. independent oil and
natural-gas producer by market value, said March 6 it’s moving
toward a decision to go ahead with a liquefied natural gas
project that would ship LNG from a terminal in Kitimat, on
Canada’s west coast. Calgary-based Encana Corp. is a partner in
the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  