-- Ashkenazy Acquisition Buys Upscale Mall Bravern Near Seattle
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-03-23T03:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ashkenazy-acquisition-buys-bravern-retail-complex-near-seattle.html
Ashkenazy Acquisition Corp., a New
York-based investor in retail and office properties, bought a
luxury shopping mall in Bellevue, Washington, in its first
acquisition in the Northwest U.S.  Ashkenazy paid $79 million for the Shops at the Bravern,
according to a record of sale filed today in King County. The
seller was a joint venture between Bahrain-based  Investcorp Bank
BSC (INVCORP)  and  Schnitzer West LLC , headquartered in  Seattle .  The purchase gives Ashkenazy a foothold in the affluent
suburbs of Seattle known locally as the Eastside. Bellevue is
located across Lake Washington from Seattle, between Medina,
home to billionaires including  Bill Gates  and  Jeff Bezos , and
Redmond, where Microsoft Corp. is based.  Bellevue’s median household income was $81,912 in 2010, the
most recent year available, compared with $51,914 for the U.S.,
according to the Census Bureau. Bellevue’s population grew 12
percent from 2006 to 2010, outpacing the 9.7 percent growth in
the U.S. as a whole.  “Bellevue has very attractive demographics,” said Michael Alpert, president and vice chairman of Ashkenazy, in a telephone
interview. “The  Shops at the Bravern  is, in our mind, the
leading luxury center in the Pacific Northwest. This is exactly
the type of property we are looking for.”  Neiman Marcus  The retail center has 309,000 square feet (28,700 square
meters) anchored by fashion retailer  Neiman Marcus  and includes
restaurants, a gym and a spa. It opened in 2009 and was put up
for sale in November 2011. The stores are part of a larger
development that also includes office and apartment towers.  The sellers received more than a dozen offers from private
and institutional investors, including real estate investment
trusts, said Tom Woodworth, a partner and senior investment
manager at Schnitzer, in a phone interview.  Schnitzer said it will continue to manage the Shops at the
Bravern.  Ashkenazy owns several retail properties in Manhattan,
including the site housing  Barneys New York  department store at
660 Madison Ave. Its other investments include Faneuil Hall
Marketplace in Boston and Union Station in Washington D.C.  Investcorp officials didn’t return calls for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  