-- Oil Rally Helps Stocks Reverse Drop as Treasuries Rise
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-23T20:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/asian-stocks-drop-on-growth-as-australian-dollar-falls.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing an early
drop and trimming the biggest weekly loss of the year, as energy
companies and oil rallied on a report that sanctions will reduce
Iranian crude exports by 300,000 barrels a day. Ten-year
Treasuries rose for a fourth straight day.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.3 percent at
1,397.11 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after tumbling as much as 0.4
percent. Energy companies climbed 1 percent as a group to lead
the market’s rebound following the Reuters report. Crude surged
1.4 percent to $106.87 a barrel, erasing most of a weekly
decline. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped five
basis points to 2.23 percent, retreating for a fourth day after
climbing to the highest level since  October (USGG10YR) .  Earlier declines in stocks were triggered when an
unexpected decrease in sales of new U.S. homes added to concern
the global economic rebound was slowing. The S&P 500 lost about
0.5 percent this week as reports that manufacturing contracted
in  Europe  and  China  overshadowed a drop in U.S. jobless claims
to a four-year low.  “It’s a rotation into energy companies,”Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees more than $116 billion in
client assets, said in a telephone interview.’’ We’ve had a
predictable pullback from an extraordinary run in the global
financial markets. Investors are considering the soft economic
data from China and Europe as a potential warning, but I don’t
see this as a massive correction. We have an improving economic
environment.’’  Weekly Drop  Today’s gain trimmed the S&P 500’s second weekly drop of
the year. Hewlett-Packard Co., Bank of America Corp.,
Caterpillar Inc., Chevron Corp. and Alcoa Inc. climbed at least
0.9 percent to help lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . Gauges of raw-material producers and financial shares
in the  S&P 500  also climbed at least 0.9 percent to help lead
today’s gain.  An S&P index of  11 homebuilders  slid after sales of new
U.S. homes dropped 1.6 percent to a 313,000 annual pace last
month, the slowest since October, a Commerce Department report
showed. KB Home tumbled 8.7 percent as it reported first-quarter
revenue that missed estimates.  Bats Global Markets Inc., the six-year-old equity exchange,
canceled its initial public offering, stunning  Wall Street  after
errors on its own computer systems derailed trading in the stock
and forced a halt in Apple Inc.  Pulling the IPO capped a day of missteps for the electronic
exchange, beginning just as the shares were making their debut.
Data received by Bloomberg around 11 a.m. in New York showed the
stock, the first ever listed on its Lenexa, Kansas-based market,
quoted at pennies after being priced yesterday at $16. Around
the same time, a 100-share transaction in Apple was executed on
Bats so far away from the market price that it triggered a halt.  VIX Rebounds  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index fell
4.8 percent today to trim its weekly gain to 2.4 percent,
snapping a five-week decrease in the benchmark measure of U.S.
equity options. The VIX is down about 66 percent since Sept. 30,
a record  two-quarter  decline.  Credit Suisse Group AG, under pressure to restore order to
an exchange-traded note tracking U.S. equity volatility, said it
will start resupplying the market with shares today after
cutting issuance off in February. Stock will be added to the
 VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , or TVIX. The
security, designed to track futures on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, has whipsawed investors for the past
month, climbing 89 percent above its asset value before plunging
29 percent yesterday.  Traders betting today’s release of “The Hunger Games”
will spur larger price swings in Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.
pushed  prices of 30-day options to the highest in two years
compared with two-month contracts.  Volatility of ‘Hunger’  Implied volatility for one-month contracts closest to the
independent filmmaker’s stock price was 10.79 points above two-
month options, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread reached 12.35 on March 19, the widest since March 2010.
Lions Gate shares have almost tripled since their 2011 low in
March to $14.55.  Even after this week’s retreat, the S&P 500 is up more than
11 percent in 2012 and poised for its best first-quarter return
since 1998. The S&P 500 closed at the highest level since May
2008 on March 19, while the S&P SmallCap 600 Index reached a
record and the Nasdaq Composite Index rallied to an 11-year high
that day.  ‘Geopolitical Concerns’  Oil futures jumped more than 2 percent in three minutes on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , topping $108 a barrel for the
first time in four days, following the Reuters report on Iranian
exports, which cited Petrologistics, a Geneva-based consultant.
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said the gain may have triggered traders’
automatic buy orders.  Crude has risen more than 8 percent this year as Western
countries imposed sanctions on  Iran ’s petroleum exports aimed at
halting its nuclear program. Iran threatened to shut the  Strait
of Hormuz  , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil, in
retaliation. Futures fell earlier this week as  Saudi Arabia  said
it could boost output immediately to make up for any supply
shortfall.  “The Iranian headlines highlight the geopolitical concerns
that threaten to cut exports from the world’s third-biggest oil
exporter,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The weaker
dollar is also giving commodities a lift.”  The dollar weakened against 14 of 16 major peers, losing
more than 0.5 percent versus the currencies of  Australia ,  New
Zealand  and  Norway .  Fed Watch  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the U.S. and world economies risk elevated inflation that
persists for years should developed nations mistime their exits
from stimulative monetary policies.  “Once inflation gets out of control, it takes a long, long
time to fix it,” Bullard said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Hong Kong  today. “Ultra-easy” policies across the
Group of Seven nations, which include the U.S. and  Germany , may
be retained for too long, he said.  European stocks were little changed, paring earlier losses,
as shares of mining companies rose with metal prices. Renault SA
and Antofagasta Plc rallied at least 2 percent after both
tumbled more than 3 percent yesterday. BT Group Plc climbed
after the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company said it will
cut its pension deficit by half. Randgold Resources Ltd. and
Publicis Groupe SA paced declining shares.  In European bond markets, yields on Spanish 10-year debt
slid 12.4 basis points to 5.33 percent and Italian yields
decreased 4.9 basis points to 5.02 percent.  The euro increased against 11 of 16 major peers, rising 0.5
percent to $1.3271 after three days of declines prompted bets
the move lower was overdone. The yen strengthened against all of
its major counterparts this week, paring its losses for the
year, amid increased concern of slowing economic growth spurred
investor appetite for safety.,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  