-- Asian Stocks to Outperform, Credit Suisse Poll Shows
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2012-03-23T03:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/asian-stocks-to-outperform-credit-suisse-poll-shows-correct-.html
(Corrects name of investor conference in third paragraph
of story published on March 20.)  Stocks in  Asia (MXAPJ)  and the U.S. are
expected to provide “the greatest upside” for investors in
2012 amid optimism economic growth in the two regions will
bolster corporate earnings, according to a survey of delegates
attending a Credit Suisse Group AG conference in  Hong Kong .  Thirty-eight percent voted for equities in non-Japan Asia
to outperform the rest of the world in the poll, while 35
percent chose the U.S., according to a slide presentation of the
survey results obtained by Bloomberg News today.  China  was the
Asia-Pacific country that the poll’s 300 respondents were most
overweight, or held more shares than are represented on
benchmark indexes for the region.  “People were quite optimistic about growth in the U.S. and
non-Japan  Asia  is one of those areas that has given more growth
consistently over the past five years,” Jahanzeb Naseer, the
investment bank’s head of research product for the Asia Pacific,
said on the sidelines of the Credit Suisse Asian Investment
Conference. Asia “is the region that people think will continue
to surprise on the upside in terms of growth,” he said.  The  World Bank  predicted in January the U.S. economy will
grow 2.2 percent this year, faster than 2011’s estimated 1.7
percent. East Asian and Pacific economies may expand 7.8 percent
this year, outpacing the World Bank’s estimate for global growth
of 2.5 percent, the Washington-based institution said in a
 report  released in the U.S. on Jan. 17.  Assessment Raised  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3 percent annual pace in the
last three months of 2011, the fastest since the second quarter
of 2010. Federal Reserve policy makers raised their assessment
of the world’s largest economy on March 13 as the labor market
gathered strength. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 2.8
percent since then, driving valuations to 13.5 times estimated
profit, the highest level since July 7.  The benchmark gauge of American equity has climbed 10
percent this year, while the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan
Index has risen 14 percent. The Asian  gauge  trades for 12 times
estimated profit, the biggest discount versus the  S&P 500  since
Jan. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian equities may rise 10 percent or more this year from
current levels, said 51 percent of the poll’s respondents. Forty
percent of those surveyed said  Europe ’s debt crisis posed the
biggest risk for investors in 2012, the results showed.  Biggest Overweight  Thirty-three percent of the respondents to the poll said
the so-called H shares of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
were their biggest overweight position even after China’s
Premier Wen Jiabao announced on March 5 a slower growth target
for the world’s largest economy this year.  The 7.5 percent goal, down from an 8 percent objective in
place since 2005, was announced in a speech by Wen at the start
of a national lawmakers congress. The premier also reiterated
that the government will maintain a “proactive” fiscal policy
and a “prudent” monetary policy.  “Despite all the concerns, that’s one market where people
are hopeful of surprise on the upside and that’s coming
primarily from the view that  China (HSCEI)  is one government that has
the flexibility, the tools and ammunition to ease monetary
policy,” Credit Suisse’s Naseer said.  Forty-six percent of respondents in Credit Suisse’s poll
last year predicted Chinese stocks would lead advances by Asian
equities in 2011. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which
tracks H shares, slumped 22 percent last year as the Chinese
government raised  interest rates  and banks’ reserve ratios to
curb inflation and to prevent a property bubble. MSCI’s Asia
excluding Japan index sank 18 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  