-- Australia’s Labor Party Faces Queensland Defeat in Gillard Blow
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-23T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/australia-s-labor-party-faces-queensland-defeat-in-gillard-blow.html
Australia’s Queensland state votes
today in an election with polls showing the ruling  Labor
Party  will lose power for the first time since 1996, deepening 
the challenge for Prime Minister Julia Gillard 20 months before 
a national ballot is due.  Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh ’s Labor trails the Liberal
National Party by 20 percentage points, according to the most
recent survey. A loss would leave Labor out of power in all but
the two smallest of Australia’s six states.  “There’s a feeling in Queensland that the government’s
energy levels have been drained and it’s time for a change,”
said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at Brisbane’s
Griffith University. “There are questions throughout Queensland
on whether Labor can deliver good government.”  Queensland’s  unemployment rate  soared more than 2
percentage points during Bligh’s five years in power, as the
local dollar’s climb to its strongest since the early 1980s hurt
the  tourism industry  in the region known as the “Sunshine
State.” The popularity of Australia’s first elected female
premier has sunk since she led the state’s recovery from a
cyclone and deadly floods last year amid voter anger over sales
of state assets.  Seven federal seats in Queensland are held by Labor members
with margins of less than 6 percent, electoral commission
figures show. The northeastern state accounted for more than
half the national seats lost by Labor in the most recent federal
vote in 2010.  Gillard’s minority government, which trails the federal
opposition by 12 percentage points according to the latest
Newspoll, is struggling to revive Labor’s popularity before a
national election that must be held by the end of 2013.  ‘Hugely Important’  “It’s a hugely important state,” said John Wanna, a
professor of public administration at the Canberra-based
 Australian National University  and the author of a book on the
state’s political history. “Bligh’s realized the election has
been lost for a while now and has been in damage control, trying
to reduce the margin of the loss.”  Queensland , Australia’s largest debtor state, lost its Aaa 
 credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service in May 2009, which 
opposition leader and former Brisbane Mayor Campbell Newman has
vowed to restore.  More than 2.3 million people are expected to cast votes at
about 1,700 polling booths throughout the state, which is
roughly the geographical size of  Mexico , according to the
 electoral commission ’s website. The booths open at 8 a.m. and
close at 6 p.m. local time, with the winning party expected to
be known later tonight, according to the electoral commission.  89 Seats  Labor currently holds 51 seats to the opposition’s 34 in
the state legislature with 89 electorates up for grabs. Newman,
48, who led the state capital of  Brisbane ’s recovery efforts
during last year’s floods, faces a fight to win the seat of
 Ashgrove , currently held by Labor’s Kate Jones with a margin of
7.1 percent.  The Liberal National party has refused to speculate on who
would take the premiership should Newman lose.  During his campaign the opposition leader has countered
allegations that a property developer who made seven donations
to his re-election fund as mayor was also conducting business
from a property owned by Newman’s family.  Agricultural Heartland  Queensland was an agricultural heartland for Australia
until the late 1980s, when international tourism, led by  Japan ’s
booming middle class, led to a development surge in Brisbane and
the  Gold Coast , which are now the nation’s third- and sixth-
largest cities.  After winning power in 1989, the Labor Party has ruled for
all but two years. In 1996, the main opposition party won a by-
election that gave it a majority, which it lost in the next
state election in 1998. Bligh, 51, took office in September 2007.  Bligh, who has raised A$15 billion from selling off state
assets such as coal-train operator  QR National Ltd. (QRN) , has pledged
to invest 50 percent of royalties from the state’s liquefied
natural gas industry in schools and healthcare. She has vowed to
add 3,000 doctors, nurses and health workers in three years and
to protect rivers from industrial damage.  A former social worker who grew up in a single-parent home,
Bligh won praise for her handling of the aftermath of  Cyclone
Yasi  that hit Queensland in February 2011. The storm contributed
to flooding that killed at least 35 people, affected 70 towns
and cities and saw three-quarters of the state declared a
disaster zone.  Since then, her support has dropped. Labor trails the
opposition 40 percent to 60 percent in the two-party preferred
vote, a Galaxy poll of 800 people conducted March 15-16 showed
without giving a margin of error. The 20 percentage-point gap
was unchanged from a month earlier.  Australia ’s largest online betting agency has already
effectively declared the election over. Sportsbet paid out all
bets on the opposition to win on March 22, with a Labor victory
set to return A$17 for every A$1 bet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  