-- Bales Had Troubled Broker Career Before Allegations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bales-had-troubled-broker-career-before-war-crimes-allegations.html
Robert Bales, the U.S. soldier
suspected of shooting Afghan civilians, started selling
community-bank stocks in 1996 as a 23-year-old driving a Chevy
Cavalier. That may have been the peak of his financial career.  Before Bales enlisted in the Army in 2001 after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, he worked at five firms in five years.
After he left the industry, he was hit with a $1.5 million
settlement for his role in swindling a couple out of more than
$600,000 from their retirement account.  “He wanted to be an  investment adviser , and he had a plan
as to how he was going to accomplish that,” said Robert K.
Cargin, who hired Bales in September 2000 at Quantum Securities
Corp. in Westerville,  Ohio . “It just didn’t work out.”  Bales, 38, is suspected of killing at least 16 civilians in
 Afghanistan  on March 11. He may face charges in military court
this week, his lawyer, John Henry Browne, has said.  Cargin said in a telephone interview that he knew Bales
from Diversified Capital Markets Inc., where, as a first-time
broker, Bales hunted for community-bank stocks hitting the
market and searched for bank directors and others interested in
buying them.  “It was a good business when it worked,” said Cargin, now
the financial and operations principal at Columbus, Ohio-based
Capital City Securities LLC. “That was part of his plan of how
he was going to make it.”  Friend and Asset  The other part, Cargin said, was to capitalize on his
friendship with Marc Edwards, a professional football player who
was a high-school teammate in Norwood, a Cincinnati suburb.  “Having an NFL football player as a best friend could be a
launching pad for a pretty decent career, if done correctly,”
Cargin said. “We gave him a shot.”  Edwards, who played for the  Cleveland Browns  when Cargin
hired Bales, never became a client of Quantum Securities.  Edwards, Bales, and Bales’s brother Mark incorporated
 Spartina Investments  in May 1999 in Doral,  Florida . The state
dissolved Spartina in September 2000 after its annual report was
more than nine months late.  Edwards has declined interview requests.  “The business relationship was brief and limited,” said
Marina Ein, an Edwards spokeswoman. “It ended as a result of
marketplace forces and other issues.”  Bales studied economics at  Ohio State University  from 1993
to 1996 without graduating. According to Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority records, he passed his general securities
representative exam on July 18, 1996, and went to work for
Diversified Capital.  Bouncing Around  Bales later worked for two companies that included people
from Diversified Capital, records show. His longest stint was at
Michael Patterson Inc., from March 1998 to September 1999,
according to a report from the Ohio Commerce Department.  During his tenure there, Bales was accused of defrauding
Gary Liebschner and his wife of Carroll, Ohio, of more than
$600,000, according to Finra records. Bales sold Liebschner’s
 AT&T Inc. (T)  shares, bought other securities and pocketed the
commissions. He got $16,000 on a single day, Earle R. Frost Jr.,
a Columbus attorney for Liebschner, has said. Bales didn’t
appear at a hearing on the case, Frost said.  Arbitrators found in a 2003 ruling that Bales “engaged in
fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, churning, unauthorized trading
and unsuitable investments,” according to a Finra report.  State Steps In  The Ohio Division of Securities issued a cease and desist
order in August 2000 against Michael Patterson, his namesake
firm’s owner, after it found that unauthorized sales and
purchases of securities were made for seven clients who lost
more than $500,000, according to the order and a Finra report.  Investments were made “that were not suitable for the
customers, many of whom are retired, and rely on income from
their investments,” the state order said.  The order doesn’t mention Bales. Telephone messages left
with Patterson weren’t returned, and there was no answer at his
suburban Columbus home on March 21.  After leaving  Michael Patterson  Inc. in September 1999,
according to state records, Bales went to Capital Securities of
America Inc. in Columbus, said Jerry Cline, president of the
Hartville, Ohio-based firm at the time.  Bales worked there 10 months from 1999 to 2000 and then for
Cargin for four months, according to state records.  “He never really got his business off the ground the way
he wanted to,” Cargin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  