-- Bales Charged With 17 Murder Counts in Afghan Civilian Killings
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bales-charged-with-17-murder-counts-in-afghan-civilian-killings.html
U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales was charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder of
Afghan civilians, the Army said in a statement yesterday.  Bales, 38, also faces six charges of assault and attempted
murder, the Army said. Under U.S. military law, criminal charges
were formally preferred yesterday against Bales.  The charges allege that on March 11, Bales murdered Afghans
near Belambey, in Panjwai district of  Afghanistan ’s Kandahar
province, the Army said in the statement issued from Kabul. If
convicted, the maximum possible punishment under the Uniform
Code of Military Justice is the death penalty with a mandatory
minimum sentence of imprisonment for life with eligibility for
parole, the Army said.  Bales’s victims include nine children, four women and four
men, the Army said in an e-mailed response to a query. Four
children, one woman and one man were injured, the Army said.  “We are under some very trying circumstances” in
Afghanistan, Marine Corps General John Allen, commander of U.S.
forces in Afghanistan, said in an interview yesterday when asked
about the aftermath of the killings. Afghans “understand these
kinds of things happen and are not happy about it.”  And yet Afghans know that the U.S. will hold those who
commit crimes responsible for their actions, he said. The Afghan
“leadership is confident that we’ll investigate thoroughly, try
the case thoroughly and, if required, hold the individual
responsible,” Allen said.  ‘Premeditated Murder’  In a murder charge, the term premeditated refers to a
“consciously conceived” intent to kill, Lieutenant Colonel
Jimmie Cummings, an Army spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The Army released a “charge sheet” about the incident
that redacted the names of the victims and provided no details
about how the shootings unfolded.  The next step in the process is a so-called special court-
martial to be convened at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington
state, which is the home base for Bales, to begin an
investigation under Article 32 of the military law, the Army
said. The investigation may determine whether a general court-
martial will be convened to try the case, the Army said.  The soldier’s civilian attorney, John Henry Browne, has
questioned how much evidence the military has in the case.
Browne has also said his client suffered a traumatic brain
injury during one of three tours in  Iraq  and didn’t want to go
to Afghanistan, where he was deployed in December.  Pretrial Confinement  Bales, a qualified sniper with the 2nd Battalion, 3rd
Regiment of the 3rd Stryker Brigade Combat team, was in
Afghanistan in support of U.S. Special Operations forces,
Defense Department officials have said. He is being held in
pretrial confinement at a military prison in Fort Leavenworth,
 Kansas .  The killings exacerbated tensions between the U.S. and
Afghanistan, already at a high level after the burning of Korans
last month in a trash dump at the largest U.S. base in
Afghanistan. Protests followed across Afghanistan, and six U.S.
military personnel were killed by Afghans.  President  Barack Obama  called Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
after the shootings of which Bales is accused, pledging “to
hold fully accountable anyone responsible.”  A trial may not begin for at least a year, according to
Colby Vokey, a retired Marine Corps officer who tried or
supervised hundreds of military cases as chief prosecutor and
later chief defense counsel at Camp Pendleton,  California .  ‘Diminished Capacity’  Questioning the evidence in the case, Browne, the Seattle
attorney representing Bales, told reporters this week, “If I
was the prosecutor, I’d be concerned about how we prove
anything.”  Browne also has indicated he may seek a “diminished
capacity” defense for his client. He said on March 19 that
Bales is “confused” and doesn’t recall some details of the
alleged assault.  A mental-health defense may be difficult to win before
military jurors, known as court members, according to
Christopher Swift, a fellow at the  University of Virginia  Law
School’s Center for National Security Law.  He said that strategy may help avert a death sentence if
the military seeks it in the case.  “I see this as a defense that’s aimed at mitigating the
ultimate penalty,” Swift said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  