-- Bankruptcies Hit People Challenging Health Insurance Rule
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-23T12:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bankruptcies-hit-people-challenging-health-law-s-insurance-rule.html
Facing “a very tight monthly
budget” after the recession hurt his Michigan solo law
practice, John Ceci has cut back on movies and restaurant meals,
drives a 1996 Honda and has higher priorities than health
insurance.  “I would prefer to purchase a new car rather than pay a
monthly health-care premium,” Ceci said in a court affidavit
after suing to block President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law,
which requires most people to have insurance by 2014. “I cannot
afford both.”  The recession hit Ceci hard enough that, 13 months before
his March 2010 lawsuit to overturn the insurance requirement, he
filed for bankruptcy relief from almost $120,000 of unpaid
balances on 20 credit cards, according to court records.  As the U.S. Supreme Court prepares to review the health-
care law next week, Ceci’s case is one of three lawsuits, filed
by 11 individual plaintiffs, in which federal appeals courts
have ruled on the insurance mandate. Four of the people who
objected to getting health coverage, including Ceci, have gone
to  bankruptcy court  to discharge debts they couldn’t pay, court
filings show.  Questions about who foots the bill for treating the
uninsured are key to the Obama administration’s defense of the
individual mandate. While people challenging the law say they
want to choose how to manage their own medical and financial
affairs, some may be gambling that they won’t need expensive
care, said Michelle Mello, a professor at the Harvard School of
 Public Health  in  Boston .  Future Needs  “Is it a choice about making an arrangement about how to
pay for your future needs, or is it deciding that you have
higher priorities and you’re just going to take your chances?”
Mello said in a telephone interview. “And is part of taking
your chances that somebody else may wind up paying your bills?”  Few people can afford to pay thousands of dollars out-of-
pocket if stricken by “bolt-from-the-blue” injuries or
ailments, the government said in court briefs. The cost of
treating people without insurance, it said, is passed to others
in the form of higher prices and costlier insurance premiums.  “Every individual is always at risk of requiring health
care, and the need for particularly expensive services is
unpredictable,” the administration said in its  Supreme Court 
appeal.  Underscoring the importance of insuring against
catastrophic costs, the government argued, health-care expenses
contribute to more than six out of 10 personal bankruptcies.  ‘Obama Apologists’  “That’s the argument advanced by the Obama apologists,”
 Robert Muise , a lawyer representing Ceci, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s utter nonsense to say we can trash the
Constitution because there are some people who have had
bankruptcies.”  The health-care debate involves “very difficult policy
questions that have to be resolved,” said Muise, a co-founder
of the American Freedom Law Center, which describes itself as a
Judeo-Christian public interest law firm. “But they have to be
resolved in a way that’s acceptable under the Constitution.”  A bankruptcy filing briefly threatened the Supreme Court’s
review of the insurance mandate.  Mary Brown, one of the original participants in the lawsuit
at the court, shut down her  Florida  auto repair shop and filed
for bankruptcy in September, listing about $4,700 of unpaid
medical bills among $60,000 of unsecured debts.  Coverage Requirement  A trial judge had said Brown could challenge the coverage
requirement, even though it hasn’t taken effect, because she had
to make financial preparations now that could endanger her
business. After her shop closed, lawyers fighting the insurance
mandate had to get the Supreme Court’s permission to add new
plaintiffs to the case.  Brown’s refusal to have health insurance had little or
nothing to do with her financial crisis, as unpaid medical costs
represented only a sliver of the debt that pushed Brown and her
husband into bankruptcy, said  Karen Harned , a lawyer with the
National Federation of  Independent Business  who represents Brown
and other plaintiffs in the case.  “She didn’t have the customers, she couldn’t support her
business anymore and she had to file,” Harned said in a
telephone interview. Brown still doesn’t have health insurance
“and she doesn’t want the government to tell her she has to
have it,” Harned said. “This is not constitutional.”  An Atlanta federal appeals court in Brown’s case struck
down the insurance requirement, saying it exceeded Congress’s
authority to regulate interstate commerce. An appeals court in
Cincinnati upheld the law against Ceci’s challenge.  ‘God Will Provide’  In a third case pending at the Supreme Court, Charles
Edward Lee and Susan Seven-Sky filed suit in  Washington  saying
they refuse to buy insurance because it violates their beliefs
that God will provide for their “physical, spiritual and
financial well-being.”  Lee, former owner of Eddie Lee Lawn & Tree Service in  San
Antonio , filed for bankruptcy in September 2009 with $69,000 of
credit-card and credit-line debt, $50 in cash and $61 in
checking and savings accounts, according to court records.  Seven-Sky, a suburban New York chiropractor and massage
therapist, sought  bankruptcy protection  in September 2006,
according to court records, listing almost $58,000 of credit-
card debt and $550 of cash and non-retirement savings.  “What it comes down to is not that people have to declare
bankruptcy for various reasons, but can Congress do something
that is unconstitutional?” said Ed White, a lawyer with the
Washington-based American Center for  Law and Justice , which
represents Lee and Seven-Sky.  Forcing Purchases  “The ends don’t justify the means,” White said in a
telephone interview. “Acting illegally by forcing Americans to
buy something when there are a whole array of constitutional,
legal options out there isn’t the solution.”  Lee and Seven-Sky both said in their lawsuit that, while
they could afford insurance if they wanted it, they have had to
start setting money aside now to pay future penalties for lack
of coverage.  The fact that participants in some lawsuits against the
coverage mandate cite difficulty affording relatively modest
health-care costs or penalties demonstrates that, without
insurance, they couldn’t handle the cost of treatment in cases
of serious illness or injury, the government argues.  “Plaintiffs’ own declarations suggest that a medical
expense of any significance could exceed their ability to pay,”
the  Justice Department  said in a brief in the Lee and Seven-Sky
case. “The purchase of insurance is the classic mechanism for
addressing that risk.”  Shifting Costs  U.S. District Court Judge Gladys Kessler in Washington
upheld the health-care law against the challenge by Lee and
Seven-Sky, bluntly saying the intentionally uninsured are
deliberately shifting inevitable medical costs onto their
neighbors.  “Those who choose -- and plaintiffs have made such a
deliberate choice -- not to purchase health insurance will
benefit greatly when they become ill, as they surely will, from
the free health care which must be provided by emergency rooms
and hospitals to the sick and dying who show up on their
doorstep,” Kessler wrote in her opinion. “Those who choose not
to purchase health insurance will ultimately get a ‘free ride’
on the backs of those Americans who have made responsible
choices.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit upheld Kessler’s decision. White’s group, founded by
television evangelist  Pat Robertson , is seeking Supreme Court
review.  ‘Relying on God’  In that case, Lee said he rejects more than just insurance:
“Lee so firmly believes in the importance of relying on God to
maintain his health that he has instructed his family and
friends that, should he be stricken with a serious health issue,
for example, a heart attack or traumatic injury, they should
only pray for him and not provide him with emergency medical
care,” his lawsuit said.  The government’s argument that society at large carries the
cost of the uninsured is flawed, Harned said, because some
people may never need or use expensive, catastrophic care.  “At the end of the day, we’re assuming that all of these
people are going to get hit by a proverbial bus,” she said.
“The odds are that’s not going to happen.  The administration’s briefs say most medical costs for
people less than 65 years old come from unforeseeable events
such as strokes, accidents, cancer or pregnancy complications.  An appendectomy costs an average of $13,000, bypass surgery
runs about $60,000 and a year’s supply of some cancer drugs can
cost more than $150,000, the government says.  ‘Far More Draconian’  An alternative -- denying medical treatment to those who
can’t pay -- would be ‘‘far more draconian” than requiring
individuals to have insurance coverage, or pay a penalty to help
defray the cost of treating the uninsured, the administration
argued.  Ceci, whose law practice’s website promotes his expertise
in bankruptcy and debt-collections, acknowledged in a telephone
interview that he would have trouble today paying large medical
bills.  “I don’t know what’ll happen if I ever find myself in that
situation: I don’t know if I’ll get cancer; I don’t know if I’ll
be in a car accident later today,” said Ceci. “If I get hit by
a bus, there’s somebody to sue.  ‘‘I might get cancer one day and, if I do, I’ll have to
deal with it,” he said. “I don’t know if that’s a valid reason
to force somebody to buy something, regardless of whether they
want it or not.”  The cases are: Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 11-117;
 Department of Health  and Human Services v. Florida, 11-398; and
Seven-Sky v. Holder, 11-679.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  