-- Bats IPO Reversal May Cost Morgan Stanley, Banks $7.1 Million
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bats-ipo-reversal-may-cost-morgan-stanley-banks-7-1-million.html
Morgan Stanley and banks on  Bats
Global Markets Inc.’s (BATS)  initial public offering may lose $7.1
million in fees after the exchange operator withdrew its IPO,
felled by a system crash that hurt  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and its own stock.  Fees earned would have been nullified by the cancellation
of the offering, said Craig Arcella, a partner at Cravath Swaine
& Moore LLP focused on  capital markets . Morgan Stanley,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and other banks would
have divided up $1.12 a share for the IPO, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is a pretty big deal for a company to cancel an IPO
once it has priced,” said Arcella, whose clients have included
International Business Machines Corp. and State Street Corp.
“Usually when something bad happens between pricing and
closing, there are ways to disclose your way through it and re-
confirm orders.”  Bats joins a handful of other companies that have retracted
IPOs post-pricing. Wilt Chamberlain’s Restaurants Inc., owned by
the former basketball star, withdrew a $9.8 million IPO in 1993
after the shares fell one-third from the offering price.
Normandy America Inc., a reinsurance company that tried to
replicate billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s investment strategy,
withdrew a $180 million IPO in 1995, two days after it priced.  Citigroup, Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse, Getco LLC and
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. are among owners of Bats. Almost
half of the shares offered were to come from the estate of
Lehman Brothers, with another 1.1 million from Getco, according
to the prospectus Bats filed with the SEC. Lehman offered 3.03
million of its 3.98 million Class A shares.  Apple Sank  Data received by Bloomberg around 11 a.m. yesterday in New
York showed Bats stock, the first ever listed on its Lenexa,
Kansas-based market, quoted at pennies after being priced at $16
on March 22. Close to the same time, a transaction in Apple
shares was executed on Bats that was so far from the market
price that it led to a halt.  Before that trade, the exchange had sent around a notice
saying that it was investigating “system issues” that affected
companies with ticker symbols from A to BF. Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s ticker is AAPL, while Bats’s was to be
BATS.  “Although our affected market has reopened, in the wake of
today’s technical issues, which affected the trading of certain
stocks, including that of Bats, we believe withdrawing the IPO
is the appropriate action,” said Chief Executive Officer Joe Ratterman.  Bats spokesman  Randy Williams  didn’t immediately respond to
a phone message and e-mail seeking comment. Representatives at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , Citigroup and Credit Suisse declined to comment.  Typical Process  IPOs usually close three business days after the first
trading day, after which sales of the stock are final, Arcella
said. Closing dates are sometimes as much as five or 10 days
after the pricing, he said. Bats’s IPO was scheduled to close on
March 28, the company said in a statement yesterday.  Bats had sold 6.3 million shares on behalf of existing
stockholders, according to a statement March 22. The exchange
had initially offered the stock for $16 to $18. The underwriters
could still get some compensation, depending on the terms of
their contract, said Michael Schwamm, a lawyer with Duane Morris
LLP in  New York .  “They’ll get reimbursed for expenses and perhaps some type
of fee if they can sort of trace it back to a breach of the
company with obligations under the agreement,” Schwamm said.
However, that “is slightly different from what happened here.
They pulled it because of the glitch in the system -- I would
assume that they’ll go back to market with this once the dust
settles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  