-- Bats Scrapping IPO Is Gift to Critics of Modern Market Structure
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bats-withdraws-ipo-after-errors-pummel-its-stock-halt-apple.html
The decision by  Bats Global Markets
Inc (BATS) ., the third-largest U.S. equity exchange operator, to cancel
its initial public offering emboldened brokerage and fund
executives who say the way stocks trade in America doesn’t work.  Bats, founded by a high-frequency trader in 2005 and
nurtured by the world’s top securities firms, withdrew the IPO
yesterday after errors on its own computers kept the stock from
trading and forced a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Pulling the IPO capped a
day of embarrassments for the Lenexa, Kansas-based company,
which rose to prominence with the electronic trading industry.  “This tells you the system we’ve created over the last 15
years has holes in it, and this is one example of a failure,”
Joseph Saluzzi, partner and co-head of equity trading at Themis
Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in a phone interview.
“When the exchange blows itself up, that’s not a good thing.”  The malfunctions will refocus scrutiny on market structure
in the U.S., where two decades of  government regulation  have
broken the grip of the biggest exchanges and left trading
fragmented over as many as 50 venues. Bats, whose name stands
for Better Alternative Trading System, expanded in tandem with
the automated firms that now dominate the buying and selling of
American equities.  The withdrawal also raises questions about the reliability
of venues formed as competitors to the New York Stock Exchange
and Nasdaq Stock Market since the 1990s. Bats’s mission is
“making markets better,” according to its website. “Unlike
traditional market operators, we are a technology company at our
core,” the prospectus said.  ‘Black Eye’  “When you’re actually the exchange that is coming public
and the platform that you touted as being very robust and
competitive with any other global exchange fails to work, it’s a
real black eye,”  Peter Kovalski , a  money manager  who expected
to receive shares in Bats for Alpine  Mutual Funds  in Purchase,
New York, which manages about $5 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “They were ready to open, and then there were all
these glitches.”  Bats priced 6.3 million shares through underwriters March
22 and appeared set to begin trading about 90 minutes into the
day when chaos erupted. While the company quoted its shares at
$15.25 at 10:45 a.m. on its website, feeds including those sent
to Bloomberg LP displayed different prices. At 11:14 a.m.,
Bloomberg received data showing 1.26 million shares had traded,
with the most recent execution at 3.84 cents and the lowest
transaction at 0.02 cent.  Apple Circuit Breaker  Compounding the confusion, a single trade for 100 shares
executed on a Bats venue at 10:57 a.m. briefly sent Apple down
more than 9 percent to $542.80, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Two more transactions, which sent the stock back above $598,
were made before the halt. The stock stayed around that level
once trading resumed five minutes later and the errant trade,
along with all transactions in Bats shares, were later canceled.  Bats sent a notice about 10 minutes before the Apple trade
saying it was investigating “system issues” affecting
companies with ticker symbols ranging between A and BF. Apple’s
is AAPL. Bats’s ticker was BATS. At 11:07 a.m., Bats’s BYX
Exchange took a procedural step known as “declaring self help”
against its BZX exchange, indicating that it had stopped routing
orders to the market because BZX wasn’t responding to messages
quickly enough.  A Bats computer that matches orders in companies with
ticker symbols in the A-BFZZZ range “encountered a software bug
related to IPO auctions” at 10:45 a.m.  New York  time, the
company said in an e-mailed statement explaining its trading
problems. The glitch made existing customer orders for those
symbols unavailable for trading, the document said. Bats alerted
users that it was investigating system problems.  Customers, Shareholders  “Although our affected market has reopened, in the wake of
today’s technical issues, which affected the trading of certain
stocks, including that of Bats, we believe withdrawing the IPO
is the appropriate action to take for our company and our
shareholders,” Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer, said
in a statement yesterday. Asked if that meant Bats is no longer
going public,  Randy Williams  , a company spokesman, replied by
e-mail, “Yes, that’s correct.”  The company executed  10.9 percent  of U.S. equities volume
last month, compared with 10.7 percent a year earlier, it said.  Bats was steered to prominence by brokerage and trading
companies trying to hold down fees as the  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq Stock Market bought their biggest electronic
rivals. The company was initially built to service high-
frequency firms like Tradebot Systems Inc. Automated trading
firm Getco LLC and Wedbush Inc., owner of an investment bank
whose clients include high-speed firms, later bought equity
stakes.  Underwriter Owners  The canceled stock offering was intended to raise money for
Bats’s owners, which include underwriters Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. Others that expected to see
proceeds from the deal were Tradebot, whose chief executive
officer founded Bats, Chicago-based Getco and Wedbush in  Los
Angeles .  Almost half of the 6.3 million Class A shares being offered
were coming from the estate of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
with another 1.1 million from Getco, another automated firm,
according to Bats’s filings with the SEC. Bats also planned to
pay a $100 million dividend to shareholders including its 10
main financial company investors such as Bank of America Corp.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Instinet Inc.  The company was formed two months after the NYSE announced
plans in 2005 to go public by combining with rival Archipelago
Holdings Inc. and Nasdaq Stock Market announced its purchase of
Inet ECN. Archipelago and Inet were then the largest electronic
communication networks, or ECNs, which match buy and sell orders
and compete with exchanges.  NYSE, Nasdaq  Tradebot founder Dave Cummings created Bats with 12
employees to counter the emerging NYSE and Nasdaq duopoly.
Executives at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup, Merrill Lynch
& Co. and other banks said in 2005 that the lack of competition
after the purchases would hurt users by limiting their choice
about how and where to execute orders and enabling exchanges to
raise transaction fees.  CEO and President Joe Ratterman was one of the employees
Cummings hired at Tradebot. He took over Bats in July 2007 when
Cummings returned to their old employer in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . Before joining Tradebot in 2004 to focus on business
development, Ratterman oversaw 650 people as chief technology
officer at Bridge Information Systems Inc. Ratterman couldn’t be
reached to comment beyond the company’s release.  Bats said in a February regulatory filing that it
“experienced very low downtime” last year. BZX Exchange, its
main market, was accessible to users 99.94 percent of the time.
BYX Exchange, its second market, was available 99.998 percent of
the time, the company said. The main market processed an average
of about 29,000 order messages per second last year, Bats said.  ‘All the Facts’  “The concern I have is that people are going to rush to
statements and conclusions and opinions and ideas without
knowing all the facts,” Jim Toes, president and CEO of the
Security Traders Association, based in New York, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “This was an unfortunate event that
occurred today. It was unfortunate for Bats, it was unfortunate
for the whole marketplace and for Bats’ competitors. We hope
people don’t make recommendations until we have all the facts.”  Bats planned to make its own shares the first corporate
listing on its exchange. NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
own the home venues for the rest of the U.S. stock market.  Opening Stocks  “This business has a much higher degree of complexity than
people think it has,” NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said during an interview yesterday with CNBC.
“It means one thing to be a liquidity venue or an ECN. It means
a very different thing to be an exchange where you list
companies.”  The exchange operator was trying to raise money less than
two years after a crash erased $862 billion in less than 20
minutes from U.S. share values, a plunge that critics linked to
the fragmented market structure that helped Bats thrive.  An official with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division said last month that the agency is
examining equity trading practices that gained dominance in the
past decade amid the shift to automation. Daniel Hawke, head of
the market-abuse unit, said the SEC is looking at techniques
such as co-location, in which exchanges let traders place
computers close to the market to shave time off executions.  Bats Query  Bats itself got a request from the SEC for information on
the types of orders customers use on its venues. The request,
disclosed in a regulatory filing Feb. 23, sought information
about how order types have evolved at the company. Bats said
regulators asked for documents “related to the development,
modification and use of order types, and our communications with
certain market participants,” including some of Bats’s owners.  About 55 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from firms
using high-frequency trading strategies,  Adam Sussman , a partner
and director of research at Tabb Group, said in December. More
than half of that -- 32 percent of total stock volume -- is from
market makers supplying bids and offers, he said.  “You couldn’t have written it worse,” said Steve Grob,
London-based director of group strategy at Fidessa Group Plc, a
developer of financial software. “They won’t look back on this
day as their best day, for sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  