-- Bernanke Says Central Banks Should Learn More About Policy Tools
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-23T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bernanke-says-central-banks-should-learn-more-about-policy-tools.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said central bankers are working to sharpen their
understanding of programs created during the financial crisis to
restore liquidity and spur economic growth.  “The Federal Reserve and other central banks have had to
deploy a variety of new tools and approaches to carry out their
responsibilities regarding monetary policy and the provision of
liquidity, tools about which we still have more to learn,”
Bernanke said today in the text of a speech in Washington.  The Fed has cut interest rates to near zero and purchased
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of bond purchases, aimed
at cutting an  unemployment rate  that peaked at 10 percent in
2009 and persists at 8.3 percent. The  European Central Bank 
reduced its  interest rate  to a record low 1 percent and provided
euro-area banks with more than $1 trillion of three-year loans
in so-called longer-term refinancing operations.  Bernanke spoke at the opening of a Fed conference in
Washington involving policy makers from the U.K. and  Japan  that
will focus on topics including challenges for central bankers
and financial market supervision. Speakers at the conference
include Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen,  Bank of England  Governor
Mervyn King,  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and former
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet.  “In the wake of the crisis, the Federal Reserve and other
regulatory agencies have been charged with challenging new
responsibilities in the area of macroprudential supervision,
with the objective of promoting financial stability and reducing
the likelihood and the costs of a future financial crisis,”
Bernanke said. “Although much progress has been made, we are
still at an early stage in understanding how best to meet these
new macroprudential responsibilities.”  Cut Rates  The conference will first consider a research paper by New
York University Professor  Mark Gertler  saying the Fed’s asset
purchase programs will help spur growth by reducing interest
rates rather than by increasing the amount of reserves in the
banking system.  Gertler, an adviser to the New York Fed who has co-written
research with Bernanke, said in an interview yesterday the
economy may not need such stimulus.  “Inflation still appears to be contained so that’s good,”
Gertler said in a phone interview. “Employment growth is
picking up, so that’s good. It seems like the controls are at
the right setting now.”  Index Rose  The unemployment  rate  was 8.3 percent in February, down
from 9.1 percent as recently as August. The personal consumption
expenditures index rose 2.4 percent in the 12 months through
January, above the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  Fed policy is “always subject to change as the news
changes,” Gertler said. “But the economy is definitely picking
up and inflation is contained and it seems like stimulus, at
least from the Fed, is not appropriate now.”  The conference also hosts three papers on financial
stability.  Charles Goodhart  of the London School of Economics
and Anil Kashyap of the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business discuss the optimal mix of capital regulations, margin
requirements and liquidity regulation to ensure financial
stability.  The economists, and their co-authors, Dimitrios P. Tsomocos
of Said Business School and St Edmund Hall, University of
Oxford, and Alexandros P. Vardoulakis of the Banque de  France ,
explain the benefits from raising  capital requirements  to
minimize an asset boom or bust, and warn against “piling on”
regulations in an effort to stop multiple channels of financial
contagion.  ‘Plumbing’ of Finance  Darrell Duffie, a finance professor at the Graduate School
of Business at Stanford University, focuses in a research paper
on the “plumbing” of the financial system during the crisis,
and on securities-based collateral financing.  Duffie looks at broker dealers in the days following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 and
says that “runs” by  hedge funds , that may switch their prime
brokerage accounts from one dealer to another, may result in a
sudden drop in available collateral, reducing liquidity.  Viral Acharya and T. Sabri Oncu of New York University’s
Stern School of Business detail the risks in the repo market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  