-- Bernanke Sees Need for Higher Household Spending to Fuel Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-23T04:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bernanke-says-higher-consumer-spending-need-to-sustain-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economy is operating below its level
prior to the financial crisis, and that increased household
spending is needed to sustain the expansion.  “ Consumer spending  is not recovered, it’s still quite weak
relative to where it was before the crisis,” Bernanke said
yesterday in the second of four lectures on the history of the
Fed that he plans to deliver at George Washington University.
“In terms of debt and consumption and so on we’re still way low
relative to the patterns before.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement after
a March 13 meeting that subdued inflation and high unemployment
still warrant holding the benchmark interest rate near zero at
least through late 2014. Signs the economy is improving don’t
dispel risks to growth that include rising gasoline prices,
fiscal cutbacks and a weak housing market, New York Fed
President William C. Dudley said on March 19.  Bernanke today plans to open a Fed conference in Washington
involving policy makers from the U.K. and  Japan  that will focus
on topics including new policy tools for fueling economic growth
and challenges for central bankers.  The Fed chairman plans at 1:45 p.m. to give the opening
speech at a two-day conference entitled “Central Banking:
Before, During and After the Crisis.” Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen,  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King,  Bank of Japan 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and former European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet are scheduled to speak.  Spur Growth  The conference will first consider a research paper by New
York University Professor  Mark Gertler  saying the Fed’s asset
purchase programs will help spur growth by reducing interest
rates rather than by increasing the amount of reserves in the
banking system.  Gertler, an adviser to the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
who has co-written research with Bernanke, said in an interview
yesterday that the economy may not need such a stimulus program
at all.  “Inflation still appears to be contained so that’s good,”
Gertler said in a phone interview. “Employment growth is
picking up, so that’s good. It seems like the controls are at
the right setting now.”  The unemployment  rate  was 8.3 percent in February, down
from 9.1 percent as recently as August. The personal consumption
expenditures index rose 2.4 percent in the 12 months through
January, above the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  The Fed’s policy is “always subject to change as the news
changes,” Gertler said. “But the economy is definitely picking
up and inflation is contained and it seems like stimulus, at
least from the Fed, is not appropriate now.”  Turning Point  Some policy makers say the Fed should hold off from more
accommodation as the economy rebounds.  With policy currently “on pause, it may be a good time to
take stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a
speech in  Hong Kong . “As the  U.S. economy  continues to rebound
and repair,” further action “may create an overcommitment to
ultra-easy monetary policy.”  Economic reports yesterday added to evidence the world’s
largest economy is gaining strength.  The number of Americans saying the economy is getting
better rose in March to the highest level since 2004. Thirty-
four percent of respondents to Bloomberg’s monthly consumer
expectations survey said the economy was improving, the largest
share since January 2004.  Leading Index  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in February by
the most in 11 months, the Conference Board said. Applications
for  unemployment benefits  dropped last week to the lowest level
in four years, a Labor Department report showed.  U.S. stocks retreated, trimming the longest monthly rally
since September 2009 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
manufacturing contracted in  China  and  Europe  and FedEx Corp.
tumbled amid a disappointing forecast.  The  S&P 500  declined 0.7 percent to 1,392.78 at 4 p.m. New
York time, slumping 1.2 percent in three days. The gauge has
risen 2 percent in March, on pace for a fourth monthly rally.  Bernanke said yesterday the central bank’s  interest-rate 
policies last decade weren’t responsible for the housing price
bubble that led to the recession.  “Some have argued that the Fed’s low interest-rate
monetary policy in the early 2000s contributed to the housing
bubble, which in turn was a trigger of the crisis,” he said.  Overseas Booms  “Most evidence suggests otherwise,” Bernanke said,
focusing on history and not on current monetary policy or the
economic outlook. In defense of the Fed, Bernanke cited house
price booms in foreign countries and said the size of the asset
bubble was too large to be explained by changes in  mortgage
rates . Also,  home prices  began to rise in the late 1990s, before
the Fed lowered rates, he said.  Bernanke, a former economics professor at Princeton
University, is returning to the classroom this week and next to
explain the central bank’s actions during the financial crisis
and the longest recession since the Great Depression. His lesson
yesterday is titled “The Federal Reserve after World War II.”  Following a recession in 2001, the central bank lowered
interest rates to 1 percent in 2003 and 2004 even as home price
gains accelerated. Bernanke’s defense of the Fed actions drew on
a  January 2010 speech  he gave in Atlanta, he said.  Though its interest-rate policies were appropriate,
Bernanke said, the Fed “made mistakes in supervision and
regulation.”  Bank Supervision  “In our supervision of bank and bank-holding companies we
didn’t push hard enough on this issue of measuring your risks,”
Bernanke said. “Another area where the Fed performed poorly was
I think in consumer protection.”  Bernanke, 58, also said government policies to increase
homeownership were not principally to blame for the housing
bubble.  “I think to put it all on the government is probably
wrong,” Bernanke said in response to student questions. “Most
of the worst loans were made by private sector lenders and then
sold through private-sector securitizations. They didn’t touch
Fannie or Freddie,” he said, referring to government-sponsored
entities Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  While his lecture focused on historical topics, Bernanke
noted that today’s policy benefits from the low inflation
brought about as the result of former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker’s battle against price increases.  “After a long period of low inflation most people are
pretty comfortable that inflation will stay reasonably low,”
Bernanke said. “And that helps a lot” since “with inflation
staying low the Fed has more leeway.”  In response to a question about Fed transparency, Bernanke
said “most of the time transparency can make monetary policy
work better” and promote accountability of the central bank.  Bernanke plans to speak on March 27 and March 29 about the
Fed’s response to the financial crisis and the ensuing recession.
The lecture series will be streamed live on the  Fed’s website 
and on ustream.tv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  