-- BNY Mellon Foreign-Currency Fraud Case Set for Trial in Virginia
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-23T19:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bny-mellon-foreign-currency-fraud-case-set-for-trial-in-virginia.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  will
face a  jury trial  in a lawsuit by  Virginia  claiming the bank
defrauded state pension funds in foreign currency exchange
trades.  Virginia demanded the trial by jury, which a state judge in
Fairfax, Virginia yesterday scheduled to begin Feb. 4. County
Circuit Judge Terrence Ney rejected the bank’s argument that the
trial last eight to 10 weeks, setting it for six weeks.  The issues “should boil down significantly so that they’ll
be understandable to seven laypersons” who will decide the
case, Ney said, according to a transcript of yesterday’s
hearing.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli sued the New
York-based bank in August, claiming it violated state law by
charging “undisclosed markups” on currency-exchange trades to
six retirement funds. Virginia is seeking about $931.6 million
in damages.  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, has twice
sought to have the case dismissed, arguing that it can’t be sued
under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act because the
alleged false or fraudulent claims weren’t submitted to the
state for payment.  At yesterday’s hearing, the bank said it would ask Ney to
reconsider his earlier decision allowing the case to go to
trial.  Other Suits  Attorneys general  in Ohio,  New York  and Florida, as well as
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, have sued over the
same issue. Massachusetts filed an administrative action against
the bank.  All the cases center on the pricing of small foreign-
exchange transactions handled automatically by the custody banks
on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as standing
instruction.  The banks say they acted as a principal, selling one
currency for another in arms-length transactions at a set price
that customers were free to accept or reject.  The states claim the banks were obliged to act as an agent,
obtaining the best possible  exchange rate  in the interbank
 currency market . Banks misled clients on how they set prices,
the states contend.  The case is  Commonwealth of Virginia  v.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  