-- BOE Seeks Financial-Stability Tools Amid Fragile Outlook
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-23T15:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/boe-seeks-financial-stability-tools-amid-fragile-outlook-1-.html
The  Bank of England ’s Financial
Policy Committee said the outlook for financial stability
remains “fragile,” as it made a recommendation to the
government on the tools it needs to help strengthen banks.  “Immediate financial-market tensions had subsided
somewhat, but the overall outlook for financial stability
remained fragile,” the committee said in a statement in  London 
today. While the  European Central Bank ’s long-term loans helped
bank funding costs, “questions remained about the indebtedness
and competitiveness of some European countries.”  At its March 16 meeting, the FPC agreed to ask Parliament
to give it powers of direction over countercyclical capital
buffers, sectoral capital requirements and leverage ratios. It
also recommended banks raise more capital “as early as
feasible.” The U.K. Treasury had sought guidance from the FPC
on the tools it would need as the government overhauls
regulation of lenders after the financial crisis.  Systemic risk could stem from “excessive balance-sheet
leverage and fragile funding positions, excessively loose terms
and conditions of lending and fragilities in market
structures,” the FPC said. “These tools would provide control
most directly over the balance sheets of a range of financial
institutions,” such as banks, building societies, investment
firms and insurers.  Stability Powers  The FPC, which is currently operating on an interim basis,
said in December that officials examined 11 possible tools
covering balance sheets, terms and conditions of some
transactions, and market structures. Today’s report follows
feedback on the proposals.  Officials set aside for now a recommendation that it have
powers of direction over loan-to-value and loan-to-income ratios
as these would need a “high level of public acceptability.” It
said it would welcome further debate on the issue.  The decision demonstrates the government’s proposed
regulations leave an “accountability gap” in oversight of the
bank’s expanded powers,  Andrew Tyrie , the chairman of the cross-
party parliamentary committee that scrutinizes the Treasury,
said in an e-mailed statement. He said his panel will cross-
examine the FPC on the proposals.  ‘Good Shape’  “The FPC’s decision not to ask for stronger tools appears
to demonstrate clearly that they lack the confidence, at this
time, to explain to the wider public why such tools are
necessary,” said Tyrie, a member of Prime Minister  David
Cameron ’s  Conservative Party . “That is why it is so important
that the Bank of England’s accountability to Parliament is put
in good shape. If that can be done, the bank will find it much
easier to get public acceptance for their decisions.”  Following its November recommendations, the FPC noted
banks’ progress in building capital and limiting pay. Still, it
said it “remained concerned that capital was not yet at levels
that would ensure resilience in the face or prospective risks.”  “It therefore agreed on the need for banks to continue to
restrain cash distributions, including via share buybacks,” and
to “raise external capital as early as feasible,” it said.  The FPC said that while it was currently recommending a
narrow range of tools, it was “important that there was
flexibility” to adapt the set quickly if needed.  New Powers  On the proposed powers, it said a countercyclical capital
buffer would allow officials to adjust banks’ capital ratios to
reflect the changing risk of losses and limit systemic risks,
such as “unsustainable” growth in balance sheets. This tool
addresses risks in the entire financial system.  Sectoral  capital requirements  would allow the FPC to
address risks in particular areas such as commercial or
residential property lending. The panel said it would avoid an
“excessively activist, fine-tuning approach” with this tool.  The  leverage ratio  limit sought by the FPC could change
over time, and would “constrain financial institutions’ ability
to increase the overall size of their exposures relative to
their capacity to absorb losses,” the FPC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  