-- Bond Sales Revisit ’09 Highs as Plunging Yields Entice Borrowers
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-03-23T12:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bond-sales-revisit-09-highs-as-plunging-yields-entice-borrowers.html
European companies sold 11.5
billion euros ($15 billion) of bonds in the busiest week of
issuance in 2 1/2 years as borrowers took advantage of record-
low yields and pent-up investor demand for the debt.  Fiat SpA (F) ,  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer, steel producer
ArcelorMittal and Jaguar Land Rover Plc sold bonds as non-
financial corporate sales reached the highest since September
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance this
year now stands at 77 billion euros, the most in a quarter since
March to June 2009 when companies raised 95.7 billion euros.  The  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than $1
trillion into the financial system eased concern that the
region’s sovereign debt strains will trigger defaults. Corporate
bond yields plunged 60 basis points this year to 2.7 percent,
close to last week’s record 2.6 percent, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s European Corporates Non-Financial Index shows.  “A lot of issuers have taken the opportunity to issue at
record-low yields,” said Orjan Pettersson, a  fund manager  at
SEB Asset Management in  Stockholm , which oversees 5 billion
euros of assets. “We also see a lot of inflows into our
corporate bond funds so there is very strong underlying demand
as well. The LTRO was a trigger for a radical sentiment shift.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut its 2012 global default rate
forecast to 2.6 percent on March 8, from 2.8 percent the
previous month. The New York-based ratings firm said it expects
“historically low” default-rate levels to “continue over the
near term while recognizing that significant risks remain.”  Sales ‘Burst’  The extra yield investors demand to buy company bonds
instead of benchmark German government debt narrowed 61 basis
points since December to 140, or 1.4 percentage points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. The spread narrowed to 139
basis points March 16, the smallest gap since August.  “We’ve clearly had a burst, but we need to see how the
lingering sovereign situation continues to pan out when
considering whether it can continue,” said Harpreet Parhar, a
credit strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London .  Investment-grade corporate bond funds in  Europe  are
attracting the most money in almost three years. Investors
funneled 2 billion euros into high-grade funds in January, the
biggest inflow since July 2009, according to Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc.  Fiat, which had its  credit rating  put on  negative watch  by
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, sold 850 million euros of five-
year securities, in its first bond sale since July 5, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The securities were priced to yield
594 basis points more than German government debt.  The Turin-based company is rated Ba2 by Moody’s, two levels
below investment grade, and BB by S&P, which said last month it
may lower the rating one more level by May.  Jaguar, ArcelorMittal  Jaguar Land Rover, the luxury vehicle unit of  India ’s Tata
Motors Ltd., sold 500 million pounds ($795 million) of six-year
notes in its first issue since May 2011. The Gaydon, England-
based company’s securities were priced at a spread of 647 basis
points more than U.K. government bonds. Jaguar Land Rover is
rated B+ by S&P and B1 by Moody’s.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, sold 500
million euros of six-year bonds that were priced to yield 343
basis points more than government debt. The Luxembourg-based
company is rated BBB- by S&P, the lowest investment grade level,
and Baa3 by Moody’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  