-- BP Buys Forties Crude From Shell; Gunvor Fails to Sell Urals Oil
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-03-23T17:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bp-buys-forties-crude-from-shell-gunvor-fails-to-sell-urals-oil.html
North Sea   Forties (EUCSFORT)  crude rose as  BP
Plc (BP/)  bought a cargo from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Gunvor Group Ltd. failed to sell a shipment of Russian
Urals grade in the Mediterranean.  North Sea  BP bought a consignment of Forties from Shell for loading
April 10 to April 12 at a premium of 5 cents a barrel to  Dated
Brent (EUCRBRDT) , according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts trading window. That’s more than a trade
yesterday at a 30-cent discount for an early April shipment.  Reported North Sea trading typically occurs during the
Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the
session, Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 20 cents a barrel
less than Dated Brent, compared with 17 cents yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The differential moved
to a discount on March 21 for the first time since Feb. 1.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the state-run company known
as Taqa, said oil that spilled from its Tern platform in waters
off  Scotland  on March 20 has dispersed naturally. The spill was
the result of a temporary upset in production while cleaning up
a new well and there was no risk to the crew or the platform,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Brent for May settlement traded at $124.98 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, up from $122.65 yesterday. The June contract was at
$124.30, a discount of 68 cents to May.  Mediterranean/Urals  Gunvor didn’t manage to sell an 80,000 metric ton shipment
of Urals for delivery to Augusta,  Italy , on April 2 to April 6,
the survey showed. The cargo was offered at $2.50 a barrel less
than Dated Brent, compared with a bid in the Mediterranean
yesterday at a discount of $2.15.  The grade was at a discount of $3.15 in northwest Europe
today, unchanged from yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. There were no bids or offers in the region.  West Africa  Angola, Africa’s second-biggest oil producer, is already
pumping close to its maximum level amid pressure on OPEC nations
to be ready to export more should international sanctions hinder
supply from  Iran .  “We planned to produce 1.82 million barrels a day this
year, but currently we’re producing 1.75 million,” Angolan Oil
Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said in an interview
yesterday in Luanda, the capital. “What we can offer the
international market is within that bracket.”  Nigeria’s benchmark  Qua Iboe (AFCSQUA1)  grade dropped to a premium of
$2.76 a barrel versus Dated Brent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  