-- Brasil Foods Slumps After Net Income Misses Estimates
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-03-23T13:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/brasil-foods-slumps-after-net-income-misses-estimates.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, dropped the most in two months in Sao
Paulo after fourth-quarter profit missed analyst estimates
because of a one-time tax expense and higher costs.  Brasil Foods  fell 3.6 percent to 35.25 reais at 10:11 a.m.
in Sao Paulo after declining as much as 3.9 percent earlier, the
most intraday since Jan. 10. It led losses in the benchmark
Bovespa stock index, which rose 0.3 percent.  Net income  fell to 121 million reais ($66.5 million) from
360 million reais a year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based company
said late yesterday. Brasil Foods was expected to post a 472.7
million-real profit excluding some items, the average of nine
analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg (BRFS3) .  Costs of feeding the foodmaker’s chickens, turkeys and
swine surged 13 percent in the quarter because of rising corn
prices in Brazil. Average domestic prices for the grain, the
main ingredient in  animal feed , climbed 8 percent in the period
from a year earlier, the University of  Sao Paulo ’s Cepea crop-
research agency said on its website.  “The efforts made were not enough to offset the weaker
export margins, particularly as a result of higher labor costs
and grain prices,”   Daniela Bretthauer , an analyst at  Raymond
James , said in a note to clients after earnings were released.
She has an outperform rating for the stock.  A strike at the Brazilian port of Itajai forced Brasil
Foods to redirect exports through other ports, boosting costs
for the TV diner maker and reducing margins. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, fell
to 13 percent of net sales, from 15 percent a year earlier.  Sadia Costs  “BRF faced a strike at its main export port in the south
during the quarter, which resulted in higher-than-forecast
selling expenses that explains the Ebitda shortfall,”
Bretthauer said.  Brasil Foods reported a tax expense of 215 million reais
related to the acquisition of Sadia SA in 2009. Brasil Foods,
formerly known as Perdigao, agreed to buy the bigger rival after
it booked more than 3 billion reais of losses stemming from
wrong-way currency bets.  Quarterly sales climbed 11 percent to 7.1 billion reais as
demand from a growing middle class in  Brazil  pushed revenues.
About two-thirds of sales come from the domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  