-- Brazil Real Rises Most in Three Weeks as Commodity Prices Gain
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-23T22:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/brazil-real-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-commodity-prices-gain.html
Brazil ’s real gained the most in
three weeks on speculation an increase in commodity prices will
boost the country’s export revenue.  The real rose 0.5 percent, the most since Feb. 28, to
1.8102 per  U.S. dollar . The advance helped pare the currency’s
decline this week to 0.6 percent, the fourth straight weekly
losses. The currency has lost 5.1 percent this month, the worst
performer among emerging markets, after the central bank bought
dollars and the government took measures to restrict local
companies’ overseas borrowing.  Soybeans, one of Brazil’s main exports, rebounded from a
one-week low. Currencies of commodity exporters, such as
Australia and  New Zealand , also advanced. Investors bought the
real as a bet that the recent sell-off is excessive as
commodities rise, said  Alejandro Cuadrado , head of Latin America
currency strategy at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  “All commodity currencies are performing well,” Cuadrado
said in an interview from  New York . “Risk appetite is still the
main driver for the real.”  Brazil has received foreign currency inflows of $18.6
billion this year through March 16, the central bank said March
21.  Yields on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due
in January were unchanged at 8.92 percent. The yield has fallen
six basis points this week.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts erased an earlier
drop after central bank President Alexandre Tombini said during
a presentation today in Sao Paulo that Brazilian growth will
pick up in 2012, bolstering speculation the central bank will
refrain from deeper interest-rate cuts later this year.  “He highlighted the acceleration we’re going to have in
economic activity, that 2012 will be better than 2011,” Marco
Antonio Caruso, an economist with Banco Pine SA, said by phone
from  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  