-- Brazil May Invest $3 Billion in Energy Efficiency as Loans Rise
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-23T18:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/brazil-may-invest-3-billion-in-energy-efficiency-as-loans-rise.html
Brazilian businesses may invest as
much as $3 billion in  energy-efficiency  measures through 2020 as
banks become more comfortable offering loans that will be repaid
mainly through cost savings, according to the International
Finance Corp.  Energy-service companies, which provide consulting and
power audits, may spend as much as $400 million next year on
systems that help corporate clients cut their power consumption,
Daniel Shepherd, program manager for advisory services in  Latin
America  and the Caribbean for the Washington-based IFC, said in
a telephone interview.  High electricity rates in Brazil mean industrial companies
may cut their power bills by more than a third by installing
more efficient lighting or cogeneration plants. The IFC is
seeking to educate banks about the potential returns for such
projects and encourage them to offer financing, Shepherd said.  Most of the country’s 80 or so energy-service companies
“aren’t considered credit-worthy by financing institutions,”
he said in an interview. Lenders “need to understand the
business model” of energy-efficiency projects, some of which
pay for themselves within a year.  Financing rates as high as 18 percent in  Brazil  have
deterred industrial companies from taking on such projects on
their own, he said.  Consumers in Brazil pay as much as 18 cents a kilowatt hour
for electricity, about twice what’s paid in the U.S. and 80
percent more than in neighboring  Peru , Shepherd said.  Credit Lines  Brazil’s commercial banks have become more receptive to
energy-efficiency initiatives in the past year and Banco Itau
BBA SA developed credit lines just for such projects, Paulo
Noronha, adviser to the directory of  Associacao Brasileira das
Empresas de Servicos de Conservacao de Energia , a Sao Paulo-
based trade group, said today in a telephone interview.  The national development bank Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social is also offering an energy-
efficiency credit line,  Proesco , with annual rates of 14
percent. About 30 million reais ($16.5 million) of financing was
approved from the line in 2011, Norinho said.  “Banks are investing now because they understand this will
be a large market in the future,” he said.  The IFC, a unit of the  World Bank , is helping energy-
service companies develop 12 pilot projects at hotels throughout
the country in preparation for the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and the
2016  Olympic Games , Shepherd said. The initiative may spur as
many as 50 hotels to adopt similar measures by 2015 that would
require $50 million of investments, he said.  “There are 13,000 hotels in Brazil,” he said. “There’s
an exponential growth opportunity here.”  Allocating Resources  Most measures to save electricity are implemented by
utilities that are required to dedicate 0.5 percent of their
income to energy-efficiency projects or research, Shepherd said.
Utilities have invested about 1.35 billion reais on such
initiatives since 2008, including public awareness campaigns, he
said.  Businesses in rapidly growing markets like Brazil typically
allocate capital to their core operations, whatever they are,
rather than invest in unrelated projects such as energy
efficiency, Tom Rowlands-Rees, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s London office, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “In competitive markets it’s seen as better to increase
your footprint and then optimize later,” he said. Taking on
tasks that may reduce clients’ power bills “can be a real low-
hanging fruit for companies seeking to make money from energy-
efficiency savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  