-- BT to Halve Pension Deficit Setting Up Dividend Increase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-23T09:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/bt-to-pay-2-billion-pounds-into-pension-fund-to-cut-deficit.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A)  plans to pay down
about half of its 4.1 billion-pound ($6.5 billion) pension
deficit this month, allowing the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone
company to consider a higher dividend.  The stock rose as much as 6.9 percent in London, the
biggest increase in more than two years. Following the 2
billion-pound lump-sum payment, BT will pay 325 million pounds
annually, down from 525 million pounds under the current
program, the company said. BT will reconsider its dividend after
the pension agreement, Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston
said.  “It was a condition that we had to fulfill,” Livingston
said today on a conference call. “Shareholders can certainly
look forward to increased returns as we go forward.”  By paying down part of the deficit early, the London-based
phone and broadband company is also seeking to move away from
past criticism over its pension funding. At the time of the
previous deal with the trustee of the pension program, the
regulator said in 2010 it had “substantial concerns” over the
payment of the shortfall.  Interim Dividend  BT paid an interim dividend of 2.6 pence, an increase of 8
percent. The stock traded 6 percent higher at 233.4 pence at
9:02 a.m. in  London  trading. Before today, the stock had risen
21 percent in the past year.  The company said in February its pension deficit swelled to
4.1 billion pounds in the quarter through December, compared
with a deficit of 2.5 billion pounds at the end of September.
The company will base its three-year valuation on the same
shortfall.  Paul Spencer, chairman of the trustees of the pension
program, said today the company plans to eliminate the total
deficit within 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  