-- California’s Brown Says He’ll Consider Fracking Standards
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-23T22:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/california-s-brown-says-he-will-consider-standards-for-fracking.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  said he’ll
consider opening  California (STOCA1) , fourth among oil-producing states,
to a drilling method known as hydraulic fracturing to increase
natural-gas production.  A form of the technique has long been used in the oil-rich
San Joaquin Valley, said Brown, 73, a Democrat who returned to
office last year after two terms in the 1970s and 1980s. He said
he’d be likely to permit more widespread fracturing if
environmental consequences can be minimized.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, frees trapped oil and
gas by injecting water, chemicals and sand underground at high
pressure. Environmental groups say fracking contaminates
drinking water and pollutes the air. States including Ohio,
Pennsylvania and North Dakota are weighing how to regulate and
tax the products of hydraulic fracturing.  “I’m an optimist,” Brown said today at a conference near
Santa Barbara. “I’m going to look at it. California is the
fourth-largest oil-producing state, and we want to continue
that.”  With an estimated 15 billion barrels of crude, the Monterey
and Santos shale formations near  Los Angeles  and in the San
Joaquin Valley are the richest U.S. shale prospects, according
to the Energy Department in  Washington .  California Shale  California shale holds almost two-thirds of all the shale
oil in the continental U.S., the department said in a 2011
report. That amount of crude would be enough to supply every
refinery on the West Coast for 17 years, based on Energy
Department figures.  Brown told reporters he wasn’t considering new taxes on
fracking. The state may benefit from income taxes on people
employed in the extraction industry and on corporate income, he
said.  T. Boone Pickens, chairman and founder of BP Capital LLC in
Dallas, said the environmental concerns associated with fracking
have been overblown.  “He should get better acquainted with it,” Pickens said
in an interview at the conference today, speaking of Brown.
“Fracking is safe, the practices are good. There’s nothing
wrong with it.”  California , with 12 percent of the U.S. population,
consumed 8.5 percent of the nation’s energy in 2009, or 47th
among states per person,  according to  Energy Department
statistics. The state’s comparatively mild weather was one
reason, according to the  department  website.  Renewable Sources  The Golden State generates more electricity from non-
hydroelectric renewable energy sources such as geothermal, wind
and solar power, than any other state, according to the website.  California was the first, and so far only, state to adopt
an economy-wide program to auction allowances for emissions of
greenhouse gases.  Bill Gates , speaking at the conference yesterday, suggested
a national tax on carbon emissions. The co-founder of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  said companies need more incentives to develop
alternatives to fossil fuels.  California requires investor-owned utilities to generate 33
percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. In
2010, the three major utilities --  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,  Edison
International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison and  San Diego Gas and
Electric Co.  -- generated 17 percent of power from such sources,
 according to  the California Public Utilities Commission.  Brown, in a question to a panel yesterday, asked whether
renewable sources would ever account for a “huge” slice of the
U.S. energy market.  Tulsi R. Tanti, chairman and managing director of  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , a wind-turbine manufacturer based in Hadapsar,
 India , said it’s reasonable to expect 30 percent of U.S. energy
from renewable sources by 2050.  “That will bring stability to the grid and the power
infrastructure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Santa Barbara , California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  