-- Cameron Plans Minimum Alcohol Price in Bid to Curb Disorder
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-03-23T12:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/cameron-plans-minimum-alcohol-price-in-effort-to-curb-disorder.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
impose a minimum price for alcohol in England and Wales that
will see a standard bottle of spirits cost at least 10.40 pounds
($16.45) and a pint of beer at least 80 pence in a bid to
improve health and curb crime and disorder.  Home Secretary Theresa May told the House of Commons in
 London  today that consultations will be held with interested
groups about the price to be set. Cameron’s office said the
target is about 40 pence per 10 milliliters of alcohol and
estimated that would cost the average drinker between 21 pounds
and 23 pounds a year more than now. The semi-autonomous Scottish
Parliament is already legislating to set a minimum price there.  “We all know there is a significant minority in this
country who drink dangerously and who cause disproportionate
harm,” May said. “Drunken brawls and disorder have made many
town centers no-go areas for law-abiding citizens.” She said
there’s a “need to deal with the dangerous drinkers, crack down
on the irresponsible businesses and stem the tide of cheap
alcohol.”  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, was
yesterday selling a 700-milliliter (23.7 U.S. fluid-ounce)
bottle of “value whisky” for 9.97 pounds and a bottle of
“value vodka” for 8.72 pounds. Both would have to cost between
10.40 pounds and 11.20 pounds under the government’s plans.  ‘Cheaper Than Water’  “When beer is cheaper than water, it’s just too easy for
people to get drunk on cheap alcohol,” Cameron said in an e-
mailed statement. “This isn’t about stopping responsible
drinking, adding burdens on business or some new kind of stealth
tax, it’s about fast immediate action where universal change is
needed.”  May said there were almost 1 million violent crimes and 1.2
million hospital admissions involving alcohol in 2010-11,
costing the taxpayer 21 billion pounds.  She said consultations will also be held on a ban on multi-
buy price promotions in stores. Other measures to crack down on
binge-drinking will include a levy on late-night pub licenses to
cover policing costs and a doubling to 20,000 pounds of the fine
for those found persistently selling alcohol to children.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest liquor company, described
the minimum-pricing plan as “misguided” and said it would hit
the poor. “There is no credible evidence from anywhere in the
world that it is an effective measure in reducing alcohol-
related harm,” Andrew Cowan, Diageo’s country director for the
U.K., said in an e-mailed statement.  Market Reaction  Shares in drinks makers exposed to the U.K. market were
broadly unchanged after the news.  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  traded up as
much as 1.5 per cent in Copenhagen trading.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  slid
1.2 percent in London, where the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5
percent at 11:52 a.m.  Retailers and drinks makers including  Heineken NV (HEIA) ,  J
Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and Tesco separately pledged to cut the strength
of wines, beers and ciders.  The industry will reduce the alcohol in its drinks by 1
billion units, according to the  Department of Health . A unit is
equivalent to about half a British pint (0.6 of a U.S. pint) of
low-strength beer, a 25-milliliter measure of whisky and half a
175-milliliter glass of wine.  Companies are planning to reduce the strength of brands,
introduce new lower-strength products, and “nudge” people to
smaller serving sizes, according to the statement. Cutting a
billion units from sales may result in almost 1,000 fewer
alcohol-related deaths a year, according to the statement.  Sainsbury said it will double sales of lighter-alcohol wine
and cut overall content by 2020. Heineken’s drinks will contain
100 million fewer units in the U.K.  ‘Drink Sensibly’  “Cutting alcohol by a billion units will help more people
drink sensibly and within the guidelines,” Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley said in the statement.  Brewers including Carlsberg A/S and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) 
have already cut the strength of their brands in the U.K.,
according to  The Grocer  magazine. Beermakers are seeking to
maintain profitability in the declining U.K. market as the cost
of production and taxes rise. The annual increase in alcohol
duty in the U.K. was maintained at 2 percent above the inflation
rate in Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget
statement on March 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  