-- Canada February Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-23T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/canada-february-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s consumer  price index  report for February released
by  Statistics Canada .  Led by increases in energy and food, consumer prices rose
2.6% in the 12 months to February after increasing 2.5% in
January.  The 12-month change in the CPI and the CPI excluding food and
energy  The cost of energy advanced 7.2% in the 12 months to February,
led by increases in prices for gasoline (+8.9%) and electricity
(+8.7%). The February increase in energy followed a 6.5% gain in
January.  Food prices rose 4.1% on a year-over-year basis in February,
following a 4.2% increase in January.  The Consumer Price Index (CPI), excluding food and energy,
increased 1.7% in the 12 months to February, as passenger
vehicle insurance premiums and homeowners’ replacement costs
rose. This followed a 1.6% gain in January.  12-month change: Prices up in seven of eight major components  On a year-over-year basis, prices rose in seven of the eight
major components in February. Transportation and food continued
to post the largest increases.  Transportation and food continue to post largest price increases  The cost of transportation increased 4.2% in the 12 months to
February, after rising 3.7% in January. In addition to gasoline,
passenger vehicle insurance premiums, prices for the purchase of
passenger vehicles and air transportation costs went up.  Food prices rose 4.1% on a year-over-year basis in February,
led by increases in food purchased from stores. Prices for meat
rose 7.1%, after increasing 6.5% in January. Bread prices were
up 7.2% in February, following a 9.9% increase the month before.
Consumers also paid more for food purchased from restaurants in
the 12 months to February.  Shelter costs rose 1.9% in the 12 months to February. In
addition to higher electricity prices, consumers paid 2.4% more
in homeowners’ replacement costs. Prices for natural gas
continued to fall.  Provincial summary  Consumer prices rose in every province in the 12 months to
February.  Quebec , Ontario and the Atlantic provinces recorded
year-over-year price gains at or above that of the Canada all-
items CPI (+2.6%), while increases in the Western provinces were
lower.  Quebec posts largest price increase  In Quebec, prices rose 3.2% year over year in February, the
largest increase among the provinces, compared with 2.8% in
January. The main factors were increases in prices for gasoline
(+13.4%), food purchased from restaurants and meat.  In Ontario, prices went up 2.9% in the 12 months to February,
following a 2.4% increase in January. The 0.5 percentage point
difference in these year-over-year growth rates was mainly
attributable to rising prices for electricity (+8.9%) and
gasoline (+9.5%). The 12-month increase in February in the
electricity index was mostly due to monthly price declines early
in 2011 rather than rising prices in recent months. Food
purchased from stores, homeowners’ replacement costs and
passenger vehicle insurance premiums also contributed to the
overall increase in Ontario’s CPI in February.  In  Alberta , prices increased 1.9% on a year-over-year basis
in February, after rising 2.9% in January. The main contributors
to the 1.0 percentage point difference in the year-over-year
growth rates were declines in natural  gas prices  (-22.3%), as
well as a slower rate of increase in electricity prices.  Seasonally adjusted monthly Consumer Price Index increases  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices
increased 0.1% from January to February after increasing 0.5%
from December to January. Prices increased in all major
components except shelter.  Seasonally adjusted monthly Consumer Price Index advances  The transportation index rose 0.5% in February following a
1.3% increase the month before. The shelter index fell 0.2%
after rising 0.2% in January.  Bank of Canada’s core index  The Bank of Canada’s core index rose 2.3% in the 12 months to
February, after increasing 2.1% in January. Notable price
increases were recorded for electricity.  On a monthly basis, the seasonally adjusted core index
increased 0.2% in February, after rising 0.3% the previous month.  Note to readers  The special aggregate “Energy” includes: electricity; natural
gas;  fuel oil  and other fuels; gasoline; and fuel, parts and
supplies for recreational vehicles.  The Bank of Canada’s core index excludes eight of the
 Consumer Price Index ’s (CPI’s) most volatile components (fruit,
fruit preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable
preparations; mortgage interest cost; natural gas; fuel oil and
other fuels; gasoline; inter-city transportation; and tobacco
products and smokers’ supplies) as well as the effects of
changes in indirect taxes on the remaining components.  Statistics Canada is moving to one release time, 8:30 a.m.,
for all data releases in The Daily. This will mean a change in
the release time for the CPI, which is currently 7:00 a.m. This
change will be implemented with the release of CPI data on April
20, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  