-- Canadian Dollar Drops as Crude and Stocks Head for Weekly
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-23T19:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/canadian-dollar-remains-lower-after-report-on-inflation.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
the majority of its most-traded peers as weaker-than-expected
data called into question the strength of the nation’s economic
growth and the timing for interest-rate increases.  The currency erased a loss versus its U.S. counterpart
after stocks and crude oil rallied. Higher-yielding currencies
gained against Canada’s dollar as a government report showed the
annual inflation rate increased last month less than forecast.
The currency touched the lowest this month against the  U.S.
dollar  today after a retail sales report yesterday also trailed
forecasts. The government hands down its budget next week.  “The bias is certainly shifting toward risk-aversion
trading strategies,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said by phone from
Toronto. “Longer-term players are certainly very comfortable
being short Canada,” he said. A short position is a bet that a
currency will fall in value.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to 99.83 Canadian
cents per U.S. dollar at 3:39 p.m. Toronto time. It earlier fell
to C$1.0034, the least since Feb. 27. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0016.  Government bonds  rose for a fourth day, the longest winning
streak this month. Benchmark  10-year yields  dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.18 percent, after rising
to 2.297 percent on March 19, the highest since October. Two-
year yields fell one basis point to 1.24 percent.  Federal bonds have lost 1.2 percent this year, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Oil Surge  The loonie erased losses after oil surged almost $3 a
barrel as Reuters reported Iranian oil exports will drop by
300,000 barrels a day this month because of tighter sanctions.
Crude for May delivery rose $1.29 to $106.87 a barrel. It slid
$1.92 yesterday to $105.35, the lowest close since March 15.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was headed for a 0.4
percent decline this week, the first in six weeks.  Canada ’s currency was headed for its third straight weekly
drop against the greenback in what would be its longest five-day
losing streak since the period ended Aug. 19.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.6 percent in February from
a year earlier, following January’s 2.5 percent gain,  Statistics
Canada  said. The core rate, which excludes eight volatile items,
rose 2.3 percent, the fastest since December 2008. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the total rate would quicken to
2.7 percent and  core inflation  would be 2.2 percent, according
to the median of 25 estimates.  ‘Consumer-Debt Load’  For the Bank of Canada, “near-term inflation numbers
aren’t the most important thing,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-
income and currency strategy at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC
Capital Markets unit in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“They’re worried more about the consumer-debt load.”  The Bank of Canada has held its target  lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 in the longest pause since the
1950s. Borrowing costs aren’t forecast to advance until the
first quarter of 2013, according to economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The yield on the September 2012 bankers’ acceptances
 contract , a barometer of short-term rate projections, was
unchanged at 1.32 percent today, down from 1.37 on March 15, the
highest level since August. The decreasing yield indicates
traders are trimming expectations for rate rises.  Budget Focus  “Even though inflation is slightly higher than the Bank of
Canada wants, there’s no reason to panic,” said  David Love , a
trader of interest-rate derivatives in  Montreal  at Le Groupe
Jitney Inc., a brokerage. “People really only react if the data
is off from consensus.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said his 2012
budget, to be released March 29, will focus primarily on
bolstering growth in a bid to sustain the country’s recovery,
rather than government spending cuts.  Flaherty said he will include steps to encourage
innovation, promote natural resources and create jobs even as he
cuts spending to balance the budget in the “medium-term,” he
told reporters yesterday near Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  