-- Canada Banks Tighten Condo Lending Amid Bubble Fear: Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/canada-banks-tighten-condo-lending-amid-bubble-fear-mortgages.html
Canada ’s  biggest banks  are
tightening lending standards for condominium builders at the
urging of regulators, requesting higher pre-sales and deposits
as policy makers warn the Toronto and  Vancouver  markets are
overheating.  Some banks have been asking construction firms to put more
equity into new projects in recent weeks, according to
developers. Lenders have also been raising the percentage of
condo units that must be pre-sold and are demanding higher
deposits as conditions for financing, they said.  “Several of the banks have tightened up” after the Office
of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions “told the banks
to be a little bit more careful on who they are lending to and
how they are lending,” said Barry Fenton, chief executive
officer of Toronto-based Lanterra Developments, whose condos
include  WaterParkCity  and  Ice Condominiums at York Centre .  Policy makers including Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  have
warned about the risks of record consumer debt and soaring
housing prices that some investors say may be inflating a condo
bubble in Toronto and Vancouver. Housing prices may drop 15
percent as  interest rates  rise, crimping economic growth and
sending Canadian stocks down 10 percent, said Sadiq Adatia, who
manages about $9 billion at Sun Life Global Investments Inc.  While  OSFI , Canada’s banking regulator, hasn’t imposed new
formal requirements on real-estate lending specific to geography
or property type, it increased supervision of residential
lending practices more than a year ago, spokeswoman Leonie Roux
said.  Risk Drivers  “This includes meeting with market participants to
understand the drivers of risks and the decisions that are being
made to manage those risks,” she said in an e-mail.  OSFI released new draft  guidelines  on March 19 for mortgage
underwriting by Canadian financial institutions. Banks should
take “reasonable steps” to verify a borrower’s income before
granting mortgages, the agency said. Financial institutions
should also establish internal standards on the ability of
borrowers to service their debt.  “What we have seen is a little tightening of the
requirements” on loans offered by major Canadian banks to
condominium developers, said Dov Meyer, CEO of  Terra Firma
Capital Corp., (TII)  a Toronto-based company that finances residential
projects.  The condo building surge is being led by developers ranging
from Toronto-based Tridel Group and Vancouver-based Concord
Pacific to El-Ad Canada Inc. Toronto has more skyscrapers and
high-rises under construction than any North American city --
almost three times as many as  New York .  Record Debt  Rising home sales and prices fostered by the lowest
 interest rates  in decades have pushed household debt to record
levels, leaving some families vulnerable to an expected rise in
borrowing costs. Flaherty and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  have warned Canadians to make sure they can afford their
debts at higher interest rates.  Banking regulators have been monitoring the risk to
financial institutions of the surging condo markets, especially
in Toronto and Vancouver, OSFI documents released to Bloomberg
News in January through freedom-of-information law show.  “The Toronto market is dominated by a small number of very
powerful developers,” OSFI stated in a June 2011 market update.
“Their role in supporting or discouraging pre-sale speculative
activities would appear to be very inconsistent, with little
transparency.”  ‘Shut Door’  Some of the country’s biggest banks have “shut the door”
on lending to less established real-estate developers, said Brad Lamb, president of Brad J. Lamb Realty Inc., which specializes
in developing condos and loft apartments in Toronto, including
the King East project on Parliament and King Streets.  “What I’ve been told, and I’ve had meetings with several
banks in the last few weeks, is that OSFI has been in there,
they’ve been clear about their concern about potential risks in
the high-rise industry in Toronto and Vancouver, and that there
needs to be a tightening,” Lamb said in a phone interview.  Less well-established companies may have difficulty getting
loans from the top Canadian banks, even if they have pre-sold 70
percent of the units, collected 20 percent of the total purchase
price in deposits, and can offer 15 percent of the project’s
value in equity, Lamb said.  Efforts by federal regulators to slow the condo market will
prove fruitless, since smaller developers should still be able
to tap “tier-two” lenders and foreign institutions for capital,
he said.  Raise Rates  “It’s not like we’re not going to have funding for our
projects,” said Lamb. “If you want to cool the market, raise
interest rates.”  Flaherty said yesterday banks can tighten rules for
mortgage lending on their own and shouldn’t rely on the
government to act for them.  “I’d like the market to correct itself,” Flaherty told
reporters. “We’re seeing some evidence of that in the condo
market, particularly in Toronto, where there is some softening
of the market. And that’s a good thing.”  Canada’s banks have been ranked the soundest in the globe
by the  World Economic Forum  in part because they avoided the
subprime loans that crippled many U.S. lenders during the
financial crisis. Canada’s 10-member  S&P/TSX Banks Index (STBANKX) 
returned 155 percent over the past three years, compared with a
97 percent gain for the 24-member U.S. KBW Bank Index.  Aligned With Developers  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Chief Executive Officer William Downe said
he can’t comment on conversations with OSFI. Still, developers
are becoming more “conservative with respect to their projects,
recognizing what’s going on in the market,” he said.  “I met with one of the largest developers in the last
couple of weeks, and I was really impressed with how aligned we
are,” Downe said in a March 20 interview in Halifax,  Nova
Scotia . “It’s not in their best interest to have a market that
overheats and then falls rapidly.”  Toronto-Dominion Bank hasn’t made any recent changes to its
lending practices to condo developers, said spokesman Stephen
Knight.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  spokeswoman Ka Yan Ng declined to
comment and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce spokesman Sean
Hamilton didn’t return requests for comment.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
spokeswoman Ann DeRabbie reiterated comments the company made on
a March 6 earnings call that its condo loans are performing well.  Mortgages on condos represent less than 8 percent of Royal
Bank’s residential mortgage portfolio, Chief Risk Officer Morten Friis said on a March 1 earnings call. Royal’s exposure on loans
to high-rise condominium builders is C$800 million, less than 3
percent of Royal Bank’s commercial-loan book, Friis said.  Vulnerable  “There may, for instance, be some vulnerability in the
condo markets of Vancouver and Toronto, but as I have said
before, we have very limited exposure to these markets,” Royal
Bank CEO Gordon Nixon said on the call.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  takes a “conservative” approach to
loans to condo developers, which represent one of the “higher
risks” in commercial lending, TD Chief Risk Officer Mark Chauvin said on a March 1 earnings call.  “Canadian banks are definitely” tightening standards on
condos, said Adatia, chief investment officer at Sun Life Global
in Toronto. “Canadians are looking at it and saying ‘we saw
what the U.S. went through.’ The financial system in Canada is
smarter than in the U.S.”  Flaherty said as recently as March 5 he is concerned some
condominium markets are overheated and some families are taking
on debts that will become unaffordable as interest rates rise.
The central bank said March 8 household debt “remains the
biggest domestic risk” and Carney said in a June  speech  in
Vancouver there may be an “overshoot in the condo market in
some major cities.”  Household Debt  The ratio of household debt to disposable income declined
to 152.9 percent in the October-to-December period from a
revised record 154.2 percent in the previous three months as
income rose faster than borrowing,  Statistics Canada  said March
15.  Multiple-unit starts in Toronto more than doubled in
January to 2,999 units compared with a year before, while starts
rose 4 per cent in Vancouver to 1,261 units, according to Canada
Mortgage & Housing Corp.  “The large number of construction cranes crowding
Toronto’s skyline is raising concern of an emerging oversupply
of high-rise housing,” Bank of Nova Scotia economist Adrienne Warren said in a March 16 research note. Slowing price
appreciation should “dampen investor demand and new product
launches,” she said.  Foreign Banks  Several prominent condo projects in the city have recently
relied on financing from lenders other than the nation’s five
largest banks. The Trump International Hotel & Tower Toronto
opened in January with condo prices as high as C$6.3 million.
The owner and developer, Talon International Development Inc.,
arranged C$310 million in construction financing from Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, an Austrian bank.  Tricon Capital Group Inc. (TCN) , a Toronto-based company that
finances real-estate developments, is helping to finance a condo
high-rise called Massey Tower in the city’s downtown theater
district.  Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA says it has become one of the
biggest providers in Ontario for condominium construction
financing insured by CMHC. The bank  says  it has financed
condominium construction loans for some of the country’s biggest
developers, including Tridel and Lanterra. BNP helped finance
the L Tower, a 57-story condominium designed by  Daniel Libeskind 
under construction near Yonge and Front streets in Toronto.  “The smaller, medium-sized guys, those are the ones being
asked for either higher presale targets to be hit and/or for
their purchasers to come up with higher deposits,” said Tasso
Eracles, CEO of Simerra Property Management in Toronto, which
manages about 280 condominiums and is a unit of  FirstService
Corp. (FSRV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 