-- Canada February Core Inflation Rate Fastest in Three Years
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-23T11:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/canada-february-core-inflation-rate-fastest-in-three-years-1-.html
Canadian  inflation  accelerated for
a second month in February on higher costs for electricity and
meat, as the central bank’s key price measure reached the
fastest in more than three years.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.6 percent in February from
a year earlier, following January’s 2.5 percent gain, Ottawa-
based Statistics Canada said. The  core  rate, which excludes
eight volatile items, accelerated to 2.3 percent, the fastest
since December 2008. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
the total rate would quicken to 2.7 percent and  core inflation 
would be 2.2 percent, according to the median of 25 estimates.  The Bank of Canada said March 8 that inflation will be
higher than it had forecast in January because of “reduced
economic slack and higher  oil prices .” Policy makers also said
price gains will slow in the second quarter and inflation will
then stay near 2 percent through next year.  “We still have enough geopolitical risks hanging over the
market” for the Bank of Canada to leave rates unchanged instead
of tightening policy to brake inflation, said  Derek Holt ,  Scotia
Capital ’s vice president of economics in Toronto. “Consumers
are going to be more reticent to pay higher prices going
forward.”  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0016 per
 U.S. dollar  at 7:19 a.m. Toronto time. One Canadian dollar buys
99.84 U.S. cents.  Energy Costs  Gasoline prices rose 8.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, while electricity costs rose 8.7 percent, Statistics
Canada said today.  “We continue to suffer from the rising fuel prices, which
combined with intense competition, contributed to a lower
margins,” tour operator Transat A.T. Inc. Chief Financial
Officer Denis Petrin said on a March 15 earnings call.  Food prices rose 4.1 percent on an annual basis, including
a 7.2 percent increase in bread and 7.1 percent for meat.  Bank of Canada  Governor Mark Carney has kept his policy
interest rate at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest
pause since the 1950s, as weak global demand curbs exports. The
bank has a 2 percent inflation target and uses the core measure
as a guide because it reduces short-term price volatility. The
core rate includes electricity and excludes gasoline.  On a monthly basis, both total and core inflation rose 0.4
percent in February. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
monthly inflation of 0.4 percent and a 0.3 percent advance in
core prices.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.1 percent in February
from the month before. Seasonally adjusted core inflation gained
0.2 percent.  Today’s release marks the final time  Statistics Canada 
publishes inflation data at 7 a.m. in Ottawa. The agency is
switching to a standard 8:30 a.m. release time for all
indicators beginning in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  