-- Cannibal Crooner Broods in ‘Sweeney,’ Circus Imbroglio
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-03-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/cannibal-crooner-broods-in-sweeney-circus-imbroglio-review.html
These are desperate times, sings
Sweeney Todd, and so they are.  Casting a popular light-voiced crooner to sing a dark,
weighty role is surely a desperate move. The good news is that
Michael Ball does an impressive job, dramatically speaking, in a
new London production. He’s brooding and monomaniacal. He goes
for long stretches without blinking. He stoops and mutters.  Lanky, with dark hair and sepulchral hollows under his
eyes, Ball looks nothing like the affable blond MOR merchant he
is for the rest of the time. It’s a surprising and enjoyable
transformation.  If his vocal performance were of the same caliber, he’d be
sensational. As it is, he indulges in too much crooning, rasping
for effect, and singing off the voice (not fully supported from
the chest). It’s too prettified for such a somber role.  It would be fine in most other West End musicals, where
those things are part of the authentic idiom. Trouble is, opera
companies have tackled  Stephen Sondheim ’s masterpiece, and we
know what it can sound like with a really great voice in the
role. Thomas Allen and  Bryn Terfel  have both done it well.  Ball is still very watchable. And he’s partnered by the
superb Imelda Staunton as Mrs. Lovett, the motherly pie-shop
owner who bakes the demon barber’s victims.  She exploits her gags like an enthusiastic milkmaid, and
even throws in a few perfect ad libs. (Let’s hope Sondheim,
who’s famously watchful about accuracy, doesn’t hear about
that.) As Mrs. Lovett falls deeper in love with the unresponsive
Todd, Staunton pitches the level of desperation higher.  Boiled Kiss  It’s a risky strategy, and pays off well. At one point, she
makes Sweeney open his mouth to accept a boiled sweet, but
suddenly thrusts in her tongue for a French kiss instead. It’s
both hilarious and horrible. Her great singing adds to the
joyous complete-package performance.  Jonathan Kent updates the action to the 1930s. That means
plenty of foggy dry ice, and a chorus that looks like it’s made
up of charladies and unemployed miners. If it doesn’t bring much
to the story, it doesn’t get in the way either, and the energy
levels and clarity of storytelling are fine.  The spurts of blood from the victims, gushing out like
champagne, hit just the right comedy-horror note. The chrome
barber’s chair and accompanying chute are fun props too.  Some of the supporting cast wouldn’t make it on to anyone’s
list of must-hear performers, which is a shame. They’re OK, yet
no more. With a masterpiece this indestructible, it doesn’t
matter. The piece still works its unfailing Grand Guignol magic.  Rating: ***.  ‘Circus Tricks’  Plucky company Tete-a-Tete is a laboratory for new opera,
and has done some fine work in the past. Their latest world
premiere “Circus Tricks” has lots to offer, once you get past
a lot of tedious exposition.  The opera by Michael Henry (music) and Adey Grummet
(libretto) tells the stories of seven circus performers,
including Barney the trick pony, gamely sung by tenor
Christopher Diffey.  The knife thrower’s assistant longs to reveal her love for
him. The contortionist feels lonely. The acrobats, who are
brothers, squabble.  In the first half of the work, and a good amount of the
second, these problems are revealed directly to the audience in
long arioso monologues. The performers sing their own stage
directions, along the lines of “Smile. Turn to audience.
Present. Turn other way.”  If there were a better way to squash any incipient conflict
or drama, I haven’t seen it.  Amusing Elephant  It’s also absurd that when the contortionist sings “Slip
head through knees,” she doesn’t quite manage the stunt. Later,
an elephant sits on her when she has supposedly tied herself
into a knot, which is an amusing piece of staging.  Things pick up in Act 2 when the individual stories all
reach their climaxes simultaneously and, in a neat twist, two
possible outcomes are revealed.  The music is witty in a Stravinsky-lite manner, and the
performers are all good. If young and glamorous Lily Papaioannou
(Contortionist) doesn’t manage to fling her legs back over her
shoulders and peer through her knees -- as not many opera
singers could -- she compensates with a rich and seductive
voice. That makes me hope someone will give her a role as Carmen
before too long. Yvette Bonner (Trapeze Artist) and Simon
Wilding (Acrobat) are also exciting performers.  Director Bill Bankes-Jones makes it all look authentically
circusy, with plenty of feathers, tights and spangles. If the
drama can be tightened and the score cut, there’s a good show
waiting to get out.  Rating: **.  “Sweeney Todd” is at the Adelphi Theatre. Information:
 http://www.sweeneytoddwestend.com  or +44-844-811-0053.  “Circus Tricks” is at the Riverside Studios through March
25,  http://www.riversidestudios.co.uk  or 020-8237-8111.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson in London at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 