-- Catalonia Confident to Meet Deficit Target, Finance Chief Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-03-23T11:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/catalonia-confident-to-meet-deficit-target-finance-chief-says.html
Spain ’s largest region is confident
it can meet its budget-deficit goal this year and remains ready
to deepen pay cuts to 5 percent if needed, said Catalan finance
chief Andreu Mas-Colell.  Catalonia is waiting for the central government to present
its budget on March 30 to see how much funding regions will get,
he said in an interview. His government must cut its deficit to
1.5 percent of gross domestic product from 3.7 percent last
year, when it missed its goal for a 1.3 percent shortfall.  “Can we meet it? Yes we can,” Mas-Colell, 67, said
yesterday in his office in Barcelona. “If the income that we
get from the central government budget is as we expect it to be,
then we will meet the target.”  Spanish regions control over a third of public spending and
are crucial to efforts to cut the nation’s budget shortfall, the
fourth-largest in the euro area. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
has now loosened his government’s deficit target for this year,
and Citigroup Inc. chief economist  Willem Buiter  said this week
that Spain “is the key country about which I’m most worried.”  Catalonia has cut wages of around 200,000 workers in the
public sector by 3 percent and may deepen that reduction to 5
percent from June depending on the outcome of the state budget,
said Mas-Colell, who is a former professor at  Harvard University 
and the  University of California , Berkeley.  ‘Painful’ Cuts  “It’s painful, but reducing public services slightly and
reducing public-sector workers’ salaries is preferable to laying
people off,” he said. There are no plans to charge patients
more for healthcare, he added.  Last year, the regions’ deficit was more than twice their
goal at 2.9 percent of GDP, pushing the nation’s total shortfall
to 8.5 percent. Spain now targets an overall  budget deficit  of
5.3 percent this year, compared with the 4.4 percent initially
agreed with the European Union.  Catalonia said yesterday it aims to sell 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of one-year and two-year bonds yielding 4.5
percent and 5 percent respectively to retail investors from
April 2 to meet redemptions as public debt markets remain closed
to most Spanish regions.  The central government has created credit lines to help
regions meet bond redemptions and pay suppliers, and El Mundo
reported yesterday that it may allow regions to issue debt
jointly using so-called “hispabonos.”  ‘Logical’  “It would be a very logical step, as we think it odd the
world perceives the autonomous communities as part of the whole
of the Kingdom of Spain, yet we are responsible for financing
public services and to look for financing without the guarantee
of the state,” said Mas-Colell, who has been calling for
jointly issued bonds backed by the government since August.  While markets remain shut to regions including Andalusia,
which sold bonds to its citizens yesterday, states that do have
access face higher borrowing costs than the central government.
 Madrid , the second-biggest regional economy and the state with
the smallest budget deficit, paid 200 basis points more than
equivalent Spanish securities to sell 2015 bonds on March 15.  “We have no problem placing our debt but we would like to
place them on more favorable terms over a longer time period,”
Mas-Colell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  