-- Chelsea May Pay Guardiola $64 Million to Move, Sun Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-23T10:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/chelsea-may-pay-guardiola-64-million-to-move-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Pep Offer  Chelsea’s billionaire owner Roman Abramovich may pay
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola as much as 40 million pounds ($64
million) to quit the Spanish champion and join the Blues, the
 Sun  reported.  Guardiola earns 8 million pounds after tax in Spain and
Abramovich is willing to make him the highest-paid manager in
the world if he agrees to replace fired Andre Villas-Boas, the
Sun said.  Luiz Bid  Chelsea faces a fight to keep defender  David Luiz , as
Barcelona is considering a 35 million-pound offer for the
Brazilian, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Barcelona sees the player as a replacement for 34-year-old
captain  Carles Puyol  who’s been struggling with injuries, the
Mail said. Barca has been short of cover for Puyol and has
regularly asked Argentinean midfielder Javier Mascherano to fill
in.  Maradona Rescue  Argentina soccer icon Diego Maradona said he convinced
 Carlos Tevez  to end his six-month exile from  Manchester City ,
the  Sun  reported.  Tevez came off the bench to set up Samir Nasri’s winner in
City 2-1 comeback victory over Chelsea two days ago after ending
a feud with coach  Roberto Mancini  stretching back to September.  “I told Tevez three months ago that he had to talk with
Mancini as soon as possible,” the Sun quoted Maradona as
saying. “I said that because he was losing money -- but also
because he needed to play football again. I told Tevez, ‘you
must go back now’”  Liverpool Exit  Raheem Sterling, Liverpool’s teenaged attacking prospect,
could quit the club because of a lack of opportunities and a
desire to return home to  London , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 17-year-old’s family has been frustrated by Liverpool’s
failure to integrate Sterling into the first team, the Mirror
said. The Reds have rejected offers to loan the player from
Bolton, West Ham and Swansea, the newspaper added.  Scholes Contract  Paul Scholes  wants to sign a new contract to stay with
 Manchester United  for another season, the  Sun  reported.  Scholes came out of retirement in January and has been a
regular as Alex Ferguson’s team battles Manchester City for the
Premier League title.  Scholes, 37, has played in all but two of 15 games since
making his return in the 3-2 F.A. Cup victory over City on Jan.
8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the London sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  