-- Chevron’s Brazil License Risks Being Revoked on Oil Spill
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-23T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/chevron-s-brazil-license-risks-being-revoked-on-oil-spill.html
Brazil ’s petroleum regulator is
considering revoking  Chevron Corp.’s (CVX)  exploration contract after
finding the U.S. oil producer could have avoided a 3,000-barrel
spill off Rio de Janeiro’s coast.  “There was a critical non-compliance,” Silvio Jablonski,
an adviser to the board of the oil regulator known as ANP, told
lawmakers at a hearing in Brasilia yesterday. “It’s possible to
demand the operator be changed or the contract revoked.”  Chevron has come under mounting attack from Brazilian
politicians, prosecutors and regulators following the leak at
its $3.6 billion Frade project in November and a second seep
this month. Federal Prosecutor Eduardo Santos, who’s probing the
slick independently from the regulator, charged executives at
Chevron and rig operator  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  with environmental
crimes and called for prison sentences of as many as 31 years.  There was no negligence at the company’s operations at
Frade, Rafael Jaen Williamson, a corporate affairs director at
the company, told reporters in Brasilia after the congressional
hearing. Chevron has worked closely with regulators and hasn’t
considered the possibility of a license suspension, he said.  “Chevron will vigorously defend the company and its
employees,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement March 21, adding that the prosecutor charges are
“outrageous.”  The leak occurred at a time Brazil is increasing scrutiny
of deep-water drilling following the 2010 Macondo spill in the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico . Both Chevron and Transocean said the
charges are “without merit.”  “We strongly disagree with the indictment,” Transocean
Corporate Communications Director  Guy Cantwell  said in an e-
mail. “We will vigorously defend our company, our people, our
reputation and our quality of services.”  Transocean Spared  The ANP didn’t include Transocean in its probe of the leak
because there were “no problems” with its rig used at Frade,
Magda Chambriard, the head of the agency, said yesterday. The
regulator will complete its final report on the spill after
Chevron responds to questions within 15 days and expects to take
a month to study the replies, Chambriard said.  The prosecutor’s charges, which will be pursued in court,
call for each company to pay 10 million reais ($5.5 million) and
for each of 17 executives indicted in the case to pay 1 million
reais.  George Buck , head of Chevron in Brazil, and Michael
Legrand, Transocean’s head of operations in the country, are
among the executives who were banned from leaving Brazil this
week while the prosecutor’s probe is conducted.  ‘Political Firestorm’  “This political firestorm is indicative of a post-Macondo
world,”  Christopher Garman , a Latin American analyst at Eurasia
Group, said in a telephone interview. “This is the reality
international  oil companies  have to deal with.”  Chevron, the second-biggest U.S. oil company by market
value, suspended production in Brazil last week after
identifying a second leak at the Frade area.  The oil seep near Chevron’s Frade project this month didn’t
come from the field where a spill occurred in November, company
spokesmanGlaubitz said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Chevron  fell  2.4 percent to $105.35 in  New York  yesterday.
Transocean dropped 2.8 percent to $55.20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  