-- China Must Keep Yuan From Hurting Exports, NDRC Researchers Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T09:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/china-must-keep-yuan-from-hurting-exports-ndrc-researchers-say.html
China  must prevent a significant
strengthening of the yuan that would harm exports by compounding
difficulties from rising labor and energy costs, two government
researchers said.  “If the global economic situation continues to
deteriorate, China should prevent the yuan from following the
 U.S. dollar  to appreciate against other currencies or China’s
exports, particularly those to emerging markets, would be
seriously hindered,” Bi Jiyao and Zhang Yi, researchers
affiliated with the  National Development and Reform Commission ,
said in an article presented at a trade forum in Beijing today.  China kept the yuan’s value steady from July 2008 to June
2010 to help exporters weather a global recession and policy
makers have kept it from strengthening for much of 2012. The
global economic recovery will be “tortuous,” Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said in his state-of-the-nation address March 5,
setting a target of expanding imports and exports by a combined
10 percent, less than half of last year’s pace.  “If the global economy recovers, then China can consider
pushing for a gradual appreciation of the yuan against a basket
of currencies to help improve the structure of exports,” Bi and
Zhang wrote, referring to an upgrade in the types of products
sold overseas.  Bi is director of the foreign economic research institute
under the NDRC, China’s top economic-planning agency. Zhang is a
researcher at the institute.  Trade Forecast  China’s exports may rise by between 11 percent and 15
percent while inbound shipments may increase by between 13
percent and 17 percent this year from 2011, leaving a trade
surplus of about $150 billion, according to Bi and Zhang.
 Exports (CNFRCEXY)  grew 20 percent and imports expanded 25 percent last
year.  The yuan’s daily reference rate rose the most this week
since October to a record today, snapping five weeks of
declines. Wen and central bank officials this month pledged
greater two-way flexibility in the currency. The yuan weakened
0.1 percent to 6.3078 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai 
today.  China faces a bigger challenge in keeping the “basic
stability” of its currency this year because of changes in
capital flows, countries’ monetary policies, the European debt
crisis and uncertainties in the dollar’s trend, the researchers
wrote.  Signs of capital flowing out of the world’s second-largest
 economy  in the last quarter of 2011 helped prompt the government
to cut lenders’ reserve ratios for the first time in three years
in November. The nation reported its biggest trade deficit since
at least 1989 last month as exports rose less than forecast and
imports surged.  Airplane Imports  February’s trade shortfall resulted from higher commodity
prices and was also driven by a 45 percent increase in airplane
imports, the government researchers wrote in today’s article.
“A monthly deficit won’t occur again” when seasonal issues
fade, Bi and Zhang wrote.  Separately, China wants to increase the proportion of
exports to  emerging markets  and from the nation’s central and
western regions, Zhong Shan, a vice minister of commerce, said
at the same trade forum today. The government will bolster
support for export rebates and maintain a stable yuan amid
uncertainties in the world recovery and rising risks of a euro-
area recession that may hinder trade growth, Zhong said.  Wang Shouwen, head of the Commerce Ministry’s foreign trade
department, said he’s confident China can reach the 10 percent
trade target this year. The second quarter will be a “peak
period” for exporters signing orders, he said at the forum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  