-- China Banks Said to Underestimate Local Government Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T21:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/china-banks-said-to-underestimate-local-government-risks.html
Chinese banks misclassified about
20 percent of their outstanding loans to local governments,
understating the risk that slowing revenue will cut borrowers’
ability to repay, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission told lenders last
month that they had incorrectly placed about 1.8 trillion yuan
($286 billion) of loans to local government financing vehicles
in the safest category of lending, the person said, declining to
be named because the matter is private. The banks erred in
calculations and underestimated risks when they decided the
loans were fully covered by cash flows from the projects, the
person said.  Reclassifying the debts may force banks to set aside
greater loan-loss provisions and seek more collateral from
regional authorities, whose revenue growth has slumped as the
world’s second-biggest economy slows.  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s third-largest lender, March 22 unexpectedly
posted its first drop in quarterly profit since its 2010 listing
after creating more provisions than analysts had estimated.  “The impact of a reclassification would not be huge for
the entire industry but it can be much bigger for a few banks if
the problems are concentrated in them,” said Yvonne Zhang, a
Beijing-based vice president and senior analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service. “In our stress tests, we assumed that
between 20 percent and 33 percent of those loans will eventually
turn sour without government assistance.”  Local Projects  Local governments in China, prohibited from directly taking
out bank loans or selling bonds, have set up more than 6,000
financing companies to raise funds for projects such as
stadiums, roads and bridges, the National Audit Office said in a
June  report .  Regulators and investors have expressed concern that if
local-government loans aren’t repaid they could lead to China’s
third banking bailout in less than two decades. While the
regulator’s warning doesn’t order banks to categorize the loans
as non-performing, it suggests that the risks may be greater
than lenders have estimated.  Cash Flows  About 8.2 trillion yuan of a total 9 trillion yuan of loans
to the financing vehicles were classified as fully covered by
cash flows as of Dec. 31, and some lenders had wrongly included
items such as government subsidies in their calculations, the
person said. It’s unclear what the regulator will tell banks to
do with the misclassified debt, the person said.  The CBRC’s press office responded to a query by referring
to a March 1  statement  in which the regulator urged lenders to
“completely and objectively” recognize risks and problems
including maturing of loans to local governments, restructuring
of such debt and fluctuation in the value of collateral.  Local government loans that are fully covered by forecast
cash flows from the projects they finance should be given a 100
percent risk weighting when banks calculate their capital
adequacy ratios, according to a CBRC regulation released in
December 2010. The weighting otherwise would be at least 140
percent and could be as high as 300 percent.  Banks need to hold more capital to cover assets with higher
risk weightings.  Assuming an average 50 percentage-point increase in risk
weighting for the 1.8 trillion yuan of loans after
reclassification, commercial banks may see roughly a 15 basis-
point drop in their core capital adequacy ratios, Zhang said.
The average ratio stood at 10.2 percent as of Dec. 31, according
to the CBRC. A basis point is 0.01 percentage points.  Slowing Economy  Local-government revenue grew 15 percent in the first two
months of this year to 1 trillion yuan, compared with a 36
percent jump a year earlier, according to government data.
 China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in 10 quarters in
the last three months of 2011 as export demand moderated and a
prolonged campaign against consumer-price  inflation  and  property
gains  cooled growth.  The government’s scrapping of tolls on some roads has made
it harder to repay loans in certain regions, and new
requirements that local governments set aside more funds from
land-sale proceeds for education and irrigation further strain
their ability to pay off debts, the person said. More than 450
billion yuan of local government loans went to the roads
affected by the toll cancellation, the person said.  Refinancing  Regional authorities are also finding it harder to replace
improperly registered collateral and government guarantees the
regulator has banned, after having injected about 280 billion
yuan of new capital and more than 800 billion yuan of assets
into the financial vehicles’ books, the person said.  In addition, banks were told they could refinance loans for
completed projects that aren’t yet generating income if
estimated future cash flows can cover borrowings, there’s
adequate collateral and repayment terms meet regulatory
requirements, the person said. The amount of money provided for
such refinancing may not exceed the amount of the original loan,
the person said.  If debt matures before a projects is completed, banks may
reset the duration of the loan if the project meets the same
requirements, the person said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  