-- China National Nuclear in Talks With Areva on Uranium Stakes
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-03-23T06:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/china-national-nuclear-in-talks-with-areva-to-buy-uranium-stakes.html
China  National Nuclear Corp. said
it’s in talks to buy a stake in uranium mines owned by  Areva SA (AREVA) 
as the world’s biggest energy consumer prepares to resume
approval of new reactor construction.  “We are also discussing opportunities with many countries
to cooperate in terms of uranium exploration and mining,” Sun
Qin, president of China’s biggest atomic power plant operator,
said in an interview in Seoul today, without giving a time-frame
or details on location.  China National Nuclear, which started operations at its
first overseas uranium mine in 2010, is looking to acquire
additional assets to meet rising domestic demand, the company
said in March last year. Rival China Guangdong Nuclear Power
Group Co. is offering to buy Australian explorer  Extract
Resources Ltd. (EXT)  for A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion) to gain access
to the world’s fourth-biggest uranium deposit.  “We are preparing to list CNNC Nuclear Power Co.,” as
part of our expansion plans, Sun said, without elaborating.  China National Nuclear is also the parent of Hong Kong-
listed  CNNC International Ltd. (2302) , a uranium producer in Niger.  The Chinese government is “very likely” to resume
approval of new nuclear projects in 2012 as the government
completes a safety review prompted by the Fukushima disaster
last year, Sun said on March 5. China, which started operating
its first commercial nuclear plant in 1994, is building at least
27 reactors and has 50 more planned, according to the China
Nuclear Energy Association.  Nuclear Industry  “Nuclear is going to continue to play a very important
role in the future,” Areva Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel
told reporters in  Seoul  today. “Our estimation is that today we
have more or less 400 gigawatts of nuclear plants, and we think
this will grow to 600 gigawatts in 2030.”  The earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  in March last year
crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
causing some countries to suspend or scale back their nuclear
plants. Areva, currently building plants in France and Finland,
is bidding to provide reactors in China,  India , the U.K.,
Finland and the  Czech Republic , Oursel said yesterday in Paris.  “The nuclear renaissance has not been severely impacted by
the Fukushima accident,” said Oursel, who was attending the
Seoul Nuclear Industry Summit, citing tenders in the Czech
Republic, Finland and  South Africa .  Areva produced 9,142 metric tons of uranium last year,
making it the world’s second-biggest producer of the atomic
fuel, according to the company’s  website . The Paris-based
company has mines in countries including Australia, Canada and
Niger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  