-- Citigroup Sets $700 Million Charge on Akbank Stake Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/citigroup-expects-700-million-impairment-charge-tied-to-akbank.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, expects an impairment charge of $700
million in the first quarter as the lender cuts its investment
in Istanbul-based  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  by more than half.  The loss is about $1.1 billion before taxes, the New York-
based company said yesterday in a filing with federal
regulators. Citigroup is reducing its stake in Akbank to less
than 10 percent from the 20 percent it currently owns, subject
to market conditions and approvals, it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  has been selling
assets after his capital plan was rejected by the  Federal
Reserve  earlier this month. The company sold its entire stake in
 Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  this week for $668 million.  “This development has nothing to do with growth plans of
our bank,” Akbank said in a statement. Citigroup’s decision
instead stems from how capital rules will treat the stake,
Akbank said.  Citigroup’s first-quarter charge will result from
recognizing currency losses related to the investment that were
previously recorded in other comprehensive income and from
marking down the current carrying value of the stake to market
prices, according to the filing.  Akbank closed trading in Istanbul yesterday with a market
value of 29 billion lira ($16.1 billion), with shares up 21
percent so far this year. That would value Citigroup’s 20
percent holding at about $3.23 billion. The bank currently holds
its investment at $3.4 billion.  $1 Billion  Citigroup has about $1 billion of currency translation and
hedging losses that would be recognized.  The firm said in its annual filing last month that while
its investment in Akbank was temporarily impaired, it wasn’t
recognizing a charge because management didn’t plan to sell the
stake before the value recovered.  Akbank’s net income fell 16 percent to 2.54 billion liras
in 2011. Citigroup cited a lower contribution from Akbank as one
reason for the 2 percent drop in revenue in its European
regional consumer banking unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  