-- CMBS Head Mazzei Leaves Bank of America for Ladder Capital
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-03-23T16:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/cmbs-head-mazzei-leaves-bank-of-america-for-ladder-capital.html
Michael Mazzei, who ran  Bank of
America Corp (BAC) ’s commercial real-estate debt capital markets
group, left the lender for Ladder Capital Finance Holdings LLC.  Mazzei, who joined Bank of America in 2009 from Barclays
Plc, has been named president of the New York-based real estate
finance firm, Ladder said in a statement today.  Ladder Capital, which has originated $2.6 billion of
property loans, is hiring the veteran executive as sales of
commercial-mortgage bonds rise after dropping off amid the
European debt crisis. Prior to his stints at Bank of America and
Barclays, Mazzei spent 20 years at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and rose to become the co-head of global real estate investment
banking, according to the statement.  “My time at BofA Merrill Lynch was a great experience,”
Mazzei said in the statement. “The team was able to reduce
virtually all of its legacy CMBS assets.”  Bank of America has been trimming staff in its mortgage
business amid waning trading revenues, increasing  capital
requirements  and a broader plan to cut costs by as much as $8
billion annually. John McNiff, a managing director in the
commercial-mortgage bond trading group, resigned from the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender this week along with
departures by at least five others in the mortgage and asset-
backed debt group.  Bank of America teamed up with Morgan Stanley to sell $1
billion of commercial mortgage bonds this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Loans originated by Morgan Stanley
accounted for 74 percent of the pool, while Bank of America
supplied the rest.  Wall Street  has arranged about $4 billion of CMBS sales
this year, Bloomberg data show. Sales are rising after
plummeting to $2.87 billion in the fourth quarter from $8.26
billion in the previous three months. Bank forecasts for
commercial-mortgage bond sales in 2012 range from  Wells Fargo &
Co .’s prediction of $25 billion to Credit Suisse Group AG’s
estimates of as much as $45 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  