-- Colombia Keeps 5.25% Rate to Gauge Effect of Nine Increases
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-23T20:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/colombia-keeps-5-25-rate-to-gauge-effect-of-nine-increases.html
Colombia ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged as it seeks to gauge whether nine
interest rate increases in 13 months will be enough to prevent
the fastest growth since 2007 from stoking inflation.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
held the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent today, as forecast by 16
of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Fourteen analysts,
including the three with the most accurate forecasting record in
Bloomberg surveys, expected a 0.25-point increase. The bank last
kept the rate unchanged in December.  “The central bank seems more comfortable with the way
inflation and inflation expectations are going, and more
comfortable with the fact that they’re converging to mid-
target,” said Katia Diaz, a Latin American economist at 4Cast
Inc. in  New York , who correctly forecast today’s decision. “If
there’s any change to the inflation outlook, then we can look at
a resumption of rate hikes.”  Colombia has defied a global trend for lower rates, as
record oil production and 22 percent credit expansion helped
power 5.9 percent growth last year. Policy makers cited signs
that growth slowed in the first quarter of the year and falling
inflation expectations in their decision to hold rates.  “The inflation risk coming from expectations have
moderated,” the bank said in its statement. “The risks from
the behavior of demand and credit remain.”  ‘Seeing the Impact’  The central bank will pause now to see how the economy
reacts to the 2.25 percentage points of rate increases since
February 2011, said Nader Nazmi, senior Latin America economist
at BNP Paribas, who correctly forecast today’s decision.  “They have already done a lot of hard work, and we are
going to start seeing the impact of some of these interest rate
hikes on the economy in the form of a moderation in growth,”
Nazmi said, speaking by phone from New York before the rate
decision. “We have seen recently some sign of growth
moderation, inflation expectations have trended down, and
inflation has also moved lower, so the central bank can afford
to wait before hiking again.”  Industrial output rose 2.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, its slowest growth in nine months. BNP Paribas expects
one more quarter-point rate increase this year.  Consumer prices rose 3.55 percent in the 12 months through
February, from 3.54 percent a month earlier.  In October, annual inflation breached the upper limit of
the central bank’s target range for the first time since 2009.
Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  ‘Contrast’  Colombian officials have repeatedly voiced concern over the
pace of credit growth, which rose 22 percent in January from a
year earlier.  Household debt has increased to close to record levels as a
share of income, while the quality of consumer loans has
deteriorated, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said
last week. Cano said both trends are “disturbing”.  The peso has strengthened 10.1 percent this year, to
1760.27 per dollar, the second-biggest gainer of the 31 most
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Unlike  Brazil , where central bank president Alexandre Tombini is slashing borrowing costs to try to revive growth and
prevent the appreciation of the real, Colombian policy makers
are more focused on their inflation target, said Juana Tellez,
chief economist at Bogota-based BBVA Colombia.  “They are giving priority to inflation, as they have done
historically, and they want to get inflation to 3 percent,”
Tellez said in a telephone interview before the rate decision.
“This a very important contrast with Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 