-- Coming to America Costs $500,000 With Job Plan Prone to Failures
-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-03-23T04:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/coming-to-america-costs-500-000-with-job-plan-prone-to-failures.html
Civic leaders in El Monte,
California, saw the Transit Village development planned for land
around the bus station as a way to revitalize downtown.  Developers John Leung and Jean Lang pitched it as something
else to wealthy Asians: a ticket to a U.S green card.  The pair solicited $500,000 from a South Korean eager to win
a resident visa through a  federal program  designed to stimulate
 job creation . The developers’ company went bust, the investor
doesn’t have a green card and Transit Village didn’t produce any
jobs in El Monte, a city of about 120,000 east of Los Angeles.
Leung and Lang said they did nothing wrong. City officials said
federal authorities didn’t do enough.  “Little El Monte stepped up to expose these people,” said
Rene Bobadilla, the city manager. “Where the heck is the
federal government?”  The 22-year-old program gives foreigners a shot at U.S.
residency if they invest in businesses putting Americans to
work. While it’s grown in the past four years, its success as an
economic engine and a safe investment is being challenged.  Projects aren’t rigorously vetted and have been hyped by
operators and brokers, and immigration authorities have botched
visa claims and stranded investors and their families, according
to lawsuits and participants critical of government supervision.  “It’s great in concept,” Bobadilla said. “But it’s very
poorly monitored.”  Funding Ski Resorts  Known as the EB-5 program, it has attracted more than $2.2
billion, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
or USCIS. About $1 billion of that came in during the last
fiscal year, according to the Chicago-based trade group
Association to Invest In the USA. The money has funded shopping
malls, hotels, wind farms and ski resorts.  Regional centers -- authorized to pool foreigners’ money
into equity stakes or loans for approved projects -- have grown
to 218 from 11 in 2007, according to USCIS. Most EB-5 immigrants
get visas through regional centers. The agency issued 2,364 EB-5
visas in the first three months of this fiscal year, up from 158
in all of fiscal 2005.  Congressional authorization for the regional centers
expires in September. The President’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness has called for the EB-5 program to be
“radically” expanded to generate at least 40,000 jobs a year.  Government estimates that the program has produced 43,280
so far are questioned. There’s no way to know because EB-5
investors get credit for a project’s total employment, “even if
the capital of others is fueling the enterprise,” according to
a 2005 Government Accountability Office  report .  ‘Atrociously Inflated’  In one case, Brooklyn’s  Atlantic Yards  real-estate
development, immigrant investors are putting about 30 percent of
the capital into one pool financing the project, and claiming
all jobs that pool is expected to create, according to George
Olsen, managing principal of  New York City Regional Center  LLC.  The EB-5 program rules don’t demand enough proof that
promised jobs, however they’re calculated, will be generated,
said Jose Latour, a Miami immigration lawyer who co-owns
 American Venture Solutions Regional Center  LLC in  Florida .  “There’s no accountability,” he said. “Atrociously
inflated projects are going to result in a lot of rejected green
card applications.”  Foreigners are eligible for temporary residency for
themselves, spouses and unmarried children under 21 if USCIS
sanctions their investments. They have to show they’ll spur 10
jobs for every $500,000 in a rural or high-unemployment area,
and for every $1 million elsewhere. If USCIS finds that hasn’t
happened in two years, the investors don’t get green cards.  No Public Reports  Fewer than 10 percent of EB-5 pools seeking money today may
succeed in getting participants both green cards and their cash
back, Latour estimated. According to USCIS, 42 percent of past
investors received permanent visas. The agency doesn’t track
whether they recover their money.  Alejandro Mayorkas, director of USCIS, said the agency is
“very focused on enhancing the integrity of the program” as it
grows in popularity.  The agency doesn’t make public regional centers’ annual
reports, which it began to require in a standardized form last
year to keep the government better informed. It also hired two
economists and three business analysts to review applications.  “Our approval of a particular petition doesn’t mean that
their investment is a good one,” Mayorkas said. “We don’t
really get into the business models.”  Calls For Monitoring  Businesses that solicit EB-5 money should be “very
strictly” monitored, said Edward C.Y. Lau, a San Francisco
attorney. He represents three Chinese citizens who say in a
lawsuit they lost $3 million they gave to developers for what
was advertised as an EB-5 project for a Chinese restaurant in
San Bruno,  California . Their money vanished, they say in the
suit against the developers, and the restaurant wasn’t built.  The defendants didn’t file a response to the suit. There
was no answer at a number for the developers listed on paperwork
submitted to the city proposing the project, and the Oakland
address on the documents is a spa offering massages and facials.
Lau said his clients declined to be interviewed.  “It is a good program,” Lau said. “That doesn’t excuse
the fact that there may be foreign parties investing in projects
that are improper.”  In December, five South Korean investors and their families
sued USCIS claiming the agency wrongly denied them permanent
residency. They received temporary resident visas, moved to the
U.S. and faced deportation because of the agency’s “refusal to
recognize normal business practices,” according to the
complaint in federal court in  Los Angeles .  Two Dairy Farms  They put $2.5 million into a South Dakota dairy farm that
went out of business while their funds were in escrow, and
reinvested in another dairy farm marketed by the same regional
center, now called  SDRC  Inc., according to the suit. USCIS
denied their green cards, saying they should have reapplied
before giving the second farm money.  USCIS has agreed to reopen their cases and they’ve put
their complaint on hold, their Miami-based lawyer, Ira Kurzban,
said. USCIS officials declined to comment on the suit.  Joop Bollen, president of Aberdeen, South Dakota-based
SDRC, is a defendant in a civil case filed in federal court in
 Sioux Falls  in October. It claims he provided “inaccurate and
incomplete information” to Chinese citizens who put $500,000
each into the Northern Beef Packers cattle processing plant in
Aberdeen in 2009 and 2010. He failed to disclose there were
liens against the plant and that it was then about two years
behind schedule, according to the suit.  ‘Really Crappy Projects’  The four original plaintiffs dropped out of the suit and
were replaced with four others in November. Their lawyers
declined to comment.  Bollen, who denies the allegations, filed a counter-suit
against Beijing-based Henry Global Consulting Group, which SDRC
hired to recruit the investors. He says in his complaint the
company has “falsely advised” them about the plant and
continues to try to turn them against it because of a dispute
over the fees Henry Global charges. Lawyers for the defendant
couldn’t be reached for comment.  So many people are trying to make money off the EB-5
program now that it’s difficult to know the difference between
“really crappy projects and really good projects,” said
Bollen, whose center has put EB-5 money into a wind farm, a
hotel and casino and a turkey processing factory. “There are a
bunch of sleazebags who will sell anything.”  New Nets Arena  Some claims about job generation are dubious, said  Michael
Gibson , a Tampa-based  investment adviser  who vets EB-5 deals for
foreigners. When a project “substitutes EB-5 capital for more
expensive bank financing or bond funding or even equity,” he
said, “that isn’t really creating new economic activity. It’s
margin for the developer.”  The Atlantic Yards developer, Forest City Ratner Cos., is
borrowing $228 million in EB-5 money for a $1.4 billion
infrastructure and arena fund that’s paying for a new subway
entrance, parking facilities, municipal water and sewer line
upgrades and other work in the vicinity of  Barclays Center ,
according to Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for the company. The
arena, which is being built for the  National Basketball
Association ’s  New Jersey Nets , will be an anchor of the $4.9
billion development, planned to include up to 6,430 housing
units and 247,000 square feet of retail space.  The loan money is coming from 456 foreigners through the
New York City Regional Center, according to Olsen, the managing
principal. Forest City first asked for EB-5 money to pay off
loans to the company from a unit of New York-based Gramercy
Capital Corp., a real estate investment trust. When USCIS ruled
against that, the plan was revised, Olsen said.  Four Property Lots  Part of one Gramercy loan was taken care of. On July 26,
2011, New York City records show, Forest City paid off some of a
loan from the REIT that was secured by property including four
lots on Dean Street, Pacific Street and Vanderbilt Avenue.
Forest City said it used a line of credit to pay that debt. The
next day, according to the records, the regional center loaned
Forest City $24 million in EB-5 funds for infrastructure costs,
and that loan was secured by the same four lots.  “If this is simply a debt replacement,” Gibson said, it
isn’t “bringing new capital to stimulate job creation.”  Forest City’s DePlasco said the company worked with the
regional center to make sure EB-rules were followed. Olsen said
the investors’ money is “doing what it’s supposed to.”  To win green cards, the foreigners’ $228 million has to
generate 4,560 jobs within two years of their investments. Olsen
said the EB-5 business plan shows that number will be met, plus
a “cushion” that could put it at more than 5,400.  ‘Shady Business’  The number of EB-5 jobs that will be created was calculated
by forecasting the jobs the $1.4 billion infrastructure and
arena fund will generate, excluding jobs spurred by state money
that USCIS rules say can’t be counted, Olsen said.  By his reckoning, the $228 million represents about 30
percent of $760 million in the non-state money -- and the EB-5
investors are allowed to take credit for all the jobs created by
the $760 million.  Using a different economic model, Empire State Development
has figured all of Atlantic Yards will spur about 8,000
permanent jobs, according to  Austin Shafran , a spokesman for the
state agency, which oversees the project.  For would-be immigrants to lay claim to so much of the
employment for so little money is “shady business,” said
Norman Oder, a  Brooklyn  freelance writer and Atlantic Yards
critic who maintains a blog about it.  Transit Village  EB-5 regulations are right to give immigrant investors
credit for all jobs on a project even if their money represents
a minor part of the total spent, said Peter Joseph, executive
director of the trade group Association to Invest In the USA.
“It’s been really successful at laying the ground work for
other pieces of financing,” he said.  In  El Monte , Transit Village was going to include shops,
apartments, offices, restaurants and hotel space and an
incubator for environmental businesses. The El Monte Community
Redevelopment Agency awarded TV LLC, headed by John Leung and
Jean Lang, the development deal in March 2008.  Four months later, USCIS approved an El Monte regional
center, which the application said would attract at least 476
investors. The city didn’t learn about the Leung-Lang center for
a year, according to Isabel Birrueta, a lawyer at Olivarez,
Gallagher & Padilla in Los Angeles who represents El Monte.  Appealing Termination  In May 2009, Leung and Lang were arrested after a business
partner made allegations of fraud and forgery in connection with
bank loans. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department didn’t
pursue the case when it learned the FBI was investigating them,
said Lieutenant Sherri Anderson of the department’s commercial
crimes unit. Laura Eimiller, a spokeswoman for the FBI, said she
couldn’t comment.  While Leung and Lang settled the dispute with the partner
for $850,000 last August, they’ve haven’t made the settlement
payments, according to a March 7 civil court filing.  El Monte terminated the development deal in May 2010. TV
LLC filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January 2011 and two
months later sued the city, claiming breach of contract and
seeking at least $18 million in damages. The bankruptcy was
converted to Chapter 7 liquidation two months ago.  Leung and Lang said they’ve appealed USCIS’s September 2011
revocation of their regional center. They blame administrative
glitches, misunderstandings and bad communication.  As for the South Korean investor and her money, “we are
trying to work out a program” to repay her, Leung said. He said
her $500,000 went into the failed business incubator.  El Monte is still involved with the EB-5 program: Last
August, a regional center in  Illinois  loaned the city $10
million to clear land for an expansion of the bus station in
what’s now called El Monte Gateway. 