-- Committee to Save World Repudiated by Successors
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/committee-to-save-world-abetted-hubris-repudiated-by-successors.html
In 1999,  Alan Greenspan ,  Robert Rubin  and  Lawrence Summers  were celebrated as “The Committee to
Save the World” on the cover of Time magazine. Today, their
successors are still picking up the pieces.  The three were hailed as the brightest economic minds of
their generation, whose free-market solutions quelled the Asian
financial crisis while generating economic growth of almost 5
percent in the U.S.  Yet their model of unfettered capitalism eventually invited
disaster. The trio’s deregulatory approach encouraged banks to
take risks that later threatened the U.S. financial system. A
year before their magazine fame, they thwarted efforts by
Brooksley Born, then-chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, to regulate the over-the-counter derivatives market,
which ballooned to include the toxic instruments that ravaged
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  Those decisions helped set the stage for the worst global
recession since World War II, with aftershocks that are still
being felt from  Washington  to Athens.  “They aggravated the financial excesses of the next decade
by letting the commercial banks become like investment banks and
run up huge amounts of leverage and acquire assets which they
wouldn’t be able to do previously,”  Edmund Phelps , winner of
the 2006 Nobel prize for economics, said in an interview. “The
’90s were a time of triumphalism in Washington economic circles
and in the American economics profession in general. Certainly
Greenspan and Rubin and Summers didn’t help to combat that.”  Reining In Risk  The “committee’s” successors, including Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, are trying to rein in the risk that was allowed to
build under their predecessors as they write rules under the
Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, the most sweeping overhaul of the
financial system since the 1930s.  “If these protections had been in place, then we would not
have faced the risk of this severe a crisis with this much basic
damage,” Geithner, 50, said at a Feb. 2 news conference to
discuss the law. The U.S. had “allowed a very large amount of
risk to build up outside the formal banking system without the
safeguards we put in place after the Great Depression.”  Geithner was an assistant Treasury secretary in 1998 when
the administration of President Bill Clinton was pushing for the
deregulation of financial markets. The effort was led by
Treasury Secretary Rubin and his deputy, Summers, along with
Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan.  ‘Grave Concerns’  On May 7, 1998, Born’s CFTC said it would consider whether
over-the-counter derivatives should remain exempt from
regulation. Before the end of that day, Greenspan, Rubin and
Arthur Levitt, then-chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, put out a statement saying they had “grave concerns
about this action and its possible consequences” and they
“seriously question the scope of the CFTC’s jurisdiction in
this area.”  Greenspan, Summers, Levitt and Born testified at a
congressional hearing in July of that year, with the three men
warning that the CFTC proposal could hurt financial markets and
put the legality of existing derivatives contracts in doubt.  Born, a retired partner of law firm Arnold & Porter LLP in
Washington, declined to comment.  The global OTC  derivatives market  mushroomed to a notional
value of almost $600 trillion in 2007 from about $28 trillion at
the time of Born’s proposal.  Government Steps In  Largely unregulated trades of those contracts helped fuel
the 2008 financial crisis. The $182.3 billion U.S. bailout of
insurer AIG starting in 2008 underscored the risks. AIG had run
a business collecting fees by selling banks and other investors
credit-default swaps, a form of insurance that would pay out if
their mortgage securities defaulted. When the  housing market 
collapsed, AIG was unable to meet its promises, and the
government stepped in to honor the contracts.  Greenspan, Rubin and Summers also advocated repeal in 1999
of Glass-Steagall, the Depression-era law separating deposit-
taking institutions from investment banking. The blurring of
lines accelerated the growth of risky activities that often took
place in the so-called shadow-banking system, outside the reach
of bank supervisors.  “They didn’t see the danger coming from a combination of
derivatives and the too-big-to-fail banks that were getting even
bigger,” said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  and now a professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  Greenspan, in an interview, said blaming the crisis on lack
of derivatives regulation and the repeal of Glass-Steagall
amounts to a “rewriting of history.”  1990s Market  Credit-default swaps accounted for less than 1 percent of
the derivatives market in the 1990s and weren’t discussed in
meetings of regulators, he said. Glass-Steagall was
“effectively eliminated” as far back as 1987 when courts
allowed commercial banks to conduct some investment-banking
activities.  “All the problems which are being attributed to the lack
of bank regulation could have been contained by higher levels of
capital,” Greenspan said. “You can’t forecast which products
are going to fail or become toxic. You can, however, let banks
do what they want to do over a broad range of activities, but
require that they have enough capital to thwart default and
contagion.”  The U.S. government committed $700 billion for financial
firms, auto companies and programs to boost the housing sector,
the centerpiece of an economic rescue that has run well into the
trillions of dollars. “You have to address the issue of
accountability for the policies that led us into danger,” MIT’s
Johnson said. “The cost of cleaning it up is enormous, and
we’re not out of it yet.”  Employment, Housing  Employment and housing markets in the U.S. are showing some
signs of stabilizing after a drubbing in the recession that
started in December 2007 and ended 18 months later. The
 unemployment rate  in February held at 8.3 percent, the lowest in
three years. The economy generated 227,000 jobs, capping the
best six-month streak of payroll growth since 2006. Still, there
remains a shortfall of 5.3 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession.  Since the housing crisis began in mid-2006 during the
George W. Bush administration, more than 4.2 million families
have lost their homes to  foreclosure  according to RealtyTrac
Inc. A rout in real estate prices has stripped $7 trillion from
home values, according to the Federal Reserve. As a result,
almost 11 million owners are paying mortgages that are bigger
than their property values, as measured by CoreLogic Inc.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed at 1,392.78
yesterday, close to its highest since May 2008.  Aftermath of Meltdown  In the aftermath of the meltdown, the U.S. has less
influence over how to resolve the European debt crisis than it
did in the late 1990s when the “committee” was trying to stop
Asia’s financial contagion. Finance ministers such as Germany’s
Wolfgang Schaeuble chide the U.S. for spawning the subprime-
mortgage debacle, while Occupy Wall Street movements around the
globe protest the financial industry’s pay practices and lack of
oversight by regulators.  In a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors taken in January,
71 percent said capitalism is in crisis, and 85 percent said
there is at least some truth to the argument that banks are in
need of regulation to prevent them from being too big to fail.  The “committee” missed warning signs and opportunities to
impose “sensible regulation” on derivatives, leverage, failing
banks, and the structure of the financial system, said  Anat Admati , a finance and economics professor at Stanford
University. “There were so many red flags,” she said.  Winding Down Firms  One was the near-collapse in 1998 of hedge fund Long Term
Capital Management, which showed that “you must have a cross-
border mechanism” for winding down large financial
institutions, she said. “You could see the interconnectedness
and how it plays out in a global system.”  In September 1998, LTCM received a $3.6 billion bailout
from its Wall Street creditors in a rescue orchestrated by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  “All these things were clear and they, like many others,
failed to see them,” Admati said. “We’re still dealing with
the consequences.”  The three “were a lot too optimistic about the capacity of
the financial markets to stabilize themselves and absorb
shocks,” Robert Solow, winner of the 1987 Nobel prize for
economics, said in an interview.  ‘Prominent and Overconfident’  Still, he said, it’s “wrong just to blame three
individuals who were prominent and overconfident.” If
Greenspan, Rubin and Summers had “taken action about leverage,
including in the shadow-banking system, there would have been an
enormous outcry and they’d have been vilified from the other
side.”  All three left government before the 2008 crisis. Since
then, Greenspan, 86, has done consulting work for Deutsche Bank
AG, Pacific Investment Management Co. and hedge fund Paulson &
Co.  Rubin, 73, co-chairman at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 1990-
92, was director of Clinton’s National Economic Council for two
years before becoming Treasury secretary in 1995. He moved in
1999 to  Citigroup Inc. (C) , where he was chairman of the executive
committee and made more than $120 million in a decade. He is now
co-chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations and an adviser
to Centerview Partners LLC, a New York investment banking
advisory firm.  Summers, 57, who replaced Rubin as Treasury secretary in
1999, was president of  Harvard University  from 2001 to 2006. He
later went to hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co., where he was paid more
than $5 million over 16 months before returning to the public
sector to head President Barack Obama’s National Economic
Council in 2009 and 2010.  Greater Transparency  Summers, asked after a Feb. 13 speech in Calgary whether
regulators missed a chance to take action on derivatives that
could have prevented part of the financial crisis, said
“there’s no question that it would be better if the kinds of
regulation that have now been put in place to ensure much
greater transparency, much greater transparency on runs, much
more reliance on exchanges, had been put in place earlier.”  “Just how much different the path would have been would
depend on a large number of details,” he said. “It’s very hard
to judge. It’s clear that we’ve learned a lot about the dangers
of unregulated markets.”  Crisis Commission  Rubin declined to comment. At an April 2010 hearing of the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, created by President
Obama and Congress to investigate causes of the financial
crisis, Rubin said he wasn’t opposed to regulation of
derivatives in the 1990s and agreed with Born on the risks of
OTC swaps. He said he didn’t support Born’s proposal because it
“could create legal uncertainty in the over-the-counter
market” and lead to “chaotic conditions.”  In his 2003 book “In an Uncertain World,” Rubin said he
thought derivatives should be subject to “comprehensive and
higher margin requirements.” Rubin also told the inquiry
commission that he supported the repeal of Glass-Steagall
because the law had already been weakened since the 1980s to the
point that “there were no restrictions left on what a large
bank could do, except for insurance underwriting.”  Levitt, the former SEC chairman, said in an interview Feb.
15 that “it is a significant regret I had and have that I did
not allow  Brooksley Born  to carry her recommendations further.”  Levitt said that the proposal to consider regulating
derivatives would have cast legal uncertainty over outstanding
contracts.  ‘Dramatic Drop’  “But I should have insisted that we certainly should have
regulated derivatives going forward,” Levitt, 81, said. “I
don’t think it would have prevented the financial crisis, which
was very largely a function of a dramatic drop in real-estate
 values  and bad lending practices.”  Levitt, an adviser to Goldman Sachs and private equity firm
Carlyle Group LP, is a Bloomberg LP board member.  Both the financial industry and regulators should have done
more to curb the excesses,  Donald Kohn , who spent 40 years with
the Federal Reserve, including as vice chairman from 2006 to
2010, said in an interview.  “First and foremost, the private sector didn’t assess the
assets it was buying very well, didn’t look under the hood very
hard,” he said. “And the cops weren’t on the beat. Regulators
saw some problems coming, but not all of them. I wish we had
done more on the mortgage side, but especially on the financial-
intermediary side. The private sector didn’t do enough and we
didn’t override them.”  Little Leeway  Greenspan, who was  Fed (FDTR)  chairman from 1987 to 2006, said in
an interview that regulators didn’t have “leeway to do terribly
much differently from what we did.”  He referred to a speech he gave in 2000 when he said, “We
do not, and probably cannot, know the precise nature of the next
international financial crisis. That there will be one is as
certain as the persistence of human financial indiscretion.”  “Such statements elicited little response,” Greenspan
said in the interview. “It is very difficult to go against the
culture of the time.”  A lingering effect of deregulation and the crisis that
followed is that other nations have become more skeptical of the
U.S. on financial issues. With a budget deficit of $1.3 trillion
last fiscal year and an economy still in recovery, “the U.S.
isn’t in a position to dictate terms,” said MIT’s Johnson, co-
author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street Takeover and the Next
Financial Meltdown.”  Taking a Shot  Schaeuble, Germany’s finance minister, took a shot at the
U.S. in remarks in October amid discussion of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. It wasn’t a “pure coincidence” that the bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers  “had its origins in the U.S. with the subprime
crisis,” he said.  Geithner has said European leaders seek his advice.  “They want to learn from the mistakes we made and the
things we got right,” he said during a Jan. 25 Bloomberg
Television interview.  A diminished U.S. stature is seen at international forums
such as the Group of 20, Greenspan said. Before the crisis,
“the  United States  was always the prime mover within those
groups, clearly the leader. That’s been lost.”  U.S. economic strength has declined relative to faster-
growing nations in Asia, and “to a very large extent that has
translated almost immediately into its impact on influence,”
Greenspan said.  The Obama administration faces a different set of
challenges than Clinton’s during the Asian crisis starting in
1997, Summers said in an interview in January.  “European countries are major industrial countries with a
set of political institutions knitting them together, and
therefore there’s less role for anything external than there
was,” Summers said.  At the same time, “The mood around the United States is
kind of different,” he said. “There’s more of an orientation
to a softer, more multilateral approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 