-- Copper Bear Streak Extends as Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-23T18:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/copper-bear-streak-extends-as-manufacturing-shrinks-commodities.html
Copper traders extended a bearish
streak into a second week on mounting concern that demand is
weakening after manufacturing contracted from  China  to Europe.  Twelve of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to decline next week and seven were neutral. Inventories
at bonded warehouses in  Shanghai  more than doubled since the
fourth quarter, a survey of seven traders and analysts showed.
Separate  stockpiles  monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
are near the highest in at least nine years, bourse data show.
China consumes 40 percent of the world’s copper.  Factory output in Germany and  France  unexpectedly shrank in
March, adding to signs Europe is sliding into recession, and a
measure of China’s manufacturing fell to the weakest since
November, reports showed yesterday. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
cut the country’s annual growth target to 7.5 percent earlier
this month, the lowest since 2004.  Europe  accounts for about 18
percent of global copper demand, Barclays Capital data show.  “A slowdown in Europe and China is not good for the long-
term outlook,” said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage about $30
billion of assets for DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles . “It
feels that we could repeat 2011, where we had a good first half
and then there was a correction.”  Copper rose 10 percent to $8,380 a ton this year on the
London Metal Exchange. Prices were little changed through most
of the first six months of 2011 and then plunged 26 percent in
the third quarter. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities climbed 9 percent this year and the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities advanced 11 percent. Treasuries
lost 1.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  Manufacturing Shrinks  A preliminary purchasing managers’ index for China from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 48.1 from 49.6
last month, with readings below 50 signaling shrinkage. China’s
growth slowed throughout last year to 8.9 percent in the fourth
quarter. The economy will expand 8.3 percent this year, the
lowest since 2001, according to the median of 13 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  A gauge of euro-region manufacturing fell to 47.7 in March
from 49 in February, Markit said. The area’s economy is probably
in recession after a contraction of 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, said  Chris Williamson , the chief economist at Markit.  Metal at bonded warehouses in Shanghai, which are exempt
from a value-added tax and import duties, climbed to 530,000
tons last week, the survey showed. They were at about 200,000
tons in the fourth quarter, according to Qu Yi, an analyst at
CRU International Ltd.  Copper Inventories  Copper rose as much as 15 percent this year as a 115,725-
ton decline in stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the London
Metal Exchange spurred confidence that demand was strengthening.
The gains in Chinese reserves are reversing that assumption and
signal that the 12 percent jump in the country’s  imports  of
refined copper last month may not be reflecting consumption.  While copper declined 4.4 percent since reaching an almost
five-month high on Feb. 9,  hedge funds  and other money managers
got more bullish last week. They raised their  bets  on higher
prices by 4.7 percent to 14,259 futures and options in the week
ended March 13, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  “The recent China-related selloff was overdone,” said
William O’ Neill, an  Upper Saddle River , New Jersey-based
partner at Logic Advisors, a commodity consultant. “I see U.S.
and European demand gradually improving.”  Improving Demand  About $5.2 trillion has been added to the value of global
equities this year amid better-than-expected economic data in
the U.S. and optimism that the euro area will contain its debt
crisis. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval for a new 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) international
bailout on March 21 after the nation pushed through the biggest
sovereign restructuring in history earlier this month.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 21 that
reduced stress in Europe is a “welcome development” for the
U.S., which echoed the Fed’s statement last week that “strains
in global financial markets have eased.” Improving data has
raised speculation the central bank will refrain from buying
more debt even as it said  interest rates  are likely to remain
near zero through at least late 2014.  Copper for immediate delivery traded at a  premium  of as
much as $35 to the LME’s benchmark three-month contract on March
19, the most in more than a year. The so-called backwardation
may signal concern about near-term supply. Demand will outpace
output by 323,000 tons this year, a third consecutive shortage,
Barclays estimates.  Premium Increases  In other commodities, 11 of 26 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect gold to gain next week and six were
neutral. Futures on the Comex in  New York  increased 6.2 percent
to $1,663.70 an ounce this year. Prices gained the previous 11
years and holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products are
about 0.3 percent below the record 2,410.2 tons set March 13,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eight of 10 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week. The commodity climbed 10 percent this year to
25.63 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Ten of 23 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices next
week and five were neutral, while nine said soybeans will climb
and the same amount predicted a drop. Corn dropped 0.4 percent
to $6.445 a bushel this year as soybeans advanced 13 percent to
$13.645 a bushel.  “Global central banks are still flushing a lot of
liquidity out in the market,” said  Evan Smith , who helps manage
$650 million of assets at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in  San
Antonio . “Despite the talk of overall slower growth,
historically when you see them easing, the law of large numbers
applies and that usually is supportive of commodity prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  