-- Copper Rises as Higher Energy Costs May Curb Production at Mines
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-03-23T18:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/copper-rises-as-higher-energy-costs-may-curb-production-at-mines.html
Copper gained the most in more than
a week on speculation that higher energy costs will limit
production of raw materials, including metals.  Crude-oil futures jumped as much as 2.8 percent in  New
York , and U.S. retail-gasoline prices tracked by AAA have surged
19 percent this year to a 10-month high of $3.889 a gallon.
Copper also rose as the dollar dropped as much as 0.7 percent
against a basket of six currencies, boosting the appeal of the
metal as an alternative investment.  “There’s still a positive trajectory for the economy, and
the higher price of oil puts a lot of pressure on other
commodities because it costs more to ship them,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a market strategist at Archer Financial Services
Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “Weakness in
the dollar is also helping copper.”  Copper futures for May delivery advanced 1.1 percent to
settle at $3.805 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest gain since March 15. The metal fell 1.8 percent this
week on concern that slowing economic growth would hurt demand
in  China , the world’s biggest consumer.  The number of Americans saying the  U.S. economy  is getting
better rose in March to the highest level since 2004,
Bloomberg’s monthly consumer expectations survey showed
yesterday. Thirty-four percent said the economy was improving.  Copper inventories monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange
have dropped 31 percent this year to the lowest since November
2008.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 1.1
percent to $8,380 a metric ton ($3.80 a pound).  Zinc, lead, aluminum and tin also advanced in London.
Nickel fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  