-- Credit Suisse Relents After VIX Note Whipsaws Investors
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-23T20:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/credit-suisse-vix-note-tumbles-to-record-low-price.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , under
pressure to restore order in an exchange-traded note tracking
U.S. equity volatility, said it will start resupplying the
market with shares today after cutting issuance off in February.  Stock will be added to the  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX
Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , or TVIX. The security, designed to track Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index futures, has whipsawed
investors for the past month, climbing 89 percent above its
 asset value  and plunging 29 percent yesterday before Credit
Suisse’s announcement. It fell another 30 percent to $7.16
today, extending its retreat since Oct. 3 to 93 percent.  Creating shares in the ETN will help bring the security
back in line with its so-called indicative value, the price
implied by futures on the CBOE gauge, said Alec Levine, an
equity derivatives strategist at Newedge Group SA in  New York .
Credit Suisse’s first round of share issuance is intended to
lower the cost of borrowing the note, a step that may aid short
sellers who yesterday helped cut the premium by 66 percent even
as owners of the security were burned.  “Lending out shares is an attempt to drive down the
premium,” Levine said yesterday in a phone interview. “When
your product isn’t trading anywhere near NAV, it’s the market
telling you that it’s a broken product.”  Supply, Demand  Trading in the ETN highlights the hazards of exchange-
traded securities when disruptions occur in systems designed to
balance supply and demand. Because the notes are normally pegged
to underlying assets such as stocks, bonds and indexes, sponsors
regularly create and redeem shares to offset price distortions
caused when investors buy and sell them.  Credit Suisse’s announcement followed a series of actions
that caused the ETN to  break loose  from its reported value
before  falling  yesterday as traders speculated issuance would
resume. Credit Suisse halted share creation on Feb. 21 after
surging demand for securities tracking volatility swelled the
note’s market value to almost $700 million from $162.8 million
at the end of 2011.  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in New
York, declined to comment beyond the statement.  Breaking Loose  Yesterday’s drop reflected short selling amid speculation
new shares would come into the market after the ETN climbed to
record premiums each of the last four days, said Chris Hempstead, director of exchange-traded-fund execution service at
WallachBeth Capital LLC.  “It’s not overly surprising given what happened to TVIX
during the trading day,” said Dominic Salvino, a specialist on
the Chicago Board Options Exchange floor for Group One Trading,
the primary market maker for VIX options. “They weren’t forced
to do this in a legal sense, but there were some reputational
questions for them given the fact that product was performing so
poorly and was no longer doing what it was meant to do.”  Volume was 30.2 million shares yesterday, almost 8 times
the daily mean since it was created in 2010. The note closed at
$14.43 on March 21, or a record 89 percent above its so-called
indicative  value . The gap narrowed to 30 percent yesterday as
the security extended its decline since Oct. 3 to 90 percent.  Latest Controversy  Unhinged trading in the VelocityShares ETN is the latest
controversy for exchange-traded funds and notes, which had about
$1.2 trillion in assets at the end of February,  according  to the
ETF Industry Association. The European Commission said March 22
that it is examining potential “conflicts of interest”
affecting the securities. Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , warned in November that investors may
not understand the assets that back certain funds.  “These volatility ETFs will be closely monitored by the
equity derivatives industry, especially when volatility is once
again on the rise,” Stuart Rosenthal, chief executive officer
of Factor Advisors LLC in New York, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “I don’t think we have heard the last word about
TVIX creations and for that matter volatility ETFs.”  In yesterday’s announcement three hours after the close of
trading in New York, Credit Suisse said the first round of
issuance is aimed at lowering the cost of borrowing shares to
the level seen before the Feb. 21 suspension. In a short sale, a
trader borrows stock and sells it, hoping to profit from a
decline by replacing it at lower prices later.  Lending Rates  “Credit Suisse may from time to time issue the ETNs into
inventory of its affiliates to make the ETNs available for
lending at or about rates that prevailed prior to the temporary
suspension of issuances of the ETNs,” the company said.  The number of shares sold short in the Credit Suisse note
was 4 million at the end of February, up from less than 1.5
million at the end of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ETN fell 83 percent from Oct. 3 to Feb. 29.  Starting March 28, shares will be issued to authorized
market makers. Normally, banks create and redeem ETNs based on
the level of demand for the securities. That demand usually
doesn’t affect the price since the ETNs track an index.  “Credit Suisse may issue additional ETNs from time to time
to be sold solely to authorized market makers,” according to a
statement. “Credit Suisse may condition its acceptance of a
market maker’s offer to purchase the ETNs on its agreeing to
sell to Credit Suisse specified hedging instruments consistent
with Credit Suisse’s hedging strategy, including but not limited
to swaps.”  Widening Premium  The gap between the security’s price and the value of the
index it tracks has widened since Credit Suisse suspended
issuance of new shares, causing a supply shortage amid record
demand for volatility products that provide a hedge against U.S.
equity losses. Short sellers may have accelerated bets against
TVIX yesterday on speculation Credit Suisse would resume
issuance of more shares, said WallachBeth’s Hempstead.  The VelocityShares ETN aims to produce twice the daily
return of the S&P 500  VIX (VIX)  Short-Term Futures Index, which tracks
a trading strategy involving futures on the CBOE Volatility
Index. The VIX, as the CBOE gauge is known, is used as a
benchmark measure of U.S. equities derivatives and measures the
cost of protection from losses in U.S. stocks. It rose 2.9
percent yesterday.  Credit Suisse’s decision to halt new issuance of TVIX
shares preceded a period in which the ETN began moving
independently of its underlying assets. The S&P 500 VIX Short-
Term Futures Index lost 32 percent between Feb. 21, the day of
the suspension, and March 21. That was more than twice the
decline in the ETN.  Diverging Prices  The faster decrease in the underlying index contributed to
a widening in the premium of the TVIX to its underlying asset.
The gap reached a record 36 percent on March 16 and then
expanded to 62 percent, 78 percent and 89 percent in the next
three days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors should probably remain sidelined until TVIX has
returned to its NAV and stabilized there,” Jim Strugger, a
derivatives strategist for MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said yesterday in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  