-- Credit Swaps Rise as New U.S. Home Purchases Unexpectedly Fall
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-23T21:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/credit-swaps-rise-as-new-u-s-home-purchases-unexpectedly-fall.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk climbed for a second day as  new-home sales 
unexpectedly fell in February, damping optimism a recovering
housing market will bolster economic growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rose 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 91.4 basis points at
16:28 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Credit
swaps tied to homebuilders led by KB Home and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
increased.  New home sales dropped to a  313,000 annual pace , the
slowest since October, fueling concerns that an uneven recovery
in the housing market will hinder growth and cap the biggest
bond rally in more than a decade. Company bonds in the U.S. are
poised for the worst losses since November, declining 0.7
percent this month after gaining 3.5 percent in January and
February for the best start to a year since 2001, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Until housing prices stabilize it will be difficult to
see a sustained recovery in the consumer-spending portion of the
real economy,” Abdullah Karatash, head of U.S. fixed-income
credit trading at Natixis SA in New York, wrote in an e-mail.  Home sales fell even as Labor Department  figures  released
yesterday showed the number of Americans claiming jobless
benefits declined to the lowest level in four years.  Homebuilder Swaps  Swaps on  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that
targets first-time buyers, jumped 52.3 basis points to a mid-
price of 638.8 basis points, the biggest increase since Nov. 1,
according to data provider CMA. The company said today that net
orders in the three months ended Feb. 29 fell 8 percent from a
year earlier.  KB Home’s $350 million of 8 percent notes due in March 2020
fell 2.5 cents to 99.5 cents on the dollar at 2:50 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Contracts on Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, jumped 18.8 basis points to 292.5, the biggest jump
since March 6, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Markit rolled out a new version of the CDX index, Series
18, this week after Series 17 reached a more than one-year low
of 84.7 basis points on March 19. New versions of the index,
which banks,  hedge funds  and other investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, are created
in September and March. Companies are replaced if they no longer
have appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most actively
traded borrowers or fail to meet other criteria.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  