-- CVC’s Briggs Says Lack of Mezzanine, Retail Funds Hurt Buyouts
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-03-23T11:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/cvc-s-briggs-says-lack-of-mezzanine-retail-funds-hurt-buyouts.html
Hugh Briggs, the London-based
managing director of finance at private-equity firm CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., comments on the funding challenges sponsor-led
buyouts face in Europe.  He made the remarks at the Euromoney Seminars Annual
Syndicated Loans Conference in  London  yesterday.  On difficulties in raising mezzanine loans for buyouts:  “One of the things that’s surprised us is the continued
inability to get deals done with mezzanine debt. That hasn’t
been for want of appetite on the behalf of the mezzanine
community, it’s come from a stalemate between the banks and
mezzanine providers on how you deal with inter-creditor issues.  “One of the ways we’ve been trying to cut the Gordian knot
is to say the inter-creditor agreement should be the same as a
standard high-yield deal: if banks are happy to give it to
bondholders why shouldn’t they be happy to give it to mezz
holders? It would open another asset class for us to borrow in
that would be advantageous to everyone in the buyout market.”  On absence of retail participation because of European Union
restrictions on who can invest:  “In the U.S. there’s a huge amount of retail fund inflow
that’s helping to provide a significant amount of liquidity,”
while in  Europe , “legislation basically makes it impossible for
people to raise similar retail funds.”  On leveraged loan returns versus equities:  “We looked at CVC’s returns over the last two funds versus
public equities. If you’d been invested in public equities as a
retail investor you’d have made a gross return over the last
nine years of 1.4 percent, before any fees. If you’d been a
retail investor in a leveraged loan fund in the U.S. or Europe
you’d have made about 6 percent.  “Also, the risk-adjusted return is infinitely better as
you are in the best place in the  capital structure  instead of
the worst. Why legislators want to prevent people from investing
in a high-yielding, safer asset class remains beyond us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  