-- Deafening ‘Jesus’ Mellows; Death Delivers ‘Meal’
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/deafening-jesus-mellows-death-delivers-meal-.html
“Jesus Christ Superstar” begins
not with a soothing hymn but with the screaming wail of an
electric guitar advertising the Gospel according to  Andrew Lloyd Webber  and Tim Rice.  A news zipper bisecting a severe, monochrome setting spells
out our initial travel from the present back to Judea, 33 A.D.,
where butch Roman soldiers spear acrobatic Jews flipping like
salmon against the current of the times.  Image is everything in this version of the Passion, which
was insouciant in 1971 but seems a little moldy in director  Des McAnuff ’s taut revival, ear-splitting as ever.  “You’ve begun to matter more than the things you say,”
the lethally disappointed Judas tells Jesus as the chips begin
falling into place for the final act of betrayal.  “A trick or two with lepers and the whole town’s on its
feet!” say the nonplussed Romans.  McAnuff, who has written several of his own rock musicals,
has an unerring instinct for the pop dramatic moment, pumped up
with volume and blinding with lights. (The metal slatted walls
of Robert Brill’s skeletal set look puny compared with his
strikingly similar “Faust” at the  Metropolitan Opera , also
staged by McAnuff.)  Total Buzzkill  When this show opened last summer at  Canada ’s  Stratford
Shakespeare Festival  (where McAnuff is the outgoing artistic
director), his cynical take on an already cynical show struck me
as chillingly effective. Paul Nolan’s Jesus was vacant-eyed and
automaton-like, not at all the warm and fuzzy Jesus of
“Godspell.”  When Jesus is sensually anointed by  Mary Magdalene , the
encircling Disciples get similar treatment, presumably from
their own groupies. Rice and Lloyd Webber present Jesus and His
followers like ‘60s male radicals -- grim and hellbent on
revolution, their women’s place in the kitchen and bedroom.  Entering  Jerusalem , the angered Jesus is total buzzkill
when he finds the steps of the Temple converted into a stage for
frugging, garishly clad gals trading cash for sacrificial fauna.  Still later, in the production’s sole stab at humor and
color, we’re in blingy Herod’s campy crib, a den of soulless
debauchery presided over by the hilariously delighted Bruce Dow.  Stark Contrast  He’s stark contrast with Tom Hewitt’s troubled Pilate,
desperately looking for a way to placate the Jews clamoring for
an execution he knows will turn a carpenter into a martyr for
mankind. Rice and Lloyd Webber’s theology may have been wobbly,
but their Vietnam-era sensibility was brilliant.  Nolan has mellowed some in the intervening months, and
Chilina Kennedy’s Magdalene remains powerfully sung. Josh Young,
who was ill during the critics’ performances, had a fine
replacement in Jeremy Kushnier as the appalled Judas.  The heavy metal tone mellows in Act II, and the show grows
more accessible, even if Lisa Shriver’s bump-and-grind
choreography bears more resemblance to a suburban aerobics class
circa 1980 than actual dance. “Jesus Christ Superstar”
recaptures a moment more precisely than the weak-kneed revival
of “Godspell” a few blocks away. It got under my skin.  At the Neil Simon Theatre, 250 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-
877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com . Rating: ***  ‘Big Meal’  Dan LeFranc’s “The Big Meal,” on the smaller stage at
 Playwrights Horizons , shows plenty of talent even if the play
sinks in its own gimmickry.  In less than 90 minutes, LeFranc gives us the good
times/bad times history of a couple who meet in a restaurant,
become a couple, uncouple, reconnect and ultimately preside over
three generations of kin.  That Sam Gold stages LeFranc’s lightning transitions from
moment to year to decade with assurance and only a modicum of
confusion only advances this young director’s rising status.  The nine-member ensemble, led by stage veterans Anita
Gillette and Tom Bloom, play toddlers, teens, grown-ups and
elder folks with equal agility.  But the audience too quickly catches on to the gimmick (all
I’ll say is, beware the waitress bearing meatballs), adding an
unwanted element of jocularity to the otherwise sentimental
proceedings.  Through April 22 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200; https://www.ticketcentral.com. Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 