-- Deloitte & Touche Sued in New York Over WG Trading Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-23T19:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/deloitte-touche-sued-in-new-york-over-wg-trading-fraud-1-.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP, one of the
so-called Big Four accounting firms, was sued by a pension fund
over WG Trading Co., the company allegedly used in a  Ponzi
scheme  by former managers  Paul Greenwood  and  Steven Walsh .  The Iowa Public Employees’ Retirement System suffered
millions of dollars in losses as a result of the scheme,
according to the lawsuit, which was filed in federal court in
New York yesterday.  Deloitte & Touche served as the auditor of a company
controlled by the operators of the scheme and “aided and
abetted” it by issuing “unqualified and/or ‘clean’” audit
reports that the pension fund relied on while purchasing
securities that were issued as part of the scheme, according to
the complaint.  Deloitte “acted in willful blindness of the scheme, and
its auditing practices were so deficient that the audits
amounted to no audit at all, or an egregious refusal to see the
obvious, or investigate the doubtful, and the professional
judgments which it made were such that no reasonable auditor
would have made the same decisions if confronted with the same
facts,” lawyers for the pension fund said in the complaint.  ‘Ill Conceived’  The claims are “ill conceived” and without merit,
Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for Deloitte LLP, said in an e-
mail.  Deloitte & Touche , based in New York, is a subsidiary of
Deloitte LLP, the U.S. arm of U.K.-based Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Ltd., according to its website.  “Deloitte & Touche LLP did not audit the financial
statements of the Westridge entities at which the fraud
allegedly occurred,” Gandal said. “Rather, Deloitte audited
the financial statements of a separate entity, WG Trading
Company Limited Partnership, through 2007, and there is no
information which calls into question either the correctness of
those financial statements or Deloitte’s full compliance with
professional standards.”  Any wrongdoing is “solely attributable” to the principals
of the Westridge entities, one of whom has already pleaded
guilty to related charges, Gandal said.  Greenwood and Walsh were indicted in July 2009 on charges
that they conspired to defraud investors of $554 million. The
U.S. said the scheme stretched from 1996 until the men were
arrested in February 2009. Greenwood pleaded guilty to six
charges, including conspiracy and securities fraud. Walsh has
pleaded not guilty.  The four largest accounting firms are Ernst & Young LLP,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, KPMG LLP and Deloitte & Touche.  The case is Iowa Public Employees’ Retirement System v.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, 12-cv-2136, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  