-- DeMint Says Romney Tells Lawmakers He Is Running to ‘Save’ U.S.
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/demint-says-romney-tells-lawmakers-he-is-running-to-save-u-s-.html
Republican presidential front-
runner  Mitt Romney  reached out to party lawmakers in  Washington 
yesterday, telling them at one gathering he is seeking the White
House “to save the country,” said U.S. Senator  Jim DeMint .  DeMint, a South Carolina Republican who helped anti-tax,
Tea Party-backed candidates win Senate seats in 2010, said
Romney provided the assurance he wanted that the former
Massachusetts governor shared his view about the importance of
this year’s presidential election.  “That’s what I needed to hear, and I think everyone in the
room needed to hear, that really our country’s at stake, and we
want a president who understands that this is not business as
usual,” DeMint told reporters. “What we got from him is a
sense of urgency that our country’s in trouble and we need some
real leadership.”  DeMint declined to identify others who were at the same
session with him, held near the U.S. Capitol.  Romney also met with House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and other Republicans from  Wisconsin , which holds its
primary April 3, and congressional delegations from Pennsylvania
and Texas, which also have primaries later this year, Romney
spokeswoman Andrea Saul said.  Louisiana Bound  Romney, who had no public events yesterday, spends today
campaigning in  Louisiana  ahead of the state’s primary tomorrow.
 Polls show   Rick Santorum , his chief rival in the Republican
race, leading among Louisiana’s likely primary voters.  DeMint, who has said he won’t endorse a Republican
presidential candidate until the party settles on a nominee,
declined to comment on whether Romney explicitly asked lawmakers
to back him.  DeMint said he is untroubled by Romney’s role in enacting a
health-care measure in  Massachusetts  that resembles the federal
plan pushed into law by President  Barack Obama  -- a consistent
criticism the former governor has faced in the Republican race.
The Massachusetts law is “very different than a federal model
that you can’t change,” DeMint said.  He also defended Romney’s commitment to conservative causes
a day after renewed questions about the candidate’s consistency
were raised by an aide’s comment that referred to the Etch A
Sketch children’s toy.  “I’ve known him for a number of years, so I really don’t
have the questions that we hear the media say about his
conservative credentials,” DeMint said of Romney.  Fehrnstrom Comment  Romney adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom , responding to a question on
whether his boss will be hurt in a general election contest by
positions he has taken in the primary fight, said on CNN March
21 that, “You hit a reset button for the fall campaign.”  Fehrnstrom continued: “Everything changes. It’s almost
like an Etch A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up and we start
all over again.”  Romney’s rivals zeroed in on Etch A Sketch as symbolizing
their complaints about him, with Santorum and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  immediately using it as a prop at campaign
appearances. Santorum’s campaign also passed out the toy to
reporters.  Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, pressed the
analogy yesterday in San Antonio, as he argued that Republicans
must focus on offering a clear choice to voters in order to
defeat Obama in November.  If the party’s nominee is going to be just “a little
different,” he said, according to the  Associated Press , “we
might as well stay with what we have instead of taking a risk of
what may be the Etch A Sketch candidate for the future.”  Romney Comment  Romney, who rarely comments to reporters after campaign
appearances, did so in Arbutus,  Maryland , on March 21 after
Fehrnstrom’s Etch A Sketch comment gained traction.  “The issues I’m running on will be exactly the same” in a
general election, he told reporters after a speech. “I’m
running as a conservative Republican. I was a conservative
Republican governor. I’ll be running as a conservative
Republican nominee.”  Another Romney aide yesterday advanced the campaign’s case
that the Republican race is essentially over and the time has
arrived to focus on Obama.  “Each day Senator Santorum continues to march up this
steep hill of improbability is a day we lose to unite in our
effort as Republicans to defeat” the president, Romney
political director  Rich Beeson  said in an e-mail to reporters.
“So as Senator Santorum continues to drag out this already
expensive, negative campaign, it is clear that he is becoming
the most valuable player on President Obama’s team.”  Romney has 563 of the 1,144 delegates needed for the
nomination, according to the AP’s tally. Santorum has 263
delegates, to Gingrich’s 135 and  Texas  congressman Ron Paul’s
50, according to the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  