-- DFJ Growth Said to Seek Up to $450 Million for Second Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-23T18:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/dfj-growth-said-to-seek-up-to-450-million-for-second-tech-fund.html
DFJ Growth, an early investor in
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and business-software maker Yammer Inc., is
seeking to raise as much as $450 million for its second
technology fund, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  The firm, based in Menlo Park,  California , is soliciting
capital starting this month and plans to raise at least $350
million, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. The previous fund gathered $290 million
in 2007.  DFJ Growth has invested in companies including Tesla, which
sold shares to the public in 2010, and AdMob Inc., which was
bought by Google Inc. the previous year. The firm, which is also
a backer of BrightSource Energy Inc. and Silver Spring Networks
Inc., expects to exit two to four additional investments over
the next 18 months, it said in an e-mail to investors, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  DFJ Growth is among a number of venture firms planning to
raise money following the biggest year for Internet initial
public offerings in more than a decade. Institutional Venture
Partners is seeking as much as $1 billion for its next fund and
 Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers (ZZISK)  will start fundraising in April
for an early-stage fund that will take stakes in technology
companies, among others. Both firms are based in  Menlo Park .  Jessica De Cossio, a spokeswoman for DFJ Growth, said in an
e-mailed statement that the firm doesn’t discuss fundraising.  Draper Fisher Jurvetson  The fund has four managing directors, including former AOL
Chief Executive Officer Barry Schuler, and two other investment
professionals. It was founded in 2006, and is part of the Draper
Fisher Jurvetson family of funds. The parent firm has been
investing in technology startups for more than 25 years.  DFJ Growth’s 2007 fund has produced a gross internal rate
of return of 25 percent, said one of the people familiar with
the firm. More than 20 percent of capital has been returned to
investors, according to the e-mail. Other investments include
solar panel installer SolarCity Corp., business-software
provider Box and blogging service Tumblr Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  