-- Doctors Pressure FDA for Nonprescription Birth Control Pills
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-23T20:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/doctors-press-fda-in-push-for-birth-control-without-prescription.html
The  Food and Drug Administration  is
considering expanding the list of drugs that can be bought
without a prescription, an opening birth-control advocates are
seizing to reignite debate over reproductive rights.  The agency discussed at a hearing yesterday whether
cholesterol, asthma, migraine and blood-pressure medications
should be sold over-the-counter, a regulatory change intended to
lower costs and ease access to drugs for people with chronic
ailments. Reproductive-rights advocates today urged that any
expansion of nonprescription drugs include birth control.  Amid an election campaign that has at times focused on
women’s health, and fewer than four months after the Obama
administration overrode the FDA’s support for expanding
nonprescription sales of morning-after pills, the hearing was
another front in the debate over  birth control . Women can
determine whether they should use oral contraceptives, and may
be better off not seeing a physician, said Eleanor Schwarz, an
associate professor of medicine at the University of Pittsburgh,
in a telephone interview.  “It has been a politically charged topic,” said Schwarz,
who addressed the FDA. “When we keep it within the purely
health-and-science realm, we understand it saves people’s lives.
All available contraceptives are much safer for women’s health
than an undesired pregnancy.”  Republican presidential candidates, including  Mitt Romney 
and  Rick Santorum , have attacked U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
2010 health-care law for violating religious freedom by
requiring most employers to provide contraceptive coverage. More
than six in 10 respondents to a Bloomberg National Poll --
including almost 70 percent of women -- say the issue is a
matter of health care and access to birth control rather than
religious liberty, according to the survey taken March 8-11.  Saving Money  The FDA began its two-day public hearing yesterday to
discuss way to enhance pharmacists’ roles in chronic treatments
or supplement drug labels in an interactive way that helps
people determine whether they have a condition and need a drug,
said  Janet Woodcock , director of the agency’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research. The agency hasn’t taken a position on
oral contraception.  In December, U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services
Kathleen Sebelius blocked the FDA’s decision to approve  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B One-Step as the first
unrestricted over-the-counter emergency contraceptive. Sebelius
stepped in and ordered FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  to
reject Teva’s application to make the drug available to girls
younger than 17 without a prescription.  Sebelius’s intervention was the first time HHS overrode an
FDA staff decision.  $102 Billion  With this week’s meeting, the FDA is seeking ways to
increase medication access and reduce the number of routine
doctor visits, the agency said last month in a statement. It
cited four examples of drugs that may make good over-the-counter
candidates -- cholesterol, asthma, migraine and blood-pressure
treatments.  Over-the-counter medicines save the U.S. health-care system
$102 billion a year, according to the  Consumer Healthcare
Products Association , the nonprescription drugmakers’ lobbying
group in Washington.  Consumers may see their costs go up because insurance plans
typically cover only  prescription drugs , said Daniel Grossman, a
senior associate at Ibis Reproductive Health, a research and
advocacy group based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , in a telephone
interview.  While increased cost is a concern, women still need better
access to contraception, said Grossman, who is also appeared at
the FDA hearing.  “It would be very simple to use technology for a woman to
determine if this pill was appropriate for her,” Grossman said
yesterday in an interview.  Pill Kiosks  Schwarz led a team at the  University of Pittsburgh  that
created a computer kiosk to help women determine if they should
take birth-control pills or whether they smoked, had migraines
with an aura or other conditions that may make taking the pills
inadvisable.  “It’s women who determine if they are at risk of
unintended pregnancy,” Grossman told the FDA panel today.  While not a statistically significant difference,
researchers found 75 percent of women in a clinical trial who
had been to the doctor and used the kiosk for refills had a
condition that made taking the pills questionable and 52 percent
attempting to get the pills for the first time possibly
shouldn’t.  “This program identifies women who can safely use hormonal
contraception as well, or better than, most doctors,” Schwarz
said.  Grossman said he isn’t aware of a drugmaker that wants to
switch its birth-control pills to nonprescription status.  Drug Companies  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare division has
experience marketing formerly prescription-only products,
including Nicorette, Motrin and Pepcid. The unit makes Ortho
Micronor, an oral contraceptive that uses only the hormone
progestin, which is known to have fewer contraindications than
combination hormone pills.  Mark Wolfe, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
J&J, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Drugmakers must apply to the FDA after clinical trials on
nonprescription use to switch their products to over-the-counter
status.  The  American Medical Association , based in  Chicago , opposes
the move to more over-the-counter drugs, arguing at the panel
yesterday that patient adherence to a medication regimen depends
on physicians.  “Lack of oversight from a practitioner could be a serious
concern,” said Sandra Adamson Fryhofer, chairwoman-elect of the
association’s science and public health council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  