-- L.A. Dodgers Said to Trim Bidders to Final Three Groups
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-24T17:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/dodgers-said-to-trim-bidders-to-final-three-groups.html
Three bidders remain in contention
for the  Los Angeles  Dodgers, whose owner,  Frank McCourt , will
conduct a final auction that may begin on March 27, according to
two people with knowledge of the sale process.  Still in the running for the bankrupt Major League Baseball
team in a sale that may fetch at least $1.5 billion, a record
for a U.S. sports franchise, are  Steve Cohen  of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, St. Louis Rams football team owner  Stan Kroenke  and
a group led by basketball Hall of Fame player  Magic Johnson ,
said the people, who declined to be identified because those
involved signed nondisclosure agreements.  The remaining bidders will seek final approval from
baseball’s owners, probably on March 27, one of the people said.
Once that happens, the auction may begin that day or the
following morning, according to the people.  The MLB yesterday filed an objection to the Dodgers’s
proposed bankruptcy-exit plan, saying it contradicts a
settlement the team reached with baseball officials last year.
The objection is “limited” and doesn’t mean Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  is reneging on his promise to help the
Dodgers win court approval for its reorganization plan, which is
required before the team can exit bankruptcy, MLB officials said
in the objection in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross is scheduled to consider
approval of the reorganization plan at a hearing April 13.  Reorganization Plan  The reorganization plan contains minor flaws that should be
corrected, including a provision that appears to “release
numerous persons (including Dodgers’ players, coaches and
personnel, etc.) from violations of MLB rules and regulations,”
MLB said in court papers.  Such broad legal releases also violate court precedent, MLB
said.  Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney and Robert Siegfried, a
spokesman for the Dodgers, declined to comment on the sale.
Peter Cohen of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which is handling the sale
for McCourt, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  McCourt has agreed to close the sale of the team by April
30, the same day he must pay his ex-wife, Jamie, $131 million as
part of their divorce settlement.  The Dodgers were put up for sale in November and garnered
more than 10 bids, including an offer from Dallas Mavericks
basketball team owner  Mark Cuban .  Filed for Bankruptcy  Last year the Dodgers filed for bankruptcy after Selig
rejected a television contract that McCourt had negotiated with
News Corp.’s Fox, the club’s current broadcast partner.  The new owner will get the team, Dodger Stadium and the
right to sell broadcast rights in 2013, when the existing
contract expires.  News Corp. and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which last year
announced a plan to start a pair of regional sports networks
around the Los Angeles Lakers basketball team, probably will bid
for the television rights, sports bankers including Sal Galatioto of Galatioto Sports Partners in New York have said.
Each company might seek a minority investment in the team as a
means of eventually getting the broadcast rights, the bankers
said.  The new owner may sign a traditional rights agreement or,
like the  New York Yankees  did with the YES Network, start a
regional sports network with the baseball team as anchor
programming.  Media Market  Los Angeles is the No. 2 media market in the U.S. behind
 New York .  The Dodgers, their stadium and surrounding parking lots are
worth $1.4 billion, second among MLB’s 30 teams to the Yankees,
according to  Forbes  magazine. The parking lots aren’t part of
the sale, although McCourt may choose to include them in an
effort to solicit higher bids for the franchise that broke
baseball’s color barrier in 1947.  Attorneys for McCourt said in court documents the team
would fetch about $1 billion.  The record price for a major-league franchise sale was set
three years ago when TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. founder Tom Ricketts paid the  Tribune Co. (TRB)  $845 million for the Chicago Cubs
baseball team and Wrigley Field.  The sale would end a tumultuous tenure for McCourt, whose
club reached the postseason four times in his first six seasons.  McCourt fought with Selig, Fox Sports and Jamie McCourt for
months in  bankruptcy court  before finally agreeing to sell the
team. The sale gives McCourt more influence over the process
than most team owners, in part by requiring pre-approval from
MLB of the bidders and by imposing a mediator who can overrule
MLB opposition in certain circumstances.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at   ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  