-- Dubai Art Fair Stars Husain Heads, Gothic Tower
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/dubai-s-45-million-art-fair-stars-husain-heads-gothic-tower.html
A Gothic tower by  Wim Delvoye  and
an oil painting of three heads from Rajasthan by  Maqbool Fida
Husain  are among the stars of this year’s  Art Dubai  fair, with
as much as $45 million worth of contemporary works on sale.  The 19-foot (5.8 meter) stainless-steel tower is priced by
 Galerie Perrotin  at 750,000 euros to 850,000 euros ($1.1
million). The Husain picture, offered for sale at $150,000 to
$200,000, is reserved on the booth of  Grosvenor Vadehra . Prices
at the event range from $2,000 to $1 million.  This year, the sixth edition of the fair has more works
from  East Asia  as it expands its reach beyond the Middle East,
North Africa and South Asia. About 90 percent of the 81
galleries that exhibited last year applied to re-attend, and the
fair capped exhibitors at 75 to increase quality, according to
Antonia Carver, its director.  “A number of galleries requested a bigger space,” Carver,
40, said in an interview, “which in art market terms is a real
sign of confidence, because galleries pay per square meter, so
their keenness to show large-scale works shows they have
confidence in this market.”  A third of the galleries come from  Europe , including Paris-
based Galerie Perrotin and  Belgium ’s  Rodolphe Janssen . Another
third come from South Asia and the  Middle East , and the rest
from the U.S. and East Asia.  Art Nucleus  Art Dubai received more than 20,000 visitors and more than
40 museum groups last year. The United Arab Emirates city is the
nucleus of the region’s art scene, according to gallerists and
collectors. Dubai has more than 50 galleries of its own, with
another four opening this year, including second branches of
galleries in Lebanon and  Pakistan .  This year, Art Dubai is taking 65 museum groups --
including the Aspen Art Museum,  Metropolitan Museum of Art , and
 British Museum  -- to Qatar as part of a week-long art
discussion. Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied
natural gas, is using its wealth to become a global art player.  Last year, Qatar bought Paul Cezanne’s painting “The Card
Players” for $250 million, the most paid for a work of art,
Vanity Fair magazine reported. Sheikha Mayassa bint Hamad Al Thani, daughter of Qatar’s Emir and Chairwoman of the Qatar
Museums Authority, was named the art world’s most influential
person by Art & Auction magazine in November.  Solo Shows  The QMA is presenting Takashi Murakami’s and  Louise Bourgeois ’s first solo exhibitions in the Middle East, and has a
touring show from the  Los Angeles County Museum  of Art entitled
“Gifts of the Sultan: The Arts of Giving at the Islamic Courts”
to coincide with Art Dubai.  “Doha is focusing on collection building, and  Abu Dhabi  has
large-scale museums with a focus on bringing international
collections, while Dubai is the commercial center,” said Bashar
al-Shroogi, director of Dubai-based  Cuadro Fine Art Gallery  and
a collector. “For lots of Western collectors, the first time
they were exposed to Middle Eastern art was at Art Dubai. The
number of museum groups is comparable to  Art Basel .”  “Dubai has an important place in the art world because of
the galleries, events, and now it’s focusing on design too,”
said Isabelle de la Bruyere, director of Christie’s Middle East,
referring to the  Design Days  fair that focuses on furniture and
objects. “It’s a great platform because it’s a turntable of the
Middle East and North Africa region, and including  South Asia .”  The fair runs through March 24. Information:
 http://www.artdubai.ae .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  