-- ECB Amends Rule on Bank Bonds Guaranteed by Program States
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-23T16:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ecb-amends-rule-on-bank-bonds-guaranteed-by-program-states-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  said
euro-area national central banks are no longer obliged to accept
as collateral bank bonds guaranteed by member states receiving
aid from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Banks in the three bailed-out countries -- Greece, Portugal
and Ireland -- that have difficulty pledging adequate collateral
for ECB loans can use bonds they have issued as long as they are
guaranteed by their governments. While the ECB’s decision, taken
on March 21 and activated today, means other euro-area central
banks don’t have to accept those bonds as collateral, the banks
typically seek the loans via their own central banks.  “The Portuguese, Irish and Greek central banks are
unlikely to suddenly reject such bonds as collateral and
destabilize their respective banks,” said  Christian Schulz , a
former ECB economist now working for Berenberg Bank in  London .
“Banks may have difficulty trying to get money from the
Bundesbank with those bonds, but that was never their first port
of call anyway.”  The ECB has loosened its collateral criteria and loaned
banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years
to fight off a credit crunch, prompting Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann to write a letter to ECB President Mario Draghi
warning about the risks the central bank is taking. Weidmann has
also called on policy makers to start planning for the eventual
withdrawal of the emergency lending measures.  ‘Shocking’  Former ECB chief economist  Juergen Stark  this month
described the quality of the collateral on the ECB’s balance
sheet as “shocking.”  In the amendment published today, the ECB said central
banks are also not obliged to accept bank bonds guaranteed by a
member state “whose credit assessment does not comply with the
Eurosystem’s benchmark for establishing its minimum requirement
for high credit standards.”  “This is not really relevant for the euro area as a whole,
it’s more of a symbolic act,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of
interest rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Those
central banks who benefit from this rule will rarely be offered
any toxic collateral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  