-- Edwards Heart Valve Skirts Rib-Cracking for $2.5 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/edwards-heart-valve-skirts-rib-cracking-for-2-5-billion-market.html
A half decade after  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  introduced devices in
Europe that make heart-valve surgery easier to endure, most U.S.
patients are waiting for safety data to clear their use.  Edwards is leading a charge into a potential $2.5 billion
U.S. market for the $30,000 valves, which are threaded into the
aorta without cracking open the chest. In November, the Irvine,
California-based company won U.S. approval for its Sapien valve
in patients who probably wouldn’t survive open-heart surgery.
Now Edwards is awaiting test results that may allow it to sell
the valve to more patients who would qualify for surgery.  While Sapien speeds recovery by as much as a week and can
calm patient fears about more disruptive surgery, its U.S.
prospects are clouded by concerns about stroke risk and
questions of durability. Data to be reported at the  American
College of Cardiology   meeting  March 26 may clarify the device’s
safety, said Jason Mills, an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc.  The results “are important for all physicians worldwide,”
Mills, based in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview.
“It is the first data showing what the actual comparisons are
at two years in a gold-standard study.”  The study will show whether Sapien patients have a higher
risk of stroke than those who underwent traditional surgery two
years after treatment, a key guidepost for “conservative
physicians to get over their skepticism” and for “mavericks”
already using the devices, Mills said.  Aortic Repair  In traditional aortic repair, a surgeon makes an 8-inch
incision in the chest and cracks apart the breastbone to remove
the valve. A replacement is sewn in, allowing blood to again
flow properly to the rest of the body. While the valves have
been proven to work well for decades, the surgery is arduous,
particularly for the elderly and sickest patients.  With the Edwards system, a new valve is tightly crimped
inside a stent. The doctor cuts open the femoral artery near the
groin and slides the device, inside a catheter, through the
vessel until it reaches the damaged valve. The stent is then
expanded, forcing the valve into place.  ‘Any time you bring along new technology like this, there
is a great need for information on how things are going with the
patients,’’ said David Holmes, president of ACC and a professor
at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota . “The law of
unintended consequences continues to raise its head with many
different devices and drugs.”  200,000 Americans  About 200,000 Americans suffer from narrowing of the aortic
valve, the three-flapped spigot between the heart’s main pumping
chamber and the  artery  that carries oxygen-rich blood to the
body. The valve gathers calcium deposits over the years that
stop it from fully opening and closing, causing fatigue and
raising the risk of death from heart failure.  Edwards and Minneapolis-based Medtronic split the
$700 million-a-year European market. In 2007, Edwards became the
first of the companies to begin U.S. studies to prove the so-
called transcatheter valves hold up against conventional
therapy. Medtronic, which bought its technology from CoreValve
in 2009, started its U.S. trials in December 2010.  By the time Medtronic’s product is approved, Edwards’s may
have penetrated one-fourth of the estimated $2.5 billion U.S.
market, generating $750 million a year, Mills said in a
telephone interview.  Laborious Path  The path to the U.S. market has been laborious because of
new skills needed to implant the device.  The procedure requires a team approach with interventional
cardiologists, specialists who focus on catheter-based
treatments of the heart’s veins and arteries, and cardiac
surgeons, who operate directly on the heart or its large
vessels, working together to improve results.  “The roll out is slow and tempered and the training is
high,” said  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst with BMO Capital Markets
in  New York . “It’s an expensive product. You want to make sure
you get the best result, not a bunch of cowboys who think they
can put this in anyone.”  About 1,100 medical centers provide surgical aortic valve
repair, said Ralph Brindis, a cardiologist at  Kaiser Permanente 
in Oakland,  California . The number of approved heart teams is
now expected to be half of what Edwards originally planned as
medical societies and insurers say fewer centers will ensure
greater expertise. From 150 to 200 should be first accredited,
Brindis said.  ‘Difficult Time’  “We’re in a difficult time right now,” Brindis said.
“We’re all wrestling with what the absolutely right number of
centers is and we’re waiting” for insurance coverage decisions,
he said. “Patients lives may be at risk by the delay in having
the technology available.”  While the delays led analysts to cut early sales forecasts
for Sapien, Edwards is introducing the technology more quickly
in the U.S. than it did in  Europe , said Chief Executive Officer
Michael Mussallem.  Training programs are established, more than 25,000
patients worldwide have been treated and information on the
benefits of the valves continues to accumulate, he said.  The first Edwards study showed 69 percent of the oldest,
frailest Sapien patients survived for at least a year, compared
with 49 percent of those given medical therapy. A second study
in patients who were healthy enough to undergo chest-splitting
surgery found survival rates were similar at about 75 percent,
though strokes were twice as common with Sapien.  The side effects seen in the trials have delayed a decision
by the  Food and Drug Administration  on whether to expand the
initial approval beyond use in patients who can’t have open-
heart surgery. Positive two-year safety data would bolster the
case for approval for those patients.  Medicare, the U.S. health insurance program for the elderly
and disabled, hasn’t issued final rules for covering the device,
which costs five times more than the $5,000 to $7,000 expense
for traditional valves, as it grapples with requirements to
ensure appropriate use and physician expertise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  