-- Egypt Military Aid to Be Paid by U.S. for Strategic Goals
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-23T00:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/egypt-military-aid-to-be-paid-by-u-s-for-strategic-goals.html
The Obama administration has
decided to release military aid for Egypt that has been in
question since the country acted to prosecute U.S. and Egyptian
pro-democracy workers.  The U.S. gives Egypt $1.3 billion a year in military aid
that must be spent on U.S. goods. Weapons the Foreign Military
Financing pays for include  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  M1A1 tanks
that are assembled outside Cairo and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16
fighter jets built at  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  The administration will “disburse security funding as
needed to meet contractual obligations, and we will maintain the
flexibility to make adjustments” if conditions require it,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  The administration has been reviewing whether Egypt
complies with a congressional requirement to certify that the
government is promoting freedoms and rights, or whether it
should receive a waiver on national security grounds. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  will announce the waiver decision
today, citing national security interests, Nuland said.  The decision reflects the Obama administration’s
“overarching goal: to maintain our strategic partnership with
an Egypt made stronger and more stable by a successful
transition to democracy,” Nuland said.  The certification provision was pushed by Democratic
Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont , chairman of the Senate
Appropriations Committee foreign operations subcommittee, which
oversees State Department spending.  ‘Contradictory Message’  “I’ve made a a statement every single day for five days
that it would be a mistake” to release aid for Egypt, Leahy
said in an interview yesterday at the Capitol.  “I know Secretary Hillary Clinton wants the democratic
transition in Egypt to succeed, but by waiving the conditions we
send a contradictory message,” he said in a statement.  “The Egyptian military should be defending fundamental
freedoms and the rule of law, not harassing and arresting those
who are working for democracy,” Leahy said. “They should end
trials of civilians in military courts and fully repeal the
Emergency Law, and our policy should not equivocate on these key
reforms.  The Egyptian government is pressing criminal charges
against 43 pro-democracy workers from four non-governmental
organizations for illegally accepting foreign funds and
operating without a license.  Thirteen of them, including the son of U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, were allowed to leave Egypt this month
after a standoff that underscored the uncertainty of U.S.-Egypt
ties since protests forced President  Hosni Mubarak  from office
last year.  ‘Appropriate Decision’  The administration briefed lawmakers before announcing the
decision on permitting military aid  ‘‘They said they would release some of the money to help
the Egyptian Army to remain stable,’’ Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
Republican from  South Carolina , said yesterday in an interview.
‘‘This is an appropriate decision.’’  Nuland said that, while Egypt has more work to do to
protect human rights and the role of social activist groups, the
country ‘‘has made more progress in 16 months than in the last
60 years, including free and fair parliamentary elections and
the transfer of legislative authority to the new People’s
Assembly.’’  In addition, Clinton will certify that Egypt is meeting its
obligations under its peace treaty with  Israel , Nuland said,
which will permit the release of about $200 million in economic
aid.  Contract Liabilities  Egypt’s upheaval has scared away investors and tourists,
draining the nation’s foreign-exchange  reserves . Egyptian
officials are talking with the  International Monetary Fund  about
 Egypt ’s request for a $3.2 billion loan to help carry the
economy through the current fiscal year.  The State Department decision has a practical side, saving
the federal government from paying contractors’ termination fees
for canceled contracts, as would be required by terms of
financing agreements.  The U.S. provides Egypt and Israel with military assistance
under a cash-flow arrangement that lets the nations make
purchases in one year and pay for them over succeeding years
rather than all at once, according to the U.S. Government
Accountability Office.  ‘‘Cash-flow financing benefits Egypt in that it can receive
more defense goods and services than it can under other
financing arrangements,” the agency said in a  2006 report .  Tank Kits  “The U.S. government would be liable for the payments” if
Egypt were unable to pay for contracts because the Pentagon
executes the awards on Egypt’s behalf, the GAO said.  General Dynamics and subcontractors have 107 employees in
 Ohio ,  Florida , and  Pennsylvania  manufacturing M1A1 kits of tank
parts that are shipped to Egypt and assembled outside Cairo into
complete vehicles.  The company is working under a $395 million contract
awarded in November for parts deliveries to start in July,
according to spokesman Pete Keating. The co-production program
began in 1988 as part of the Camp David peace accord.  Keating said “its correct that if the contract was
terminated there are clauses that allow General Dynamics and
other supplies to recover some of the costs from the U.S.
government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  