-- Televisa’s Azcarraga Urges Slim to Compete, Welcomes TV Networks
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/televisa-s-azcarraga-urges-slim-to-compete-welcomes-tv-networks.html
Emilio Azcarraga, chairman of
Mexican broadcaster Grupo Televisa SAB, urged billionaire  Carlos Slim  to stop what he said were actions to block competition in
the country’s telecommunications market.  Televisa won’t oppose the Mexican government’s plans to
create a new TV network to increase competition in the
broadcasting industry, Azcarraga said in an opinion column
published yesterday on the Wall Street Journal’s  website .
Azcarraga’s company also is willing to offer concessions to the
nation’s antitrust agency to win approval for its planned entry
in the mobile-phone market, he said.  Mexico loses 2.2 percent of its gross domestic product
annually from high mobile-phone prices and low Internet use,
Azcarraga said, citing a study by the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development. Slim has tried to block competition
in telecommunications and has used legal tactics to delay
regulators, Azcarraga said, without providing examples.  “ Mexico  is changing for the better. Televisa is too,”
Azcarraga said. “So should someone with the vision, the talent
and the clout of Carlos Slim.”  Arturo Elias , Slim’s spokesman, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Slim’s mobile-phone company,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , has sought
legal orders of constitutional protection against decisions on
tariffs and interconnection rules by the nation’s phone
regulator.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*)  have used similar
tactics.  Mexico’s antitrust agency voted in January to block
Televisa’s $1.6 billion plan to take a 50 percent stake in
Iusacell, the third-largest mobile-phone carrier in Mexico,
after  America Movil  and Madrid-based Telefonica.  Broadcasting Alliance  The agency rejected the deal in part because it would have
created an alliance between Televisa and  Ricardo Salinas , who
controls Iusacell and TV Azteca SAB, Televisa’s biggest
broadcasting rival. Such a partnership might encourage the
broadcasters to work together in the TV business, in which they
already attract almost all over-the-air viewers, the agency
concluded.  Televisa is willing to create “firewalls” to address the
agency’s concern, Azcarraga said.  Also in January, Mexico’s Federal Telecommunications
Commission decided against taking a vote on whether to go
forward with plans to grant new broadcast television licenses.  “While we may have seemed against this in the past,
Televisa does not oppose the creation of a third, fourth or even
fifth nationwide broadcast TV network,” Azcarraga said. “If
and when the Communications Commission announces the terms of an
auction for additional television frequencies, we will not
legally challenge it -- so long as the rules create a level
playing field for competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  