-- Energy Brokers Get Shelter From EU’s Shift to Exchanges
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-23T15:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/energy-brokers-get-shelter-from-eu-s-shift-to-exchanges.html
Commodity brokers, facing a loss of
business from a shift of derivatives trading onto exchanges, are
seeking a reprieve under European proposals letting them
maintain control of less transparent niche markets.  Energy derivatives that don’t trade continuously, such as
swaps and options in Dated Brent crude and carbon permits,
should be treated differently than other asset classes such as
equities, Alex McDonald, chief executive of the London Energy
Brokers’ Association, said in an interview last month. Rules
being considered by European lawmakers will help determine which
contracts are traded through Organized Trading Facilities, or
OTFs, where brokers wouldn’t need to disclose bids and offers.  The global credit freeze and record oil prices of 2008
prompted regulators around the world to shift more trade onto
exchanges such as ICE Futures  Europe  in London and Nord Pool ASA
in Oslo, increasing transparency. The rules for OTFs would allow
brokers including  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  to retain trades that might
have moved to the more-regulated markets. The exchanges oppose
this, saying they’ll be shut out of the $2.6 trillion non-
exchange commodity derivatives business.  Energy Exemptions  “In markets where trading is not continuous, one-size-
fits-all solutions don’t work,” said Matt Woodhams, London-
based head of eCommerce at GFI Group, a brokerage headquartered
in New York that employs 1,300 people. “Not giving
discretionary powers to OTFs could jeopardize the existence of
these markets.”  As the rules stand, derivatives contracts, including those
for energy, will be divided across three categories and traded
on different platforms depending on how active, or liquid they
are, according to proposed amendments to the EU’s Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID. EU legislators have
yet to detail the rules.  MiFID is intended to bring bilateral over-the-counter
derivatives trading onto transparent platforms that require data
disclosure both before and after the trade takes place. Part of
this regulatory push creates the new category of trading venue,
OTFs, used by inter-dealer brokers such as  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and  Tullett
Prebon Plc. (TLPR)  OTFs are needed most in markets where trading is
sporadic, brokers say.  Brokers Will Switch  “There simply isn’t this stack of bids and offers in all
energy derivative or forward contracts,” said McDonald, who is
also the chief executive of London-based  Wholesale Markets
Brokers’ Association  representing inter-dealer brokers across 30
countries.  Contracts may also be traded through two other types of
venue: exchanges and so-called multilateral trading facilities,
or MTFs, where pre-trade disclosure is required. Brokers, which
also operate in  interest rate , credit, equity and foreign
exchange markets, already operate about 35 MTFs, according to
the WMBA. There are 146 listed on the  website  of the European
Securities and Markets Authority, a Paris-based financial
markets regulator for the EU, including Nasdaq OMX, JPMorgan
Cazenove and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The value of the commodity derivatives market was $2.6
trillion at the end of June 2011, according to data from 60
banks in the G-10 countries plus  Switzerland  compiled by the
 Bank for International Settlements , based in Brussels.  Energy Exemptions  What would distinguish OTFs from MTFs is less pre-trade
transparency, which the exchanges see as creating an uneven
playing field. “Certain venue operators will change their
multilateral trading facility license to an OTF license as this
trading venue will be subject to lighter rules,” the  Federation
of European Securities Exchanges , a lobby group representing 46
bourses including ICE Futures Europe, said in a response to an
official questionnaire from Markus Ferber, German lawmaker and
the European Parliament’s lead negotiator on MiFID.  Trading screens would need to be adjusted for any OTF
requirements,  Dan Smith , head of corporate development at
Trayport Ltd., whose software acts as an aggregator of energy
broker prices, said in an e-mail on March 6. “From a trader’s
perspective they should notice little difference, they will use
the same screen as today, in the same way.”  Energy companies that are producers or suppliers of energy
argue that they are trading derivatives to manage commercial
risk and, as such, shouldn’t be subject to MiFID rules.  Vattenfall AB (VATT) ,  Sweden ’s biggest utility, says physically-
settled derivatives contracts should be exempt.  ‘Brokers Will Switch’  The OTF category “could have significant impacts on
liquidity of the energy wholesale market,” Vattenfall, said in
a corporate response to the consultation led by Ferber.
“Physically-settled products will have to comply with
burdensome and unnecessary rules, possibly leading to less
trading activity in these products.”  MiFID is being debated in the European Parliament.  “OTFs are likely to be one sticking point,” Ferber said
by telephone from Brussels on March 5. If the rules are agreed
on in their current form, brokers will switch their MTFs into
OTFs, limiting any improvements in transparency, he said.  “We are discussing if non-equity derivatives will be
separated out onto OTFs,” he said.  The European Parliament’s economics committee plans to vote
on the MiFID proposals before July, followed by a full
parliament vote in September, Ferber said. Discussions are also
going on in the European Council. The European Commission said
it expects political agreement to be reached by the end of this
year.  Under Pressure  “The creation of the OTF does potentially bring in new
competition,” said Adam Jacobs, an assistant director in charge
of EU regulation at the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association . “It potentially changes the landscape.” ISDA
based in  New York  represents 818 companies trading over-the-
counter derivatives.  Regulators are under pressure from policy makers to show
they have better control over behavior in financial markets,
including energy and commodity trading which until recently
enjoyed exemptions from MiFID. The bloc’s regulator proposed on
Oct. 20 that the rules should extend to energy and commodities
as well.  WMBA’s McDonald said he rejects an assertion by the
exchange lobby, FESE, that OTFs will encourage so-called dark-
pool markets at the expense of more transparent ones.  FESE , the
Brussels-based exchange lobby, will hold a briefing on OTFs with
journalists in London on March 26.  Pre-Trade Disclosure  “We would say quite the opposite; when combined with
clearing, multilateral platforms such as OTFs will facilitate an
evolution away from purely bilateral markets,” McDonald said.  Regulators probably will need to indicate which contracts
will be eligible to be arranged on the OTFs, McDonald said. As
with other EU rules on clearing, “I think it will get quite
granular” as the ESMA stipulates which of the products offered
by the platforms should be traded where. Most contracts deemed
eligible for an OTF will have waivers from ESMA for some pre-
trade transparency rules, he said.  Making it the responsibility of an EU-level body like ESMA
to decide the necessary levels of pre-trade transparency will
allow for a consistent application of the rules, ISDA’s Jacobs
said. “Determining the level of pre-trade disclosure for these
contracts is one of the big challenges for regulators,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  