-- Hengdeli Sees Longines Outpacing Luxury Watches in China
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-23T08:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/hengdeli-sees-longines-outpacing-luxury-watches-in-china-1-.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the retail
partner of  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  in  China , expects more-affordable
Longines watches to outsell high-end timepieces, such as Breguet
or Cartier, in 2012 as the nation’s economic growth slows.  “The sales of luxury watches with a price tag of 50,000
yuan or above will slow this year,” Zhang Yuping, chairman and
founder of Hengdeli, said in an interview yesterday. “But
Longines watches will be in the sweet spot as China’s middle
class takes off.”  Watches from Longines, the Swiss brand owned by Swatch
Group, cost between 10,000 yuan ($1,587) to 12,000 yuan in
China, making them well-positioned to reach the country’s
growing middle class, according to Zhang. Hengdeli, also a
distributor of the Omega and Rolex watches, expects same-store
sales in China to increase 15 percent to 20 percent this year,
slowing from a 30 percent gain in 2011.  “It’s all about mass  luxury goods  in China this year, not
the super luxury,” said Joohee An, Asia Pacific portfolio
manager at Mirae Asset Investments. “The country wants to grow
a bigger middle class.”  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao set a 2012 economic growth
target of 7.5 percent on March 5, lower than an 8 percent goal
in place since 2005. Wen pledged to adjust taxes as the nation
seeks to end the economy’s reliance on investment and exports.
Government policy to increase domestic spending will help boost
watch sales in the long term, Zhang said.  Hengdeli shares fell 3 percent to HK$3.27 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong after earlier dropping as much as
5 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 1.1 percent.  Slower Growth  Slower economic growth in China may push more consumers to
switch to the “middle-end” watch segment, Zhang said. Sales of
mid-priced watches are expected to grow at “strong double-
digits” this year, he said, without elaborating.  Mid-priced watches can have higher profit margins because
of lower commissions paid to the brands, he said.  Hengdeli, whose  shareholders  include Swatch and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , plans to add 40 to 60 new stores in
China this year, mostly in second and third-tier cities,
targeting the mid-end segment, Zhang said. The company now
operates 405 stores.  The watch retailer also wants to expand its sales network
through acquisitions.  “We are already the biggest watch retailer in China, my
only concern is to prevent our market share from slipping,”
Zhang said. “In that case, we need to look at different ways to
expand our sales network.”  Hengdeli is considering opening stores in  Singapore ,  New
York , Paris and  London , Zhang said, without giving a timeframe.
The company posted a 47 percent jump in 2011 profit to 815
million yuan. The shares have jumped 29 percent this year,
outperforming the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 12 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  