-- English Soccer Bets on $158 Million Site to Win Trophy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-23T22:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/english-soccer-bets-on-158-million-center-to-end-trophy-drought.html
(Corrects location of facility in eighth paragraph.)  England’s plan to win its first
soccer title since the 1966  World Cup  is focused as much on
developing coaches as players at its new 100 million pound ($158
million) facility.  Work is nearing completion on  St. George’s Park , the
Football Association’s National Football Centre 126 miles
northwest of London. The center is expected to open by September
and will be a training base for national teams and an education
facility whose main aim is to produce more top level coaches.  “If you get better coaches then you get better players,”
project chairman David Sheepshanks said in an interview after a
tour of the 330-acre facility near Burton-upon-Trent. “The more
you go on doing that as a continuous process, then inexorably we
should reach the top.”  England , which has failed in 22 world and European
championship campaigns since winning its only major title 46
years ago, has 10 times fewer qualified coaches than  Spain  and
Italy, the last two world champions, and three-time winner
 Germany . Those countries each have about 30,000 licensed
managers, according to European governing body UEFA. When Spain
won its first World Cup in 2010, it had one qualified coach for
every 17 players. The ratio in England was one to 812.  Sheepshanks, the 59-year-old former chairman of the
Football League and regional chairman of Coutts & Co Ltd.,
bankers to  Queen Elizabeth II , has overseen St. George’s Park
since the development was resurrected two years ago after being
mothballed in 2001.  Political Infighting  When the England team assembles there in October it will
mark the end of a journey for a project that stalled for a
decade because of a shortage of cash, and political infighting,
according to former F.A. executive director David Davies, who
was with the organization when it bought the land in 2001.  “The reality is the F.A. board has been for many
generations dysfunctional because there’s so much conflict of
interest,” Davies said in an interview. “Sometimes it was
actually quite easy for those who were instinctively opposed to
a national football center to block for as long as they could.”  The delay bought Sheepshanks and his staff some time to
assess training facilities around the world. His team visited
the Dutch soccer federation headquarters in Zeist,  Italy ’s
Coverciano technical center near Florence, Cuidad de Futbol in
 Madrid  and the  German Sport University  in Cologne.  The main inspiration was  France ’s national technical
center, or Centre Technique National Fernand-Sastre, at
Clairefontaine, Davies said. It opened in 1988 and honed the
skills of players including  Nicolas Anelka  and  Thierry Henry ,
who helped France win its only World Cup in 1998 and its second
European Championship two years later.  ‘Best Habits’  “We really have tried to look very carefully at what the
rest of the world are doing,” said Sheepshanks, clad in a high
visibility jacket, hard hat and steel toe-capped boots. “We’ve
probably been plagiarists in some areas of their best habits
with their permission and the best features. We’ve come home to
try and create something that’s best for English football.”  Unlike Clairefontaine, St. George’s Park won’t be a
permanent training center for young athletes. Instead, its role
will be to educate future coaches who’ll be sent to teams from
grassroots to the elite Premier League, Sheepshanks said.  “We have less qualified coaches in this country then many
of our neighbors,” he said. “We need to address that.”  St. George’s Park will also incorporate 228 rooms in two
hotels operated by  Hilton Worldwide Inc. (HLT)  and conferencing
facilities. The suite set aside for the England manager looks
out over fields toward a line of Wellingtonias, evergreen trees
introduced to Britain in 1853 following the death of the Duke of
Wellington, the former soldier and lawmaker.  Job Vacancy  Just who will occupy the room is unknown as the F.A. is
still seeking a replacement for Fabio Capello, the Italian coach
who quit the job in February. His successor will be expected to
play a role in promoting the new center.  “There’s nothing more important than having the most
senior management position in English football espousing the
virtues of St. Georges Park,” Sheepshanks said. “I have
absolutely no doubt that whoever takes the position will do just
that.”  While the center must be a home to the 24 England
affiliated teams, it needs to pay its way. Critics of the
project questioned the outlay on a specialist soccer facility so
far from Wembley Stadium, where England plays all its home
matches, when the F.A. could have leased existing properties
such as university grounds.  The site also includes a sports science and medicine
center, an indoor pitch and 11 outdoor pitches, including a
replica of the surface at Wembley.  ‘Long-term Play’  Sheepshanks said he’s talked to rugby, cricket and golf
officials in England to gauge their interest in using the
facilities to ensure St. George’s Park isn’t a financial drain
on the F.A., which had net income of 9 million pounds from sales
of 304 million pounds for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.  Although partners including Hilton and Spire Healthcare
Ltd. pay nothing up front, they share revenue with the governing
body. Sheepshanks, who said the F.A. needs to account for about
25 percent of the 80,000 annual bed nights, projected losses
before breaking even in the third year.  “It will take many years for this project to really derive
all the benefits to English football,” he said. “This is a
long-term play, but I hope it’ll have a short-term bounce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 