-- Leon Black’s Bid Gets No Respect as Great Wolf Surges: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-23T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/leon-black-s-bid-gets-no-respect-as-great-wolf-surges-real-m-a.html
Traders who like indoor water parks
aren’t taking  Leon Black  seriously.  Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF) , which runs 11 resorts that feature
water slides and pools, has traded above a $5-a-share offer from
Black’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  each day since it agreed to
sell itself to the buyout firm. The stock rose again today and
is now 12 percent higher than the offer, more than any agreed-
upon deal in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Neuberger Berman Group LLC and WallachBeth Capital LLC say
the bid is too low, disputing Chief Executive Officer Kimberly Schaefer, who called the Apollo offer “best overall” after 33
potential buyers expressed interest. While Great Wolf has  lost
money  each year since 2004 as debt payments exhausted its income,
Tullett Prebon Plc says future tax benefits from the deficits
and the value of its resorts that produce  sales  year-round mean
Apollo can afford to pay at least 20 percent more.  “This bid is the definition of opportunistic,” Yemi Oshodi, New York-based managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at WallachBeth, said in a telephone interview.
“There were a ton of bidders in here. People were tripping over
themselves to bid. Apollo is going to have to bump.”  He estimates that Apollo or another private equity firm
could raise the offer to at least $6.50 a share.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for  Apollo (APO) , declined to comment
on whether it is considering boosting its offer. Black, the 60-
year-old co-founder, chairman and CEO of the $75 billion firm
based in New York, was also unavailable to comment, Zehren said.  ‘Compelling Opportunity’  Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for Madison, Wisconsin-based
Great Wolf, said she couldn’t immediately comment beyond
Schaefer’s remarks to Bloomberg News on March 20.  The agreement with Apollo is a “compelling opportunity for
shareholders,” Great Wolf’s Schaefer said in a telephone
interview that day.  Great Wolf  owns, manages and licenses family resorts
featuring indoor water parks, suite-style rooms, restaurants,
spas and arcades. The company started its first  Great Wolf Lodge 
in  Wisconsin  Dells, Wisconsin, in 1997, and the chain has since
 expanded  into eight other U.S. states and  Canada .  Shares of Great Wolf, which reached an  all-time high  of
$25.78 in 2005, traded for as little as $2.18 in October before
almost doubling in the next four months. On March 13, Apollo
said it agreed to buy Great Wolf in a deal valued at about $649
million including net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Great Wolf jumped by the most in more than  three years  on
the day of the announcement and surged past the takeover price.  Bidding Process  The stock, which ended 52 cents above Apollo’s bid
yesterday, advanced 1.3 percent to a more than three-year high
of $5.59 today. The gap indicates that merger arbitragers are
skeptical of the takeover price and are betting that a higher
offer will emerge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Apollo was the best overall bidder,” Schaefer said in
the telephone interview. “We really looked at the highest bid
that we could get for the company and the most likely to close
this transaction.”  At least 33 potential bidders, which included companies in
the theme-park industry and private-equity firms, expressed
interest during a process that Great Wolf undertook to find a
buyer, the company said in a March 13  filing  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Of those, at least 11 signed confidentiality agreements to
review Great Wolf’s  financial statements , including Apollo,
which first met with management in June. Apollo made a $4.65-a-
share offer in December and raised it twice to $5 a share as
competing buyers bid $5 and $5.05 a share, the filing showed.  Fair Value  Deutsche Bank AG, Great Wolf’s own financial adviser,
valued the company at $3.74 to $7.98 a share based on comparable
transactions in the industry, according to the  filing .  In its deal with Apollo, Great Wolf was required to adopt a
shareholders’ rights plan to thwart hostile acquirers and agreed
not to solicit other interested parties. It will also pay the
buyout firm $5.3 million, and up to $1.7 million in Apollo’s
expenses, if the company accepts a superior offer.  “The company is worth substantially more than $5 a
share,” Richard Nackenson, the New York-based manager of the
 Neuberger Berman  Multi-Cap Opportunities Fund, said in a
telephone interview. Neuberger Berman, which oversees $193
billion, owned about 6 percent of Great Wolf as of Dec. 31.
“There is now an opportunity on a going forward basis for the
public markets to recognize a higher valuation.”  Nackenson says that Great Wolf is worth $8 to $9 a share,
based on his estimates for free  cash flow  and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2013.  Theme-Park Deals  Apollo’s agreement values Great Wolf at 8.4 times its
Ebitda in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s about 20 percent less than the median 10.4 times
multiple for announced takeovers in the resorts and theme-park
industry of at least $500 million, the data show.  Among publicly traded targets, just one successful
acquisition, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s buyout of Japanese
theme-park operator USJ Co., was cheaper. Two other asset sales
of theme parks were also less expensive, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and  Standard & Poor’s .  NBC Universal  bought the 50 percent stake in two Universal
Studios theme parks in  Orlando ,  Florida , from  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  that it didn’t own for less than 7 times Ebitda, while
Blackstone acquired Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s amusement park
business at a multiple of about 7.4 times Ebitda, the data show.  The agreement with Apollo prompted shareholders to sue
Great Wolf, claiming it didn’t get the highest possible offer.  Poison Pill  The so-called poison pill provision also makes it harder
for any acquirer other than Apollo to buy the company, Scott
Ferguson said in his complaint, filed March 15 in Delaware
Chancery Court. Ferguson and David Raul, custodian for another
shareholder in a separate lawsuit, seek to represent all Great
Wolf shareholders in an effort to get the court to bar the deal.  Great Wolf said in an SEC  filing  that the lawsuits were
“baseless and without merit.”  One reason Great Wolf deserves a higher price in a
takeover is because its indoor resorts are able to generate
revenue year-round, unlike most amusement and water parks, which
are seasonal and close for parts of the year, according to
Sachin Shah, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon.  Annual sales  at Great Wolf have never declined since
becoming a publicly traded company in 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In 2008 and 2009, during the worst
recession since the Great Depression, revenue  increased  by 31
percent and 7.5 percent, respectively, the data show.  ‘No Brainer’  As American families continue to seek out deals and cheaper
getaways, revenue is projected to reach records this year and
next, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bottom line here is that the company is actually
growing every year,” Shah said. Even with the recession,
“parents were paying to go and stay there. It’s almost like a
hotel meets amusement park. This is a no brainer,” he said.  He values Great Wolf at about $6.50 a share as an
independent company. Including the potential tax benefits earned
from Great Wolf’s net operating losses, which a buyer can take
advantage of when it becomes profitable, the company could be
worth $8 to $8.50 a share, Shah said.  The amount that Great Wolf owes to its creditors could
still dissuade some buyers and could keep Apollo from increasing
its own bid, according to William Marks, a San Francisco-based
analyst at JMP Securities. The company has $515 million in  total
debt , almost three times its market value of $185 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Value Proposition  Great Wolf’s suburban locations and the cost of maintaining
its resorts could also reduce its attractiveness, he said.  “The  stock market  certainly thinks it’s going to sell at a
higher price and it’s possible that that happens,” Marks said
in a telephone interview. “There are issues though.”  “The locations are not in key urban areas, they include
high-maintenance water parks, and the leverage of the company is
higher than an average hotel,” he said.  Apollo also met with resistance from investors when it
attempted a theme-park takeover in December 2009. The firm
offered to buy Sandusky, Ohio-based  Cedar Fair LP (FUN)  for about $2.2
billion including net debt, or $11.50 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The amount valued the amusement-park
operator at 6.9 times Ebitda, a lower multiple than what it
agreed to pay for Great Wolf, the data show.  After Cedar Fair’s shareholders rejected the transaction,
Apollo called off the deal in April 2010 and the company
remained independent. Cedar Fair’s shares have since more than
 doubled  to $29.48 as of yesterday’s close.  ‘New Frugality’  The difference is that Great Wolf is a more attractive
takeover candidate because its  revenue growth  is more stable
than other theme-parks and deserves a higher valuation than
Apollo is offering, according to Tullett Prebon’s Shah.  “There’s a new frugality in this country now,”
WallachBeth’s Oshodi said. “You drive your car there, you spend
the night and you have some good, clean fun and it doesn’t cost
you a lot of money. That’s in demand now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 