-- Etch A Sketch Joins Flip-Flops as New Political Weaponry
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-23T01:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/etch-a-sketch-joins-flip-flops-as-new-political-weaponry.html
The remark lasted only a moment,
yet the metaphor may haunt Republican presidential front-runner
Mitt Romney for months or even years.  When one of his top advisers compared this year’s race to a
children’s toy that can be shaken to erase what’s on its
surface, the Etch A Sketch became for Romney what flip-flops
sandals and combat helmets were for presidential contenders
before him -- a potentially unshakable image that encapsulates
the chief criticism of his candidacy.  The comment, by his longtime aide  Eric Fehrnstrom  on CNN,
played into his presidential adversaries’ assessments of Romney
as a shape-shifting politician who switches policy positions to
court voters. Democrats and Republicans alike rushed to procure
the red plastic tablet with white knobs to brandish at campaign
events, on television and in Internet videos as a visual to
drive home their contention that Romney can’t be trusted.  “The power of metaphor is the moment that’s bigger than
the moment itself -- it’s the one instance that tells you the
whole story -- and that’s what this was,” said  Alex Castellanos , a Republican strategist who is unaffiliated with a
campaign.  He compared Romney’s Etch A Sketch woes to a moment from
the 1988 presidential campaign, when former Democratic
Massachusetts Governor  Michael Dukakis  -- perceived as being
weak on defense -- rode around in a tank, wearing a smile under
a combat helmet while visiting a factory in  Michigan .
Republicans criticized Dukakis for turning his tour in war
machinery into a political photo-op. He lost to George H.W. Bush.  Revealing Something True  “When Michael Dukakis got into his tank with his little
helmet, it didn’t feel like he was large enough and strong
enough for the job of commander in chief. It didn’t cut a new
wound, but it opened an old one and revealed something big and
true,” Castellanos said, adding that the Etch A Sketch comment
had the same effect.  Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry  could never shake the
moniker of “flip-flopper,” bestowed by Republicans during his
unsuccessful 2004 presidential bid after he tried inartfully to
explain why he had switched positions on a military funding
bill.  In October 2003, Kerry initially supported $87 billion for
the military and reconstruction efforts in  Iraq , then opposed it
in its final form. “I actually did vote for the $87 billion
before I voted against it,” he later said, a sentence that was
instantly featured in political attack ads.  Barcode Scanner  Hostile voters would wave the flat-soled sandals at
campaign rallies, and more than a few people showed up dressed
as life-sized flip-flops. Dana Perino, then a spokeswoman for
his Republican rival President  George W. Bush , trained her dog,
a Viszla named Henry, to fetch the shoes whenever she asked what
he thought about Kerry.  Twelve years earlier, Bush’s father, President  George H.W.
Bush , played into a stereotype of him as an elitist out of touch
with everyday Americans when he examined a supermarket barcode
scanner and appeared to be amazed, years after stores had begun
using such devices.  Former Vice President Dan Quayle, who served with the
senior Bush, never lived down his reputation as an intellectual
lightweight, seemingly confirmed when he visited a Trenton,  New
Jersey , classroom and told a sixth grader he had left the “e”
off the end of the word “potato.”  The photograph of Quayle, the student and his teacher
gazing at the word written on a chalkboard became a classic, and
buttons were soon produced with an image of Quayle and the
expression: “This Spud’s For You! Mr. Potatoe”  Quayle’s Potato Regrets  “It was a defining moment of the worst kind imaginable,”
Quayle would later write in his autobiography, “Standing
Firm.” “Politicians live and die by the symbolic sound bite.”  In the case of Romney, who has had his share of gaffes
during the campaign, the slip-up in question this time wasn’t
his. Fehrnstrom -- asked whether he was worried that Romney was
being forced to take extreme positions in the Republican primary
that would hurt him with independent voters in a race against
President  Barack Obama  -- tried to make the point that the
general election is a new arena.  “I think you hit a reset button for the fall campaign,”
Fehrnstrom said. “Everything changes. It’s almost like an Etch
A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up, and we start all over
again.”  As the clip went viral on the Internet and dominated  cable
television , the staffs for Romney’s rivals,  Rick Santorum  and
 Newt Gingrich , quickly procured Etch A Sketches -- known to
generations of American children since its 1960 release -- to
stoke the media coverage.  Shares Spike  Shares of  Ohio Art Co. (OART) , the Bryan, Ohio company that makes
the toy, soared to a nine-year high  yesterday  before settling in
at more than double what they had been when Fehrnstrom opened
his mouth.  “When you’ve got something that’s such a simple, well-
known popular-culture item that fits into this negative
narrative of Romney being somebody who constantly remakes
himself to fit the political environment, it’s really
damaging,” said  Bill Carrick , a California-based Democratic
media consultant who isn’t associated with the Obama re-election
campaign. “It’s very hard to escape something like this -- it’s
just a gold mine for the opposition.”  Shouted Questions  Romney initially ignored shouted questions about
Fehrnstrom’s comment at a March 20 event, only to relent and
gather reporters to declare that his “policies and positions”
wouldn’t change after the primary.  “Organizationally, a general election campaign takes on a
different profile,” Romney said, refusing to take additional
questions on the subject or what it might say about his
candidacy. “The issues I’m running on will be exactly the same.
I’m running as a conservative Republican. I was a conservative
Republican governor. I’ll be running as a conservative
Republican nominee.”  His assurances did nothing to ease his opponents’
enthusiasm for the Etch A Sketch metaphor.  By late yesterday, the  Democratic National Committee  had
distributed more than 20 e-mails to reporters about the episode
and made an Etch A Sketch image of Romney a banner across the
top of its website. It also produced several videos on the
subject, including one that ended with an image of these words
on the toy: “ Mitt Romney  is trying to scrub his extreme record
... but there are some things you can’t shake off.”  New Website  Gingrich produced a new website, sketchyromney.com,
complete with a mock “Mitt’s Etch A Sketch Principles” gadget
that included a “shake” button that produced images of Romney
and the word “Conservative,” then “Moderate,” then
“Severely conservative ” -- a description the front-runner
used Feb. 10 when speaking to Republican activists.  A video posted on the Gingrich site juxtaposes recent
footage of Romney saying he supports gun rights and opposes
abortion rights with older clips from his time as Massachusetts
governor when he describes himself as supportive of abortion
rights and gun control laws.  Castellanos said he expects the potency of the metaphor to
wane as the Republican primary draws to a close and the party
turns to the task of defeating Obama. Carrick disagreed.  Fehrnstrom “was caught at being too good at spinning the
imagery,” Carrick said. “I’m afraid this is going to be
hanging around for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  