-- ETF Puts at 20-Month High on China Output Woes: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-03-23T12:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/etf-puts-at-20-month-high-on-china-output-woes-russia-overnight.html
Options traders are buying the most
protection in 20 months against a decline in Russian equities on
concern oil will fall and weakening output in  China  will curb
demand for metals.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the  Market Vectors
Russia exchange-traded fund , a U.S.-listed ETF that holds
Russian shares, versus calls to buy  rose  to 2.07-to-1 yesterday,
the highest since July 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Futures expiring in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS
index added 0.4 percent to 160,595 in U.S. trading, as the
nation’s largest coking coal producer,  OAO Mechel (MTL) , slid the most
in two weeks after breaching mine license rules.  The Market Vectors ETF, which includes shares of gas
exporter OAO Gazprom and biggest lender  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , sank to a
four-week low as copper and nickel dropped and crude, Russia’s
biggest export earner, slid to the lowest in a week. A
preliminary purchasing managers’ index signaled manufacturing in
China, the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals,
contracted to the lowest since November this month, while
European output shrunk more than economists estimated.  “The fear of what could happen to the commodity prices if
China really began to slow down, which would clearly be a
downside risk to the Russian markets, is why people are buying
puts,”  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Verno
Capital in Moscow, which manages $200 million in assets, said by
phone yesterday. We could see a “10 to 15 percent retreat in
the RTS over the next four weeks, assuming we get more news
about the global slowdown.”  Rusal Declines  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  sank 0.6 percent by 8:53 a.m.
in  New York  as data indicating a contraction in European
manufacturing fueled concern global growth is slowing. The Hong
Kong-listed shares of Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, were unchanged at HK$5.82 today.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)   fell  for a sixth day in Moscow,
capping the worst losing streak in seven months. The index lost
1.4 percent to 1,529.51 yesterday, the lowest level since Feb.
10. The Market Vectors Russia ETF dropped 2.3 percent to $30.82.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the last three months
of 2011, the slowest pace for 10 quarters, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a lackluster U.S. recovery limited demand for goods
from the world’s largest exporter. Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the
nation’s growth target for 2012 to 7.5 percent on March 5, from
8 percent over the past seven years.  The preliminary 48.1 reading in a purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics released
yesterday was the lowest since November with results below 50
indicating contraction. The world’s second-largest economy,
China is the biggest consumer of oil after the U.S.  Oil Drops  “If we see that China is slowing down further, the global
economy is slowing down,  oil prices  will react and go down,”
Peter Szopo, head of research at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by
phone yesterday.  OAO Lukoil’s ADRs fell 1.8 percent to $61.87 in New York
yesterday, trading at a 15 cent  premium  to its Moscow-listed
shares.  Russia ’s largest non-state oil producer fell 1.4 percent
to 1,817.10 rubles, or $61.72, on the Micex. One depositary
receipt is equal to one ordinary share of Lukoil.  Crude oil for May delivery fell 1.8 percent to $105.35 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Brent oil
for May settlement declined 0.9 percent to $123.14 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, while Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, retreated 0.6 percent to $119.77,
the lowest level since Feb. 16.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials lost
1.1 percent to 695.57, the lowest level since March 6.  License Violations  ADRs of Mechel fell 5.8 percent to $9.83 yesterday, the
biggest drop since March 6. Volumes totaled 11.74 million, four
times the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the Micex,  Mechel (MTLR)  stock declined 4.9 percent to
287.70 rubles, or $9.77. Each ADR represents one ordinary share
of Mechel.  Russia’s environmental regulator found license violations
by a Mechel unit, according to two people with knowledge of the
investigation. The violations found by the Natural Resources
Inspectorate, part of the Natural Resources Ministry, were at
the South Kuzbass unit, said the people who declined to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public.  The Moscow-based mining company broke a license agreement
at parts of six deposits that are part of its Yakutugol unit,
including the Elga coal field, Russia’s largest, the ministry
said yesterday in a statement on its website.  Government Stakes  Mechel doesn’t see where it could have significant
violations and will be able to resolve any problems when it gets
the report, said spokeswoman Ekaterina Videman. The ministry and
Mechel both declined to comment on South Kuzbass.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government
and the central bank yesterday to prepare proposals on lowering
the state’s share in banks to less than 50 percent, the Kremlin
said.  Medvedev instructed Prime Minister and President-elect
 Vladimir Putin  and Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev to
submit the proposals by Sept. 1, according to a  statement 
published on the Kremlin’s website.  Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB Group, the
two biggest lenders, are controlled by the government.  “It’s good long-term for sure, but near-term it would put
pressure on the Sberbank share price because it creates an
overhang situation,” Jose Morales, who oversees $2 billion in
emerging-market equities, including Sberbank shares, at Mirae
Asset Global Investment in New York, said by phone yesterday.  1 Trillion Rubles  Sberbank ADRs fell 3.9 percent to $13.02, the lowest level
since Feb. 23. The  shares  lost 2.3 percent to 96.01 rubles in
Moscow, the equivalent of $3.26. One ADR is equal to four
ordinary shares.  The authorities plan to raise more than 1 trillion rubles
($34 billion) from state asset sales from 2012 to 2014, the
 Economy Ministry  said in September. Lenders run or part-owned by
the state control more than half of the financial industry’s
assets, the Deposit Insurance Agency estimated last year.  “We welcome the Russian president’s decision on reducing
the state’s share in banks,” Sberbank Chief Executive Officer
German Gref said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Since
that will require changes to the law, realizing this task is
possible on a horizon of two to four years. It’s very important
that existing investors not suffer.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies
listed in New York declined 1.9 percent to 106.42 yesterday, the
lowest level since Feb. 10. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which
measures expected swings in the index futures, slipped 0.5
percent to 33.19.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Nasdaq-listed Russian television
company, rose 1.5 percent to $11.69 in New York yesterday. CTC
Media’s average daily share of viewers four years old and over
rose to 7.5 percent in the week to March 18, after dropping the
previous week, data compiled by TNS-Global showed yesterday.  Russian food retailer  OAO Magnit (MGNT)  is scheduled to report
2011 financial results in Moscow today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  