-- Ethiopia to Accelerate Land Commercialization Amid Opposition
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-03-23T11:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ethiopia-to-accelerate-land-commercialization-amid-opposition.html
Ethiopia ’s government said it plans
to clear land and provide infrastructure for investors to
accelerate a commercial farming drive in the west of the
country, amid opposition to the plans that left 19 people dead.  More than 100,000 hectares (247,105 acres) of land in the
Gambella and Benishangul-Gumuz states on the border with  Sudan 
will be targeted in a process managed by the  Agriculture
Ministry ’s Agricultural Investment Support Directorate, its
director, Esayas Kebede, said in an interview on March 21.  “The government is taking that responsibility to clear the
land and to develop the land and then after to transfer the land
with a value addition,” he said in the capital,  Addis Ababa . The
government will provide infrastructure including irrigation,
electricity, telephones and drinking water, he said.  Ethiopia, which according to the London-based Overseas
Development Institute is one of the world’s top five recipients
of food aid, has leased out 400,000 hectares acres of land over
the past four years to investors including Saudi Star
Agricultural Development Plc to grow crops partly for export.
The government may increase a so-called  land bank  that sets
aside 3.6 million hectares of Ethiopia’s total 110.4 million
hectares for commercialization, Esayas said.  Ethiopia’s land-lease program has led to “human rights
violations and the forced relocation of over a million
Ethiopians,” in Gambella and the nation’s southern region, the
California-based advocacy group,  Oakland Institute , said in an
e-mailed statement on March 19. The government denies human-
rights violations and any connection between investment and a
resettlement program that it says is voluntary.  21 Killed  Opponents of the relocations and commercial farming shot
dead 19 students on a bus 20 kilometers (12 miles) from Gambella
town on March 12, the state-owned Ethiopian  News Agency  reported
on March 19, citing Federal Affairs Minister Shiferaw Tekle- Mariam.  Agro-industrialization in  Africa ’s second-most populous
nation will benefit the Anuak and Nuer ethnic groups that live
in Gambella, Shiferaw said on March 9. “In the coming 30 to 40
years they will join what the country aspires to be and that is
a middle-income country,” he said in an interview in the
capital. Ethiopia’s has a population of 82.9 million people.  The directorate is clearing the land and providing
infrastructure because investors aren’t progressing as quickly
as the government would like, said Esayas. Lessees are clearing
land without having a “design” for farms, he said.  “The technical capacity is a major” concern, Esayas said.
“Some of the investors are running their business without a
proper technical person and without a proper management.”  U.S., European Investors  Increasing numbers of U.S. and European companies are
interested in renting plots, according to Esayas. “Monthly, at
least 400 local and foreign investors are coming to get
information,” he said.  In Gambella, 228,000 hectares have been leased and another
877,000 earmarked for investors, he said. The total area to be
farmed is 42 percent of region. In Benishangul-Gumuz, the
directorate has transferred 100,000 hectares and is marketing a
further 981,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about one-fifth
of the state.  Bangalore, India-based  Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG) , the world’s
largest rose grower, has developed about one-tenth of its
Gambella plot of 100,000 hectares in around three years, said
Esayas. Karuturi is paying 20 birr ($1.15) a year per hectare
for the land, according to its agreement with the government.  Government Support  Under-performing farmers will initially not be punished,
said Esayas. “As a government we need the development therefore
we should support them,” he said.  Saudi Star, which is owned by Ethiopian-born Saudi
billionaire Mohammed al-Amoudi, said last month it wants to add
another 290,000 hectares to the 10,000 hectares it intends to
grow rice on in Gambella largely for export to  Saudi Arabia .  “We need to see the development performance” before Saudi
Star is given more land, Esayas said.  An escalation of the land program will “eventually result
in the government having to face its responsibility for the
human-rights violations caused by so-called development
schemes,” said Oakland’s Executive Director Anuradha Mittal in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “In the meanwhile,
pressure on international donors to stop aid to the government
of Ethiopia will gain further strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 