-- EU Permits Three-Month Insurance Exemptions for Tankers to Iran
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-23T09:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/eu-permits-three-month-insurance-exemptions-for-tankers-to-iran.html
The European Union allowed some
insurance contracts for Iranian oil until July 1, scaling back
an earlier plan to spare coverage against the risk of tanker
collisions and spills from sanctions on  Iran  altogether.  EU foreign ministers approved today in Brussels detailed
rules for enacting sanctions against Iran outlined in January,
the bloc said. Because insurers of almost all the world’s
tankers follow European law, its provisions on insurance tied to
Iranian oil have an impact beyond the bloc’s borders.  The EU is seeking to balance the desire to punish the
Iranian regime for its atomic-energy program, which western
governments say aims to build nuclear weapons, against concerns
about the economic impact that the oil embargo would have amid
slowing growth.  To address a U.K. request for more study of the impact that
the tighter loophole for third-party liability insurance and
environmental-liability insurance will have on global  oil
prices , the ministers agreed to review the exemption before a
meeting in May.  Europe  has joined the U.S. in strengthening sanctions
against Iran in a bid to persuade Tehran to discuss all aspects
of the Islamic nation’s nuclear program and open it further to
United Nations inspectors. The Iranian regime says its atomic
activities are for civilian purposes including electricity
production.  The EU on Jan. 23 banned oil imports from Iran while
allowing existing contracts, as well as insurance related to
them, to continue until July 1. Under that decision, the
sanctions would affect insurance for 95 percent of the world’s
tankers that are covered by the London-based International Group
of P&I Clubs, according to insurers and ship owners.  Detailed Rules  Initial drafts of the EU’s more detailed rules for enacting
the trade penalties emerged in February, when the bloc’s
regulators proposed exempting insurance against the risk of
tanker collisions and spills from the restrictions.  Today’s decision to permit third-party liability insurance
and environmental-liability insurance until July 1 will allow
tankers owned outside the EU to continue for three more months
to carry Iranian oil even if they are insured in Europe.
Frontline Ltd., Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. and owners of at
least 100 supertankers said last month they would no longer call
at Iranian ports because of the insurance ban.  The  International Group  has pressed the EU to grant an
exemption for insurance against crashes and pollution, Andrew
Bardot, the organization’s secretary and executive officer, said
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  