-- EU Sees Window of Opportunity for Aviation CO2 Curbs Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-23T11:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/eu-sees-window-of-opportunity-for-aviation-co2-curbs-deal.html
The European Union sees a “window
of opportunity” for reaching a global deal on aviation carbon-
emissions curbs by the start of next year, said Joao Vale de Almeida, EU ambassador to the U.S.  The inclusion of flights to and from EU airports in the
European emissions trading system as of this year triggered
opposition from countries including the U.S., China and  Russia ,
which said  Europe  should let the  United Nations ’  International
Civil Aviation Organization , or ICAO, decide on greenhouse-gas
limits for the industry.  “We remain fully committed to an international deal,”
Vale de Almeida said at the European Policy Centre in Brussels
today. “Things have started again in the ICAO because there is
the regulation in Europe, and we are happy about that.”  The 27-nation EU, which wants to lead the global fight
against  climate change , decided in 2008 that aviation should
become as of 2012 a part of its cap-and-trade plan. Airline
carbon-dioxide discharges in the region doubled over two decades
and international organizations failed to enact pollution curbs.  The UN aviation body is now considering four possible
market mechanisms to tackle greenhouse-gas pollution, ICAO’s
President Roberto Kobeh said earlier this month. The
organization’s 190 members may make a final decision at a
meeting in September or October next year, he said.  U.S. ‘Fully Engaged’  The U.S. is now “fully engaged” in the process, according
to Vale de Almeida. He also reiterated the EU won’t back down on
its carbon curbs for aviation before a global deal is in place.  “We cannot suspend legislation like that, as you well
know,” he said. “It’s been agreed democratically.”  The EU can replace its emissions trading system with a
global measure to cut pollution from the industry as long as the
broader program is as ambitious as the European plan, the bloc’s
Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said last month.  Airbus SAS Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders yesterday
called upon the EU to freeze the bloc’s carbon limits on
aviation for “a year or two” to win time and set global rules
on the matter. The company is at risk of having a “significant
number” of planes not delivered into  China  amid protests by
that country against the program, Enders said.  China’s aviation regulator has signaled that it hasn’t
forbidden the nation’s airlines from buying Airbus planes.
Airlines are encouraged to buy planes based on costs savings and
increasing reliability and safety,  Li Jiaxiang , director of the
Civil Aviation Administration of China, said in an interview in
Beijing on March 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  