-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Loss of 2012
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-03-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-loss-of-2012.html
European stocks  posted their
biggest weekly decline this year as economic data from China to
the U.S. and Europe raised concerns the global economic recovery
is faltering.  Randgold Resources Ltd. tumbled 13 percent after a coup
toppled the government in  Mali , where the company mines two-
thirds of its gold.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  slipped 7
percent after an official at China’s carmakers association said
vehicle sales may miss its forecast.  Misys Plc (MSY)  surged 8.4
percent after Vista Equity Partners said it will acquire the
company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 2.5 percent to 265.65 this
week, the biggest decline since December. The benchmark measure
has still rallied 8.6 percent this year as the European  Central
bank  provided loans of 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the
region’s banks and U.S. economic data surpassed estimates.  “Markets are getting too optimistic,”  Gerard Lyons , chief
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “Overall, the eurozone is in
a double-dip recession. The Chinese economy is cooling. The U.S.
is not having a double-dip but it’s not having a strong
recovery.”  The mean daily volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx
600 this week was 12 percent lower than the average in the last
12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe, China Economy  European services and manufacturing output contracted more
than forecast in March. A euro-area  composite index  based on a
survey of purchasing managers in both industries dropped to 48.7
from 49.3 in February, Markit Economics said on March 22.  All but one  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600
retreated this week, led by a gauge of mining companies that
lost 7.2 percent. An index of telecommunications companies
gained 2 percent.  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index lost 3.3 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX Index decreased 2.3 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE
100 Index slid 1.9 percent.  In  China , a preliminary measure of manufacturing fell to
48.1 this month, according to a report by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit on March 22. That’s the lowest reading on the purchase
managers’ index since November. A result below 50 indicates a
contraction.  U.S. Housing, Jobs Data  In the U.S., purchases of new homes unexpectedly fell in
February for a second month, a sign the recovery in the housing
market may be uneven.  Sales dropped 1.6 percent to a 313,000 annual pace, the
slowest since October, from a 318,000 rate in January that was
weaker than previously reported, figures from the Commerce
Department showed yesterday in  Washington . The median estimate
of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 325,000.  Housing starts  dropped to a 698,000 annual rate last month
from a revised 706,000 pace in January, according to another
U.S. Commerce Department report on March 20. Building permits, a
proxy for future construction, climbed to the highest level
since October 2008.  Initial jobless claims  fell to 348,000 in the week ended
March 17, the fewest since February 2008, U.S. Labor Department
figures showed on March 22. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast a decline to 350,000.  Bernanke’s Testimony  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on March 21
in a testimony to U.S. lawmakers that  Europe  must further
strengthen its banks and that its financial and economic
situation “remains difficult” even as stresses have lessened.  “Full resolution of the crisis will require a further
strengthening of the European banking system,” Bernanke said in
testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform. The region’s leaders also must “increase economic
growth and competitiveness and to reduce external imbalances in
the troubled countries,” he said.  The index of leading indicators in the world’s largest
economy rose 0.7 percent in February, following a revised 0.2
percent gain a month earlier, the Conference Board said on March
22. Economists had predicted an increase of 0.6 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report on March 21
stocks will probably begin a “steady upward trajectory” over
the next few years as any declines in economic growth are
already reflected in share prices.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long good-bye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in London, wrote in a report.  U.K. Budget  In the U.K., Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said on March 21 the government’s budget shortfall will be 7.6
percent of gross domestic product next year.  “Borrowing this year is set to come in at 126 billion
pounds ($200 billion), 1 billion pounds lower than I forecast in
the autumn,” Osborne said to lawmakers in Parliament in London
as he presented his annual budget.  Randgold (RRS)  fell 13 percent this week after a Malian army
officer said the country’s constitution had been suspended and
all state institutions dissolved. Citigroup Inc. cut its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from buy, and Goldman
downgraded the shares to sell, saying the coup may put 70
percent of the company’s 2012 output at risk.  BMW, Daimler Drop  BMW slid 8 percent this week after an official at the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers’ said on March 20
vehicle sales in the world’s second-largest economy will
probably miss its forecast for 2012.  Daimler AG (DAI)  lost 3.7 percent, while Volkswagen AG slipped
6.3 percent.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-largest sporting-goods maker,
declined 2.2 percent after Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation
on the stock to underweight, the equivalent of sell, from equal
weight.  Baloise AG, Switzerland’s third largest insurer, retreated
4.3 percent after saying on March 22 that profit dropped 86
percent last year on investment losses and a writedown on Greek
sovereign debt.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , a maker of solar-panel
equipment, declined 6.9 percent after the company said on March
22 that full-year profit dropped to 35.8 million francs from
97.9 million francs a year earlier.  Misys Jumps  Misys surged 8.4 percent this week after Vista Equity
Partners agreed to buy the British financial software maker for
1.3 billion pounds in cash, a week after Temenos Group AG ended
talks over an all-share merger.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  rallied 7.7 percent after saying yesterday it
will pay 2 billion pounds to narrow the deficit in its  pension
plan , enabling it to reduce annual payment. The U.K.’s largest
fixed-line operator will reassess its dividend after making the
pension payment, Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical maker spun off from Bayer
AG in 2005, jumped 12 percent as Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann bought stock in the company yesterday following its
forecast of an earnings growth this quarter.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  climbed 5.6 percent after the German maker of
carbon materials reported net income jumped 40 percent in 2011
and said it will resume dividend payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  