-- Ex-Lehman Broker Devlin Sentenced to Three Years’ Probation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-24T00:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ex-lehman-broker-devlin-sentenced-to-three-years-probation-1-.html
Ex- Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
broker  Matthew Devlin , who cooperated with a U.S. probe of
insider trading, was sentenced to three years of probation after
prosecutors cited his “noteworthy” assistance.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley said today that Devlin,
38, could have faced as long as 46 months in prison. The judge
said he wasn’t imposing a prison term because Devlin made
recordings of co-conspirators and helped the government gather
evience against four others involved in the insider-trading
scheme.  Devlin, who earned $23,000 in the scheme, knew the tips he
provided to his co-conspirators would be used “to undermine the
integrity of the financial markets which our nation relies on,”
the judge said, “so, he betrayed his country as well.”  “All of it was completely tragic and senseless for a sum
of money to his benefit that was a rounding error in his
compensation,” Pauley said.  The judge said it was important that Devlin agreed to
cooperate with the government immediately.  ‘No Question’  “There is no question his cooperation was substantial, yet
there would have been no crime here if Mr. Devlin hadn’t started
the ball rolling down the hill because he was the source of the
inside information,” Pauley said.  The judge said  insider-trading  cases are very difficult for
the government to detect “unless they can convince someone to
cooperate.  ‘‘So a scheme has been brought to an end through Mr.
Devlin’s cooperation,’’ Pauley said.  ‘‘It should torment you,’’ he said later, ‘‘but you have to
remember you brought it all upon yourself for no reason that I
can discern.’’  Devlin apologized to his family before sentencing.  ‘‘The actions that brought me to the situation today were
reckless, selfish and inexcusable,’’ Devlin said, his voice
breaking with emotion.  ‘Different Man’  ‘‘I am a different man than the one that FBI agents
approached 3 1/2 years ago,’’ he said. ‘‘I take full
responsibility for the choices I made. I’m deeply ashamed and
embarrassed about the decisions I made before my arrest.’’  The U.S. said Devlin gleaned information from his wife,
 Nina Devlin , who at the time was a Brunswick Group public-
relations executive involved with corporate deals. Nina Devlin
wasn’t charged with wrongdoing.  Matthew Devlin then passed tips to former day trader Jamil Bouchareb and his partner, Daniel Corbin, former Paul Hastings
Janofsky & Walker LLP lawyer Eric Holzer and Frederick Bowers,
another former Lehman salesman, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told Pauley today before he imposed the sentence.  ‘‘To really unpack this we needed and relied upon Mr.
Devlin’s cooperation,” Brodsky said. “Had he not cooperated,
it would have been extremely difficult to have brought actions
against the tippees.”  Recorded Calls  Devlin pleaded guilty in December 2008 to four counts of
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and one count of
securities fraud. He then agreed to work secretly for the
government and recorded telephone calls with his co-
conspirators, Brodsky said.  All four co-defendants pleaded guilty. Holzer was sentenced
to five years’ probation; Bouchareb was sentenced to 2 1/2 years
in prison; Corbin was sentenced to six months in prison. Bowers
was sentenced to probation.  Pauley today also ordered Devlin to pay a $10,000 fine. He
already agreed to forfeit the $23,000 he earned in the scheme,
his lawyer, Mary Mulligan, said in court papers. She declined to
comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Devlin, 08-CR-1307, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  