-- Ex-NBA Player Tate George Indicted in $2 Million Ponzi Scam
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-23T16:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ex-nba-player-tate-george-indicted-in-2-million-ponzi-scheme.html
Tate George, a former player for
the  National Basketball Association ’s  New Jersey  Nets and
Milwaukee Bucks, was indicted on charges of running a $2 million
 Ponzi scheme  that targeted ex-professional athletes.  George, 43, raised more than $2 million for his company,
the George Group, after telling investors his real-estate
development portfolio was worth $500 million, according to a
four-count  wire-fraud  indictment in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey.  George, a Newark resident, told prospective investors that
their money would fund the George Group’s development of real
estate projects in New Jersey and  Connecticut , prosecutors
charged.  “Instead of using investments to fund real estate
development projects as promised, George used the money from new
investors to pay existing investors in Ponzi scheme fashion,”
U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  “He also used some of the money for home improvement
projects, meals at restaurants, clothing and gas,” Fishman
said. “The George Group had virtually no income-generating
operations.”  George faces as many as 20 years in prison on each count.
His attorney, Thomas Ashley, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment on the indictment.  Arrested in September  George was arrested last September on a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  complaint charging him with one count of wire
fraud. He was released on $250,000 bail.  After his arrest, Ashley said: “He maintains his innocence
and will plead not guilty. All these charges are clearly
defensible.”  George attended the University of Connecticut, where he hit
the game-winning shot against Clemson University in the third
round of the 1990 National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament. With one second remaining and Connecticut trailing
by one, George caught a full-court pass from teammate Scott Burrell, spun around and hit a 15-foot jump shot as time
expired.  He was selected by the Nets with the No. 22 pick in the
1990 NBA draft. In a four-year career, George averaged 4.2
points and 1.8 assists a game.  The case is U.S. v. George, 11-mag-03197, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 