-- Ex-SK Foods Chief Pleads Guilty to Racketeering Charges
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-23T19:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ex-sk-foods-chief-salyer-pleads-guilty-to-racketeering-charges.html
A former chief executive officer of
SK Foods LP, the Lemoore, California-based processor of tomato
products, pleaded guilty to racketeering charges for bribing
customers and selling goods containing illegally high levels of
mold.  Frederick Scott Salyer entered the plea today in federal
court in  Sacramento ,  California , according to court records. A
federal grand jury last year returned a seven-count indictment
against Salyer, alleging that from 1990 to 2008 he orchestrated
schemes to pay bribes to purchasing managers for customers
including  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Frito-Lay Inc. to ensure they
bought products from SK Foods, prosecutors said.  At Salyer’s direction, SK employees falsified documents
concerning the percentage of natural tomato solids, mold count
and production date of its products, according to the plea
agreement. “SK Foods falsified this date for the purpose of
inducing its customers to accept product that the customers may
otherwise have rejected,” according to the agreement.  SK Foods customers paid inflated prices for tomato
products, and millions of pounds of substandard merchandise was
shipped as a result of the company’s conduct, though the issues
didn’t create a health hazard for consumers, prosecutors said
previously. Nine individuals employed by SK Foods or its
customers previously pleaded guilty as part of the the
government’s probe into SK, prosecutors said.  Salyer, who also pleaded guilty to price-fixing and is
scheduled to be sentenced July 10, faces a sentence of four
years to seven years in prison, according to his plea agreement,
which requires a judge’s approval.  His lawyer, Brian Ferrall, declined to comment on today’s
plea.  The case is U.S. v. Salyer, 10-00061, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  