-- Texas Tops Finds From Brazil to Bakken as Best Prospect: Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-03-23T20:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/texas-tops-finds-from-brazil-to-bakken-as-best-prospect-energy.html
Energy companies in search of oil
riches rivaling the biggest finds from  Brazil  to  Angola  are
flocking to  Texas  shale, where new wells have triggered a 230-
fold increase in crude output in three years.  More than 115 years after a gusher 55 miles (88 kilometers)
south of  Dallas  ushered in Texas’ first oil boom, U.S. producers
such as ConocoPhillips and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  are counting on
the Eagle Ford Shale to boost crude output amid a glut-driven
slump in natural-gas prices.  Drilling for oil in the brush-covered plains of south Texas
is cheaper and less risky than exploration offshore Brazil, the
largest oil find in the Western Hemisphere in 30 years, and more
profitable than the remote, rougher terrain of the Bakken Shale
in  North Dakota  and  Montana .  “The Eagle Ford is the top basin we have in the world
today,”  David Roberts , chief operating officer at Marathon Oil,
told analysts and investors on a conference call last month.  Surging production in shale formations has transformed the
U.S. energy landscape, flooding the market with gas and boosting
domestic  oil production  by 14 percent from three years ago after
dropping by a third in the previous 17 years, according to
Energy Department data. After worries of a global oil shortage
drove prices to record highs above $140 a barrel in 2008,
politicians and industry executives now are discussing the
prospect of the U.S. weaning itself from dependence on imports.  Doubling Down  Marathon Oil and ConocoPhillips both plan to double their
production in the Eagle Ford this year.  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) ,
based in Houston, calls the Texas shale play its biggest source
of growth, and last month boosted its estimated recoverable
reserves there by 78 percent.  Oil production  in the Eagle Ford jumped almost sevenfold in
2011 to surpass 30 million barrels, still less than Bakken
production in North Dakota that exceeded 128 million barrels.
This year daily oil production in the Eagle Ford is forecast to
expand by 200,000 barrels, roughly the same amount as the
Bakken, according to estimates by Wood Mackenzie Ltd. cited by
Hill Vaden, an analyst with the industry consultant.  The  South Texas oil  fields are winning a larger portion of
producers’ investment because it’s easier and more profitable to
drill there compared to many prospects in the U.S. and in the
world. Wells are faster and cheaper to develop, and the
formation is located closer to refineries on the U.S. Gulf
Coast, lowering transportation costs.  Higher Prices  EOG said it costs about $5.5 million per well in the Eagle
Ford, compared with more than $8 million per well in the Bakken,
because of different well configurations. An offshore  Gulf of
Mexico  well can cost $100 million, said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst
at Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston.  Deep-water wells can take five months or longer to drill,
compared to a couple of weeks for a well in the Eagle Ford, said
Brian Cain, a spokesman for  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   Producers can get a higher price for their Eagle Ford
output than they can in the Bakken. Prices for Texas and
 Louisiana (USCRLLSS)  crude this week are as much as about $40 a barrel more
than production in the  Bakken (USCRLLSS) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The economics there are absolutely stellar,” said Danny
Brown, a general manager who helps oversee Anadarko’s Eagle Ford
operations. Anadarko has said it is considering selling its
exploration properties offshore Brazil.  Less Political Risk  Texas provides a more stable investment environment
compared to many international projects, said  Pavel Molchanov ,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in Houston.  “Clearly, there’s less political risk in Texas than in
 Libya , let’s say, or Kurdistan,” he said. Marathon Oil last
year had output suspended in Libya during unrest in that
country.  The Eagle Ford cuts across a 400-mile swath of southern
Texas, according to the Railroad Commission, which regulates oil
and gas production in the state. Producers have unlocked the
resource using advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, which sends jets of water, sand and chemicals
underground to break up rock.  Petrohawk Energy Corp., acquired by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  last
year, first drew attention to the Eagle Ford when it announced a
gas find in 2008, a year when futures for the fuel in  New York 
averaged more than $8 per million British thermal units.  Surging Production  Expanded use of fracturing, or fracking, across the U.S.
caused a surge in gas output that drove prices to a 10-year low
this month of $2.204 per million Btu. Meanwhile, crude in New
York has climbed 17 percent since the end of 2010 and is trading
for more than $106 a barrel.  While drilling has slowed in U.S. shale gas fields such as
the Fayetteville in  Arkansas , development has accelerated in
South Texas as producers focus on the formation’s oil-rich
geology.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, plans
to boost production in the Eagle Ford to about 100,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day by the end of 2012 from more than 50,000
barrels a day in late December.  In last year’s fourth quarter, Marathon Oil closed on
purchases in the Eagle Ford for about $4.5 billion, according to
a regulatory filing. The company said in February that daily
output was about 15,000 barrels of oil equivalent in the
formation, with plans for 30,000 barrels a day for the full year
of 2012.  ConocoPhillips  rose  0.8 percent to $76.51 at the close in
New York. Marathon Oil climbed 0.7 percent to $32.46 and EOG
 increased  1.3 percent to $111.73.  The Eagle Ford will help lead a surge in state  drilling
permits  that’s on pace to reach 25,000 this year, the most since
1985, said Barry Smitherman, the commission’s chairman.  “It’s by far the most sought-after play anywhere -- not
only in this country, but anywhere around the world,” said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  A Sanford C. Bernstein report last August estimated Eagle
Ford production would reach 1.2 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2015, with 750,000 of that being liquids.  “A long-time oil field axiom is that big fields tend to
get bigger over time, and that’s certainly the case here,” EOG
Chief Executive Officer Mark Papa told investors during a Feb.
17 conference call. “This continues to be the hottest and
highest reinvestment rate-of-return play in  North America .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  