-- Fannie-Freddie ‘Largesse,’ Telmex, BNP-SocGen: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-23T12:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fannie-freddie-largesse-telmex-rules-bnp-socgen-compliance.html
The days of big spending on
conferences and charity are over at  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
and the companies’ regulator should make sure it stays that way,
the auditor of the Federal Housing Finance Agency said in two
reports released yesterday.  The FHFA  Inspector General  opened an investigation into
travel spending at the government-owned mortgage companies last
year after U.S. lawmakers complained that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  spent over $600,000 to send more than 90 employees to a
Mortgage Bankers Association conference in October.  About half those expenditures -- which went toward
sponsoring the convention and hosting dinners and other meals --
was “of questionable value,” according to a report.  “There is no indication that any business conducted by the
Enterprises with their clientele at the convention could not
have been conducted as well without this largesse,” the audit
said.  After the conference, the FHFA instituted new restrictions
on travel spending at the companies and barred conference
sponsorships without prior approval.  The companies, which own or guarantee most U.S. mortgages,
have faced spending restrictions since they were seized by the
government in 2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them
to the brink of insolvency. Together, they have drawn almost
$190 billion in taxpayer aid so far.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Senate Backs Easing Capital Rules for New Public Companies  The U.S. Senate, with wide bipartisan support, backed a
reduction in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules for
start-up and newly public firms, setting up a final House vote
on the measure.  The Senate voted 73-26 to pass the bill, which has been
subject to a week-long fight between investor advocates and
business groups, as well as infighting within and between
Democrats, over whether the measure will lead to fraud or give
closely held firms the freedom to more easily raise capital and,
by extension, create jobs.  The House, which passed a similar measure earlier this
month, will have to vote on the Senate version before President
 Barack Obama , who supports several provisions in the bill, can
sign it into law.  For more, click here.  Slim’s Telmex Targeted in Mexican Rules on Leasing Lines  Mexico’s telecommunications regulatory agency approved
rules implementing price and quality controls for dedicated
lines leased by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Telefonos de Mexico
SAB to competitors.  The rules will go into effect in “the coming days” when
they are released in the official gazette, the agency known as
Cofetel said yesterday in an e-mailed  statement .  Carriers designated as dominant by Mexico’s antitrust
agency will face regulations to prevent them from “engaging in
conduct that hurts the development of equal competition, or hurt
consumers through the fixing of arbitrarily high prices in
services offered,” Cofetel said.  Telmex, as the Mexico City-based unit of  America Movil SAB (AMXL) 
is known, dominates the market for originating, carrying and
completing phone calls as well as leasing lines to rivals, the
antitrust agency found in 2009. The agency declared America
Movil’s wireless unit Telcel dominant in the mobile-phone market
the following year.  Telmex is the only company to be designated as dominant by
the antitrust agency in the market for dedicated lines.  The rules tighten the government’s oversight of the phone
carrier controlled by Slim. More rules are coming in other areas
in which the antitrust agency has declared Slim’s companies
dominant, Cofetel President Mony de Swaan said in a January
interview.  America Movil and Telmex are appealing the antitrust
agency’s rulings on their dominance. The companies have 70
percent of wireless customers and almost 80 percent of fixed
lines.  Telmex had no immediate comment, said an official who asked
not to be named because of company policy.  The rules obligate any carrier designated as dominant to
provide competitors using leased lines with quality “that in no
case can be inferior to that which the carrier provides itself
or to its subsidiaries or affiliates.” Service requests must be
attended to “with punctuality,” Cofetel said.  The agency didn’t specify what prices dominant carriers can
charge for the lease of dedicated lines.  FSA Increases Annual Budget to $914 Million in Final Year  The U.K. Financial Services Authority increased its annual
budget by 15.6 percent to 578.4 million pounds ($914 million) in
its last year of operation, citing the challenges of structural
changes and implementing European rules.  The financial watchdog, funded by the firms it regulates,
is preparing to be abolished by 2013 and replaced by two new
regulators to police banks and markets. About 1,100 people will
move to the Prudential Regulatory Authority at the  Bank of
England  while the rest of the FSA’s 4,000 employees will go to
the Financial Conduct Authority.  The regulator increased its budget by 10 percent last year
to 501 million pounds as it started two separate business units
to mirror the creation of the Prudential Regulatory Authority
and Financial Conduct Authority in 2013.  Credit-Ratings Firms Need to Improve Transparency, Esma Says  Credit-rating firms such as Fitch Ratings Ltd.,  Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. (MCO)  and  Standard & Poor’s  must improve their
computer systems, documentation of rating decisions and
transparency of their methodology, the European Union’s markets
authority said.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday that it focused on sovereign debt and
bank credit ratings and hasn’t yet determined “whether any of
the observations in the report constitute a breach” of the
rules governing the firms.  France Needs Reform Minister, AMF’s Jouyet Tells Acteurs Publics  France needs a junior minister in charge of financial
reform, Jean-Pierre Jouyet, president of France’s financial
markets regulator, said in an interview published yesterday on
the website of  Acteurs Publics .  Jouyet, head of the Autorite des Marches Financiers, said
the proposal by Pascal Canfin, a member of the European
Parliament, is “a very good idea that answers a real need for
coordination” and could allow France a stronger voice in
negotiations with other countries, according to Acteurs Publics,
a monthly magazine.  Such a post would be under the Finance Minister, whose
agenda is too full to allow adequate focus on the issue, Jouyet
told Acteurs Publics.  SASAC Plans Overseas Investment Rules, 21st Century Says  China ’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission is considering making overseas investment rules for
central government-owned companies to prevent the erosion of
assets, 21st Century Business Herald reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified SASAC official.  Overseas equities and ownership of offshore companies held
by individuals on behalf of the government must be registered
with SASAC by the end of this month, according to the newspaper.  SASAC will also “clean up” the transfer and capital
injections of overseas state assets and changes of state stakes
in Hong Kong-listed “red chip” companies, according to the
report.  Compliance Action  AIJ Chiefs May Face Japan Criminal Probe for Hiding Losses  Two directors of  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. , the Japanese
investment firm suspected of hiding more than $1 billion of
losses on pension money, may face a criminal probe for their
role in the case, regulators said.  AIJ President Kazuhiko Asakawa, 59, and director Shigeko
Takahashi, 52, allegedly conspired to conceal trading losses and
fabricate reports on the assets managed to attract pension
funds, the  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  said
in  Tokyo  today. The firm oversaw 145.8 billion yen ($1.8
billion) of clients’ money and lost 109.2 billion yen from
derivatives trades directed by Asakawa over nine years, the SESC
said.  The case has spurred authorities to conduct checks on 265
Japanese fund managers amid growing concerns that retirement
assets are at risk in a country where more than a fifth of the
 population  is over 65.  Regulators today searched AIJ’s Tokyo headquarters and
revoked its registration. They ordered brokerage ITM Securities
Co. to halt business for six months for allegedly selling the
funds with the knowledge that reports of their value were false.  AIJ’s clients included 84 pension funds representing
880,000 workers ranging from taxi drivers to medical
practitioners.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Reorganizes U.S. Unit Amid Capital Regulations  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, implemented a
plan to alter the status of its main U.S. subsidiary in response
to capital rules being imposed under a U.S. regulatory overhaul.  The division, known as Taunus Corp., is no longer a U.S.
bank holding company effective Feb. 1 after the German firm
reorganized the ownership of its U.S. banking subsidiaries,
Deutsche Bank said in a report  published  on its website on March
20. Deutsche Bank Trust Corp. is now the “top-tier” U.S. bank
holding company subsidiary, the firm said.  Deutsche Bank shareholders in May 2011 approved plans to
reorganize the U.S. unit to meet new regulations without
requiring additional capital. Chief Financial Officer  Stefan
Krause  said last month the project is “ongoing.” Overseas
lenders including Barclays Plc are altering their U.S. holding
 subsidiaries  because the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 would otherwise
force the divisions to comply with the same capital rules as
domestic banks.  “We have always had and will continue to have appropriate
capital levels in all our U.S. regulated entities,” spokesman
Christian Streckert said by e-mail yesterday. “This action,
which does not diminish any of our regulatory oversight, allows
us to streamline our organizational structure, strengthening an
already strong institution.”  EU May Limit Planned Insurance Exemptions for Tankers to Iran  The European Union may scale back a plan to allow some
insurance contracts for Iranian oil by permitting cover against
the risk of tanker collisions and spills only until July 1,
according to three EU officials.  The three-month exemption for such insurance under a
forthcoming EU embargo on Iranian oil would toughen a proposal
from February to exclude these contracts from the sanctions
altogether. Because insurers of almost all the world’s tankers
follow EU law, its provisions on insurance tied to Iranian oil
would have an impact beyond the bloc’s borders.  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) ,  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  and owners
of at least 100 supertankers said last month they would no
longer call at Iranian ports because of the insurance ban.  The latest plan, set to be discussed yesterday in Brussels
by diplomats from the 27-nation EU, has the backing of most
member nations, the European officials said on the condition of
anonymity because the talks are confidential.  For more, click here.  BNP, SocGen Reviewing Appeal of AMF Fine for Market Violations  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Societe Generale SA, France’s largest
banks, are considering appealing 500,000-euro ($658,000) fines
issued by the Autorite des Marches Financiers for violating
market-testing procedures before a bond sale.  The banks were fined by the AMF, France’s financial markets
regulator, for breaking rules on how to conduct market polls to
ensure against insider trading ahead of January 2009 bond
issuances, according to the March 21  decision .  BNP Paribas said in a statement e-mailed by Paris-based
spokeswoman Julia Boyce that the incident resulted from a “one-
off administrative process” which has no consequence for
clients.’’  Societe Generale (GLE)  is considering “options” following the
AMF decision, the Paris-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement.  FSA Plans Review of Client Cash Process, Telegraph Says  The U.K. Financial Services Authority will undertake a
review of how companies handle client money, according to a
report by the Telegraph. The review comes in the wake of the
collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and  WorldSpreads Group Plc (WSPR) , the newspaper said.  The FSA will look at factors such as “inadequate records,
ineffective segregation of client assets and low level of
awareness of requirements in this area” as part of its current
business plan, the newspaper reported.  The government agency is “also examining options to
prohibit former bosses of failed banks from taking other well
paid jobs in the City,” the Telegraph said, referring to
 London ’s financial sector.  Courts  AT&T Accused of Improperly Billing U.S. Program for Deaf  A unit of  AT&T Inc. (T)  is accused of improperly billing the
U.S. for millions of dollars in reimbursements of text-based
communications under a federal program for the hearing-impaired.  The U.S. Justice Department March 21 intervened in a
whistle-blower lawsuit in federal court in Pittsburgh that
alleged the phone company violated the False Claims Act. AT&T
failed to ensure that users of the Federal Communications
Commission program were eligible, the U.S. alleges.  According to the complaint, AT&T allowed thousands of calls
to be made on the system by users in Nigeria and other countries
seeking to defraud U.S. merchants.  Marty Richter, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, said in a
statement that the company followed the FCC’s rules. He said
that while it is possible for an individual to misuse IP Relay
services, FCC rules “require the company to complete all calls
by customers who identify themselves as disabled.”  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of Pennsylvania,
10-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  Interviews/Speeches  Roth Expects a CFTC Rule on Use of Investor Funds  Daniel Roth , chief executive officer of the  National
Futures Association , talked about the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s regulation of the futures market and the
so-called Corzine Rule proposal which would place tighter
restrictions on firms’ use of investor funds.  Roth spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Smith Says Money-Market Fund Business Model ‘Broken’  Henley Smith, chief investment officer at  Commonwealth
Asset Management LLC , talked about money-market mutual funds and
reform. In the 2008 financial crisis, money market funds “were
the left hook that no one really saw,” Henley said.  He spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Ex-Congressman Bartlett Retiring From Wall Street Trade Group  Steve Bartlett, head of one of the biggest trade
associations for financial companies in  Washington , is retiring
at the end of the year, saying that “after 12 and a half years
at the helm, it’s time for a new captain.”  Bartlett, chief executive officer of the  Financial Services
Roundtable , announced his plans in an e-mail sent to the group’s
members yesterday. The former Republican congressman from Texas
joined the association in 1999.  The roundtable, which lobbies on behalf of 97 large banks,
insurers and other financial companies, has hired executive
search firm  Korn/Ferry International (KFY)  to find a new CEO, Bartlett
said.  According to two people familiar with the search, the
association is looking to hire a former lawmaker or high-level
regulatory official to replace Bartlett. Potential candidates
the group wants to interview include former Representative
Michael Oxley, an Ohio Republican, and Jill Sommers, a
Republican commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the people said on condition that they not be named
because the process is confidential.  Sommers declined to comment. Oxley didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone message seeking a response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 