-- FDA Must Withdraw Some Livestock Drugs in Superbug Ruling
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-23T14:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fda-must-withdraw-some-livestock-antibiotics-in-superbug-ruling.html
A judge told the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to begin pulling approval for some antibiotics
used on livestock until drugmakers prove the products are safe.  Regulators must hold hearings on the risks posed to humans
by antibiotics mixed into feed or water for pigs, cows, chickens
and turkeys, according to a ruling yesterday on a case against
the FDA at the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of
 New York . The mandate comes less than a week before the FDA was
scheduled to issue voluntary industry guidelines for the drugs.  Advocacy groups led by the  National Resources Defense
Council  sued last year to force the FDA to act on a 1977
determination the agency made that feeding animals low doses of
certain antibiotics may promote drug-resistant bacteria capable
of infecting people. The FDA never acted on the opinion, and the
evidence of the risk of widespread use of antibiotics to human
health has grown since, according to the ruling.  “This health threat has been hiding in the margins,” Jen Sorenson, a lawyer for the defense council, said in a statement
today. “Drug manufacturers will finally have to do what FDA
should have made them do 35 years ago: prove that their drugs
are safe for human health, or take them off the market.”  While the FDA is being forced to complete withdrawal
proceedings on the penicillin and tetracycline treatments, “the
court is not ordering a particular outcome,” U.S. Magistrate
Judge Theodore Katz said in the ruling.  Guideline Schedule  The Center for Science in the Public Interest, Food Animal
Concerns Trust,  Public Citizen  and Union of Concerned Scientists
also participated in the lawsuit against the FDA.  “We are studying the opinion and considering appropriate
next steps,”  Siobhan DeLancey , a spokeswoman for the FDA, said
in an e-mail.  The FDA was scheduled to release guidelines next week for
antibiotic use only when medically necessary in livestock. The
recommendations encourage the industry to voluntarily curtail
use of some antibiotics, which are given to livestock to
encourage growth or cure or prevent illnesses.  Regulators restricted in January antibiotics known as
cephalosporins beginning April 5. The drugs can’t be used for
disease prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  