-- Fed’s Lockhart, Bullard Oppose Additional Purchases of Assets
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-23T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fed-s-lockhart-bullard-oppose-additional-purchases-of-assets.html
Federal Reserve district bank
presidents  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  and  Dennis Lockhart  of
Atlanta voiced opposition to any new round of bond purchases by
the Fed amid signs of strengthening economic growth.  “We should hold the balance sheet where it is for the time
being and watch how the economy evolves,” Lockhart said today
in a speech in Washington. Bullard said in a speech in Hong Kong
that with Fed policy “on pause, it may be a good time to take
stock of whether we may be at a turning point.”  The remarks from Lockhart and Bullard, who have never
dissented from a decision by the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
reflect broadening sentiment on the panel that further easing
may currently not be necessary. The Fed has held  interest rates 
near zero since 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds to
spur growth after unemployment rose to as high as 10 percent in
2009. The jobless rate is now 8.3 percent.  The Fed is hosting a conference in Washington today and
tomorrow to examine challenges for central bankers including the
use of asset purchases to sustain liquidity during times of
financial turmoil. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  opened the gathering
by saying central bankers “have had to deploy a variety of new
tools and approaches to carry out their responsibilities
regarding monetary policy and the provision of liquidity, tools
about which we still have more to learn.”  The Fed chairman didn’t indicate if he sees a need for a
new asset-purchase program.  Economy Expanded  The economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely, the government reported. Growth
will probably slow to 2 percent this quarter, according to the
median of 72 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
from March 9 to March 13.  About 1.2 million jobs were created in the past six months,
the most since the same period ended May 2006, Labor Department
figures show.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase,
said he doesn’t believe the central bank wants to push forward
with quantitative easing “given where the inflation data are.”  “If I am wrong, I think they would start signaling it in
speeches,” he said. “There are certainly plenty of
opportunities to do that.”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist for Barclays Capital Inc.
and  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas, also don’t currently see a prospect that the Fed will
provide more stimulus.  “There is little reason to ease further,” Maki said in an
interview at the Fed conference titled, “Central Banking:
Before, During, and After the Crisis.” The Fed is unlikely to
take the option off the table entirely as their outlook might
change if the economy deteriorates.  ‘Significantly Weaker’  “I would expect QE3 if the growth or employment data turn
significantly weaker,” he said.  Coronado said a new round of bond purchases “would require
at least a softening in the data,” and that “a moderation in
the pace of hiring combined with lackluster activity could do
the trick.”  “A pickup in global financial market tensions could also
help tip the scales,” she said in an interview at the central
bank’s conference.  U.S. stocks rose as energy companies and oil rallied on a
report that sanctions will reduce Iranian crude exports by
300,000 barrels a day.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3 percent at
1,397.11 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note dropped to 2.23 percent from 2.28 percent
yesterday.  Nothing Decided  New York Fed President William C. Dudley stopped short of
voicing an opinion on the option of new bond buying in a March
19 speech. “Nothing has been decided” on more bond purchases,
he said, adding that while economic reports have improved, it’s
“far too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods.”  As president of the New York Fed, Dudley holds a permanent
vote on monetary policy decisions. The other Fed presidents
rotate voting on policy this year. Atlanta’s Lockhart holds a
vote, while Bullard votes next year.  Only Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  has favored new
stimulus in recent speeches.  “Clearly, more accommodation would be appropriate”
because currently “the  unemployment rate  is substantially above
reasonable measures of the natural rate,” Evans said yesterday
in a speech in  Washington .  -- With assistance from  Steve Matthews  in Atlanta. Editors:
James Tyson, Kevin Costelloe  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  