-- Fed’s Bullard Sees Price Threat From G-7 Delaying Tighter Policy
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-23T10:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fed-s-bullard-sees-price-threat-from-g-7-delaying-tighter-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the U.S. and world economies risk
elevated inflation that persists for years should developed
nations mistime their exits from easy monetary policies.  “Once inflation gets out of control, it takes a long, long
time to fix it,” Bullard said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong today. “Ultra-easy” policies across the
Group of Seven nations, which include the U.S. and Germany, may
be retained for too long, he said.  U.S. monetary policy may be at a “turning point” and the
Fed’s first interest-rate increase since the global financial
crisis could come as soon as late 2013, Bullard said in a speech
earlier today. That view contrasts with a debate among Fed
policy makers on whether more stimulus is needed even after the
U.S. economy accelerated and the  unemployment rate  fell.  Over the decades, central banks are “known for overstaying
their welcome on policies” and the hardest thing for policy
makers is picking turning points, he said in the interview at a
Credit Suisse Group AG investment conference. “There’s some
risk that you lock in this policy for too long a period.”
Bullard cited a protracted fight with inflation by  Paul Volcker ,
Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987.  In the U.S., consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in February
from a year earlier, while in Germany the rate was 2.3 percent.  Fed’s Target  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge -- the core personal-
consumption expenditures  price index , which strips out food and
energy -- rose 1.9 percent in the year ended January. Fed
officials have set an explicit inflation target of 2 percent.  In  Germany , European Central Bank board member Joerg
Asmussen said policy makers must start to plan an exit from
emergency-lending measures that have pumped more than 1 
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system, Die Zeit
newspaper reported this week, citing an interview.  “The timing of the exit depends on developments in
financial markets,” Asmussen said, according to Die Zeit.
“Clearly it is still too early to begin, but we must start to
carefully prepare the exit.” One shouldn’t assume the ECB will
make any more three-year loans to banks, Asmussen was quoted as
saying.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that public
expectations for inflation to remain low give the central bank
leeway to maintain record monetary easing. He and other policy
makers said last week in a statement that economic slack and
subdued inflation will probably warrant keeping the main
 interest rate  at close to zero at least through late 2014.  Bullard’s Record  Bullard, 51, doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. He
was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said March 19 that
while economic reports have improved, it’s “far too soon to
conclude that we are out of the woods” and “nothing has been
decided” on more bond purchases. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , in a Fox Business Network interview yesterday, said he
opposed more purchases with the economy strengthening.  The number of Americans saying the  U.S. economy  is getting
better rose in March to the highest level since 2004, according
to Bloomberg’s consumer index yesterday. Figures from the Labor
Department showed jobless claims decreased by 5,000 to 348,000
in the week ended March 17, the fewest in about four years.  U.S. Expansion  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely, the government reported. Growth
will probably slow to 2 percent this quarter, according to the
median of 72 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
from March 9 to March 13.  About 1.2 million jobs were created in the past six months,
the most since the same period ended May 2006, Labor Department
figures show. The unemployment rate held in February at a three-
year-low of 8.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  