-- Fed’s Bullard Says Monetary Policy May Be at Turning Point
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-23T04:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fed-s-bullard-says-monetary-policy-may-be-at-a-turning-point.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said U.S. monetary policy may be at a
turning point and the Fed’s first  interest-rate  increase since
the global financial crisis could come as soon as late 2013.  With policy currently “on pause, it may be a good time to
take stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Bullard
said in a speech in Hong Kong today. “As the U.S. economy
continues to rebound and repair,” further action “may create
an overcommitment to ultra-easy monetary policy.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that public
expectations that inflation will remain low give the Fed leeway
to maintain record monetary easing. He and other policy makers
said last week in a statement that economic slack and subdued
inflation will probably warrant keeping the main interest rate
at close to zero at least through late 2014.  “With numerous  monetary policy  actions still on the table,
and others still affecting the economy with a lag, it may be
especially difficult to remove policy accommodation at the
appropriate pace and at the appropriate time,” Bullard said at
an investment conference sponsored by Credit Suisse Group AG.
“One may want to approach such a situation with caution.”  Fed officials have differed on whether more easing may be
needed. New York Fed President William C. Dudley said March 19
that while economic reports have improved, it’s “far too soon
to conclude that we are out of the woods” and “nothing has
been decided” on more bond purchases. Dallas Fed President
Richard Fisher, in a Fox Business interview yesterday, said he
opposed more purchases with the economy strengthening.  ‘Improved Markedly’  The  U.S. economy  may expand 3 percent this year, Bullard
said, and “the outlook has improved markedly” over the past
eight months. Answering questions, Bullard said that his “best
guess” is that interest rates will increase in late 2013.  Inflation remains higher than the Fed’s target of 2
percent, which may indicate the U.S. economy has less slack than
most economists estimate, he said in the speech.  Economic reports yesterday added to evidence the world’s
largest economy is gaining strength.  The number of Americans saying the economy is getting
better rose in March to the highest level since 2004. Thirty-
four percent of respondents to Bloomberg’s monthly consumer
expectations survey said the economy was improving, the largest
share since January 2004.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in February by
the most in 11 months, the Conference Board said. Applications
for  unemployment benefits  dropped last week to the lowest level
in four years, a Labor Department report showed.  Stocks Retreat  U.S. stocks retreated yesterday, trimming the longest
monthly rally since September 2009 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as manufacturing contracted in  China  and  Europe  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  tumbled amid a disappointing forecast.  The  S&P 500  declined 0.7 percent to 1,392.78 at 4 p.m. New
York time, slumping 1.2 percent in three days. The gauge has
risen 2 percent in March, on pace for a fourth monthly rally.  Bullard said while the Fed’s release of individual policy
makers’ forecasts of the target interest rate was a “definite
improvement” in communications, the release will need to be
altered in the future. One option would be the release of a
formal monetary policy report prepared by Fed staff, which would
include a longer discussion of the outlook and “the likely
direction going forward.”  Second Round  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest  rate  close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  