-- Fisker Said to Target $100 Million in New Funds by March 31
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-23T16:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/fisker-said-to-target-100-million-in-new-funds-by-march-31-1-.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
plug-in luxury cars, is working to finish at least $100 million
of fundraising for a total of about $1 billion of private money
by the end of March, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  The people declined to be identified because the money
raising is still under way. The Anaheim, California-based
carmaker, working to remedy a glitch in its Karma sedan, had
raised $896 million from private investors as of Feb. 10,
according to a U.S. regulatory  filing .  Russell Datz, a Fisker spokesman, declined to comment on
how much additional funding the carmaker seeks to raise.  Fisker, intending to become profitable selling cars powered
by lithium-ion batteries and gasoline, needs the funds to
improve the Karma and resume work on a stalled plant in
 Delaware , where it plans to build a second model. The company
has drawn down $193 million of $529 million in loans from the
U.S. Energy Department.  Fisker’s access to the loans was blocked by regulators
after the company fell behind on deadlines for the Delaware
project.  Fisker last week said it’s readying software to fix a flaw
that caused the $107,000 Karma to stall during tests by Consumer
Reports magazine. The company began shipping Karmas, built under
contract in  Finland , to customers late last year, and has
delivered about 600, said Roger Ormisher, a Fisker spokesman.  ‘Funding Options’  The carmaker, co-founded by auto designer Henrik Fisker,
said yesterday in an e-mail it will show a prototype of the
Nina, a plug-in model it intends to build at the Wilmington,
Delaware, factory, on April 3 in  New York . Fisker said it will
also give an update on its business plans at the event.  Fisker investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
Palo Alto Investors LLC and the lithium-ion battery maker  A123
Systems Inc. (AONE)   Fisker said last month it considering additional
fundraising from private sources.  “We are having other funding options than the DOE,”
Fisker, executive chairman of the carmaker, said on a Feb. 28
conference call. “We are right now assessing our different
funding options.  The Energy Department’s loan programs are under
congressional scrutiny since the September 2011 bankruptcy of
Solyndra LLC, a loan-guarantee recipient. Beacon Power Corp., an
energy-storage company, and Ener1 Inc., a supplier of batteries
for electric cars, both filed for  bankruptcy protection  after
receiving Energy Department aid.  The company last month also named Vice Chairman Tom LaSorda, a past president of the predecessor of Chrysler Group
LLC, as chief executive officer, succeeding  Henrik Fisker .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  