-- Florida Teen’s Death Probed as U.S. Pursues More Hate Crimes
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-23T16:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/florida-teen-s-death-probed-as-u-s-prosecutes-more-hate-crimes.html
The U.S. Justice Department’s
investigation of an unarmed black teenager’s shooting death in
 Florida  may reflect a trend of more aggressive hate crime
prosecutions during the Obama administration.  The department has said it opened a civil rights probe into
the Feb. 26 slaying of Trayvon Martin, 17. A neighborhood watch
volunteer, George Zimmerman, told police that he shot Martin in
self defense. Authorities are looking into whether Zimmerman
used a racial slur before pulling the trigger, the Washington
Post reported.  There were 66 federal hate crime prosecutions in the first
three years of President Barack Obama’s administration compared
to 49 during the last three years of the  Bush administration .
The cases include physical assaults, cross burnings and attacks
on houses of worship that were motivated by reasons such as race
and ethnicity, prosecutors said.  “This administration has proven it’s very willing to
pursue the most challenging cases even where they would not be
criticized for walking away,” said David Douglass, a former
 Justice Department  lawyer in the unit that handles hate crime
cases in the early 1990s.  The Justice Department won’t comment on whether it’s
pursuing the shooting in Sanford, Florida as a hate crime, said
 Thomas Perez , the assistant attorney general who oversees the
department’s civil rights division, in a conference call with
reporters yesterday. “We’re in the fact-gathering stage,”
Perez said.  No Charges  Douglass and other former Justice Department lawyers said
that’s the department’s likely focus. Yesterday, 14 Democrats on
the U.S. House Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Attorney
General Eric Holder asking that he “explore the applicability”
of the hate-crime statute and other federal laws. No charges
have been filed against Zimmerman.  Finding evidence that proves race was a motivating factor
may be difficult in the Florida case, said Douglass, a lawyer at
Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP in  Washington .  Speaking at the White House today, Obama said it’s
“imperative” that “every aspect” of the case be investigated
to determine what happened.  Message to Parents  “My main message is to the parents of Trayvon Martin,”
Obama said. “You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon.
And, you know, I think they are right to expect that all of us,
as Americans, are going to take this with the seriousness it
deserves and that we’re going to get to the bottom of exactly
what happened.”  The Obama administration has been aided by a 2009 law that
expanded offenses that can be prosecuted in federal court as
hate crimes to include those based on gender identity, sexual
orientation and disability. The law also eliminated a
requirement that victims of some categories of hate crimes be
engaged in federally protected activities, such as attending a
public school, at the time they’re attacked.  The Justice Department has brought eight cases under the
2009 law beginning with an indictment the following year for an
assault in  New Mexico  on a developmentally disabled American
Indian who was branded with a swastika.  Bush Record  The expanded hate crime definition makes comparisons
between the Bush and Obama records misleading, said Robert
Driscoll, who served as a deputy assistant attorney general in
the civil rights division from 2001 to 2003. “You can only
enforce the laws you have,” Driscoll said.  Prosecuting all bias crimes was a “priority” in the Bush
administration, which emphasized attacks on Arab and Muslim
Americans after Sept. 11, said Driscoll, a lawyer at  Alston &
Bird LLP  in Washington.  Perez said in a 2009 speech that he was “shocked” by the
George W. Bush administration’s record on hate crime
prosecutions.  The rise in hate crime prosecutions is part of an “across
the board” increase in civil rights enforcement by the Obama
administration, said Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department
spokeswoman.  The Justice Department announced it opened an investigation
into the “facts and circumstances” of Martin’s death in a
March 19 statement.  Martin’s parents and their lawyer met yesterday in Florida
with Justice Department officials on the same day Perez visited
 Mississippi  to announce the first prosecution under the 2009
hate crimes law for an attack resulting in death.  Mississippi Case  Three individuals pleaded guilty yesterday for their role
in a 2011 attack on a black man who died after being beaten and
run over in a Jackson, Mississippi, motel parking lot, according
to a Justice Department statement.  The Florida shooting occurred when Martin was walking
through a residential neighborhood after buying iced tea and
Skittles at a convenience store, said Benjamin Crump, an
attorney for the Martin family, at a March 20 news conference in
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida.  Zimmerman was identified as a white male in a Feb. 27
Sanford Police Department report posted on the city’s website.
His father, Robert Zimmerman described him as “a Spanish
speaking minority” in a March 15 letter to the Orlando
Sentinel.  “He would be the last to discriminate for any reason
whatsoever,” Robert Zimmerman said in the letter.  The Sanford police department investigated the case and
forwarded its findings to local prosecutors. Police didn’t have
enough evidence to arrest Zimmerman at the scene, said City
Manager Norton Bonaparte Jr., in a statement.  The 2009 law makes the Martin case “potentially
prosecutable where it might not have been before,” under
federal law, said Samuel Bagenstos, a  University of Michigan  law
professor who served in the Justice Department’s civil rights
division from 2009 to 2011.  Martin was not necessarily engaged in a protected activity
at the time he was walking on the street in a private, gated
community, Bagenstos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  