-- French Sentiment Rises as Sarkozy Lifts Growth Forecast: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-23T11:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/french-business-sentiment-climbs-for-second-month-on-recovery.html
French business confidence jumped
more than economists forecast this month, the latest sign of an
economic rebound that allowed President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to lift
his growth forecast in the midst of an election fight.  Sentiment among factory executives  rose to 96 from 93 in
February, Insee, the national statistics office in Paris, said
today. Economists forecast an increase to 93 from a previously
reported February reading of 92, according to the median of 19
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. It’s the first time the gauge
has increased for two consecutive months in more than a year.  The improvement signals a recovery that Sarkozy is
trumpeting at the end of a five-year term dominated by a
financial crisis that drove French joblessness to a 12-year
high. The  Finance Ministry  lifted its 2012 growth forecast to
0.7 percent late yesterday from 0.5 percent in January following
months of turmoil in European sovereign debt markets.  “The confidence rebound is really quite strong,” said
Michel Martinez, an economist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“Executives are signaling that the economy touched bottom in
the fourth quarter and is now returning to normal.”  Elsewhere today, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  told a conference in  Hong Kong  that U.S.
monetary policy may be at a turning point and the Fed’s first
interest-rate increase since the global financial crisis could
come as soon as late 2013.  U.S. data today will give the latest reading on the
 property market  in the world’s largest economy, with new home
sales likely to have climbed in February to the highest level in
more than a year, a Bloomberg survey shows. Italy reported that
retail sales unexpectedly rose 0.7 percent in January from the
previous month.  Stocks Slip  In  Europe , stocks declined today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  slipping 0.3 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in  London . The
benchmark gauge has advanced 8.5 percent so far in 2012 as the
 European Central Bank  added more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of liquidity to bolster the region’s banks and euro-
area leaders agreed a new bailout for  Greece .  The central bank funds also helped calm the region’s debt
markets and restored growth prospects. Insee said late yesterday
that it was dropping its forecast for a recession in  France  in
the six months through March and predicting that the euro area’s
second-largest economy would return to growth in the second
quarter after stalling in the first.  “The ECB has intervened massively,” Insee economist
Sandrine Duchene told reporters. “We’re starting to see the
results in the European economy surveys. The intensity of the
shock is fading.”  Sarkozy’s Push  Sarkozy had pressed the ECB for much of last year to take a
bigger role in the crisis-fighting effort, an idea opposed by
 Germany . After months of wrangling, Sarkozy and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed on Nov. 24 to stop debating the
central bank’s fire-fighting role.  Two weeks later, the ECB said it would offer unlimited cash
to banks at 1 percent for three years and ease its collateral
rules. On Dec. 9, Sarkozy advocated that banks use some of those
funds to buy sovereign bonds, prompting some investors to call
such transactions the “Sarko trade.”  Now Sarkozy is vaunting his credentials as a crisis fighter
as the French election enters its final six-week stretch. Still,
the results may not spur enough  job creation  in time to get
noticed by voters,  Societe Generale ’s Martinez said.  “The growth will be there but it will be moderate,” he
said. “It won’t be enough to dent unemployment.”  Job Cuts  Insee predicts that companies will cut 49,000 jobs in the
first half after slashing 54,000 in the six months through
December. The  unemployment rate  will climb to 10.1 percent in
June from 9.8 percent in December, the statistics office said in
a set of forecasts that it publishes three times a year.  Socialist Francois Hollande has enough support to beat
President Nicolas Sarkozy in both rounds of the French
presidential election, according to a BVA poll published in
Ouest France and Le Parisien newspapers today. The poll showed
Hollande with 29.5 percent in the first round and Sarkozy
garnering 28 percent. In second-round voting, Hollande has 54
percent support to Sarkozy’s 46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  