-- LG Drops as Analyst Says Phone Sales May Miss Estimates
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-03-23T08:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/lg-drops-as-analyst-says-phone-sales-may-fall-short-seoul-mover.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Asia ’s second-
biggest mobile-phone maker by shipments, fell the most in almost
a month in Seoul trading after Mirae Asset Securities Co. said
its handset sales may miss estimates.  LG, overtaken by Apple Inc. as the world’s third-biggest
phone maker,  dropped  1.9 percent to close at 88,300 won, the
biggest decline since Feb. 27.  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi
index advanced 0.04 percent.  The handset maker is counting on devices running on faster
networks using long-term evolution, or LTE, technology to revive
phone sales. Demand for LTE devices in  North America , the
biggest market, isn’t rising as fast as expected and may not
pick up until the second half of this year because of limited
coverage, said Lee Soon Hak, a Mirae analyst in Seoul.  “Market expectations of the company’s LTE-phone sales need
to be lowered,” Lee, who kept his hold  rating  on the stock,
wrote in a report distributed after the close of trading
yesterday. He didn’t provide figures.  LG’s handset shipments dropped 25 percent to 88.1 million
units in 2011, lagging behind the 93.2 million for Apple,
according to IDC Corp., a Framingham, Massachusetts-based
research company. Nokia Oyj shipped the largest number of
phones, followed by Samsung Electronics Co., the IDC data show.  Today’s decline trims LG’s  climb  this year to 19 percent,
compared with an 11 percent gain for the Kospi.  The LTE market may get a boost from the new iPad by Apple
that supports the network standard, Kim Ji San, a Seoul-based
analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co., said by telephone today.
Increased adoption of the technology would bode well for LG,
which is introducing a range of LTE devices, Kim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  