-- Gamesa Picks Scotland for $198 Million Offshore Wind Investment
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-03-23T13:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/gamesa-picks-scotland-for-198-million-offshore-wind-investment.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,
 Spain ’s biggest wind-turbine maker, opted to locate a 150
million-euro ($198 million) offshore wind energy hub in Leith,
the port area of the Scottish capital Edinburgh.  Gamesa signed a memorandum of understanding with local
officials and plans to build two factories to manufacture blades
and nacelles, the Zamudio, Spain-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement. It plans to set up a logistics unit in the
port as well as an operations and maintenance center for the
giant sea-based generators, Gamesa said.  Leith edged out the northeast English coastal town of
Hartlepool to win the investment, which will make it a focal
point for an industry that may be worth as much as $52 billion
over the next eight years. Gamesa, which is moving the
headquarters of its offshore business to  London , employs 180
people at a research center in Glasgow and will create 800 more
jobs in Leith as long as the market meets its expectations.  “Gamesa intends to play a central role in the development
of the offshore wind market in the U.K.,” Gamesa Chairman Jorge
Calvet said in the release. “With favorable market conditions,
this plan will mean many high-quality jobs for the region.”  The U.K. plans to install hundreds of  wind turbines  in the
North Sea to raise its offshore generating capacity. The
industry may be worth as much as 33 billion pounds ($52 billion)
over this decade, according to the  Carbon Trust , founded by the
government to help reduce emissions.  ‘Fantastic News’  “This is fantastic news for  Scotland  and shows that the
U.K. remains an attractive place for foreign investment,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said in a statement. The security that
comes from “one of the world’s most successful unions” shows
why companies like Gamesa invest in Scotland, he said.  Citigroup Inc. analyst  Peter Atherton  in November said
power companies should exercise “extreme caution” investing in
Scotland until First Minister  Alex Salmond  sets out the details
of his plans to seek independence from the U.K. Salmond, leader
of the semi-autonomous government in Edinburgh, plans to call a
referendum on independence in 2014.  Officials in Edinburgh aim to lay the foundations for a
concentration of skills and investments servicing  North Sea  wind
parks just as Aberdeen transformed its economy with the oil
industry. Samsung Heavy Industries Co. said on Jan. 31 that it
will base a 100 million-pound offshore wind project creating
more than 500 jobs across the Forth River estuary from Leith in
Methil.  Cameron’s government this month also decided to base the
U.K.’s Green Investment Bank in Edinburgh. The state-run bank
focused on clean technology projects is due to be operational by
the end of this year.  About 1 billion pounds has been invested in offshore wind
in Britain since April, U.K. Energy Secretary Ed Davey said on
Feb. 9 after inaugurating the world’s biggest offshore wind farm
in the  Irish Sea  off Britain’s west coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  