-- Genting Gains Most Since 2010 on Licenses: Singapore Mover
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-03-23T09:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/genting-gains-most-since-2010-on-junket-permits-singapore-mover.html
Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ,  Asia ’s
second-biggest gaming company, rose the most in 18 months after
the  Casino Regulatory Authority  awarded two junket licenses in
Singapore that may lure high spenders to casinos.  Genting  rose  as much as 8.6 percent to S$1.77, the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 13, 2010 in Singapore trading. The
stock pared gains to close 6.8 percent higher, outpacing a 0.4
percent increase in the benchmark FTSE Straits Times Index. Its
Malaysian parent  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  climbed 2.2 percent in Kuala
Lumpur to 11 ringgit.  Two Malaysian operators won the first casino junket
licenses in the island republic. The permits are valid for one
year and the two so-called international marketing agents will
only operate at  Resorts World (HOT)  Sentosa run by Genting Singapore,
according to the CRA’s website. IMA’s are paid a commission by
casinos to bring in foreign high rollers.  “It will bring in more customers into the casino,
especially from the VIP segment,” Low Yee Huap, an analyst at
 Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG) , wrote in a report today,
referring to high-spenders. “We expect Genting Singapore to be
able to experience better earnings growth going forward.”  Genting Singapore’s stock rating was raised to
“outperform” by  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  analyst Hoe Lee Leng, meaning
that the share’s return is expected to exceed the average among
its peers. The stock was previously rated “market perform” by
the brokerage.  “We are delighted with the licensing of International
Market Agents in Singapore,” Robin Goh, a spokesman of Resorts
World Sentosa, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “This will
bring economic benefits for both Resorts World Sentosa and
Singapore.”  The company posted a S$265.7 million ($210 million) profit
in the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with a S$150.3
million loss a year earlier. Genting Singapore’s shares have
risen 15.2 percent this year, outperforming a 13 percent gain in
the benchmark gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  