-- Ghana Supporting Third-Worst Currency With Treasury Rates
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-03-23T19:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ghana-supporting-third-worst-currency-with-treasury-rates-3-.html
Ghana ’s central bank said it’s
supporting the world’s third-worst performing currency against
further losses by pushing up  Treasury rates  to lure investment.  The country’s benchmark 91-day Treasury bill rate rose to
12.35 percent in the March 16 weekly auction, the highest level
since October 2010, according to the central bank’s website. It
increased to 12.61 percent at the close of the auction today,
the highest since August 2010, according to the bank’s data.  “An increase in government borrowing requirements has put
some upward pressure on the rates but part of the increases you
see are meant to reduce the amount of money in circulation to
ease pressure on the cedi,” Grace Akrofi, acting head of
research at the Bank of Ghana, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Banks can decide to invest their excess liquidity
in dollars, which would weaken the currency, so instead we are
trying to attract them to Treasury bills by making adjustments
to the rates on offer.”  Ghana’s economy expanded 13.6 percent in 2011 and the
 Finance Ministry  expects a 9.4 percent pace this year after the
west African nation’s Jubilee oil field began production for
export in 2010. The expansion has spurred declines for the cedi
as local producers seek dollars to buy equipment and raw
materials. The  exchange rate  weakened 10 percent against the
dollar last year and is down 7.6 percent this year, the biggest
drop among 175 currencies worldwide after  Iran ’s rial and  Sri
Lanka ’s rupee.  The cedi gained for the second straight day, adding less
than 0.1 percent to 1.7638 per dollar as of the 4 p.m. close in
Accra.  ‘Tightening Effect’  The Treasury rate increase may help to ensure that the cedi
doesn’t weaken beyond 1.80 per dollar this year, Stephen Bailey- Smith, an emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank Plc in
 London , said in e-mailed comments.  “Tighter monetary policy -- which you are seeing in the T-
bill yields -- will clearly place some pressure on borrowing
both on the public and private side of the economy,” he said.
“In fact, there is arguably a need to slow down import
demand.”  The higher Treasury bill rate “may exert -- over time --
more of a tightening effect, by curbing demand for loans,”
 Razia Khan , London-based head of Africa research at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc, said in an e-mail. “We should expect more
policy interest rate tightening from the Bank of Ghana as the
treasury bill yields rise.”  The central bank raised its main  interest rate  by 1
percentage point to 13.5 percent on Feb. 15, the first increase
in three years. The decision was intended “to affirm the need
to mop up excess liquidity from the system to restrict
inflationary pressure as well as the threat by the cedi to
weaken significantly,” Akrofi said.  Inflation  Inflation slowed to 8.6 percent in February from 8.7
percent the month before as increases in food prices eased, the
statistics agency said March 14. The rate held at 8.6 percent
for the three months through December.  The yield on Ghana’s 8.5 percent 10-year Eurobond that
matures in October 2017 rose 3 basis points to 5.505 percent
today, capping a fifth week of declines.  The cedi declined last year even as the central bank sold
$4.1 billion to support it, an increase from $1.7 billion in
2010.  “The currency suffered because the Treasury bill rates
were kept low,” Akrofi said.  The 91-day yield may rise further as the  Bank of Ghana 
prepares for its next policy rate decision, “likely to be held
in the second week of April,” said Akrofi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  