-- Goldman’s Tourre Travels to Rwanda While Awaiting Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/goldman-s-tourre-travels-to-rwanda-while-awaiting-trial.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive
director  Fabrice Tourre , who called himself “fabulous Fab,”
has done volunteer work in Rwanda and started a U.S. doctorate
program while awaiting trial in a government fraud suit his bank
settled for $550 million.  The Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a 2010
complaint that Goldman Sachs and Tourre, 33, who is on unpaid
leave, defrauded investors in a collateralized debt obligation
known as Abacus 2007-AC1.  The regulator identified Tourre as a “resident of Kigali,
Rwanda,” in court papers filed March 21 in Manhattan federal
court. Tourre had been in the African nation’s capital working
for a non-governmental organization before beginning his studies
at the University of Chicago, according to a person familiar
with his travels who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public.  “Tourre is a U.S. resident studying for a Ph.D. in
economics at the  University of Chicago ,” his lawyer, Pamela Rogers Chepiga, said in a statement March 21. Steve Koppes, a
university spokesman, said Tourre has been enrolled in the
program since September.  The SEC alleged the Goldman Sachs executive director didn’t
disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
securities underlying the Abacus CDO with the intention of
betting against them.  Largest Penalty  New York-based Goldman Sachs agreed in July 2010 to pay
$550 million, the largest penalty ever assessed by the agency
against a Wall Street firm, to settle allegations against it.  Tourre remains a defendant in the case. U.S. District Judge
Barbara Jones in Manhattan last year narrowed some of the claims
against him while allowing the case to go forward.  The reference to Kigali came in papers filed by the SEC
seeking to question Jorg Zimmerman, a former employee of  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  in  Germany . The SEC claimed Tourre
spoke with Zimmerman to encourage his bank to invest in the
securities. Tourre has denied any wrongdoing.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the
filing, and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment beyond confirming Tourre is on leave.  In its complaint, the SEC quoted from some of Tourre’s e-
mails.  “The whole building is about to collapse anytime now,”
Tourre wrote to a friend in a January 2007 e-mail. “Only
potential survivor, the fabulous Fab... standing in the middle
of all these complex, highly leveraged, exotic trades he created
without necessarily understanding all of the implications of
those monstruosities!!!”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 