-- Greece Extends Deadline for Foreign-Law Bonds in Debt Swap
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-03-23T19:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/greece-extends-deadline-for-foreign-law-bonds-in-debt-swap-1-.html
Greece  extended the deadline for
holders of foreign-law bonds to participate in a 206 billion-
euro ($273 billion) debt swap.  The deadline for investors holding about 9 billion euros of
untendered bonds governed by laws other than Greek was extended
to April 4, according to a statement on the Greek Finance
Ministry website www.greekbonds.gr.  The government on March 9 used collective-action clauses on
Greek-law bonds to bring the participation to 95.7 percent of
all eligible securities. Investors holding the remaining bonds
were given until 10 p.m. Athens time today to decide whether to
participate.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary approval
this week for a new 130 billion-euro bailout from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  that will keep the
country’s possible financial collapse at bay. The second
financing package and debt swap were key elements in European
leaders’ efforts to turn the tide against the crisis that
emerged in Greece in late 2009, and then forced Ireland and
 Portugal  to follow in requiring bailouts.  Spending Cuts  Papademos had to agree to deeper spending reductions to
obtain the new funds, including cuts to pensions and wages that
prompted riots in Athens when the measures were brought to
parliament on Feb. 12. Papademos was appointed in November to
shepherd the measures through parliament and secure the loan
accord before standing aside for general elections.  Investors participating in the exchange will take a 53.5
percent reduction in the face value of their Greek debt
securities. Evangelos Venizelos, who resigned as finance
minister this week to lead the Pasok party in elections that may
be held as soon as next month, said March 9 that after today’s
deadline, sweeteners used to make the offer more attractive to
investors will no longer be available. These include notes
issued by the European Financial Stability Facility and
securities linked to growth in the country’s gross domestic
product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  