-- Hidden Fund Fees Mean U.K. Investors Pay Double US Rates
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/hidden-fund-fees-mean-u-k-investors-pay-double-us-rates.html
U.K. investors are paying twice as
much for mutual funds as those in the U.S. and getting worse
returns as a result of hidden fees costing as much as 18.5
billion pounds ($29.3 billion) a year, say industry executives.  Opaque fee structures, which exclude trading charges that
can double the cost of owning a fund, make it difficult for
customers to compare products and hurt competition, according to
executives at  Fidelity Worldwide Investment ,  Fundsmith LLP  and
 SCM Private LLP . U.K. and European Union regulators are taking
note and have already moved to ban some commissions starting
next year.  “In what is allegedly a competitive industry, the U.K.
funds market, how is it that the average cost of funds has risen
over the years rather than fallen?” said Peter Smith, head of
investments policy at the Financial Services Authority in
 London , the U.K. regulator. “That’s something we’re going to be
thinking about.”  Faced with record low returns on cash and the closing of
many company-guaranteed pension plans, British investors have
flocked to mutual funds in the last three years even as hidden
charges have dragged down performance. The fees paid to fund
managers and passed on to brokers, traders and sales platforms
have caused more U.K. actively managed funds to underperform
their benchmarks than similar funds in the U.S., according to
studies by the  Vanguard Group Inc.   Fund Sales Rise  “There’s a lack of competition” in the U.K. market, said
Jack Bogle, founder of Vanguard in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania ,
the world’s biggest mutual  fund manager . “People are taking a
lot of time to wake up to the fact that the single most
important factor in determining fund performance is expenses.”  Sales of U.K. mutual funds have reached 78.1 billion pounds
in the last three years, 14 percent more than the previous seven
years combined as the  Bank of England  cut  interest rates  to
record lows, reducing returns on cash, according to the
 Investment Management Association , the U.K. fund-management
trade group.  That’s a boon to British fund managers, whose mutual fund
charges are more than double those in the U.S., according to
academic research published by the  Review of Financial Studies 
in 2009. The average British mutual fund charges 2.21 percent of
its clients’ assets annually, compared with 1.04 percent in the
U.S., the study said.  Equity, Bond Funds  Equity funds typically cost 2.48 percent in annual charges
in the U.K. compared with 1.53 percent in the U.S. while bond
funds cost 1.73 percent in Britain and 1.05 percent in America,
the study said.  The research was conducted by Ajay Khorana of  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and the Georgia Institute of Technology, Henri Servaes of
 London Business School  and Peter Tufano, formerly of  Harvard
Business School  and now at Oxford University. “Our approach
attempts to first tease out the national fee differences after
controlling for obvious fund and complex characteristics,” the
authors said.  The difference in fees means $10,000 invested in a U.S.
fund growing at 5 percent a year would return $14,745 after 10
years, 12 percent more than the $13,167 returned by a U.K. fund
growing at the same rate. The difference grows to 25 percent
after 20 years and 40 percent after 30 years.  “People don’t understand how important fees are in terms
of predicting performance,” Servaes said. “In the U.K., people
are less aware of what they are paying. The disclosures are not
as strong as in the U.S.”  Comparisons Difficult  The study found that countries with more regulations
protecting investors such as the U.S. typically have lower fees.
It included all costs that investors “could reasonably expect
to pay,” Servaes said.  The inability to make apples-to-apples comparisons among
funds in the U.K. damages customers’ ability to choose the
cheapest products, said Christopher Traulsen, director of
European fund research at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Some funds include
distribution and administration costs in their annual management
charge and some don’t, he said. In the U.S., costs are
standardized and easier to compare, he said.  “Customers are walking away thinking they’re paying one
price but they’re actually paying much, much more in hidden
fees,” said Gina Miller, co-founder of  SCM Private , a London-
based wealth manager founded in 2009. “Because there has been
so little transparency, companies haven’t had to be competitive
on price. The brokers, the fund managers and the platforms are
making hay while the customer pays.”  Trading costs, performance fees and entry and exit charges
aren’t typically included in U.K. funds’ advertised total
expense ratio, said  Terry Smith , chief executive officer of
London-based interdealer broker  Tullet Prebon Plc (TLPR)  and fund
manager Fundsmith LLP. That means British investors unwittingly
pay 1.5 percent of their invested assets on top of their annual
management charge, he said.  ‘Ryanair’ Pricing  Fidelity, the second-largest mutual fund manager in both
the world and the U.K., agrees. British fund managers habitually
mislead investors through “Ryanair” style pricing, said Gary Shaughnessy, managing director of Boston-based Fidelity’s U.K.
company. He was referring to  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the Irish
airline criticized by consumer groups including  Which?  for
hiding fees, such as baggage charges, from their marketing.  “We’ve seen funds with a low headline price but then
you’ve got to add the cost of the platform on, advisory fees on,
trading costs on or the price only available for people with a
quarter of a million pounds to invest,” Shaughnessy said. “If
we’re going to regain trust from consumers, they have to see
what the costs are on a like for like basis.”  Fidelity has a U.K. fund platform selling its own products
as well as those of other firms. The company said it publishes
all management, administration and distribution costs for all
1,200 funds from 90 providers.  U.K. Premium  The firm excludes trading costs in lieu of a “standardized
way of reporting” across the industry, Shaughnessy said. The
company only publishes U.K. fund holdings every six months
compared to at least quarterly in the U.S.  The extra costs mean investors in U.K. mutual funds, which
have 560 billion pounds under management, are paying 2.7 billion
pounds on top of the advertised total expense ratio, according
to research by SCM Private, which is running a  campaign  for more
transparency in fund fees. That rises to 18.5 billion pounds if
extrapolated to the U.K.’s 3.9 trillion-pound savings and
investment industry, SCM said.  “Without doubt there’s just more transparency around fees
in the U.S.,” said Morningstar’s Traulsen. “In the U.K., what
they call a management fee might include all kinds of things. If
you don’t know how much you’re paying and what you’re paying
for, there’s a problem.”  U.S., U.K. Performance  The lack of fee transparency in the U.K. market means
companies are unwilling to compete on price, Traulsen said. U.S
funds are also more willing to pass on economies of scale to
customers and have better governance that requires independent
directors to negotiate down fees, he said.  A Morningstar  study  in 2010 showed that returns from low-
cost funds beat high-cost funds in all asset classes and across
all time periods tested.  “Expense ratios are strong predictors of performance,”
Chicago-based Morningstar said. “In every asset class over
every time period, the cheapest quintile produced higher total
returns than the most expensive quintile.”  In the U.K., the higher costs are worsening performance,
according to Vanguard. About 74 percent of British active equity
funds missed their benchmark  FTSE All Share Index (ASX)  over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Vanguard. That
compares with 57 percent of U.S. funds missing their benchmark
S&P 500 Index in the five years to 2011, the data show.  Index Funds  A focus on costs in the U.S. has caused index-based funds,
including exchange-traded funds to attract 2.5 times as much
money from investors as actively managed funds in the past five
years. Index-linked funds, excluding ETFs, make up 12.3 percent
of the U.S.’s managed funds, according to the  Investment Company
Institute . That compares with 6.9 percent in the U.K., according
to the IMA.  “I wouldn’t accept charges are double,” said Richard Saunders, CEO of the IMA, which represents U.K. fund managers.
“I’ve not seen any credible evidence of that.”  While funds in the U.S. are cheaper than in the U.K., it’s
because funds are bigger in the U.S. and more able to pass on
economies of scale to customers rather than a lack of
competition in the British market, Saunders said. Headline
charges often look higher in the U.K. because brokers’ costs are
often included in fund managers’ charges, making comparisons
difficult, he said.  Broker Fees  Jane Bland, a spokeswoman for  Invesco Perpetual , the U.K.’s
biggest mutual fund manager, declined to comment. The firm’s
parent company is Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)   One reason U.K. fund managers charge so much is because
they must compensate brokers and fund platforms for introducing
clients, Fundsmith’s Smith said. So-called trail commission is
capped at around 1 percent in the U.S., driving down costs,
according to Morningstar’s Traulsen. There’s no cap in the U.K.,
he said.  Fundsmith doesn’t sell its 350 million-pound Fundsmith
Equity Fund through  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) , the U.K.’s biggest
retail broker, because its trail commission charge is higher
than similar firms, Smith said.  Hargreaves Lansdown has a 60 percent  profit margin , the
seventh highest in the FTSE 100 Index of leading U.K. firms,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “That’s a pretty ritzy
margin,” Smith said.  Hargreaves Lansdown  The broker charges about half of a fund manager’s annual
management fee, which is no more than other firms, the Bristol,
England-based firm said in response to Smith’s comments by e-
mail. “It is cheaper to invest through Hargreaves Lansdown and
most direct platforms than either using an independent financial
adviser of investing directly with a fund group,” it said.  The FSA will ban independent financial advisers from
accepting trail commission starting next January as part of its
 retail distribution review . Advisers will be required to take
payment up front from the customer rather than be paid a
continuing rate from annual charges from the fund manager.  “Products are designed and incentives put in place to buy
distribution rather than to meet customer needs,” the FSA’s
Smith said. “We see that as a problem due to conflict of
interest and bias in the market that exists as a consequence.”  While the changes won’t initially lower costs to British
investors, they will help customers see what they’re paying for
and ensure they’re receiving unbiased investment advice,
according to the FSA’s Smith and Saunders of the IMA. That will
help investors become more aware of costs and increase
competition they said.  U.K. ‘Changing’  “It has been fair to say the U.K. market in the past has
not been as price sensitive as one might expect,” Saunders
said. “That’s changing and will be given a further push by the
retail distribution review.”  The RDR will supplement new rules from the European Union
requiring funds to publish so-called  key investor information
documents , which will provide a region-wide standardized data on
fund charges and risks. Those rules, which will be implemented
later this year, replace the total expense ratio with a measure
of continuing charges.  “Returns over the next 20 to 30 years, on the balance of
probability, will be lower than the previous 30, meaning fees
will only become a bigger and bigger issue,” Fundsmith’s Smith
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  