-- Tiger Woods Tied for Lead at Bay Hill After 7-Under Second Round
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/tiger-woods-trails-dufner-mcdowell-by-one-stroke-at-bay-hill.html
Tiger Woods shot a bogey-free round
of 7-under 65 to grab a share of the lead at the Arnold Palmer
Invitational and will enter the final two rounds of a U.S.  PGA
Tour  event as the leader for the first time since 2009.  Woods, playing in his final event before next month’s
 Masters Tournament , enters today’s third round as co-leader with
Charlie Wi of  South Korea  at 10 under par.  A six-time winner of the event, Woods began his move up the
leaderboard yesterday with four straight birdies on holes 4
through 7 at Palmer’s Bay Hill Club & Lodge in Orlando,  Florida .
He then added three more birdies over his closing seven holes, a
day after opening the tournament with a 3-under 69.  “It was a solid round of golf,” Woods said in a news
conference. “I felt like I actually hit it better yesterday
than I did today. I left a couple putts dead short, right in the
center of the hole. It really could have been a really low
round.”  Woods and Wi are one shot ahead of  Jason Dufner  and 2010
U.S. Open winner  Graeme McDowell , who had a 9-under 63
yesterday.  Woods, 36, has a share of the lead heading into the final
two rounds of a U.S. PGA Tour event for the first time since the
2009 Tour Championship in Atlanta, where he finished second to
Phil Mickelson. He also held the second-round lead at the
Australian Open four months ago and finished third.  “I want to win, yes, absolutely,” Woods said. “We’ve got
a long way to go. It’s not like it’s over right now.”  Wi ended the second round with four birdies over his final
six holes to pull even with Woods with a 4-under 68. He will be
paired with Woods in today’s third round.  ‘A Good Guy’  “I’ve known Tiger since junior golf days, so I’ve known
him for a long time and I’m comfortable with him,” Wi said in a
news conference. “Tiger is a good guy and I look forward to
playing with him tomorrow.”  Dufner, who entered the second round with at least a share
of the lead for the third time this season, had birdies on his
first two holes and dropped his lone shot with a bogey on the
par-5 sixth for a 69.  In August, Dufner lost to Keegan Bradley in a playoff at
the  PGA Championship . He is winless in 160 career PGA Tour
events.  Justin Rose is fifth at 6 under, one shot ahead of six
players including  Webb Simpson ,  Bubba Watson ,  Sergio Garcia  and
 Vijay Singh .  Woods, who withdrew from the Cadillac Championship outside
Miami this month with a strained left Achilles, now has played a
round on six straight days. He resumed play March 18 with a
practice round at Augusta National Golf Club, site of the first
major tournament of the season in Augusta, Georgia. The Masters
starts April 5.  Four Masters Victories  A four-time winner of the Masters, Woods is seeking his
first full-field tournament victory in 2 1/2 years.  Woods secured the latest of his 14 major titles at the 2008
 U.S. Open . The most recent of his 71 titles on the U.S. PGA Tour
came at the BMW Championship in September 2009. Woods won a
limited-field tournament he hosts in  California  in December, his
lone stroke-play victory over the past two years.  “I’m comfortable up there and I feel like I’m playing
well,” Woods said. “We still have 36 holes to go. Still need
to continue doing what I’m doing out there, just kind of
plodding my way along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  