-- Investors Dump Falling-Interest-Rate View, Citigroup Survey Says
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-23T17:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/investors-dump-falling-interest-rate-view-citigroup-survey-says.html
Investors have abandoned bets that
 interest rates  will decline, turning neutral, according to the
majority of respondents to a  Citigroup Inc. (C)  survey of this week.  More than 33 percent of investors surveyed said they were
neutral on rates, with net-long positions outnumbering net-
shorts by 2 percentage points, according to Citigroup. This
compared with the February survey, in which short positions
exceeded longs by 13 percentage points. A short is a bet an
asset will decline in value, while a long is a bet it will
increase.  “What is most surprising is how undecided the market is,”
Neela Gollapudi, a strategist at Citigroup Global Markets in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Based on the prior few
days’ moves before the survey, you would have thought people
would have more conviction. It shows the market is confused.”
The survey was administered March 19-22.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage, to 2.24 percent at 12:31 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. Last week the
yield rose 27 basis points, the most since the week ended July
1.  Respondents in the survey expect the benchmark yield to
rise to 2.40 percent in the next three months, well above the
second-quarter median forecast of 2.20 percent of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Convexity Selling’  The majority of investors in the Citigroup survey believe
that convexity related flows may become meaningful once yields
are around 2.55 percent. Convexity is a measure of the rate of
change of a bond’s duration because of interest-rate movement.  “People have a lot of questions about when convexity will
kick in,” Gollapudi said. “If yields go beyond the expected
levels then their may be convexity selling,” he said, pushing
yields even higher.  Sixty percent of survey respondents also said they don’t
expect any form of quantitative easing during this Federal
Reserve cycle, or until it changes monetary policy, slightly
above Citigroup’s 50 percent odds, according to Gollapudi. The
Fed has held its target rate at a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 and has pledged to keep it unchanged until
the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  