-- Lions Gate Bonds Rise Rise on ‘Hunger Games’: L.A. Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-23T20:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/lions-gate-bonds-rise-rise-on-hunger-games-l-a-mover.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  has
also produced a windfall for its bond investors, along with
shareholders, with the anticipation built around today’s release
of the action film “The Hunger Games.”  The company’s $436 million of 10.25 percent notes maturing
in November 2016 have risen 8.38 cents to 110 cents on the
dollar this year, reducing the yield to 7.63 percent in the last
trade yesterday. They traded for 101.6 cents on the dollar on
Jan. 9, yielding 9.81 percent.  The independent film and television studio may pay off all
of its long-term borrowings in one and one-half to two years,
thanks to hits such as “The Hunger Games” and the “Twilight”
films, said John Kornitzer, founder of Kornitzer Capital
Management, which held some of the debt and 2.92 million shares
of the Vancouver-based company as of Dec. 31.  “‘The Hunger Games’ has been a huge success,” said
Kornitzer, whose company is based in Shawnee Mission,  Kansas .
“There’s no debt problem with this company.”  “The Hunger Games” took in $19.7 million in midnight
showings today and is likely to produce one of the top weekend
grosses of all time, according to researcher Hollywood.com.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds rather
than Treasuries has narrowed to 633 basis points from 953 basis
points in January. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Total Borrowings  About a third of the company’s $1.64 billion in total
 borrowings  are tied to  Summit Entertainment , producer of the
“Twilight” films, which Lions Gate acquired in January for
$412.5 million in cash and stock. Another third is film loans
repaid when movies are released. The company also has $525.8
million in senior notes and revolving debt, and $106.2 million
in convertible senior  subordinated  notes, according to a filing.  Lions Gate , the producer of cable TV’s “Mad Men” series,
refinanced Summit’s existing debt with a  term loan 
collateralized by that studio’s assets, Chief Executive Officer
Jon Feltheimer said in a Feb. 10 conference call.  “We expect cash flows from them to eliminate this debt in
less than three years,” Feltheimer said.  In addition to the “Twilight” and “The Hunger Games”
films, the studio, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , is
releasing “What to Expect When You’re Expecting” starring
Jennifer Lopez, Cameron Diaz and Chris Rock on May 18 and “The
Expendables 2” with Sylvester Stallone in August.  With with Summit purchase, Lions Gate also gained rights to
a series of science-fiction novels dubbed “Ender’s Game,” and
is also working on a third potential film series based on the
“Chaos Walking” books by Patrick Ness about teens trapped in
warlike circumstances.  Lions Gate fell 0.1 percent to $14.53 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 75 percent this year.  “This company is going to deleverage remarkably fast,”
said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich Securities in
Denver who recommends the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  