-- Italy’s Labor Reform Won’t Spur Firings, Napolitano Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-23T16:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/italy-s-labor-reform-won-t-spur-firings-napolitano-says.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti 's 
Cabinet approved a bill to overhaul  Italy ’s labor laws that 
will ease firing rules, facing down opposition from unions and 
political allies needed to pass the measure in Parliament.  The Cabinet in Rome passed the changes as a draft law, as
Monti decided against resorting to a decree that would have
implemented the measures immediately and limited parliamentary
debate on changing the draft. The government didn’t say when the
measures would be presented to Parliament.  The law “intends to create a dynamic, flexible and
inclusive labor market capable of contributing to growth and
creating quality employment,” Monti’s office said in an e-
mailed statement.  Under the plan, companies will be able to fire workers
during  difficult  economic times without the risk of a court
ordering their reinstatement. That change provoked a backlash by
unions and divided the parties backing Monti. The plan will also
extend the country’s limited system of  unemployment benefits  to
provide protection for more workers and limit the use of part-
time contracts to encourage more permanent employment.  Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the  Democratic Party , which
provides vital backing in Parliament to Monti’s four-month-old
government and is close to the unions, has said he will seek to
get the law amended during the legislative debate. The CGIL,
which is Italy’s biggest union, has called a general strike to
protest the plan.  German Model  ”It’s inconceivable that there will only be economic
compensation for firing for economic reasons,” Bersani said
today. “This is a fundamental point, otherwise the narrative
isn’t ours, it’s not European, but American. Everyone says that
things work better in  Germany , how can the markets object if we
adopt the German model then?”  Judges in Germany have the power to reinstate workers for
economic reasons.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 4 basis
points to 5.06 percent, snapping three days of gains. That
narrowed the yield difference with comparable German bonds to
317 basis points.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party and the Third Way
alliance back the changes to the firing rules, though don’t have
enough lawmakers to pass the measures in Parliament without
Monti picking up some additional support.  Legislative Efforts  The labor-market overhaul is the fourth major legislative
push that Monti has undertaken to revamp the Italian economy
sinct taking over as premier from  Silvio Berlusconi  in November.
He passed a 20 billion-euro ($26.5 billion) austerity plan to
balance the budget and revamp pensions, followed by measures to
boost competition and cut red tape.  He’s said that the changes are needed to fuel economic
growth enough to bring down a 1.9 trillion-euro debt, more than
Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland combined. Economic growth
has lagged behind the euro-region average for more than a decade
and the European Commission forecasts a contraction of 1.3
percent this year.  The Cabinet also passed a decree law on bank commissions,
to reverse a measure adopted yesterday in Parliament that would
deny banks charging fees on loans and other credits, news agency
Ansa reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  