-- Bank of Japan Stimulus Row Fueled by Kono’s Nomination: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e ,   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-03-23T06:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/japan-nominates-bnp-paribas-economist-kono-to-boj-policy-board.html
Japan ’s government nominated BNP
Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro Kono  to join the central bank’s
policy board, drawing criticism from lawmakers concerned that he
won’t support bolder action to end decade-long deflation.  Kono, 47, BNP’s chief Japan economist, was tapped for the
nine-member board after a committee meeting of lawmakers from
both chambers of parliament, a statement showed today.  The nomination comes as the BOJ faces increasing pressure
to spur a rebound in an economy that shrank for three of the
past four years and is struggling to recover from last year’s
earthquake. Lawmakers within the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan and also in opposition parties are calling for Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa’s board to double an inflation goal of 1
percent set only last month and expand asset purchases.  “We’ve seen him as someone who is negative towards
monetary easing,” said Takeshi Miyazaki, a DPJ lawmaker and a
leader of the ruling party’s anti-deflation group, said in  Tokyo 
today. “We’re worried that the market may be concerned that
this will push the yen higher and worsen deflation.”  Kono cautioned about “aggressive monetary policy” in a
Bloomberg News survey this month. In a sign of increased
scrutiny of the central bank, Shirakawa has been called to the
Diet 14 times this year as of 23 March. At that pace, his
appearances in 2012 will be more than double the number in 2011.  U.S. Outlook  Elsewhere in Asia today, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  told a conference in  Hong Kong  that U.S.
monetary policy may be at a turning point and the Fed’s first
interest-rate increase since the global financial crisis could
come as soon as late 2013.  Data in the U.S. will give the latest reading on the
nation’s property market, with new home sales likely to have
climbed in February to the highest level in more than a year.
Italy will report retail sales, while Canada issues inflation
data.  Stocks fell in  Asia  today on concern that weakness in
 China ’s recovery will cap growth across the region and in the
world. A leading index for the nation released by The Conference
Board rose at a slower pace in February.  “While the economy continues to expand, it is unlikely to
strengthen any further in the coming months,” Andrew Polk,
resident China economist at the New York-based organization,said
in a statement.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks slid 0.7 percent as
of 2:02 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s Woes  In Japan, Kono said this month that BOJ policy alone cannot
solve structural problems including an aging population and a
growing public debt burden. He also warned that financing
government debt through a prolonged zero-rate policy and bond-
buying by the central bank could hamper growth.  His comments echo the views of Shirakawa, who has warned
that monetary policy cannot solve all of Japan’s woes and that
financing public debt would damage the economy over time.  “The side effects of prolonged and fixed policies can’t be
ignored,” Kono said. “Because of the ballooning public debt,
responding with an aggressive monetary policy could bring the
risk that public debt could start the process of spreading due
to increased nominal interest rates.”  Kono has been at BNP Paribas since 2000. He graduated from
Yokohama National University with a degree in economics in 1987.
His published works include translations of books by  Paul
Krugman  and Princeton University Professor  Alan Blinder , the
latter which was co-translated with  Eiji Maeda , currently the
BOJ’s top economist.  ‘Great Knowledge’  Kono “has good communication skills and is a prominent
economist in Japan,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist
at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo, referring to Kono. “In that
sense, this nomination is desirable for the BOJ. It’s a choice
that would be difficult for the opposition parties to oppose.”  In contrast with the lawmakers’ concerns, Okubo described
Kono as “dovish.” He added that he wasn’t a person who says
“radical things.”  The appointment needs the approval of both houses of the
Diet. If approved, he will join the board as soon as the April
9-10 meeting. Kono was nominated to replace  Seiji Nakamura , 69,
a shipping company executive, in a break with a tradition of
replacing members with people from similar backgrounds.  “He’s someone who is negative about quantitative easing
and the inflation target policy,” said  Kozo Yamamoto , an
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmaker who said his party
should reject the nomination. “His nomination should be refused
by the upper house. What the BOJ policy board needs is a someone
who supports reflation.”  One Nomination  The steering committee charged with handling the
appointments only made one nomination today after another
candidate’s name was leaked to the media, Yosuke Tsuruho, an
opposition Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker who sits on the
group, told reporters in Tokyo today. The Nikkei newspaper
reported Kohei Watanabe, an adviser to trading house  Itochu
Corp. (8001) , would be nominated. Watanabe’s candidacy will not be
considered, Tsuruho said.  The  Bank of Japan  expanded asset purchases in February,
while board member Ryuzo Miyao’s proposal for more stimulus was
rejected in March. The appointment of new board members is part
of the lead-up to a bigger shift: Shirakawa’s term is ending in
April 2013 and two deputy governors are finish their tenures in
March next year.  Past Disputes  BOJ nominations haven’t always been successful. Shirakawa
was originally appointed as a temporary governor in 2008 as the
opposition controlled upper house had rejected the government
choices for the BOJ top positions. He was subsequently
confirmed. In 2008 and 2009, the opposition-controlled upper
house rejected five nominees for governor, deputy governor and
board member. Since then, four new policy board members have
been approved without political opposition.  “He has great knowledge of financial markets, and is bound
to add a lot to rate decision meetings.” said Naoki Iizuka, a
senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo and an
acquaintance of Kono. “He’ll be neutral. He won’t take the lead
on monetary easing, but he won’t oppose any proposals to expand
stimulus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  