-- Colts Take Jets’ Quarterback Stanton; Packers Get Saturday
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/jets-send-backup-quarterback-stanton-to-colts-after-tebow-trade.html
The  Indianapolis Colts  obtained
backup quarterback Drew Stanton and a seventh-round draft pick
from the New York Jets, who had acquired quarterback  Tim Tebow 
from the  Denver Broncos  two days earlier.  Stanton, 27, agreed March 16 on a contract with the Jets to
be the primary backup to starting quarterback Mark Sanchez.
Stanton played his first four National Football League seasons
for the  Detroit Lions .  The Colts gave the Jets a sixth-round selection.  “Drew is a big, athletic and strong-armed quarterback that
has the intangible package we are looking for at the position,”
Colts General Manager Ryan Grigson said.  The Colts also agreed to terms with wide receiver Donnie Avery, who has been in 39 games in three National Football
League seasons with the  St. Louis Rams  and Tennessee Titans. He
has compiled 103 career receptions for 1,308 yards and nine
touchdowns.  The  Green Bay Packers  signed Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday,
36, who played 13 seasons with the Colts, General Manager Ted Thompson said. Saturday appeared in 197 games for the Colts to
rank No. 5 in games played with the franchise.  The Packers also signed defensive tackle Daniel Muir, 28,
who played 40 games for the Colts from 2008-11.  Saints Sign Chamberlain  The New Orleans Saints signed unrestricted free agent
linebacker Chris Chamberlain, 26, to a three-year deal, General
Manager Mickey Loomis said. In four seasons with the St. Louis
Rams, Chamberlain recorded 112 tackles, two sacks, one
interception, three pass defenses and one forced fumble.  The New England Patriots signed restricted free agent
quarterback Brian Hoyer, 26, and unrestricted free agent wide
receiver Donte Stallworth, 31.  Hoyer has been Tom Brady’s backup for the past three
seasons. In 13 NFL games, he has completed 27 of 43 pass
attempts for 286 yards with one touchdown.  Stallworth has spent the past nine seasons with  New
Orleans , Philadelphia, New England, Cleveland, Baltimore and
Washington. In 114 games, he has 320 receptions for 4,774 yards
and 34 touchdowns.  The Atlanta Falcons re-signed long snapper Joe Zelenka,
while defensive tackle Vance Walker signed his restricted free-
agent tender, the team said.  Zelenka, 35, has spent the last three seasons as the long
snapper for Atlanta. Walker, 24, had 77 tackles, three sacks,
one forced fumble and one fumble recovery in the past two
seasons.  The Cincinnati Bengals re-signed restricted free agents
offensive tackle Anthony Collins, 26, and cornerback Adam Jones,
28, and signed defensive end Derrick Harvey, 25, who played for
Denver last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  