-- Jobs at Home Drive Obama Administration’s Egypt Aid Decision
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-23T19:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/jobs-at-home-drive-obama-administration-s-egypt-aid-decision.html
The Obama administration’s decision
to begin releasing $1.3 billion in annual military aid for Egypt
will avert a disruption in arms sales that might have cost
thousands of U.S. jobs and as much as $2 billion in contracting
penalties for the U.S. government.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , invoking U.S. national
security interests, today used her authority to waive
congressional conditions on the aid that require Egypt to
demonstrate democratic progress. Her decision, assailed by human
rights advocates, also took account of domestic factors that are
important in an election year.  The administration considered the potential loss of U.S.
jobs in Ohio,  Texas  and elsewhere generated by Egyptian military
contracts with companies such as  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which
sells M1A1 tanks, and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , which sells F-16
jets, according to State Department officials who briefed
reporters on the condition of anonymity. In addition, under the
contracting terms, the U.S. government might have been liable
for as much as $2 billion if the Egyptian aid money were
withheld, according to one of the officials.  “It’s actually quite difficult to shut down that aid
because it means jobs for Americans here,” said Ken Pollack, an
analyst at The Brookings Institution, a Washington policy group.  National security concerns, including Arab-Israeli peace
and the desire to encourage Egypt’s democratic advances, were
cited in the waver announcement from State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland . The U.S. military is able to fly
over Egypt on missions, and the Navy has priority access through
the Suez Canal, a conduit for 8 percent of the world’s shipping
traffic, including oil tankers bound for the U.S. and  Europe .  ‘Security Partner’  The waiver decision is “designed to demonstrate our strong
support for Egypt’s enduring role as a security partner and
leader in promoting regional stability and peace,” Nuland said
in her e-mailed statement.  The jobs factor played a primary role as well, according to
administration officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. As
President Barack Obama campaigns for re-election, he has focused
on raising employment.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported in early March that
227,000 jobs had been created in February, capping the best six
months of job growth since 2006. Yet unemployment remains at 8.3
percent and no modern president has been re-elected with
unemployment above 7.2 percent.  “The  U.S. economy  is trying desperately to get in gear and
get moving and there’s a lot of money” involved in the  Egypt 
aid, said Pollack.  U.S. Jobs  While tying domestic economic and political considerations
to a foreign policy agenda is nothing new, Clinton has stressed
it as a priority during her State Department tenure. Much of her
foreign travel involves events to promote U.S. trade, investment
and market access, issues she has directly related to the
creation of jobs at home.  The Egyptian aid is directly tied to U.S. jobs, as most of
the money goes to U.S. defense contractors.  An aid cut-off would disrupt work by Lockheed Martin to
build 20 F-16 fighters for Egypt with delivery scheduled this
year, Laura Siebert, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an
e-mail. The Bethesda, Maryland-based company has been delivering
F-16s to Egypt since the early 1980s, she said.  Seibert estimated that there are approximately 570
employees working on the F-16 program at Lockheed Martin, plus
workers at suppliers across the U.S.  M1A1 Tanks  A cut-off in the aid also would affect Egypt’s contracts to
buy 125 M1A1 tanks, which are assembled outside Cairo from
“kits” made in the U.S. by General Dynamics with  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  of Morris Township,  New Jersey , and  Allison
Transmission Holdings Inc. (ALSN)  of Indianapolis,  Indiana .  General Dynamics, based in Falls Church,  Virginia , is
working under a $395 million contract awarded in November for
parts deliveries to start in July, according to spokesman Peter
Keating. The co-production program began in 1988.  Keating estimates that 107 employees in  Michigan , Ohio,
 Pennsylvania  and  Florida  would be directly affected. Beyond
those 107 people are other companies that make and supply parts
that General Dynamics uses.  In February 2012, the company conducted a study of the
economic impact of its Egyptian contract. Beyond the jobs
created and the suppliers employed, the study estimated that the
Egyptian contract generates millions of dollars a year in
indirect income in Michigan, Indiana,  Ohio ,  New York ,
Pennsylvania,  Oklahoma  and  California .  Cash-Flow Arrangement  The U.S. provides Egypt and Israel with military assistance
under a cash-flow arrangement that lets the nations make
purchases in one year and pay for them over succeeding years
rather than all at once, according to the U.S. Government
Accountability Office. “The U.S. government would be liable for
the payments” if Egypt were unable to pay for contracts because
the Pentagon executes the awards on Egypt’s behalf, the GAO
said.  The way the defense contractors spread the work throughout
many states creates a built-in lobbying constituency of
lawmakers who don’t want to lose jobs in their districts, said
Pollack. “Defense contractors are not stupid, they think very
carefully about where their products are built,” he said.  In December, Congress said the military aid could be
released only if Clinton certifies that the Egyptian government
is supporting the transition to a democratic, civilian
government or if she waives the provision on the basis of
national security factors.  Rights Groups Object  Rights groups and some lawmakers, such as Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who authored the provision, urged
Clinton to withhold aid due to the Egyptian government’s
criminal prosecution of 43 pro-democracy workers from four non-
governmental organizations for illegally accepting foreign funds
and operating without a license.  “Egypt’s transition to democracy is not yet complete, and
more work remains to protect universal rights and freedoms,”
Nuland said.  While citing “significant progress” toward democracy in
the last 15 months, Nuland said “we remain deeply concerned
regarding the trials of civil society activists -- non-Egyptians
and Egyptians alike -- and have raised these concerns at the
highest levels, urging an end to harassment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net  or
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  