-- JPMorgan Sued by Trader Over $3 Million Decimal Point
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-03-23T17:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/jpmorgan-sued-by-currency-trader-over-3-million-decimal-point.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being sued
by a trader who says he accepted a contract from the investment
bank because a typographical error made him believe he would be
paid 10 times what was actually offered.  Kai Herbert, a Switzerland-based currency trader, is suing
JPMorgan for about 580,000 pounds ($920,000), his lawyers said
at a trial in London this week. The original contract said
Herbert’s annual pay would be 24 million rand ($3.1 million).
JPMorgan blamed the mistake on a typographical error and said
the figure should have been 2.4 million rand, according to court
documents.  “That must have been the moment your heart sank,” Judge
Henry Globe said at the trial this week, referring to when
Herbert discovered the mistake. Herbert resigned from  UBS AG (UBSN)  in
June 2010 following the offer from JPMorgan to relocate to
Johannesburg. Herbert didn’t report for work after discovering
the discrepancy and JPMorgan rescinded the employment offer in
December 2010.  He has been unemployed since, other than eight months at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  where he was fired in a round of layoffs
in November. Banks globally have cut about 196,000 jobs since
the start of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “How can you possibly suggest that they would pay you so
much money for an executive director level job?” Charles
Ciumei, a lawyer for JPMorgan, asked during Herbert’s cross-
examination. The bank said Herbert could have mitigated his lost
earnings by taking the position at the New York-based bank.  Other Cases  Banker salaries are the focus of several cases in  London 
courts.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  is being sued by former bankers at
Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd. whose bonuses were cut by 90 percent
after being acquired by Commerzbank in 2009.  “If it is too good to be true, then it probably is, but if
the trader signed the contract in good faith it is probably
binding,” Adrian Crawford, an employment lawyer at Kingsley
Napley LLP in London who isn’t involved in the case, said in a
phone interview. “It is all about the subjective view of the
trader and JPMorgan will have to prove he knew there was a
mistake in the contract but signed it anyway.”  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman at JPMorgan declined to
comment. Herbert’s lawyer, Dale Langley, declined to comment as
did JPMorgan lawyer Stefan Martin.  The case is Herbert v. JPMorgan,  High Court  of Justice
Queen’s  Bench Division , No. HQ11X02595  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  