-- Madoff, JPMorgan, Stanford, Morgan Stanley in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-23T12:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/jpmorgan-ubs-deutsche-bank-morgan-stanley-in-court-news.html
After several drinks at a Greek
restaurant on Manhattan’s Third Avenue in the summer of 2006,
two computer programmers at  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm
asked their supervisor whether the boss’s business was a scam,
Bloomberg News’ David Glovin and Bob Van Voris report.  Chief Financial Officer Frank DiPascali laughed off the
question, telling George Perez and Jerome O’Hara that Madoff was
honest. DiPascali would later tell the FBI he wondered why they
took so long to ask.  His chronicle of the dinner, and the lengths to which
Madoff went to convince employees that his massive fraud was a
legitimate business, were revealed for the first time in FBI
reports made public last week. Attached to court filings by ex-
Madoff employees facing fraud charges, they contain interviews
with DiPascali -- Madoff’s chief aide -- who in 2009 pleaded
guilty to his role in the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Once, when Perez and O’Hara confronted Madoff and asked why
there was no sign of stock trades, Madoff exploded, DiPascali
told the FBI.  “You are not going to tell me how to run my business,”
Madoff insisted during a meeting in the office of the firm’s
operations chief, Daniel Bonventre, according to DiPascali.
“Trades occur overseas.”  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 and is serving
a 150-year term for cheating investors out of $20 billion in
principal. Five employees -- Perez, O’Hara, Bonventre, Annette
Bongiorno and Joann Crupi -- are accused of aiding Madoff in his
fraud. Defense attorneys said they’ll use DiPascali’s comments
to establish their clients were unaware of Madoff’s scheme.  Bonventre and Bongiorno began working for Madoff in 1968,
with Bongiorno rising to the level of supervisor and account
manager. Crupi, an employee since 1983, tracked daily bank
account activity, prosecutors said. Perez and O’Hara started at
the firm in the early 1990s.  The five were arrested in 2009 and 2010. In addition to
DiPascali, who began working for Madoff in 1975, former
employees David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz and Eric Lipkin
have pleaded guilty and are aiding prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Bonventre, 10-CR-228, U.S. District
Court,  Southern District of New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  JPMorgan Loses $373 Million Arbitration to American Century  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was ordered by arbitrators to pay $373
million to American Century Investments over claims that
executives led by Jes Staley enriched the bank at the expense of
the fund-management firm.  The award, issued privately in August, focused on
JPMorgan’s promise to promote American Century products when the
bank  acquired  the firm’s retirement-plan services unit, or RPS,
in 2003.  Because Staley, then JPMorgan’s asset-management chief,
mistakenly thought there was a limit on the bank’s liability if
it didn’t meet obligations, executives failed to make good on
the deal, arbitrators found. Employees were instead rewarded for
pushing JPMorgan’s own  products , according to the ruling.  “In short, JPM and RPS stacked the cards against ACI,”
the arbitrators wrote in the ruling.  The arbitrators awarded American Century $373 million plus
9 percent annual interest until paid in full.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, set aside funds
to cover the award during last year’s third quarter. Parties in
the case had agreed to resolve it  privately  through arbitration
and the ruling had been sealed.  Staley, 56, was promoted to lead JPMorgan’s investment bank
in 2009.  The case was brought to the American Arbitration
Association in 2009 and tried before a two-person panel in
February and March of last year. In their ruling, the panelists
said they reviewed about 600 exhibits and heard testimony from
almost 50 witnesses, including Staley.  “Almost no one including the top executives of JPM and RPS
down the chain of command paid any attention to what the revenue
agreement said” unless it applied to the bank’s own  earnings ,
the arbitrators wrote.  “We disagree strongly with the arbitrator’s decision and
award,” Kristen Chambers, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, said yesterday. “Among other things, it misinterprets
the contract, ignores facts favorable to us such as the
performance of certain American Century funds during the period
in dispute, and ignores expert opinions that were favorable to
us.”  Chris Doyle, a spokesman for Kansas City, Missouri-based
American Century, said the firm is “very pleased” with the
decision.  The case is American Century Investment Management Inc. v.
J.P. Morgan Invest Holdings LLC, 58 148 Y 00220 09, American
Arbitration Association (Kansas City).  Milan Settles Derivatives With UBS, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan  JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa
Bank Plc agreed to unwind interest-rate swaps with the city of
Milan’s government in a 455 million-euro ($600 million)
transaction.  Under the settlement, the banks, which are on trial for
fraud, closed the swaps yesterday at a “positive” mark-to-
market for the city, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Italian municipality.  The settlement isn’t for damages and doesn’t indicate any
acceptance of responsibility by the banks, according to the
statement. Milan agreed to drop claims for damages in the U.K.
and Italy, where the banks face criminal charges. Milan agreed
to forgo civil claims in return for a “discount’ on the cost of
closing the swaps, it said. The criminal trial will continue.
Officials for the four banks declined to comment further.  The lenders charged 101 million euros in so-called hidden
fees for arranging the derivatives that adjusted payments on the
city’s 1.7 billion-euro bond offering in 2005 and from
subsequent restructurings, according to city prosecutor Alfredo
Robledo. The fees are fraudulent given that they weren’t
disclosed, he said as he secured charges against the banks in
March 2010.  ‘‘It’s hard to tell the net position of the settlement
without the actual contracts,” which typically remain private,
said Michael Dempster, founder of the University of Cambridge’s
Centre for Financial Research.  The funds from the settlement will be held by the four
banks as a guarantee on other derivative contracts that the city
and the banks will maintain, according to the statement. Two-
thirds of the settlement has been invested in Italian government
bonds, according to the city.  Stanford’s Twitter Complaint Fails to Win Fraud Retrial  R. Allen Stanford, found guilty of running a $7 billion
Ponzi scheme, lost a retrial bid in which his lawyers argued
that Twitter comments by courtroom news reporters may have
influenced the jury that convicted him.  “The defendant’s motion for a new trial is denied,” U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston ruled yesterday without
elaboration in a single-sentence decision.  Stanford, 61, was found guilty on 13 of 14 criminal counts
after a six-week trial in which prosecutors convinced jurors
that he misled investors about what was being done with proceeds
of the certificates of deposit they bought from Stanford
International Bank Ltd. in Antigua.  Stanford is scheduled to be sentenced June 14. The four
wire-fraud charges and five mail-fraud charges he was convicted
of each carry a maximum punishment of 20 years in prison.  Defense lawyers, in a March 20 filing, said journalists’
real-time coverage of the trial on Twitter improperly influenced
the jurors, who had been warned to avoid other forms of media
coverage.  Laura Sweeney , a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, declined
to comment on yesterday’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Oracle Investor Sues Over $200 Million Whistle-Blower Accord  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  directors, including Chief Executive Officer
Larry Ellison, were sued by an investor for failing to mitigate
damages when the company agreed to a $200 million whistle-blower
settlement with the U.S. government.  Directors violated their fiduciary duties by forcing the
government into extensive litigation even though they knew the
allegations were “grounded in fact,” shareholder Jordan R.
Weinrib said in a complaint filed yesterday in  Delaware Chancery
Court (1400L)  in Wilmington.  “Rather than attempt to settle all claims at that time by
the institution of appropriate corporate therapeutics and the
paying of what would have been a small fine, the board insisted
on digging in and litigating the matter extensively,” Weinrib
said in the complaint.  The settlement, announced in October, resolved a lawsuit
claiming Oracle induced the General Services Administration to
buy $1.08 billion in software from 1998 to 2006 by falsely
promising the same discounts offered to favored commercial
customers. The payout was the largest ever obtained by the GSA
under the False Claims Act, which lets citizens sue on behalf of
the government and share in any recovery.  Former Oracle employee  Paul Frascella  filed the case in
2007. The Justice Department pursued the case after joining the
whistle-blower lawsuit.  Weinrib is seeking unspecified damages on behalf of the
company.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Weinrib v. Ellison, CA7350, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Siemens Sued Over Cancellation of Alarm Funding IPO  Siemens First Capital Commercial Finance LLC  was sued in
 New York  state court for breach of contract over the
cancellation of an initial public offering for a security-alarm
service business.  The suit, filed March 21 in New York state  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan, accuses Siemens First Capital of “intentionally
destroying” three related companies that were planning an
initial public offering.  Siemens told Whitecap (US) Fund I LP, the majority owner of
Alarm Funding LLC, the parent of the three companies, in March
2011 that the companies had defaulted on an $85 million loan
because the public offering hadn’t been completed by March 1,
according to the lawsuit.  The companies had never missed a payment on the loan and
had repaid $47 million, the complaint shows. Whitecap and two
related entities filed the suit, which seeks damages of more
than $20 million, on behalf of the companies.  “Siemens was not content with what it was entitled to
under the contract, i.e. repayment in full over time,”
according to the lawsuit. “Instead, Siemens wished to extract
as much money as possible from the alarm funding companies as
quickly as it could.”  The case is Whitecap (US) Fund I LP v. Siemens First
Capital Commercial Finance LLC, 650888/2012, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  CVS Ordered to Stop Controlled Drug Sales at Two Pharmacies  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  must stop filling prescriptions for
controlled substances at two of its pharmacies in Sanford,
Florida, while an appeals court weighs a U.S. order barring the
sales.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington yesterday rejected
a request by CVS to put the order by the Drug Enforcement
Administration on hold. A lower court judge on March 13 upheld
the DEA suspension, which resulted from an investigation into
oxycodone sales by the pharmacies.  “Appellant has not satisfied the stringent requirements
for a stay pending appeal,” the three-judge panel ruled.  A different three-judge panel on March 16 turned down a
similar bid by  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-largest U.S.
drug distributor by revenue, to forestall the suspension of its
Lakeland, Florida, facility from distributing controlled
substances.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  said the DEA produced
enough information to show that pharmacists at the CVS stores
filled prescriptions for the painkiller oxycodone that they knew
or should have known would lead to the drug being diverted for
illegal uses.  Carolyn Castel, a CVS spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The cases are Cardinal Health v. U.S. Department of
Justice, 12-05061, and Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072, U.S.
Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  AT&T Accused of Improperly Billing U.S. Program for Deaf  A unit of  AT&T Inc. (T)  is accused of improperly billing the
U.S. for millions of dollars in reimbursements of text-based
communications under a federal program for the hearing-impaired.  The U.S. Justice Department intervened March 22 in a
whistle-blower lawsuit in federal court in Pittsburgh that
alleged the phone company violated the False Claims Act. AT&T
failed to ensure that users of the Federal Communications
Commission program were eligible, the U.S. alleges.  “Federal funding for Telecommunications Relay Services is
intended to help the hearing- and speech-impaired in the United
States,” Stuart Delery, acting assistant attorney general for
the Justice Department’s civil division, said yesterday in a
statement. “We will pursue those who seek to gain by knowingly
allowing others to abuse this program.”  According to the complaint, AT&T allowed thousands of calls
to be made on the system by users in Nigeria and other countries
seeking to defraud U.S. merchants.  Marty Richter, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, said in a
statement that the company followed the FCC’s rules for
providing Internet Protocol Relay services and for seeking
reimbursement for those services.  “As the FCC is aware, it is always possible for an
individual to misuse IP Relay services, just as someone can
misuse the postal system or an e-mail account, but FCC rules
require that we complete all calls by customers who identify
themselves as disabled,” Richter said.  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of Pennsylvania,
10-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  Ernst & Young Suit Over Lehman Fees Sent to N.Y. State Court  A lawsuit accusing Ernst & Young LLP of facilitating a
“major accounting fraud” by helping  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  deceive the public about its financial condition was sent
back to New York state court.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan yesterday
said the lawsuit, filed in state supreme court in December 2010
by then-New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo and later moved
to federal court, should be tried in state court. Cuomo’s
successor,  Eric Schneiderman , has continued to pursue the case.  Kaplan said he reviewed the matter even after the state
dropped its objection to having the case tried in federal court
and “now concludes that the removal was improper because the
case does not come within federal jurisdiction.” The claims in
the complaint are predominantly based on state and not federal
law, he said.  “We are disappointed by the court’s ruling, and we are
reviewing it,”  Charlie Perkins , an Ernst & Young spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “We will continue to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter.”  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Securities and ERISA
Litigation, 09-MD-2017, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Morgan Stanley Pay Suit Dismissal Upheld by Appeals Court  The dismissal of a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shareholder lawsuit
brought in 2010 over $45 billion paid to the firm’s employees in
three years was upheld by a New York appeals court.  Shareholders including the Security Police and Fire
Professionals of America Retirement Fund sued Morgan Stanley,
former chairman John Mack and other executives in February 2010,
accusing the company of making improper compensation and bonus
payments.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Shirley Werner
Kornreich threw out the suit in December 2010, citing a
requirement that shareholders first make a demand on a board
before suing on behalf of a company or show that such a move
would be futile.  An appeals court in Manhattan upheld the dismissal
yesterday, saying the complaint lacks specific allegations
needed to determine whether work done by company employees was
“of such limited value to the corporation that no reasonable
person in the  directors’  position’’ would have approved their
pay.  “The complaint does not adequately plead waste,” Justice
Peter Tom, of the state Appellate Division First Department,
wrote. “It lacks the ‘specific allegations of unconscionable
transactions and details regarding who was paid and for what
reasons they were paid.’”  Mack ceded his chairman role at New York-based Morgan
Stanley in January to Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, who
took over as CEO for Mack at the end of 2009.  The case is Security Police and Fire Professionals of
America Retirement Fund v. Mack, 600359-2010, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Appeals $59 Billion Ruling in UniCredit Suit  The liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm appealed a court
ruling that tossed most of his $59 billion in claims against
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Sonja Kohn and other defendants, following
earlier appeals seeking to recover about $30 billion in damages
from banks.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard ’s notice of appeal and
document record were transmitted yesterday to U.S. District
Court in Manhattan by a U.S. appeals court, according to
filings. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff on Feb. 21 dismissed
Picard’s claims under the racketeering statute, which allows for
triple damages, saying he hadn’t proved his allegations.  Picard now has $90 billion in claims before the appeals
court, out of about $100 billion he had demanded in more than
1,000 suits to gather money for customers with Madoff Ponzi
scheme losses. Rakoff and another district judge, Colleen
McMahon, dismissed the $90 billion in claims in Picard’s suits
against banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and UniCredit.  In his written opinion on the UniCredit racketeering case,
Rakoff said Picard made a “casual assertion” that the
defendants “fed, perpetuated and profited from” Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, and failed to show a direct relationship between the
alleged criminal acts and resulting injuries to the con man’s
customers.  Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims including unjust
enrichment and conversion. He directed that the remaining claims
be returned to bankruptcy court.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina for running a Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors of an estimated $20 billion in principal.
Picard and his law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
about $273 million for their work on the Madoff estate so far.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-CV-1181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Baum Foreclosure Firm Settles With New York for $4 Million  Steven J. Baum PC, the largest foreclosure law firm in New
York until it shut down last year, reached a $4 million
settlement with the state over abuses in its legal work.  Part of the money paid by the firm, Pillar Processing LLC,
Steven Baum himself and managing partner Brian Kumiega will be
used to help homeowners facing foreclosure or victims of
predatory lending, New York State Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman said yesterday in a statement. Baum formed Pillar
in 2007 to process foreclosure documents.  “The Baum firm cut corners in order to maximize the number
of its foreclosure filings and its profits,” Schneiderman said
in the statement. Baum and Kumiega have also agreed not to
represent lenders or servicers in new foreclosure cases for two
years, Schneiderman said.  The firm said in a statement that it didn’t admit
wrongdoing as part of the settlement.  In October, the firm, based in Amherst, New York, just
north of Buffalo, reached a $2 million agreement related to its
foreclosure practices with Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara. After that settlement was announced, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance companies under U.S.
conservatorship, dropped Baum from their lists of law firms
eligible to handle foreclosures. The firm then said it would
close.  “After an exhaustive 10-month investigation, the attorney
general’s office did not identify a single instance where a
foreclosure proceeding was brought by the Baum firm where the
homeowner wasn’t actually in default,” Elkan Abramowitz, a
lawyer for the settling parties, said in a phone interview.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  Christie Nominee for Supreme Court Turned Down by Senate Panel  One of  Chris Christie ’s nominees to the  New Jersey (STONJ1)  Supreme
Court became the first in modern times to be rejected by state
lawmakers following a Democrat-controlled confirmation hearing
the Republican governor called a “partisan circus.”  Phillip Kwon’s nomination to one of two court vacancies was
rebuffed in a 7-6 vote, largely along party lines, after
Democrats questioned a $160,000 settlement of U.S. government
allegations that family members sought to avoid financial
reporting requirements tied to their business.  Democrats, who control the Legislature, have vowed to fight
harder against the governor, who they say has bullied them to
get his way. Midway through his first term, the two sides are at
odds over tax-cut plans. A court on March 8 overruled Christie’s
abolition of a housing agency, and 27 groups filed a legal
appeal yesterday of his policy to waive environmental
regulations in some cases.  “To see what Phil went through today is frankly not only a
disappointment for me personally but also a disappointment for
the state, the process and the judicial system,” Christie said
following the vote. “They didn’t act like officeholders or
statesmen. They acted like politicians, and that’s what the
people hate.”  Christie told reporters he didn’t have a backup for Kwon,
who would have been the court’s first Asian-American justice.
The governor said he didn’t anticipate changing his criteria for
judicial candidates.  Kwon’s rejection was the first time a nominee for the high
court was turned down by the Senate Judiciary Committee since
the modern Constitution of 1947, according to Winnie Comfort, a
spokeswoman for the New Jersey courts.  Most of the hearing centered on the Justice Department
settlement with Kwon’s mother and wife, who own a liquor store
in Mount Vernon, New York.  U.S. prosecutors filed complaints related to two bank
accounts in June 2011 and seized $290,236, asserting the
business illegally “structured” 222 cash deposits to avoid
breaching a $10,000 threshold that triggers currency transaction
filing requirements.  The business, KCP Wines & Liquor Corp., settled with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn, New York, forfeiting
$159,630 without admitting wrongdoing.  In the hearing, Kwon said he advised his mother that
structuring the deposits might raise “red flags” with the
banks involved. He said his subsequent involvement was confined
to helping her obtain a lawyer.  “My mother was not evading taxes,” Kwon said. “She made
a mistake.”  Democrats on the committee said Kwon should have advised
his mother of the reporting requirements and told her to make
larger deposits. Christie has defended his choice of Kwon,
saying in January that the lawsuit didn’t involve him “in the
least.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 