-- KB Home Falls 8.5% After Reporting Decline in Net Orders
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-03-23T20:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/kb-home-falls-the-most-in-almost-9-months-after-orders-declined.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, fell the most in
more than four months after it reported a decline in orders and
government data showed new-home sales dropped in February.  KB Home had a net loss for the three months ended Feb. 29
of $45.8 million, or 59 cents a share, compared with $114.5
million, or $1.49, a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement. Analysts expected a loss of 23 cents a share, the
average of 17  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. Net orders fell 8
percent from a year earlier to 1,197 homes.  Shares of eight of the 11 companies in the Standard and
Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  declined today after the Commerce
Department said purchases of U.S. new homes unexpectedly fell in
February for a second month. KB Home lost 8.5 percent to $10.29
at the close in  New York , the most since Nov. 9 and the worst
performance in the index, which fell 1.2 percent.  “We are more bearish on the company fundamentally” after
KB Home’s release of first-quarter results, Vincent Foley and
 Cedric Morris , analysts with  Barclays Capital (JNK)  in New York, said
in a note to clients. “We believe that the expectations for the
industry (and KB Home in particular) may be to too optimistic,
considering the inconsistency that we continue to see with
various economic data points.”  Improving Market  The decline in net orders was not “reflective” of current
market conditions, which have been bolstered by an improving
economy,  Jeffrey Mezger , KB Home’s president and chief executive
officer, said today in a conference call with analysts. Orders
fell, in part, because of a spike in cancellations caused by
problems customers had in getting financing, he said.  The company’s preferred lender,  MetLife Inc. (MET) , announced
early this year that it would shut its mortgage origination
operation. This month, KB Home reached an agreement making
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. its new preferred lender.  The builder’s strategy of withdrawing from some markets
such as  South Carolina  and making margins a priority over the
pace of sales also hurt net orders, Mezger said. KB Home’s
average sale price increased 6 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier to $219,000, according to the statement.  “There is no question that things are better, but we
continue to maintain that it will take some time for markets to
fully recover,” Mezger said on the call.  ‘Disastrous’ results  Optimism among homebuilders had been improving in recent
months. A National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
measure of confidence held in March at the highest level since
June 2007 as sales expectations climbed. Housing starts fell 1.1
percent in February from a three-year high while building
 permits  increased to a 717,000 annual pace, the most since
October 2008, Commerce Department figures showed March 20.  “No matter how one looks at KBH’s first-quarter results,
they were disastrous,” Stephen East, Paul Przybylski and Truman
Patterson, analysts with ISI Group LLC, said in a note to
clients. “In a recovering market, the results did an absolutely
ugly U-turn.”  They expected KB Home’s orders to increase 42 percent,
according to the note.  Revenue increased 29 percent in the first quarter to $254.6
million. KB Home delivered 1,150 houses, up 21 percent from the
first quarter of 2011.  The year-earlier results included a $53.7 million
impairment and a loss on a loan guaranty of $22.8 million, both
related to the company’s investment in a project near  Las Vegas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  