-- KB, Mirae Favor Mexican Bonds as U.S. Economy to Boost Currency
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-03-23T01:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/kb-mirae-favor-mexican-bonds-as-u-s-economy-to-boost-currency.html
South Korea ’s KB Asset Management
and Mirae Asset Global Investments are buying Mexican debt as a
faster-than-expected economic recovery in the U.S., the Latin
American nation’s biggest trade partner, boosts the currency.  KB Asset, a unit of South Korea’s second-biggest banking
services group, raised holdings of  Mexico  in its flagship bond
fund by 2 percentage points this year to 11 percent, according
to Lim Kwang Taek, the Seoul-based managing director of global
 portfolio management  at the company that oversees 25.7 trillion
won ($22.7 billion) of assets. Mirae Asset, the nation’s second-
biggest fund manager with 62.1 trillion won of assets, is
“overweight” on Mexico in a new emerging-market fund launched
in January, Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based head of global fixed
income, said in an interview yesterday.  “The  U.S. economy  is faring better than previously
expected, which will help further strengthen the peso,” KB’s
Lim said in a March 21 interview. “The improving economy may
lower Mexican bond prices but currency gains can bring greater
profit, and we prefer to hold bonds than trade actively.”  The Mexican peso strengthened 8.8 percent this year to
12.8122 per  U.S. dollar  in Mexico City on March 22, the best
performer among major currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The currency will gain 2.5 percent more to 12.50 by the
end of this year, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Mexico’s 10-year sovereign peso notes
yielded 6.26 percent yesterday, 220 basis points more than
similar-maturity notes in South Korea.  Factory Output  Factory output in Mexico expanded to an eight-month high of
4.2 percent in January, beating estimates, while the inflation
rate fell in February for the first time in five months, reports
showed this month. Economic growth in the U.S. will quicken to
2.2 percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Latin America’s
second-biggest economy sends 80 percent of its exports to the
U.S.  “The U.S. government may start reducing its  budget deficit 
from next year, and we expect mild growth to continue until the
plans get specific and unless  oil prices  per gallon rise to and
stay above $4 for long, which may slow U.S. growth,” said
Mirae’s Kim. “The dependency of Mexico’s economy on the U.S. is
one of the main factors behind our positive view.”  KB’s emerging-market government and agency bond  fund 
returned 6.6 percent this year, outperforming 83 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Year-to-date
returns on Mirae’s emerging local bond  fund  weren’t available
due to its short trading history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  