-- Kosovo May Get S&P Rating in 2nd Half of 2012, Minister S
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i
-- 2012-03-23T12:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/kosovo-may-get-s-p-rating-in-2nd-half-of-2012-minister-s.html
Kosovo will probably receive a
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  as it considers tapping
international investors for funds to rebuild its infrastructure,
Finance Minister Bedri Hamza said.  The Finance Ministry plans to raise 74 million euros ($98
million) with its first sales ever of Treasury bills this year
to finance expenditure and investments, and another 110 million
euros through a new loan package from the  International Monetary
Fund . S&P analysts will visit the Balkan nation in June to
assess its creditworthiness, Hamza said yesterday in an
interview at his office in the capital, Pristina.  “We will be very careful when it comes to foreign debt as
we are also able to mobilize our domestic resources,” Hamza
said, adding that the government doesn’t plan to seek “large
amounts in the range of 500 million euros” after it receives a
 credit rating . “We are also developing ideas for public-private
partnerships for large projects.”  Kosovo, which saw its infrastructure partially destroyed
during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization bombing in 1999
when Serb troops were chased out of the province, wants to
complete its highway network and other projects that are meant
to spur economic growth and raise living standards to the level
of its Balkan peers.  Western neighbor Albania is rated B+ at S&P, the fourth
highest level in the non-investment grade, while Serbia to the
north has a BB score, the second highest non-investment level.  Economic Growth  Kosovo’s economy, which depends on investments, exports and
remittances from Kosovars living elsewhere in  Europe , will
probably expand 5 percent this year, Hamza said. That compares
with the 3.8 percent growth outlook by the IMF.  “There are no indications that we can’t reach that
level,” Hamza said.  After the completion of the highway linking Pristina with
the Albanian capital Tirana, expected by the end of the year,
and other infrastructure projects, economic growth will be
boosted to more than 6 percent, Hamza said.  As some European nations struggle with a high debt burden,
Kosovo indicators are much below the thresholds set in the euro
region’s growth and stability pact. The  budget deficit , which
stood at a 1.8 percent of gross domestic product last year,
according to Hamza, may rise to a 2 percent level. Public debt
is at 5.5 percent of total output, he said.  Kosovo won recognition for its independence four years ago
from 22 out of 27 members of the European Union, which it wants
to join. Serbia, which refuses to acknowledge Kosovo’s
sovereignty, won candidate status to join the world’s largest
trading bloc this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net 
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  