-- New York Gallery Skarstedt Joins U.K. Influx as Demand Grows
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/new-york-gallery-skarstedt-joins-london-influx-as-demand-grows.html
Per Skarstedt  is the latest  New
York  dealer to open in London as the city’s existing galleries
expand to profit from growing demand.  Skarstedt plans an offshoot in the Mayfair area, its owner
said in an e-mail. London-based Marlborough Fine Art, which
represented  Francis Bacon , is also planning a new space in the
same area, its management said. Manhattan dealer  David Zwirner 
will also come to the British capital in October, its new U.K.
director said.  Contemporary-art dealers have been encouraged by a growing
number of wealthy people from outside Britain buying properties
as a hedge against economic and political instability, even as
the U.K. government raises taxes on luxury homes. Many visitors
will be in the British capital for this year’s Olympics.  “We have been contemplating opening something in  Europe 
for some time now,” Skarstedt, founder of the dealership that
specializes in 1980s American art, said. “So many New York
galleries are having a presence in London now.”  Skarstedt Gallery plans a first-floor 2,500 square-foot
(232 square meter) space at 23 Old  Bond Street , Mayfair, in June
to coincide with the summer auctions, company director Brady
Doty said in an interview.  More Galleries  “It does feel unprecedented,” Andrew Renton, director of
the new contemporary arm of Mayfair-based  Marlborough , said in
an interview. “Twenty years ago, the dealers were concentrated
in one street. You used to have to get on a plane to look at
good new art. Now there are many galleries all around us.  London 
seems strategically better placed for everyone.”  Marlborough is making a 2,000-square-foot contemporary
gallery on the first floor of its Albemarle Street building. The
space will open during the week of the Frieze Art Fair in
October.  Zwirner will open his 10,000-square-foot branch at nearby
24 Grafton Street in October, a year after  Pace Gallery 
established itself in London’s Soho.  International clients accounted for almost three quarters
of the sales of “ultraprime” homes valued at more than 5
million pounds ($7.9 million) in 2011, realtors  Savills Plc (SVS)  said
on Jan. 17.  The Mayfair district -- the most expensive square on a U.K.
 Monopoly board  game -- has become a locus for galleries. Hotels
such as Claridge’s and the Connaught accommodate art buyers
during auction weeks.  Mayfair Homes  “Location is important,” said Pilar Ordovas, who debuted
as a dealer last year with a Bacon exhibition at her  gallery  in
Savile Row near  Sotheby’s (BID) , Bond Street. “A number of collectors
have second homes in Mayfair. It’s more convenient for them if
they can walk to a gallery and stand in front of the works.”  Ordovas is the former head of Christie’s International’s
London contemporary art department.  Zwirner’s gallery is located in a five-story Georgian
townhouse remodeled by architect  Annabelle Selldorf . The opening
“Frieze Week” show will present new paintings by the Belgian
artist Luc Tuymans.  “London is at the center of the European art world,” said
Angela Choon, Zwirner’s U.K.-based director. “It’s the gateway
to collectors throughout Europe, as well as the  Middle East  and
 Asia . After concentrating on our own expansion in New York over
the past few years, this was the next logical step.” The U.S.
dealership is also planning to open a 30,000 square-foot space
at 537 West 20th Street in Chelsea, New York, later this year.  Abramovich, Safra  London has 5,955 inhabitants each with a net worth of more
than $30 million, the highest density in Europe, according to
 Wealth-X , a company that compiles data on affluent individuals.
Billionaire collectors such as  Roman Abramovich , Victor Pinchuk
and Lily Safra have properties in the U.K. capital.  The city’s auctions of Impressionist, modern and
contemporary art in February raised 291.5 million pounds, a
record for a series of such mixed-owner sales in Europe. Growth
in the market has been influenced by a rapid increase in the
number of super-wealthy collectors, said a report published
earlier this month by the European Fine Art Foundation.  “There is now much more concentration of spending at the  very top end of the market,” said the report. This in turn
has encouraged the development of the international “mega-
gallery” with multiple locations, such as Zwirner.  London-based  Blain|Southern  will be opening a 5,000 square-
foot gallery in Mayfair’s Hanover Square during “Frieze Week.”
The space will be added to the dealership’s existing locations
in Dering Street and Hill Street in Mayfair.  Gagosian Gallery  Gagosian ,  Hauser & Wirth  and  White Cube  -- which opened a
58,000-square-foot space in Bermondsey in October 2011 -- run
similar multi gallery operations in the U.K. capital.  Other Mayfair newcomers include the New York-based
dealership  Eykyn Maclean , a specialist in 19th- and 20th-century
works, which opened in St. George Street in February.  Gazelli Art House , a commercial contemporary gallery
founded by the Azerbaijani curator Mila Askarova, premiered in
Dover Street with the four-artist international group show
“Bodhi” on March 15.  “We’re seeing French, Germans, Spanish, Russians and
Saudis,” Askarova said in an interview. “Most of them have
properties in London that they visit. Mayfair will always be
Mayfair, whatever happens in the economy.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 