-- Northwestern, Tufts Tap Taxable Debt for Flexible Spending Bonus
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-23T13:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/northwestern-tufts-tap-taxable-debt-for-flexible-spending-bonus.html
Tufts University  and  Northwestern
University  joined corporations in selling $25.7 billion of bonds
this week as the schools were tempted to taxable debt by looser
government oversight.  Tufts, the Medford, Massachusetts-based school chartered in
1852, sold $250 million of taxable 100-year bonds yesterday, the
sixth such sale by a university in the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Northwestern in Evanston,  Illinois ,
issued $200 million of 35-year notes on March 21, while George
Washington University sold $300 million of 10-year debt.  Colleges, which mainly issue in the municipal market, sold
corporate debt after the top-rated 30-year corporate debentures
in November became the cheapest relative to municipal bonds in
the past 10 years, according to index data from Barclays Plc.
While corporate debt is pricier, universities can use it for
working capital and to fund projects with less Internal Revenue
Service restrictions.  “They can save a little money by borrowing tax-free, but
they calculate that the benefit of not having to worry about IRS
regulations in terms of what they spend the money on is enough
of an advantage to overcome any interest-rate savings when rates
are so close together,” Alan Schankel, a fixed-income director
at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview.  The gap between relative yields on top-rated 30-year
corporate bonds and similar-maturity, high-grade municipal debt
was 48 basis points as of March 21, compared with the average 98
basis points over the last 10 years, Barclays index data show.  Capital Projects  Tufts may use proceeds to support current or future capital
projects from renovations to facility expansions and to
refinance outstanding borrowings, according to offering
documents. The university anticipates project expenditures of
$430.3 million in the next five years with $250 million funded
by debt.  “As these institutions become more complex, they really
appreciate the flexibility the taxable market provides them,”
said John Augustine, managing director of the higher education
finance group at Barclays in New York. “The tax-exempt market
is highly regulated in terms of how they use the proceeds.”  Total U.S. investment-grade sales fell to $22.2 billion
this week from $27.4 billion in the five days ended March 16,
Bloomberg data show. Speculative-grade bond issuance also
declined, to $3.6 billion from $7.7 billion in the previous
period.  Volkswagen Offering  Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, led offerings by
issuing $3.35 billion of debt on March 19, Bloomberg data show.
American International Group Inc., the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government in 2008, sold $2 billion of bonds and London-
based miner Rio Tinto Plc raised $2.5 billion of debt.  Investors demanded the lowest premium in seven months
relative to  Treasuries to hold investment-grade bonds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-grade
corporate credit instead of Treasuries was unchanged at 191
basis points after reaching 189 on March 20, the narrowest since
Aug. 5, the index data show. Spreads on high-yield securities
widened 5 basis points to 591 basis points, after reaching 579
on March 19, the smallest gap since Aug. 1.  Government Bond Selloff  The securities are benefiting from tighter supply, with
less issuance than in previous weeks, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. A selloff in  government bonds  that sent  yields  on
benchmark 10-year Treasury notes to 2.38 percent, the highest
since October, on March 19 narrowed corporate bond spreads
relative to government debt.  Investor confidence in riskier assets such as company debt
rose as claims for jobless benefits dropped in the week ended
March 10 to match a four-year low after job growth in February
capped the best six months since 2006, and the  Federal Reserve 
last week said 15 of the 19 biggest banks could maintain
adequate capital levels in a recession scenario.  “Pension funds are shifting into a larger allocation to
credit due to legal and structural issues and will likely
accelerate this shift with higher yields,” JPMorgan analysts
led by Arun Kumar wrote in a March 20 report. ‘Insurance
companies have been hoping for higher yields to add more
exposure rather than reduce it, among other trends.”  Corporate Yields  Absolute yields on all dollar-denominated corporate debt
jumped to 4.408 percent on March 20, the highest since Feb. 3,
before declining to 4.36 percent on March 22, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Tufts, which didn’t previously have corporate bonds
outstanding, sold $250 million of 5.017 percent, 100-year debt
that priced to yield 165 basis points more than 30-year
Treasuries in its offering yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  Life insurance companies are particularly interested in
buying debt from universities, especially the longer-term
securities, Barclays’ Augustine said.  Uses of proceeds, often slated for long-term physical
assets, range from deferred maintenance or energy upgrades to
constructing facilities like research labs and new academic
buildings, he said.  Northwestern, which includes Orrington Lunt, a founder of
the Chicago Board of Trade, among its forefathers, issued 4.198
percent notes maturing in December 2047, after originally
planning to sell $150 million of debt, the data show. George
Washington University,  created in  1821 through an Act of the
Congress, sold $300 million of 3.485 percent, 10-year notes at a
112 basis-point spread.  Sales by colleges and universities this year have “already
accounted for half of the taxable volume of all of last year, so
it looks like we might exceed last year’s volume,” Edith Behr,
a senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
telephone interview.  Quarterly sales of college debt are set to reach or exceed
$1.5 billion, compared with $3 billion issued in all of 2011,
according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  