-- NRC Poised to Award Scana Licenses for Two Reactors on March 30
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-23T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/nrc-poised-to-award-scana-licenses-for-two-reactors-on-march-30.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission is poised to award  Scana Corp. (SCG)  a license to build two
reactors in  South Carolina , the second such action after a
three-decade drought.  The NRC will vote March 30 on the Cayce, South Carolina-
based company’s proposal to build two units at its existing
Virgil C. Summer plant, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) northwest
of Columbia, the agency said today on its website.  The NRC’s scheduling of a vote is a signal that the
commission is ready to approve the license. Scana submitted its
application to the NRC in March 2008, according to the agency.
The company will pay 55 percent of the estimated $10.2 billion
cost with Santee Cooper, a South Carolina-owned utility, also a
partner.  Scana officials didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  The company will be the second power generator since 1978
to receive an NRC permit to build reactors if the five-member
commission votes in favor of the company’s plan. The panel on
Feb. 9 voted 4-1 to give  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta a license to
build and operate two units at its Vogtle plant near Augusta,
Georgia. Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  dissented.  Scana and Southern plan to construct  Toshiba Corp (6502) .-designed
units, with the first reactors for both companies in operation
by 2016. Southern’s second unit may be in service by 2017, with
Scana’s following by 2019.  Nuclear, Gas  The reactors may be among the last built in the U.S. this
decade, as a glut of cheap natural gas has discouraged companies
from investing in nuclear energy and other forms of generation.
A 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island plant near
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , slowed the development of U.S. nuclear
power, which accounts for about 20 percent of the country’s
electricity.  The NRC is also weighing rules to improve the safety of 104
U.S. operating reactors after a triple meltdown at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  in March
2011. The agency on March 9 approved its first orders in
response to the disaster, including a requirement for reactor
owners to have adequate emergency equipment in place by 2016 to
survive a loss of power.  Jaczko opposed approval of Southern’s reactor license
because the commission didn’t require the company to adhere to
still-evolving rules from the Fukushima crisis. He has not
indicated how he may vote on Scana’s application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  