-- NYC Office Leases Lowest Since 2009 on Wall Street Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/nyc-office-leasing-lowest-since-2009-as-wall-street-cuts-back.html
Manhattan office  leasing in the
first quarter is poised to be the lowest in almost three years
as  Wall Street  cut jobs and needed less space, according to
preliminary data from brokerage Studley Inc.  Agreements will be signed for the rental of about 5.7
million square feet (530,000 square meters) this year through
March, according to New York-based Studley’s projection. That’s
the smallest three-month tally since the 4.5 million square feet
leased in the second quarter of 2009, months after the credit
crisis pushed  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  into bankruptcy and
froze demand for space in the biggest U.S. office market.  New York’s financial companies delayed leasing decisions
beginning in August amid concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis
would spread and that U.S. regulatory reforms might cut into
business. Global banks and financial firms have announced plans
to eliminate more than 150,000 jobs since June, data complied by
Bloomberg show.  “As the saying has gone for many years, as financial
services goes, so does  New York City ,” Mitchell Steir,
Studley’s chief executive officer, said in a telephone
interview.  Growing information technology and media firms have kept
the market from sliding further, Steir said. He cited rising
demand from such companies as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which bought 111
Eighth Ave. in Manhattan’s Chelsea section in 2010. Google, the
 Mountain View , California-based owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, already occupied 550,000 square feet in
the building and has been gradually taking over the rest as
leases expire.  Morgan Stanley Space  Brookfield Office Properties (BPO)  and  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  are
among landlords waiting to see if the pickup in the  U.S. economy 
and stock market translates into increased demand for their
Manhattan properties.  Brookfield has been negotiating with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  for
more than a year over the investment bank’s lease at 1 New York
Plaza, a 2.6 million-square-foot tower near the foot of
Manhattan.  Morgan Stanley, which already rents space in the building,
has been in talks to take some of the 540,000 square feet that
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  left behind when it moved in 2010 to
its new headquarters on West Street, people with knowledge of
the matter have said.  Ric Clark, Brookfield’s CEO, addressed the negotiations at
an investor conference last week, without identifying Morgan
Stanley as the tenant.  CEO is Confident  “I can’t really comment on transactions that are in the
works,” Clark said at an investor conference last week. “But
we still have a high degree of confidence that we will get that
lease that’s been rumored put to bed.”  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman for New York-based Brookfield,
declined to elaborate on Clark’s statements.  Mark Lane , a Morgan
Stanley spokesman, declined to comment on the talks.  Brookfield also is seeking tenants for about 3 million
square feet of former  Merrill Lynch & Co. (MER)  offices at the World
Financial Center in lower  Manhattan  while marketing space at its
Manhattan West development in Midtown. Construction won’t begin
on the two skyscrapers planned at Manhattan West until
Brookfield secures a tenant, Clark said at the conference.  Mortimer Zuckerman’s Boston Properties, owner of 8.3
million square feet of Midtown skyscrapers, restarted
construction last year on 250 W. 55th St. after leasing about 18
percent of the 1 million-square-foot tower to  Morrison &
Foerster LLP (1124L) , a  law firm . It has yet to announce any additional
deals there.  ‘Not in a Rush’  Arista Joyner, a spokeswoman for the Boston-based company,
declined to comment about the building.  Manhattan’s office market is “very much stable,” Doug Linde, Boston Properties’ president, said at last week’s
investor conference.  “Tenants are just not in a rush to make a decision,” he
said. “They feel like the market is where it is. It’s not
getting better, it’s not getting worse, and time is on their
hands.”  Steir of Studley called the leasing slowdown “a healthy
digestive period” following a recovery that threatened to get
too heated. He said he would be more concerned if the pace of
leasing had continued, “because it started to get a little too
silly too quickly.”  Conde Nast, Nomura  Agreements were signed for 18 million square feet in the
first half of 2011, according to Studley. The market was boosted
by  Conde Nast  Publications Inc.’s decision to take 1 million
square feet at 1 World Trade Center, now under construction in
lower Manhattan, and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s 900,000-square-foot
deal at Worldwide Plaza, a West Side tower.  Nomura may return about 160,000 square feet of offices to
the landlord, the Commercial Observer, a weekly trade newspaper,
 reported  on March 16.  This year’s biggest lease so far is  Bank of America Corp. ’s
renewal of 345,000 square feet at 114 W. 47th St., according to
Studley, which specializes in representing tenants. The largest
new deal was by  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) , for 132,000
square feet at 1 Liberty Plaza, a downtown building owned by
Brookfield.  Conde Nast took an additional 133,000 square feet at 1
World Trade Center, the biggest lease by a media company in the
quarter, Studley said. In another deal by a creative firm,
 Digital Generation Inc. (DGIT) , an advertising distributor, agreed to
rent 86,000 square feet at 1633 Broadway, a tower north of Times
Square.  Creative Companies Surge  Creative industries -- communications, business services,
fashion, advertising, information technology and education --
have averaged 42 percent more leasing annually since 2007 than
financial services, according to a Studley analysis. From 2000
to 2006, financial services out-leased creative companies by 19
percent.  Availability, defined as empty space plus offices that will
become vacant in 12 months, was projected to be 10.8 percent in
the first quarter, down from 11.1 percent in the fourth quarter
and 12.2 percent a year earlier, Studley said. Average  asking
rents  will be little changed from the fourth quarter at $50.06 a
square foot.  Demand should pick up in the second half of the year as
positive U.S. economic trends take hold and give companies the
courage to sign big leases, said Bruce Mosler, chairman of
global brokerage at New York-based Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “As the economy begins to stabilize, you’re going to begin
to see the big folks stir,” Mosler, who leads the leasing team
for Brookfield’s Manhattan West project, said in a phone
interview.  “It’s going to be the direct opposite, or the inverse of
last year, where we had an incredibly strong start, and we
tapered towards the fourth quarter,” he said. “You’re going to
see a slower start and a very solid finish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  