-- Nymex May Extend Heating Oil Contract, Reduce Sulfur Limit
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-03-23T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/nymex-may-extend-heating-oil-contract-reduce-sulfur-limit-2-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  is considering
lowering the sulfur requirement in the existing New York
Mercantile Exchange heating oil futures starting in May 2013
instead of replacing the contract.  CME announced July 27 that it would stop listing Nymex
heating oil futures contracts beyond April 2013 as Northeast
states consider cutting the amount of sulfur in heating oil. The
exchange launched an ultra-low-sulfur diesel contract in 2007,
which has no open interest as of yesterday.  “Liquidity will be easier to enhance” by keeping the
existing contract, Dan Brusstar, director of research at the
exchange in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  The heating oil contract has a maximum sulfur content of
2,000 parts per million, compared with ultra-low-sulfur fuel
that must be below 15 parts per million. The contract is
changing as  New York  State will lower the sulfur allowed in home
heating oil to 15 ppm starting July 1 and  New England  and Mid-
Atlantic states consider their own measures to limit sulfur.  Pennsylvania’s low-sulfur rule for heating oil will not be
effective in 2012 as proposed, according to meeting  minutes  of
the state’s Department of Environmental Protection on October
20. Sulfur standard regulations have not yet been submitted as
final for consideration by an advisory board or the
environmental quality board, Kevin Sunday, a spokesman for the
department, said in a March 15 e-mail.  Pennsylvania Delay  “A lot of our customers don’t see the urgency to jump into
the new contract” because state regulations in  Pennsylvania 
haven’t been approved, Brusstar said. Keeping this existing
heating oil contract “would allow companies to just roll
positions into the new ultra-low-sulfur diesel specifications
starting in May 2013 and beyond,” he said.  CME expects to make a final decision on changing the
contract in a couple of weeks, according to Brusstar.  Motiva Enterprises LLC said March 8 it will convert its
high-sulfur heating oil storage to ultra-low-sulfur in the
second quarter of this year at the Seawaren terminal in  New
Jersey , which is a delivery point for the Nymex contract, to
meet New York’s regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  