-- Obama Says It’s ‘Imperative’ That Florida Shooting Be Probed
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-23T21:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/obama-says-it-s-imperative-that-florida-shooting-be-probed-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager in Florida struck a
personal chord and he called for a full investigation by
federal, state and local authorities.  “I can only imagine what these parents are going
through,” Obama said today at the White House. “And when I
think about this boy, I think about my own kids.”  The Justice Department said it has opened a civil rights
probe into the Feb. 26 slaying of Trayvon Martin, 17, in
Sanford, Florida. A neighborhood watch volunteer, George
Zimmerman, has told police that he shot Martin in self-defense.  Obama’s remarks were his first public comment on the
shooting, which has generated national media coverage and public
calls for an investigation into the killing and the initial
police response.  Answering a shouted question at the end of a Rose Garden
event introducing his nominee for president of the  World Bank ,
Obama said he wouldn’t comment directly on the investigation.
Still, he made clear that the incident touched him personally,
and he directed part of his message to Martin’s parents.  “If I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon,” Obama said.  Obama said the killing should prompt “some soul-
searching” in the nation.  Parental Concern  “Every parent in America should be able to understand why
it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of
this, and that everybody pulls together -- federal, state and
local -- to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened,” he
said.  Obama didn’t address the initial police investigation, the
circumstances of the shooting or the  Florida  law known as Stand
Your Ground that gives someone who feels threatened greater
latitude to use deadly force outside a home. He said he didn’t
want his remarks to impair the investigation.  Mitt Romney , the front-runner for the Republican
presidential nomination who was campaigning in  Louisiana  before
tomorrow’s primary, said it’s “entirely appropriate” for a
grand jury to be investigating.  “The shooting of Trayvon is a terrible tragedy,
unnecessary, uncalled for, and inexplicable at this point,”
Romney said. “Our hearts go out to his family, his loved ones,
his friends. This shouldn’t have happened.”  Martin’s parents and their lawyer met yesterday in Florida
with Justice Department officials.  Push for Investigation  Fourteen Democrats on the U.S. House Judiciary Committee
sent a letter yesterday to Attorney General Eric Holder asking
that he “explore the applicability” of the hate-crime statute
and other federal laws.  The  Justice Department  won’t comment on whether it is
pursuing the shooting as a hate crime,  Thomas Perez , the
assistant attorney general who oversees the department’s civil
rights division, said in a conference call with reporters
yesterday. “We’re in the fact-gathering stage,” he said.  The Florida shooting occurred when Martin was walking
through a residential neighborhood after buying iced tea and
Skittles at a convenience store, Benjamin Crump, an attorney for
the Martin family, said at a March 20 news conference in  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida.  Zimmerman was identified as a white male in a Feb. 27
Sanford Police Department report posted on the city’s website.
His father, Robert Zimmerman, described him as “a Spanish-
speaking minority” in a March 15 letter to the Orlando
Sentinel.  “He would be the last to discriminate for any reason
whatsoever,” Robert Zimmerman said in the letter.  Police Response  The Sanford police department investigated the case and
forwarded its findings to local prosecutors. Police didn’t have
enough evidence to arrest Zimmerman at the scene, City Manager
Norton Bonaparte Jr. said in a statement.  Zimmerman’s statement that he acted in self-defense wasn’t
contradicted by evidence available to the officers on the scene
and they are prohibited by Florida statute from making an arrest
under those circumstances, according to a report by Bonaparte
posted on  the city’s website .  Zimmerman had a state permit to carry a concealed weapon
and was within the law to have the handgun, a 9mm semiautomatic,
with him at the time.  Bonaparte writes in the report that
Zimmerman told authorities he was on a personal errand when he
encountered Martin.  “We are confident that our investigative team conducted a
quality investigation and if needed we welcome any independent
review,” the Sanford Police Department said in a March 13
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  