-- Obama Plan on Oil Pipeline Segment Won’t Quell Keystone Debate
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/obama-plan-on-oil-pipeline-segment-won-t-quell-keystone-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  satisfied
neither critics nor environmentalist allies with an announcement
of an expedited review for an oil pipeline as he wrapped up a
four-state trip defending his energy policies.  Obama promoted his “all-of-the-above” energy strategy
yesterday in Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for New York
futures contracts and a symbolic intersection for U.S. energy
politics.  Cushing is where TransCanada Corp. plans to begin building
the southern segment of its Keystone XL oil pipeline to
refineries on the Texas coast even as its proposal for the
northern leg, which  would connect with Canada’s oil sands,
remains in limbo after the administration put off approval until
after the election.  The rising cost of  gasoline  threatens to slow the U.S.
recovery and is emerging as an issue in the 2012 presidential
campaign. The president spent the last two days promoting
development of alternative energy sources, a favorite of
environmentalists, while also echoing Republican calls to expand
the use and production of fossil fuels.  “Anybody who suggests that somehow we’re suppressing
domestic oil production isn’t paying attention,” Obama said
while standing in front of pipe for the  Oklahoma  project. “But
the fact is, producing more oil at home isn’t enough by itself
to bring gas prices down.”  Quicker Permits  While in Cushing, Obama sought to demonstrate his
commitment to domestic oil and gas development by announcing he
is streamlining the federal permit process for critical
infrastructure and designating TransCanada’s pipeline from
Oklahoma to the  Gulf of Mexico  a priority. The $2.3 billion line
is intended to eliminate a bottleneck in the distribution of
crude oil.  The action won’t shorten the timeline for the project,
which is slated to start as soon as June. TransCanada is
awaiting permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the last
it needs to begin work, according to the company. The  Army Corps 
typically approves such permits within 60 days, according to Meg
Gaffney-Smith, chief of the Corps’s regulatory program.  The decision drew fire from both sides in the debate over
the Keystone XL pipeline.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner ’s office labeled the
president’s trip a “tour de farce,” and Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama’s move was more
about his poll numbers than oil.  “Apparently, the slipping poll numbers have convinced him
to announce the lower half of that pipeline,” Romney said at a
town hall meeting on March 21 in Arbutus,  Maryland .  ‘Cut Corners’  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , meanwhile, said it’s
“foolhardy” to “cut corners” to approve the segment of
 TransCanada’s (TRP)  pipeline.  The double-barrel criticism may not matter to voters, who
want to see the U.S. using all available options -- including
more domestic drilling, pipeline construction, clean energy
investments and more incentives for fuel-efficient vehicles --
to ease the strain of the gasoline prices, according to Andrew
Baumann, a vice president of the Democratic polling firm
Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  “Basically what voters want is everything” Baumann said.
Obama’s best strategy is “to take the mantle of the do-it-all
candidate.”  Obama’s Strategy  Obama sought to do that in four states over the last two
days, while also criticizing his opponents.  Speaking at an oil and gas field in Maljamar,  New Mexico ,
on March 21, Obama said his energy strategy “relies on
producing more oil and gas here in America, but also producing
more biofuels in America, more fuel-efficient cars in America,
more wind power in America, and more solar power in America.”  At  Ohio State University  in Columbus, Obama said Republican
presidential candidates, who he didn’t name, were like members
of the “Flat Earth Society” for dismissing his initiatives to
promote alternative energy sources.  “They want to double down on the same ideas that got us
into some of the mess that we’ve been in,” he said.  Four in 10 Americans say the energy situation in the U.S.
is “very serious” and half say the nation is likely to face a
critical energy shortage in the next five years, according to a
Gallup poll of 1,024 people conducted March 8-11. The margin of
error is plus or minus 4 percentage points.  The same poll found that 57 percent of the public favors
building the entire Keystone XL pipeline.  Economic Impact  With the U.S. recovery gaining traction, rising fuel prices
are a potential setback to growth by crimping  consumer spending ,
which makes up 70 percent of the economy. That makes it a
political risk for Obama as he seeks a second term.  The average retail  price  of a gallon of regular gasoline
was $3.88 yesterday, according to a daily survey by the American
Automobile Association, up from $3.57 a month ago.  Obama picked three battleground states to make his points.
He highlighted solar energy in  Nevada , domestic gas production
in New Mexico and alternative energy research yesterday in  Ohio .
Obama won all three states in 2008 and they are being targeted
by both parties for the November election.  Even if the memorandum Obama issued yesterday will do
little to affect the project’s timing, it may neutralize
criticism of his rejection of the permit for the Northern
portion of the pipeline that would bring oil from  Canada .
Getting more oil moving out of Cushing ultimately will ease
energy prices, said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  “He is trumpeting what is going to be the future,” Flynn
said. “Over the long run, by relieving the bottlenecks, it will
make sure that prices are lower everywhere as time goes. It is
going to be a big step forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  