-- Dartmouth President Kim Nominated by Obama for World Bank
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-24T01:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/obama-nominee-to-world-bank-said-to-be-dartmouth-s-jim-yong-kim.html
Dartmouth College President Jim Yong Kim was nominated by the U.S. to head the World Bank,
making him the first physician and Asian-American to lead the
lender that provided $57 billion to developing countries last
fiscal year for everything from building roads to improving
access to health care.  Kim, 52, who was born in  Seoul  and emigrated with his
parents from South Korea at age five, would succeed Robert Zoellick, a former U.S. trade representative whose term ends in
June. The U.S. is the biggest shareholder in the Washington-
based bank, which has always been led by an American.  “It’s time for a development professional to lead the
world’s largest development agency,” President Barack Obama
said today at a White House presentation with Kim at his side.
“Jim has spent more than two decades working to improve
conditions in developing countries around the world.”  Kim, an expert on HIV/AIDS and a 1991 graduate of Harvard
Medical School, breaks the mold of World Bank presidents, who
have been drawn from government and finance. He offers a bridge
to developing nations at a time when countries such as China are
challenging the  World Bank  with their own lending programs in
Africa and Latin America.  “It is an inspired choice,” said Daniel Zelikow, a
managing director at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and a former executive
vice president at the Inter-American Development Bank. “Dr. Kim
is not only a leader in global health and development issues,
but leading a major American university is an excellent proving
ground for managing an organization as complex, diverse and
important as the World Bank.”  Nominees Considered  Kim, Jose Antonio Ocampo and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala are the
three nominees who will be considered for the president’s post,
the World Bank’s board of executive directors said in a
statement today. Ocampo is a Colombian national and a professor
at Columbia University in  New York . Okonjo-Iweala is Nigeria’s
finance minister.  Kim would take over as financing for development projects
is increasingly provided by private investors, turning the World
Bank into more of a technical adviser. The choice of Kim is
subject to approval by the board of the 10,000-employee bank,
and a decision is scheduled by April 20.  “His biggest challenges will be his ability to manage a
large organization, expand his universe of thinking to programs
that catalyze economic growth, and maneuver effectively in very
high political circles,” said Clay Lowery, a former Treasury
assistant secretary for international affairs and a vice
president at Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC, a Washington-based
consultant.  Geithner, Kim  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner backed Kim, and his
name has been on the White House list of candidates for several
weeks, according to an administration official who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
Geithner graduated from  Dartmouth College  with a bachelor’s
degree in government and Asian studies.  Geithner, in a statement, called Kim “an innovative leader
whose groundbreaking work to fight disease and combat poverty
has saved lives around the globe.”  Kim, the son of a dentist, grew up in Muscatine, Iowa,
where he played high school football, basketball and golf. He
graduated from Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, in
1982 and went on to receive degrees in medicine and anthropology
at Harvard, in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Harvard  In 1987, while at Harvard, Kim co-founded Partners in
Health, a nonprofit organization that has opened clinics in
countries including Haiti and  Peru . Working for the group in
Peru, he helped develop a treatment program for multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis.  Kim has said that as a college student, he was torn between
his father’s expectation that he study medicine and a passion
for social justice acquired from his mother, who studied
philosophy at Union Theological Seminary in New York. A summer
working at a health clinic in Manhattan’s Chinatown taught him
he could do both, Kim said in a 2010 interview.  “I realized in the summer of my junior year that going
into medicine is not giving up on social justice and politics,
but a great way to tackle those problems,” Kim said.  He later ran the Department of Global Health and Social
Medicine at  Harvard Medical School  and received a MacArthur
Foundation fellowship, popularly called a “genius” award, in
2003. He also served as director of the World Health
Organization’s HIV/AIDS department.  Dartmouth President  He joined Dartmouth, based in Hanover, New Hampshire, as
its president in 2009, in the midst of cuts to jobs, benefits
and financial aid that aroused faculty criticism and calls for a
more transparent accounting of the cuts.  Kim, who started the Dartmouth Center for Health Care
Delivery Science, set an “aspirational, global vision” for the
school, Stephen F. Mandel Jr., chairman of the board of
trustees, said in an interview.  Geithner spoke at Dartmouth in June and took a question
from Kim about how the school helped prepare him to be Treasury
secretary. Geithner pointed at Kim and referred to the
“revolution you’re going to bring to health-care delivery.”  Past World Bank presidents have included Robert McNamara,
who served as secretary of defense during the Vietnam war, and
Paul Wolfowitz, a former deputy secretary of defense in the
administration of George W. Bush, who resigned under pressure in
2007 after giving his companion an unusually large pay raise and
promotion.  Zoellick, Wolfowitz  Zoellick was nominated by Bush to succeed Wolfowitz and
said last month he will step down when his five-year term ends.
He received a net salary of $450,378 in the year through June
30, plus a total of $284,329 of pension and other benefits.  Kim’s compensation at Dartmouth was $612,768 in the year
ended June 2010, including a base salary $419,754, according to
a public tax filing.  The World Bank was created at the end of World War II as
part of the postwar global economic order, along with the
 International Monetary Fund . Set up to rebuild war-ravaged
 Europe , its first loan was to  France  in 1947. The IMF’s job was
to maintain a stable monetary system.  The bank later shifted its focus to providing financing for
projects such as  power plants  and dams in  developing countries .
As private capital becomes more available, it’s now counting on
the technical expertise that comes with its loans to attract
clients.  Emerging Markets  Net World Bank lending to middle-income governments was
less than $8 billion in the financial year ended June 30. By
contrast, net private inflows to emerging markets reached $910
billion in 2011, according to estimates by the Washington-based
Institute of International Finance.  The bank’s challenge now is “a question of being smarter
and a question of focusing on how to transmit development
knowledge in the most efficient way,” said Whitney Debevoise, a
former U.S. executive director at the World Bank.  The growing economic weight of nations such as  China  and
 Brazil  is posing a challenge to the World Bank’s relevance as a
lender and to the informal arrangement that gives the bank’s
leadership to an U.S. citizen and that of the IMF to a European.  The choice of Kim may help forestall the kind of emerging-
markets bid that occurred last year, when  Mexico ’s central bank
governor,  Agustin Carstens , challenged  Christine Lagarde  for the
leadership of the IMF. Lagarde, a former French finance
minister, prevailed after carrying out a global campaign.  While Brazil nominated Ocampo to lead the bank, it still
hasn’t decided who it will support to become the next president,
a government official in Brasilia said.  Dominican Request  Brazil put forth Ocampo’s nomination today at the request
of the Dominican Republic, whom it represents on the bank’s
executive board, said the official, who was not authorized to
discuss the matter publicly.  For Brazil, more important than a candidate’s nationality
is whether they support the government’s goal of giving a bigger
voice to emerging markets in the running of the Washington-based
institution, the official said.  Okonjo-Iweala was nominated for the World Bank post by
 South Africa , Nigeria and Angola, South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said today.  “It’s going to be very hard for the emerging markets and
other critics to make the point that Dr. Kim is not well-
qualified,”  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in  Washington  and a former IMF official, said in an
interview with Bloomberg television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 