-- Oil Rises Almost $3 a Barrel on Iran Report
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-23T19:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/oil-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-set-for-weekly-decline.html
Oil climbed after Reuters reported
Iranian oil exports will drop by 300,000 barrels a day this
month because of tighter sanctions.  Futures gained 1.4 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after earlier spiking more than 2 percent in three
minutes, following the report, which cited Petrologistics, a
Geneva-based consulting company.  Stephen Schork , president of
the Schork Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said the gain may
have triggered traders’ automatic buy orders.  “The Reuters item came out at the same time we spiked,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “It doesn’t look like
much, but it’s a reminder that the tensions will probably only
increase. If there is a cutoff of Iranian oil, the Saudis will
have a hard time making up for the lost supply.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.52 to settle at $106.87
a barrel on the Nymex. It touched $108.25 a barrel, the highest
intraday price since March 2. Futures dropped 19 cents this week
and are up 8.1 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement gained $1.99, or 1.6 percent,
to end the session at $125.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Oil has risen as Western countries imposed sanctions on
Iran’s petroleum exports to halt its nuclear program. The
Persian Gulf country threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil, in retaliation.
Futures fell earlier this week as  Saudi Arabia  said it could
boost output immediately to make up for any supply shortfall.  ‘Nervous’ Market  “This goes to show how nervous and twitchy this market
is,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at  Societe
Generale  in New York. “The Iranian headlines aren’t even new
news. We knew last month that European refiners were cutting
back on deliveries of Iranian crude.”  Iran halted crude sales to buyers in  France  and the U.K. to
preempt a European Union ban on imports, the Shana oil ministry
news website reported on Feb. 20. Shipments have declined by
300,000 to 400,000 barrels a day because sanctions are
preventing  Iran  from selling oil, Amrita Sen, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in London, said March 7 by e-mail.  Petrologistics reported exports from Iran may drop to 1.9
million barrels a day in March, Reuters said.  Iran exported just below 2 million barrels a day last
month, compared with 2.6 million in November, the International
Energy Agency, adviser to 28 industrialized nations, said last
week. Shipments will fall by at least 800,000 barrels a day when
sanctions take full effect,  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s market
and industry division, said by phone from Paris on March 14,
citing discussions with market participants.  Sudden Move  Oil jumped $2.35 between 9:54 a.m. and 9:55 a.m. on the
Nymex. Analysts and brokers said the increase touched off by the
Iran headlines may have triggered programs set to buy oil when
prices reached predetermined levels. Crude had pared the rally
by $1.72 as of 9:59 a.m.  “That headline just helped trigger a few computer-
generated buy stops,” Tony Machacek, a broker at Bache
Commodities Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “It came back off
almost as quickly as it went up.”  ‘Buy Stop’  A buy stop is an order to purchase the commodity when the
price exceeds a certain point. They are placed based on traders’
assessments that the futures will gain upward momentum after
breaching that level.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said on March 20
that the kingdom can boost output by 25 percent. The country’s
crude production capacity is 12.5 million barrels a day and it
will pump about 9.9 million barrels a day this month and in
April, al-Naimi said in Doha, Qatar. The global market is
oversupplied by as much as 2 million barrels a day and
inventories are rising, he said.  “Going into the weekend I think it is going to be tough to
short this thing,” Schork said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 445,555
contracts as of 2:37 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 539,283
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  