-- Morgan Stanley Ship Hauls Frozen Gas 14,500 Miles to Tokyo
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-23T12:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/morgan-stanley-hired-ship-hauls-frozen-gas-14-500-miles-to-tokyo.html
A liquefied natural gas tanker
hired by Morgan Stanley, the bank that ships the most
commodities, is hauling a cargo about 14,500 miles from the U.S.
to Japan, where the fuel fetches almost seven times more.  The Arctic Spirit, owned by  Teekay LNG Partners LP (TGP)  and on a
long-term charter to Morgan Stanley, left Sabine Pass, Texas, on
Feb. 23, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
ship, sailing to Sodegaura in Tokyo Bay, can carry about 37,000
metric tons, or 16 percent of Japan’s daily imports. The trade
would earn about $16.2 million after transportation costs,
estimates Arctic Securities ASA, an Oslo-based investment bank.  Japan’s gas-fired power plants are boosting output to
compensate for nuclear reactors shuttered since last year’s
earthquake, driving Asia-bound cargoes to a record. The U.S. has
surplus natural gas extracted from shale rocks deep underground,
and while it lacks a facility to liquefy that fuel for shipping,
cargoes delivered to the country under longstanding contracts
can be re-exported when overseas prices are higher.  “There’s a huge arbitrage,” Arctic analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth said by phone yesterday. “When someone is willing to
pay that much to move gas from A to B, it tells you demand is
very strong.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has chartered the Arctic Spirit since April
2011, said Mark Kremin, vice president of Teekay Gas Services,
adding that further details are private. Ship operators
sometimes re-charter vessels, meaning another trader may own the
cargo.  Hugh Fraser , a Morgan Stanley spokesman in London,
declined to comment.  Re-Export Cargo  Morgan Stanley booked at least 149 vessels to haul
commodities ranging from oil to coal last year, exceeding the
combined charters of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Barclays
Capital , data from shipbroker  Clarkson Plc (CKN)  show. Morgan Stanley
hired a tanker last month to ship 60,000 tons of jet fuel to
 Alaska  from  South Korea , according to shipbroker reports.  One million British thermal units of LNG costs $17 in Japan
and $2.62 on the U.S. Gulf Coast, according to February data
from New York-based shipbroker Poten & Partners Inc. Large,
modern LNG carriers will earn a record $147,000 a day on average
this year, according to the median estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Record Diversions  A record 18 million tons of LNG were diverted to  Asia  from
the Atlantic region in 2011, a fourfold surge in five years,
Steve Hill, president of LNG trading at  BG Group Plc (BG/) , said at a
conference in New Delhi today. Current monthly diversions are
also at a record, he said. LNG is natural gas that’s been cooled
to a liquid state for shipping.  Japanese LNG imports rose 22.5 percent from a year earlier
to 7.67 million tons in February, the  finance ministry  said
yesterday. The world’s largest buyer of the fuel  imported  a
record 8.44 million tons in January, trade ministry data show.
The country’s nuclear plants were operating at 6.1 percent of
capacity last month, the lowest level since the Federation of
Electric Power Companies of Japan started compiling  monthly data 
in April 1977.  Natural gas futures traded in  New York  fell 24 percent this
year to $2.279 per million Btu, near the 10-year closing low of
$2.269 reached March 12. U.S. production rose 6.5 percent last
year to a record 28.58 trillion cubic feet, outpacing
consumption that advanced 2.5 percent to 24.37 trillion cubic
feet, according to the Department of Energy. The U.S. shipped 18
billion cubic feet of LNG to Japan last year, data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  