-- Most Accurate Colombia Forecasters Predict 10th Rate Rise Today
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-03-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/most-accurate-colombia-forecasters-predict-10th-rate-rise-today.html
Colombia will raise  interest rates 
for the 10th time in 13 months today after the economy expanded
at the fastest pace since 2007, according to the economists with
the best track record of predicting the central bank’s moves.  While 16 of 30 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect policy
makers to hold the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent today, the
three most-accurate forecasters in Bloomberg surveys all predict
another quarter-point increase.  “The central bank remains worried about the behavior of
 consumer credit ,” said Andres Langebaek, a senior economist at
Banco Davivienda SA, and the analyst with the best record of
predicting Colombian interest rates. “The biggest worry of the
bank in its most recent rate increases has been this subject, so
we think that the need to raise rates remains.”  Colombia ’s central bank has defied a trend for lower rates
in Brazil,  Russia ,  Chile  and elsewhere as record oil production
and a credit boom powered 5.9 percent  growth  last year. The
higher rates will help policy makers temper inflation that has
remained above the 3 percent mid-point of their target range
since April 2011. An increase could draw more capital inflows,
adding to the problems of exporters hit by a 10 percent surge in
the peso this year, the world’s best performing currency against
the dollar.  Langebaek expects any rate increase to be the last of the
year, he said in a phone interview.  ‘Priority’  Colombia’s policy makers in recent months have repeatedly
voiced concern over the pace of credit growth. Household debt
has increased to close to record levels as a share of income,
while the quality of consumer loans has deteriorated, central
bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said last week. Cano said
both trends are “disturbing”.  Consumer prices  rose 3.55 percent in the 12 months through
February, from 3.54 percent a month earlier. In October, annual
inflation breached the upper limit of the central bank’s target
range for the first time since 2009. Colombia targets inflation
of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Unlike  Brazil , where policy makers are slashing rates to
try to revive growth and prevent the appreciation of the real,
Colombian policy makers are more focused on inflation, said
Juana Tellez, chief economist at Bogota-based BBVA Colombia, and
the analyst with the third-best record of predicting interest
rates.  “They are giving priority to inflation, as they have done
historically, and they want to get inflation to 3 percent,”
Tellez said in a telephone interview. “This a very important
contrast with Brazil.”  Oil, Mining  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due in 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge
of annual consumer price increase expectations, fell to 3.29
percentage points yesterday, down from 3.81 percentage points on
Feb. 24 when the central bank last raised rates.  Last year’s economic growth was led by a 14.3 percent rise
in crude oil and natural gas output, and a 15.4 percent increase
in coal, the statistics agency said yesterday.  Investments in oil and mining, along with higher interest
rates, have pulled in capital which has added to gains in the
peso. Mining Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said Jan. 26 that
Colombia will receive around $10 billion in foreign direct
investment in these sectors this year, similar to 2011 levels.  Shares in state-run oil producer Ecopetrol SA, Colombia’s
biggest company by market capitalization, have risen 25 percent
this year, while shares in Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp., which
operates Colombia’s biggest oil field, have risen 38 percent.  Exporters  The National Federation of Coffee Growers and other
exporters have urged the government to do more to curb the
strength of the peso, which they say is harming their business.
President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ government has repeatedly voiced
concern that the peso’s strength could hurt manufacturers.  Industrial output  rose 2.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, its slowest growth in nine months. Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said this week that the government doesn’t
rule out more measures to curb the currency’s strength.  The Colombian government has pledged to keep at least $1
billion of dividends from Ecopetrol outside the country to avoid
adding to gains in the peso, while the central bank extended a
program of daily purchases of a minimum of $20 million until at
least Aug. 4, from the initially announced minimum three-month
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 