-- Toulouse Murders Color French Presidential Campaign
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-23T14:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/toulouse-murders-color-france-s-presidential-election-campaign.html
Gunshots that killed the man
responsible for the deaths of seven people, including three
children at a Jewish school, had barely stopped ringing when
candidates in  France ’s presidential election began flinging
charges and countercharges on the case and its handling.  While police yesterday were raiding the apartment of the
self-confessed killer, Mohammed Merah, after a 32-hour siege,
the head of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s party accused the
Socialists of being soft on terror. Socialist challenger
 Francois Hollande  and his campaign manager later that day
alluded to a “flaw” in the police handling of the case.  Candidates had suspended their campaigns after the March 19
murders of the three children and a teacher at a Jewish school
in Toulouse, which followed two separate attacks on French
soldiers that left three paratroopers of North African descent
dead. Now, they are back in full force, with security questions
lending a new tone to the campaign and both sides seeking to
capitalize on the case.  “The politicians have returned to their quarrels very
quickly,” said  Emmanuel Riviere , a pollster at  TNS Sofres  in
Paris. “Things are taking another dimension, a more political
character. The talk is turning to immigration, Islam in France,
the efficiency of the police and of the penal system.”  Recent polls have shown Sarkozy gaining support ahead of
the first round of elections on April 22. He still remains at
least eight points behind Hollande in a potential May 6 run-off.  Poll Gains  A poll released today said 74 percent of the French think
Sarkozy had the “appropriate attitude” to the Toulouse drama,
compared with 56 percent for Hollande. Seventy-one percent
thought Sarkozy handled the situation well, according to the
TNS-Sofres poll that questioned 1,016 people.  The murders have thrown the spotlight on security, which
voters perceive as a strength of Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular
Movement party.  About 58 percent of voters judge Sarkozy “capable of
reducing insecurity,” compared with 39 percent for Hollande,
according to an Ifop poll last month. The same survey showed a
59-38 perception gap on the ability of the two candidates to
“make difficult decisions.”  Sarkozy mentioned Merah right from the start of a campaign
speech last night in Strasbourg, his first event after the
campaign resumed. He said his opponents were blaming France for
Merah’s killings.  War of Words  “Searching for an explanation for this monster would be an
unpardonable moral fault,” Sarkozy said. “Blaming society,
pointing your finger at the politics or the institutions of
France, is unworthy. France is not guilty. Society is not
responsible, the Republic has nothing to be ashamed of.”  Sarkozy never said who had made such claims.  Francois Bayrou , a centrist in fourth or fifth place
depending on the poll, had said March 20 that France needed “to
put an end to a climate of intolerance,” adding that French
society is “morally sick.”  Jean-Francois Cope, the head of Sarkozy’s UMP party, held a
previously scheduled press conference while French police were
carrying out their final assault on Merah’s hideout.  He accused Hollande of “double language,” saying he made
“underhanded, insidious comments to blame the president.”
Hollande had said in a radio interview that leaders “should
control their words.”  ‘Headline-Grabbing’  Cope also said the Socialist Party hadn’t backed the
government efforts against “extremism.” They didn’t vote for
measures adopted by Sarkozy’s government to give police more
powers to interrogate terrorism suspects or to ban full facial
veils, he said.  In his speech, Sarkozy proposed making it a criminal
offense to frequent websites promoting violent ideologies.  In a speech in central France last night, Hollande said
“what matters is not headline-grabbing events, but the means to
apply existing laws.”  He said the police who took part in the raid “deserve all
our gratitude,” said that nothing justifies terrorism, and
vowed not to exploit the Toulouse events. “I will not get
carried away, exaggerate, or engage in polemics,” he said.
“The French have for too long had to deal with too many
divisions, too many diatribes, too much discord.”  Investigation ‘Flaw’  Still, Hollande and his campaign director  Pierre Moscovici 
pointed to comments by Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  suggesting
the police maybe could have caught Merah earlier.  “I understand that one could ask a question about whether
there has been a flaw in the investigation,” Juppe said on
Europe1 yesterday. He later told  Agence France-Presse  that he
never meant to say there had been a “flaw,” just that
“clarity” had to be brought to how the case was handled.  The first paratrooper killed was shot by someone who made a
rendezvous with him to buy a scooter. Merah emerged in that
investigation, along with 575 other people who looked at the
soldier’s Internet ad, prosecutor Francois Molins said in an
interview yesterday. Investigators didn’t zero in on the 23-
year-old Merah’s past dabbling in jihadist activities until
after the killings at the Jewish school.  While Merah had a police record, there was nothing to
indicate that he might be ready to commit murder, Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  said today on RTL radio.  Neck-And-Neck  Police questioned Merah in late 2011 about his trips to
Afghanistan and  Pakistan , although since he didn’t travel with
any terror networks it wasn’t clear if he ever did any terrorism
training, Molins said. Merah told intelligence officials that
his trips had been for tourism.  The political squabbling may not help anyone in the
election, said Riviere, the TNS pollster.  “The voters who are still hesitating may decide that the
whole debate has been lowered a notch,” he said.  The two leading candidates are neck-and-neck in the first
round. A BVA poll of 978 voters taken March 21 and 22 gave
Hollande 29.5 percent support, and 28 percent for Sarkozy.  The Socialist candidate was down 1.5 points since mid-
February, while Sarkozy had gained 2 points. The same survey
predicted a second round result of 54 percent to 46 percent for
Hollande, narrower than the 12-point spread a month ago. The BVA
poll has a margin of error of 2.5 points.  So far, security hasn’t been a major issue in the election.
Just 15 percent of voters said it will influence their choice,
behind the economic crisis at 50 percent, unemployment at 46
percent and government debt at 32 percent, according to the
February Ifop poll. Whether the killings will become a voter
preoccupation remains to be seen, pollsters said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  