-- House Votes to Drop Medicare Board From Health-Care Law
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/house-votes-to-drop-medicare-board-from-health-care-law.html
The Republican-led U.S. House voted
to eliminate a Medicare advisory board from the 2010 health-care
overhaul days before the U.S.  Supreme Court  hears arguments on
the law’s constitutionality.  The measure,  H.R. 5 , passed yesterday on a 223-181 vote. It
also would cap awards in medical-malpractice claims for pain and
suffering at $250,000 in most states.  President  Barack Obama  signed the health-care law, known as
the Affordable Care Act, two years ago today. It is intended to
extend insurance coverage to tens of millions of uninsured
Americans, impose new taxes on the highest wage earners and
produce savings in Medicare, the health-care system for the
elderly. The Supreme Court hears arguments March 26-28 on legal
challenges to the law.  The Independent Payment Advisory Board, composed of 15
presidentially appointed members, would recommend cuts in
Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals and other health-care
providers. The board’s members haven’t been selected thus far.  “I am the first one to tell you how much I am opposed” to
the advisory board, said Representative  Frank Pallone  of  New
Jersey , who was among Democrats who said they were disappointed
that Republican leaders merged the repeal with medical
malpractice liability provisions they oppose.  Republicans “have no interest in truly repealing” the
advisory board, Pallone said. “They only care about defacing
the Affordable Care Act and continuing their political game of
repealing the law piece by piece.”  Veto Threat  The White House threatened a veto of the bill on March 20,
calling the advisory board “an important safeguard” to rein in
Medicare cost growth. The message from the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget said the malpractice award caps would
create “inappropriate and harmful restrictions” without
reducing preventable injuries or improving the quality of care.  The medical malpractice provisions would limit fees to
lawyers that are based on a percentage of a damage award, set
guidelines for punitive award limits and create a deadline for
filing the lawsuits.  The House has passed similar medical liability provisions,
including in 2002, 2003 and 2005. The proposals didn’t advance
in the Senate, now controlled by Democrats.  Starting in 2015, the payment advisory board would have the
ability to recommend cuts of as much as 0.5 percent of Medicare
spending, increasing to 1.5 percent for 2018 and beyond. The
board’s recommendations would automatically take effect unless
Congress passed its own spending reductions that matched the
amount recommended by the board.  ‘Medical IRS’  “It’s going to be more like a medical IRS than an advisory
panel,” said Representative Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania
Republican, referring to the  Internal Revenue Service . The
board’s purpose “is to save money by restricting access to
health care for Medicare beneficiaries,” he said.  The medical liability provisions in the bill would reduce
the federal  budget deficit  by $48.6 billion over 10 years, while
repealing the Medicare advisory board would increase the deficit
by $3.1 billion, according to a March 19 Congressional Budget
Office estimate.  Medical associations and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are
among the bill’s supporters. Opponents include trial lawyers’
associations, consumer advocacy groups and state legislatures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  