-- Parlux Fragrances Buyout Should Be Blocked, Lawyer Contends
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-03-23T19:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/parlux-fragrances-buyout-should-be-blocked-lawyer-contends.html
Parlux Fragrances Inc. (PARL) ’s
$170 million sale to  Perfumania Holdings Inc. (PERF)  should be blocked
because directors of the maker of  Paris Hilton  perfume didn’t
seek a higher bid, a lawyer for Parlux shareholders said.  Parlux’s board also failed to disclose that Perfumania
officials threatened to begin a proxy fight unless the offer was
accepted, attorney Donald J. Enright told Delaware Chancery
Court Judge Sam Glasscock.  The directors “caved into the pressure” after being
threatened by Perfumania, Enright said at a hearing today in
Georgetown, Delaware. A special committee that was appointed
following the threat only evaluated the proposal and didn’t
solicit offers from other buyers and failed to lock in an all-
cash option that had been part of an earlier offer.  Glasscock said that he would “address this promptly” and
told lawyers that he would either issue a written opinion next
week or make a ruling from the bench.  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based Parlux announced Dec. 23 it
would sell the company to Perfumania, which operates a chain of
about 360 perfume shops, in a deal then valued at $170 million,
according to a company statement.  Trading Partner  “The value of this transaction has dropped very, very
substantially since it was announced,” Enright told Glasscock.
Enright estimates that the price has “dropped by about $50
million” for a total value of $120 million, based on
Perfumania’s recent share price.  Under the terms of the sale, Parlux investors can choose
to receive $4 in cash plus 0.20 share of Bellport,  New York- 
based Perfumania or 0.53333 of the buyer, for each share they
own. Perfumania rose 12 cent to $10.32 at 3:45 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. Parlux lost one cent to $5.64 at 3:45 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The deal would give Perfumania control over its largest
trading partner and the maker of celebrity-branded fragrances
from pop singers including Rihanna,  Kanye West  and  Jessica
Simpson .  Lawyers for Parlux’s board told Glasscock today that they
had an “active committee” evaluate the offer.  “It would be a futile exercise to make” the company “go
out and shop it again; the buyer is here,” Alvin B. Davis told
Glasscock.  He said no other bidders emerged for the company because
the market recognized the “giant of Perfumania hanging over its
head” and the dangers that could arise from a spurned buyer as
your biggest customer.  Request Denied  Parlux and Perfumania official had asked Glasscock to put
the Delaware suit, filed by Parlux shareholder Jose Dias, on
hold while similar suits proceed in state court in  Florida .
Glasscock denied that request earlier this month.  “I find nothing that indicates that this matter should be
stayed in deference to the Florida action,” Glasscock said.
“To the contrary, the interest in this state in the behavior of
fiduciaries for its corporate citizens convinces me” to allow
the suit to proceed, the judge added.  Dias’ lawyers argued in a March 14 court filing that Parlux
directors knuckled under to demands from  Glenn Nussdorf ,
Perfumania’s chairman, that it sell the company or face a fight
over board seats.  ‘Desired Effect’  “It appears that Mr. Nussdorf’s threat had the desired
effect,” Enright said in court today.  Nussdorf, who owns 11 percent of Parlux’s common stock,
placed two members on the company’s board after expressing
interest in buying the perfume maker in 2006, Dias’ lawyers said
in the filing.  “At no point in time did the board or the special
committee even discuss whether to contact other potentially
interested suitors for a pre-agreement market check,” the
investor’s attorneys noted in the March 14 court papers.  “The notion that they were beholden to Nussdorf is
mischievous and unfair,” Davis said. “He was appointed because
he was competent, not biased,” he added, referring to Anthony
D’Agostino, one of the board members selected by Nussdorf.  The case is Dias v. Purches, CA 7199,  Delaware  Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 