-- PBOC May Assess Local Debt Burdens Before Direct Bond Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T04:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/pboc-may-assess-local-debt-burdens-before-direct-bond-sales-1-.html
China ’s central bank may grade
local governments’ creditworthiness in an internal trial program
as officials prepare for debt sales by provincial and city
authorities, a state researcher said.  Staffers from the People’s Bank of China and  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences  are planning to carry out the tests
this year, said  Liu Yuhui , director of a financial research
office at CASS. Researchers in his office will probably assign
credit ratings for the central bank’s reference to assess how
much a province or city should be able to borrow, Liu said in an
interview in Beijing March 21.  China is letting some cities and provinces sell bonds
directly after in October ending a ban that prompted local
governments to set up thousands of financing arms to fund roads,
bridges, and sewage plants. As the government grapples with the
threat of soured loans from a record expansion of  credit  in 2009
and 2010, officials aim to limit future risks.  “The old financing-vehicle model has created lots of
problems as debt was hidden from books without effective
supervision,” said Liu, whose office is formally known as the
Financial Key Laboratory.  Assessing the creditworthiness of
local governments is “a necessary step,” he said.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. yesterday reported a 14
percent drop in quarterly profit as the lender set aside money
for bad loans, underscoring concern about how lenders will fare
as the economy cools. The company’s shares fell 3.1 percent in
 Hong Kong  as of 11:59 a.m. local time.  Fiscal Grades  Liu said the grades would be closely linked to the fiscal
standing of local governments, differing from existing credit
ratings granted to local financing vehicles and their projects,
he said.  The financing vehicles had accumulated 10.7 trillion yuan
($1.7 trillion) of debt at the end of 2010, according to the
National Audit Office. The central bank, whose responsibilities
include oversight of credit ratings, is one of the regulators of
the nation’s bond market, along with the National Development
and Reform Commission and the China Securities Regulatory
Commission.  Liu declined to say which central bank department is
working with his office on the project. No comment was available
from the central bank on the information provided by Liu.  Shanghai  became the first local government to sell bonds
directly since 1949 when it issued three-year bonds in November
as part of a trial program. Guangdong, on China’s southern coast,
Zhejiang and the city of Shenzhen have sold similar notes.  Local Risks  The project for assessing local government risks is
government-directed and hasn’t involved any independent credit-
rating companies, Liu said. The research team is collecting
local fiscal data and the trial will initially target provincial
governments and then expand to cities and lower municipal levels,
he said.  Some governments have exceeded their fiscal capacity by
borrowing to finance local projects using guarantees including
future revenues from land sales, prompting regulators to
restrict new lending. The government has strengthened
regulations, urged local authorities to restrict new borrowings
and set up funds to ensure debt repayment.  While credit ratings are assigned to the yuan-denominated
bonds issued by the local financing vehicles, Dagong Global
Credit Rating Co. Chairman  Guan Jianzhong  said in July 2010 that
the grades don’t necessarily reflect risks investors face.  China’s local bond ratings have a “significant upward
bias” with 80 percent of issuers rated AA and above, analysts
from HSBC Holdings Plc said in a March 7 research note. “Local
government-owned entities generally enjoy good credit ratings as
markets perceive they have the implicit support of the central
government,” HSBC said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from  Henry Sanderson  in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  