-- Pedro Espada Jr., Son Indicted by U.S. Prosecutors in Manhattan
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/pedro-espada-jr-son-indicted-by-prosecutors-in-manhattan-1-.html
Former  New York  state Senate
Democratic majority leader Pedro Espada Jr. and his son are
accused of  tax fraud  and making false statements to the
government in an indictment by U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan.  Espada, 58, and Pedro Gautier Espada, 38, were named in an
indictment filed yesterday charging both with making false
statements to conceal bid rigging and theft of funds from a
clinic they run. They’re also accused of helping prepare
fraudulent tax returns for business expenses reported in fiscal
years 2004 and 2005.  Both men are on trial in federal court in Brooklyn, New
York, charged with stealing more than $500,000 from the
nonprofit health-care clinic they operate, Soundview Healthcare
Center in the borough of the Bronx, New York, according to
prosecutors in the office of  Brooklyn  U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch. Pedro Espada started Soundview, which gets more than $1
million a year in federal funding, in 1978.  “We’re disappointed that instead of waiting two more weeks
until the end of the current trial, the government has chosen to
bring a new indictment in the midst of a trial, thereby
deliberately generating negative publicity against the Espadas
and endangering the fairness of the current trial,” Susan R. Necheles, a lawyer for Pedro Espada, said in a telephone
interview.  Brooklyn Prosecutors  The Espadas were charged by Brooklyn prosecutors in
December 2010 when the elder Espada was still in the Senate. He
had been defeated that September in the Democratic primary for
his Bronx seat. In a trial that began March 15, Brooklyn federal
prosecutors said the Espadas engaged in several illegal schemes
from January 2005 to February 2010.  Russell M. Gioiella, Gautier Espada’s lawyer, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
yesterday seeking comment on the charges.  The cases are U.S. Pedro Espada Jr., 12-cr-235, U.;S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ); U.S.
v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  