-- Philippine Bonds Fall as Central Bank Signals Inflation Risk
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-03-23T04:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/philippine-bonds-fall-as-central-bank-signals-inflation-risk.html
Philippine bonds fell this week
after the central bank forecast inflation will accelerate in
2012. The peso was little changed.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is closely watching prices and
the possible second-round effects from energy costs, Governor
Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today, adding
that consumer-price gains will probably range from 2.2 percent
to 3.1 percent this month.  Standard & Poor’s  will probably raise
the nation’s debt rating from BB, which is two steps below
investment grade, sooner rather than later, Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said at a media briefing today.  “Inflation will not be as abnormally low as it was in
February, though it should still be manageable,” said Emilio Neri, a Manila-based economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands.
“That adds to the argument that the aggressiveness necessary to
counterbalance weakness in  Europe  and the U.S. is no longer as
compelling as it used to be for policy makers.”  Yields on the 5 percent bonds due August 2018 rose 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.125 percent, the highest
level since October, according to Amstel Financial Services
prices at 12 p.m. local time. The yield increased 28 basis
points this week, the most in six months.  Volatility Drops  The peso traded at 43.035 per dollar, compared with 43.045
yesterday and 43.068 a week ago, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, dropped 55 basis points to 5.75
percent, the lowest level since August.  The credit-rating outlook “should cap any upswing in local
bond yields and is peso positive by extension,” Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore , said in an e-mail.  “Possibilities of second-round effects as a result of
higher  oil prices , point to possible higher inflation ranges
ahead,” Tetangco said today. “We are mindful of how these
could reflect in the path of inflation over the policy horizon,
the assessment of which will be the principal consideration in
setting policy moving forward.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas reduced the  overnight borrowing
rate  by 50 basis points this year to 4 percent, with the next
review due April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  