-- Obama Officials May Study Safety Risks in Fracking Pipelines
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/pipelines-at-fracking-wells-seen-subject-to-further-u-s-reports.html
The Obama administration may start
collecting data on pipelines energy companies use to transport
natural gas and oil extracted from shale by hydraulic
fracturing, according to a government report.  Federal and state regulators lack enough information to
determine the safety of pipelines that collect gas at well 
sites and carry the fuel to processing facilities, according 
to the  report  by the  Government Accountability Office , 
Congress’s investigative arm.  The Department of Transportation’s Pipeline
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, which oversees
transmission pipelines, doesn’t collect data on smaller lines
at the wells, according to the report.  “While the safety risks of federally unregulated, onshore
hazardous liquid and gas gathering pipelines are generally
considered to be lower than other types of pipelines, PHMSA is
currently not able to determine the performance and safety of
these gathering pipelines,” according to yesterday’s report.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, involves injecting
millions of gallons of water, chemicals and sand thousands of
feet underground in shale formations to free trapped oil and
gas. A surge in exploration in shale formations has been
accompanied by a “new infrastructure” of pipelines that may
pose unknown safety risks, according to the report.  Sixteen state agencies cited “moderate or high safety
risks” because regulators weren’t certain of the exact
locations of pipelines, according to the report. Other concerns
included construction quality, maintenance practices and unknown
current conditions of pipelines, the GAO said.  The report suggested creating an online database for states
to share information on practices to ensure safety of its
unregulated pipelines.  Pipelines for hazardous materials and natural gas carry
about two-thirds of U.S. energy supplies through a network
covering about 2.5 million miles (4 million kilometers), the
report said. The U.S. has about 200,000 miles of pipelines
collecting natural gas at drilling sites, as well about 40,000
miles of gathering pipelines for hazardous materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  