-- Portugal Town Halls Face Default Amid $12 Billion Debt
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-23T11:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/portugal-town-halls-face-default-amid-12-billion-debt.html
Portugal ’s town halls face default
amid 9 billion euros ($12 billion) of  debt  unless the government
provides aid soon, said Fernando Ruas, president of the nation’s
association of municipalities.  “At a company we call it insolvency,” Ruas said in a
telephone interview from Lisbon on March 21. “It could happen
that some town halls could have to restructure their debt if the
government doesn’t intervene.”  Ruas blamed a decline in money transfers from the
government in Lisbon to municipalities for their growing
financial woes. Portugal last year became the third euro-area
country to request external aid, following Greece and Ireland.
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting spending and
raising taxes to meet the terms of the 78 billion-euro rescue.  “A sharp decrease in money transfers has made it harder
for many town halls to comply with their ongoing commitments,”
said Ruas. His association estimates town halls face about 9
billion euros in liabilities. About 1.5 billion euros of the
total is in bills to suppliers overdue by more than 90 days
while the remainder is mostly made up of debt to  banks , he said.  Similar to Spain  The southern European country’s 308 town halls and two
semi-autonomous regions face similar issues to those of  Spain ,
whose regions and municipalities have been shut out of  capital
markets  due to the credit squeeze, leaving many bills to
suppliers unpaid. Spain’s government is offering them loans to
help pay suppliers.  Money-transfers from the central government to town halls
are set to decline 4.7 percent this year to 2.28 billion euros
from a year earlier, according to  Portugal’s 2012 budget . To cut
costs, Portugal is encouraging some town halls to merge as part
of a plan to re-organize local governments, the government said
in a statement on Feb. 2.  “The high level of indebtedness of town halls across the
country is nothing new,” said Joao Cesar das Neves, a professor
of economics at Lisbon’s  Catholic University . “The government
had little control over the country’s municipalities, which
spent way beyond what is admissible, and now it is faced with a
complicated problem.”  Number Crunching  The government is currently obtaining more data on
municipal finances, a spokesman for Parliamentary Affairs
Minister Miguel Relvas said. “The information already made
public shows that there are some town halls facing financial
difficulties,” Antonio Vale said by phone.  Portugal’s island of Madeira said last year that its debt
had risen to an unsustainable 6.3 billion euros, prompting the
government in Lisbon to grant the semi-autonomous region 1.5
billion euros in aid in exchange for a pledge to increase taxes
and cut spending.  Asked if the government may aid some cities and towns in a
similar fashion, Vale said: “This is a different situation than
Madeira.” He declined to provide details on possible solutions
being considered by the government.  Portugal’s shrinking  economy  may make further help harder
to come by. Gross domestic product declined for a fifth quarter
in the three months through December and the jobless rate rose
to 14 percent. That may hurt efforts to cut the  budget deficit 
to 4.5 percent of GDP this year and within the European Union’s
3 percent limit in 2013.  Banking Woes  Town halls may also find it tougher to get bank funding as
Portuguese lenders will probably have to cut back on lending to
bolster  capital ratios  and comply with the terms of the nation’s
bailout package, Andre Rodrigues, an analyst at Caixa Banco de
Investimento in Lisbon, said last week.  “From a regulatory point of view, it still makes little
sense to restart lending growth in the short term,” he said.  The rescue plan assumes Portugal will regain access to
medium and long-term sovereign debt markets in 2013, with the
program’s last disbursement to be made in June 2014, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in December.  Passos Coelho said in an interview on March 6 that if the
country is unable to return to markets next year due to external
factors, it would be able to count on the support of the IMF,
the European Commission and the  European Central Bank .  Ruas said he met with government officials in recent weeks
to discuss possible help for the debt-ridden municipalities.  “Nobody is expecting the government to forgive our debt,”
he said. “I’m hopeful the government will find a solution that
will help municipalities meet their obligations in terms of
paying suppliers on time and meet their debt obligations.”  Still, not all town halls risk default or need aid, said
Antonio Amaral, a spokesman for Maia, a northern city of 145,000
people. “Since 2006, we’ve cut our debt by 46 percent, and we
have a very sustainable debt ratio at this moment, despite the
crisis we are facing,” he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  