-- Sales of New Houses in U.S. Fall for Second Month: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-23T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/purchases-of-new-u-s-houses-unexpectedly-fall-for-second-month.html
Purchases of new homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in February for a second month, a sign the
recovery in the housing market may be uneven.  Sales dropped 1.6 percent to a 313,000  annual pace , the
slowest since October, from a 318,000 rate in January that was
weaker than previously reported, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 325,000.  Residential real estate is struggling to gain momentum as
property values remain depressed by the threat of more
foreclosures. Nonetheless, a pickup in hiring, growing incomes
and  mortgage rates  near a record low are making houses more
affordable, which may help underpin the market.  “There are signs of life in the market in certain regions,
but we’re not seeing a broad-based recovery,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York , who projected a 310,000 sales pace. “Builders are still
competing with existing inventories. The spring selling season
should show some modest improvement, but it will be limited.”  Stocks climbed, led by a gain in energy companies, while a
measure of builder shares declined for the fifth day in the last
six. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,397.11 at the close in New York. The S&P  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME) ,
which includes Lennar Corp. and KB Home, dropped 1.2 percent.  Economists’ estimates for February sales ranged from
310,000 to 350,000. The rate for January was previously reported
at 321,000.  Elsewhere today, French business confidence climbed more
than projected in March after a gain in February that marked the
first back-to-back increase in more than a year.  Taking Longer  The recent slowdown in housing demand has pushed up the
amount of time it takes to sell a new home. There were 150,000
new dwellings on the market at the end of February, matching the
prior month’s record low. The supply of homes at the current
sales rate climbed to 5.8 months’ worth from 5.7 months in
January.  Purchases, tabulated when contracts are signed, fell in two
of the four U.S. regions, led by a 7.2 percent drop in the
South. Sales declined 2.4 percent in the Midwest and rose 14
percent in the Northeast and 8 percent in the West.  The regional breakdown affected prices as demand fell in
the South and Midwest where homes are less expensive and rose in
the Northeast and West where they are costlier.  Median Price  The  median sales price  increased 6.2 percent in February
from the same month last year to $233,700, today’s report
showed.  New-home sales have lost their ability to forecast the
broader market as demand shifts to previously owned houses.
Purchases of existing homes are calculated when a deal closes
about a month or two later. New properties made up almost 7
percent of the market last year, down from a high of 15 percent
during the last decade’s housing boom.  Existing-home  purchases  eased to a 4.59 million annual rate
last month from a 4.63 million pace in January, the National
Association of Realtors reported this week. Even with the
decline, January and February sales marked the strongest start
to a year since 2007.  Home foreclosures remain a concern for builders. Filings
fell 8 percent in February, the smallest year-over-year decrease
since October 2010, as lenders began working through a backlog
of seized properties, RealtyTrac Inc. said last week.  ‘Foreclosure Tide’  “February’s numbers point to a gradually rising
foreclosure tide,” Brandon Moore, RealtyTrac’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “That should result in more
states posting annual increases in the coming months.”  To hold down borrowing costs like  mortgage  rates, Federal
Reserve policy makers last week said they will continue to swap
$400 billion in short-term securities with long-term debt to
lengthen the average maturity of the central bank’s holdings, a
move dubbed Operation Twist.  The NAR’s affordability index climbed to a record high in
January, underpinning demand. That may be why builders are
gaining confidence.  Builders this year have broken ground on homes at the
fastest pace since October-November 2008, according to Commerce
Department figures released this week. Permits for construction
climbed to the highest level since 2008, the same report showed.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence in March held at the highest level since
June 2007. Sales expectations climbed for a sixth month,
according to the March 19 report.  Ryland Group  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , which builds homes with an average price
of $255,000 in 13 states, said it has a positive outlook for
2012.  “We finished the year on a strong note, entered the year
optimistic and still feel fairly optimistic today,” Larry
Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at the  Westlake
Village , California-based company, said March 6 at an investor
conference. “The good thing about the traffic we are seeing is
it’s new traffic. We feel a lot better than we did a year ago.
Hopefully, we can keep this trend up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  