-- Quest, Lab Corp. Fall After Fraud Whistle-Blower Interview
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-23T20:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/quest-lab-corp-fall-after-fraud-whistle-blower-interview-1-.html
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  and
 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings  fell after a man who
accused the companies of Medicare fraud in lawsuits explained
his allegations to a trade publication.  The Dark Report, a newsletter published by R. Lewis Dark,
includes an interview in the Feb. 20 issue with  Andrew Baker , a
former lab company executive who filed whistle-blower lawsuits
against Quest in 2005 and LabCorp in 2007. Baker claims the
companies used a sales tactic called “pull-through” that has
drawn scrutiny from congressional investigators.  Quest, the biggest U.S. operator of medical labs, declined
1.3 percent to close at $59.17, the biggest single-day drop in
about two months. LabCorp  fell  less than 1 percent to $89.47.  Baker, the former CEO of Unilab Corp., which Quest bought
in 2003, alleges that the two companies offer commercial
insurers discounts on lab tests in exchange for the health plans
recommending that their network doctors send all of their
patients, including those covered by Medicare or Medicaid, to
Quest or Lab Corp. The labs then charge higher prices to the
government programs, Baker’s suit alleges.  Quest has “complied with Medicare and Medicaid pricing
requirements and our testing services are priced
appropriately,” Wendy Bost, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. Baker’s lawsuit is “without merit,” she said.  A LabCorp spokesman, Stephen Anderson, didn’t respond to an
e-mail or phone message seeking comment on the Dark Report story
and Baker’s allegations.  U.S. senators  Charles Grassley , a Republican of  Iowa , and
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, opened an investigation in
November into the sales practices. The senators have asked
Quest, LabCorp and insurers  Cigna Corp. (CI)  and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  for
documents related to their contracts and pull-through practices.  The government hasn’t joined Baker’s lawsuit. Under U.S.
law, whistle-blowers can share in any judgments or settlements
that result from such suits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  