-- Raiffeisen Too Cheap to Sell Shares in First Half, RZB Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-23T16:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/raiffeisen-won-t-sell-new-stock-in-first-half-rzb-chairman-says.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender, won’t sell new shares
until June because current prices would mean “giving away” the
bank, the chairman of its majority owner said.  Raiffeisen and 78.5 percent owner  Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA)  will fill a capital gap found by the European
Banking Authority in the first half of the year without a share
sale, RZB’s Christian Konrad told journalists in Vienna late
yesterday. As Raiffeisen trades below book value, other ways to
boost capital are preferable, Konrad said.  “We would like to do it, but it has to make sense,”
Konrad said about a share sale. While “we do want to raise
capital for further growth,” selling shares now “would mean
giving away half the bank,” Konrad said. “I know we’ll satisfy
the EBA by June 30, and until then we won’t sell stock. We will
raise capital, but there are other ways to do it.”  Raiffeisen, which operates in  Austria  and in 15 former
communist countries, is seeking to beef up capital on the EBA’s
orders and as Hungarian losses depleted reserves. About a third
of its capital consists of state aid and other forms that will
be phased out. The Vienna-based lender shelved plans for a share
sale last year after  Hungary ’s decision to force foreign lenders
to swallow currency losses on mortgages denominated in Swiss
francs pushed Raiffeisen’s local unit into a loss and sent the
lender’s stock down by more than 50 percent.  Share Sale Revisited  It revisited the plans when shares  more than doubled  to
more than 30 euros last month from a 12-month low in November,
making it the best-performing stock in the 43-member  Bloomberg
European Banks and Financial Services Index  in that period, four
people with knowledge of its talks with banks said at the time.
The lender may seek as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
two of the people said.  They rose 2.8 percent to 26.04 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Vienna, the fifth-biggest advance in the index which rose 0.3
percent today, led higher by  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and Commerzbank AG.  Konrad said he considered a share sale at those prices a
giveaway because Raiffeisen’s book value was 35 euros to 36
euros a share. The average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is 38.36 euros a share as of the end of last year.  Capital ‘Gift’  Raiffeisen and RZB are filling a capital gap of 2.1 billion
euros and have raised the equivalent of 1.4 billion euros,
including making some forms of capital compliant with the EBA’s
rules and reducing assets. The EBA recognized 1.75 billion euros
of hybrid capital Raiffeisen got from the state, as it did for
Austrian peer  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and other European lenders.  “The Austrian participation capital is a gift,” said
Riccardo Rovere, a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA, referring
to the non-voting capital. “It costs much less than equity. So
there is no rush.”  Raiffeisen had core Tier 1 capital of 9.3 percent at the
end of 2011, up from 7.9 percent at the end of September, it
said last month. Excluding state capital and other hybrid
capital phased out by regulators, and applying new rules by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the ratio was at 5.7
percent, according to UBS AG.  Raiffeisen Chairman Walter Rothensteiner said Sept. 22 that
there would be no share sale at prices similar to the close a
day earlier at 22.10 euros.  Standard & Poor’s  said last year it may cut Raiffeisen’s
debt rating if the lender doesn’t sell stock in the “short to
medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  