-- Rand Heads for Worst Week in Six on China, Europe Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-23T13:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/rand-gains-trimming-worst-week-in-six-on-u-s-growth-optimism.html
The rand declined for a fourth day,
extending its biggest weekly loss in six weeks, and bonds gained
on concern slowing growth in China and  Europe  will damp
prospects for  South Africa ’s exports.  South Africa’s currency retreated as much as 0.5 percent to
7.7488 per dollar, and traded 0.1 percent weaker at 7.7130 as of
3:10 p.m. in Johannesburg. It has declined 2.1 percent this
week, the most since the period ended Feb. 10. The yield on the
nation’s 77 billion rand of 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.85 percent.  A leading economic index for China rose 0.8 percent in
February from the previous month to 227.2, the Conference Board
said today, citing a preliminary reading. That compares with 1.5
percent gain in January that was revised down from 1.6 percent.
An index of euro-area manufacturing and services contracted more
than economists forecast in March.  China  and the euro region
together buy 36 percent of South Africa’s exports.  “ Risk aversion  has predictably increased and the
fundamentals suggest that there is unlikely to be a near-term
swing back towards a more growth-supportive environment,”
 George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics,
wrote in e-mailed comments today. “It is unlikely that the rand
will be allowed to make any meaningful recovery.”  Resistance Level  The rand may decline to 7.80 per dollar after breaching
7.68, seen as a significant resistance level, Glynos wrote. The
likelihood of the rand trading at 7.80 per dollar in the next
week was 64 percent, implied volatility from options monitored
by Bloomberg showed.  The premium of options contracts to sell the rand in three
months over those to buy it rose 51 basis points today to 4
percentage points, the highest in two months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called risk reversal rate was as
low as 3.15 percentage points on March 13.  “The risk-off trade has been quite broad-based,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , the London-based head of emerging-markets foreign-
exchange strategy, said in e-mailed comments. “It is
unsurprising that the rand has suffered, particularly as the
 consumer price index  for February surprised to the downside
yesterday.”  The rand declined 0.7 percent yesterday after a report
yesterday showed inflation in Africa’s biggest economy slowed in
February for the first time in a year, prompting traders to pare
bets the central bank will raise  interest rates  this year.  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in December
dropped six basis points today to 5.90 percent. The contracts,
which give an indication of traders’ expectations of interest
rates, have declined from as high as 6.08 percent on March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  