-- Treasury 30-Year Bond Yields Drop Below 200-Day Moving Average
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-23T17:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/treasury-30-year-bond-yields-drop-below-200-day-moving-average.html
Treasury 30-bond yields dropped
below their 200-day  moving average , indicating this month’s
slump in bond prices may be drawing to a close.  The yields dropped as low as 3.2958 percent in New York,
less than today’s 200-day moving average of 3.3343 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The yields had
exceeded the average on March 14 for the first time since July,
a signal among followers of technical analysis that prices would
probably continue to decline.  “That the breaking the 200-day moving average didn’t
propel us to sell off further is signaling a rejection of the
rising yield trend,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-
bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“The market has readjusted the range in the recent steep
selloff and now the market is pausing to reinvestigate.”  Yields rose to 3.49 percent on March 19, the highest level
since October. Treasuries have slumped since the  Federal Reserve 
announced March 13 that policy makers raised their assessment of
the  U.S. economy , prompting traders to unwind bets for more
monetary stimulus through the form of additional debt buying by
the central bank.  “We saw  the sharp selloff because there was a lot of long
positions that had to be liquidated,” said  Scott Sherman , an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.
“The market has found new levels that it is happy with, and
will wait here until there is substantially stronger data or
increased inflation risk. There is still too much uncertainty in
the economy for much higher yields at this time.”  Yield resistance is an area on charts where buy orders may
be clustered, making further yield increases more difficult.
Note and bond prices move in the opposite direction of yield
changes.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  