-- Treasuries Snap Advance Before New Home Sales Report
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-23T08:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-new-home-sales-rose.html
Treasuries snapped a three-day gain
before a U.S. report that economists said will show new home
purchases climbed to the highest level in more than a year as
the housing market stabilizes.  Ten-year yields  are little changed this week, after
climbing more than 30 basis points over the previous two weeks.
The increase in yields is due to an improving economy and
recognition the  Federal Reserve  is moving to “normalize”
monetary policy, according to UBS AG. Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the best time for the central bank
to raise  interest rates  may be late 2013, a year earlier than
currently planned.  “We see the data continuing to improve,” said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “Generally the move to higher yields
will continue over coming weeks and months.”  The 10-year  yield  climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.29 percent at 8:41 a.m. London time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
maturing in February 2022 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 97 14/32.  Benchmark yields climbed to 2.4 percent on March 20, the
highest level since October. They will probably rise back to 2.4
percent by the end of the second quarter and reach 2.6 percent
by the end of September, Umlauf said.  Home Sales  Sales of U.S. new homes climbed 1.3 percent in February to
a 325,000 annual pace, the fastest since December 2010,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
Commerce Department report today.  “The U.S. economy is recovering,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a
debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit
of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “Investors will likely buy
corporate bonds and stocks and get out of the Treasury market.”  Treasuries maturing in more than a year have lost 1.6
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 11 percent in the same period.  “We regard the trend toward higher yields as a healthy
development,” Andrew Cates in  Singapore  and Larry Hatheway and
Christine Li in London, wrote yesterday in the report from UBS,
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It
reflects a healing process in the  U.S. economy  and recognition
that the Fed will be able to normalize monetary policy earlier
than many envisage.”  Close to Zero  The central bank repeated its view on March 13 that
economic conditions will probably lead it to keep the benchmark
interest rate close to zero at least through late 2014.  Ten-year Treasuries advanced for the previous three days as
data showed signs of weakness in the biggest economies.  “The rise in yields is temporary,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who invests in Treasuries at Mizuho Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo, which has the equivalent of $39.7 billion in
assets. “The unemployment and housing situations are very
fragile” in the U.S.  Mizuho Asset Management favors Treasuries due in more than
10 years, the longest maturities that will rise most if yields
fall, Nakamura said. Investors at the company predicted last
year’s Treasury rally.  Treasuries gained yesterday after reports indicated euro-
region output contracted and  China ’s manufacturing weakened,
boosting the refuge appeal of U.S. government bonds.  Target Rate  U.S. policy makers have kept their target rate in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Two-year notes
 yield  11 basis points more than the upper end of the band. The
spread was 14 basis points on March 20, rising past the five-
year average of 13 basis points.  The Fed is due to buy as much as $2.25 billion of
Treasuries maturing from 2036 to 2042 today as part of its plan
to cap borrowing costs, according to the New York Fed’s  website .  With policy currently “on pause, it may be a good time to
take stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Bullard
said in a speech today in  Hong Kong . “As the U.S. economy
continues to rebound and repair,” further action “may create
an overcommitment to ultra-easy monetary policy,” he said.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said the central bank
needs to further ease monetary policy to fuel the U.S. economic
expansion, in a speech yesterday in  Washington . Bullard and
Evans don’t vote on monetary policy this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  