-- Britons Lured From Sink at Reckitt Benckiser Suds School: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-03-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/reckitt-benckiser-promotes-saving-water-with-dishwashers-retail.html
After meals in the kitchen of their
three-bedroom row house in Hitchin, about 35 miles north of
London, the Quinn family washes the dishes by hand. They don’t
own a dishwasher, and Louise Quinn doesn’t think they need one.  “I absolutely don’t mind doing the washing up,” said
Quinn, a 44-year-old customer service manager at a pet
supplement maker. “We all chip in and help. It doesn’t take
long, and it sets a good example to my daughter, too.”  That’s the challenge facing manufacturers of dishwashers
and related detergents in Britain, including  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc (RB\)  and appliance makers BSH Bosch & Siemens Hausgeraete
and  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March
26 edition. Dishwasher sales in Britain have fallen 11 percent
from a 2007 peak, researcher  GfK RT  estimates.  “Compared to western  Europe , automatic dishwashing is
considered less of a necessity and more of a luxury by many U.K.
consumers,” Euromonitor International analyst Lee Peart said.
“It’s a cultural thing. Driving sales of the appliance rather
than the cleaning products is essential.”  Four in 10 adults own a dishwasher in the U.K., according
to researcher Mintel. That compares with 77 percent in  Germany ,
52 percent in  France , and 49 percent in  Spain , Mintel said. In
Europe, only Greece and  Turkey  have lower ownership rates than
Britain. About 78 percent of U.S. homeowners have a dishwasher,
according to the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.  To improve sales, Reckitt Benckiser Chief Executive Officer
Rakesh Kapoor announced last month that his company would shift
more of its marketing budget toward consumer education and away
from television ads.  Dwindling Growth  Converting more Britons to dishwashers would help Reckitt
Benckiser’s Finish, a detergent that had 40 percent share of the
western European market in 2011, according to Euromonitor.  Automatic dishwashers use less water and energy and save
time, versus washing dishes by hand, according to a 2010  study 
of 150 Britons published in the International Journal of
Consumer Studies. Almost half those surveyed incorrectly thought
manual dishwashing requires less water, according to the study,
which was partly funded by Reckitt Benckiser and BSH.  Liz Falconer, a BSH spokeswoman, said the company sells a
Bosch dishwasher that uses only six liters of water per cycle,
about one-eighth the average amount used by participants who
washed dishes by hand in the study.  Unnecessary Luxury  Still, four in 10 Britons consider dishwashers expensive to
run, and an almost equal amount see them as an unnecessary
luxury, Mintel found. To change such thinking, Reckitt Benckiser
and Electrolux have teamed up for a marketing  campaign  to
highlight the convenience of dishwasher use, claiming that
manual dish cleaning amounts to spending one week a year at the
sink.  Tight kitchen space acts as another deterrent, said Anthony
Stocker, an appliance buyer at  Home Retail Group Plc’s (HOME)  Argos
chain. So dishwasher makers have responded with models that are
25 percent slimmer, and Argos carries 32 “slimline” options.  Such machines have won over some doubters, and U.K.
penetration is double the 20 percent level of 1999. New-home
construction, which peaked at an 18-year  high  in 2007, also
spurred adoption. The housing slowdown that began the following
year has “severely impacted” dishwasher sales since, Stocker
said.  Regardless of how much you save in the long run, buying a
dishwasher is more expensive than purchasing a bottle of
washing-up liquid, and economic reasoning is biased toward the
short-term, according to Dr. Benjamin Voyer, assistant professor
of management at Richmond, the American International University
in  London .  Old Habits  Voyer, also a visiting fellow at the  London School  of
Economics’  Institute of Social Psychology , said the reasons
Britons give for not owning a dishwasher disguise the simple
fact that old habits die hard.  “If you have lived without one for years, why would you
suddenly change?” said Voyer, who once worked as an assistant
brand manager at Reckitt Benckiser. “People simply find
rational excuses for not having a dishwasher, which are not
necessarily the real reasons why they don’t have one. Consumers
sometimes construct what we call ‘attitudes on the spot.’”  For Kapoor, halfway into his first year as CEO, changing
those attitudes -- real or imagined -- will take time. In
developing markets like Brazil and  China , meanwhile, Reckitt
Benckiser has tried to align itself with local dishwasher makers
to make sure they recommend Finish, according to Harold Thompson, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Dishwasher penetration is around 5 percent in  emerging
markets , so its potential for growth is enormous,” Thompson
said in an interview. “In  India , dishwashers might initially be
more about status rather than convenience. So the role of
Reckitt is also about changing consumer habits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  