-- Red Sox Relief Pitcher Bobby Jenks Is Arrested on DUI Charge
-- B y   L a r r y   S i d d o n s
-- 2012-03-23T18:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/red-sox-relief-pitcher-bobby-jenks-is-arrested-on-dui-charge-1-.html
Boston Red Sox relief pitcher Bobby Jenks was arrested on charges of driving under the influence,
damaging property and leaving the scene of an accident after a
car crash in  Fort Myers ,  Florida , according to a police report.  Jenks, 31, was “shaking uncontrollably” and failed field
sobriety tests when he was arrested at 3:43 a.m. on five
misdemeanor counts, the  Lee County Sheriff’s Office  said in a
report on its website. The Major League Baseball team holds
spring training in Fort Myers.  Jenks was pulled over when police spotted his car weaving
through an intersection, the sheriff’s office said in the
report. He told officers he had taken muscle relaxers and had
just left Babe’s, a strip club, where he had struck another
vehicle with his white Mercedes-Benz SUV, according to the
report.  “I’m messed up,” Jenks was quoted in the report as
telling the officers.  He was released on a total of $4,250 bond with a scheduled
trial date of April 9, according to the police statement.  “We have been made aware of a situation regarding Bobby
Jenks and take such matters seriously,” the  Red Sox  said in a
statement. “We are gathering information and will refrain from
further comment at this time.”  The police report didn’t list an attorney for Jenks.  Jenks, whose fastball once was clocked at 102 miles per
hour and who retired 41 straight batters at one stretch of 2007,
is in the Red Sox’s camp as he recovers from two offseason back
operations and is on the 60-day disabled list.  Blood Clots  An All-Star with the  Chicago White Sox  in 2006 and 2007,
when he had a total of 81 saves, he signed a two-year, $12
million contract as a free agent with the Red Sox in December
2010 and appeared in 19 games last season, posting a 2-2 record
with a career-high 6.32 earned run average and no saves in 19
games. He was diagnosed with blood clots in the lungs in
September.  For his seven-year  major league career , Jenks has 173 saves
with a 16-20 record and a 3.53 ERA.  Jenks was picked by the Anaheim Angels in the 2000 Major
League Baseball draft. He spent most of his time in the Anaheim
organization on the disabled list with elbow trouble and was
demoted to Class A in the minor leagues for bringing beer onto
the team bus as a member of the Class AA Arkansas Travelers,
according to  USA Today .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Siddons in New York at 
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  