-- Romney Takes Aim at Obama Health-Care Law on Second Anniversary
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/republicans-target-obama-health-care-law-on-second-anniversary.html
On the second anniversary of
President  Barack Obama ’s signing of the law overhauling the U.S.
health-care system, Mitt Romney aimed to accomplish two goals:
renew his vow to repeal it and diminish assertions that the
 Massachusetts  measure he backed was a model for it.  Standing amid signs reading “Repeal and replace
Obamacare,” the front-runner in the Republican presidential
race said yesterday the federal law has increased  government
spending , raised taxes and violated religious freedom.  “This presidency has been a failure and the centerpiece of
that failure is this piece of legislation,” Romney told voters
in Metairie, Louisiana, as he campaigned in advance of the
state’s primary today.  It’s an issue that worked for Republicans in 2010 when
opposition to the law from anti-tax Tea Party activists helped
give the party control of the U.S. House of Representatives and
expanded numbers in the  U.S. Senate .  The four remaining Republican presidential candidates all
have promised to make repeal of the law a central focus of the
2012 campaign.  Romney Article  Yet as Romney attacked the overhaul, he also sought to
defuse the criticism directed at him over the Massachusetts
measure and its link to the federal one. In an article published
in  USA Today , he reiterated his opposition to a “one-size-fits-
all health-care plan” and outlined support for providing
financial aid to states so they could implement their own
proposals.  “When I was governor of Massachusetts, we instituted a
plan that got our citizens insured without raising taxes and
without a government takeover. Other states will choose to go in
different directions,” Romney said in the article.  “It is the genius of federalism that it encourages
experimentation, with each state pursuing what works best for
them,” he said. “Obamacare’s disregard for this core aspect of
U.S. tradition is one of its most egregious failings.”  Since the Affordable Care Act became law, public opinion
has remained divided on it, with polls showing stronger
opposition among Republicans and independents than support from
Democrats.  In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11, three-
fourths of Republicans and 44 percent of independents said the
law should be repealed, while 8 percent of Democrats agreed. The
margin of error in the survey of 1,002 adults was 3.1 percentage
points.  Less Fanfare  Such poll figures may be one reason the Obama
administration marked the anniversary with less fanfare than the
president’s Republican rivals. The White House posted video
testimony of people helped by the law and Obama’s re-election
campaign sent out supportive mailers.  “Obamacare means never having to worry about getting sick
and running up against a lifetime cap on insurance coverage,”
said an e-mail message from the campaign. “It gives parents the
comfort of knowing their kids can stay on their insurance until
they’re 26, and that a ‘pre-existing condition’ like an ear
infection will never compromise their child’s coverage.”  Obama said nothing about the law in a Rose Garden event
yesterday announcing his nominee to head the  World Bank .  Republican Attack  Republicans rolled out a coordinated effort to stoke
opposition to the law with speeches on the House floor, rallies
outside the Capitol and advertisements in battleground states.  In debates and at campaign stops, the Republican
presidential candidates have said the law represents an
unconstitutional overreach of government power that threatens
personal freedom. The U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to hear
arguments next week in a challenge to the law from 26 states
based largely on those grounds.  “If this law is allowed to stand, there will be no end to
the power of government,”  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House
speaker seeking the Republican nomination, said in a statement
yesterday. “The government will ultimately control very
personal decisions over life and death.”  Romney included the health-care law in a list of Obama
administration policies he said have harmed the economy as he
campaigned yesterday in Shreveport,  Louisiana .  “He’s been out there trying to take credit for his
policies,” Romney said as he stood in front of an oil rig.
“He’s confused. It’s his policies that have caused a lot of our
problems.”  Santorum’s Goal  Rick Santorum , Romney’s main challenger in the Republican
race, also had dual targets yesterday, criticizing Obama’s law
and reminding voters that parts of it were based on the
Massachusetts bill Romney signed as governor.  The Massachusetts law, like the federal program, includes
a requirement that all residents buy health insurance, a
provision other Republicans have attacked. Romney’s support for
the Massachusetts law, dubbed Romneycare by Santorum, has caused
some party voters to question his commitment to a smaller
federal government.  “ Mitt Romney  had misled voters on Romneycare; he said he
was not for mandates at the federal level when in fact he was,”
Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , said in a
statement his campaign released.  Santorum was on the defensive on another point, having to
walk back comments he made March 22 that Republicans may leave
Obama in office rather than back Romney.  “I would never vote for Barack Obama over any Republican,
and to suggest otherwise is preposterous,” he said in a
statement e-mailed to reporters. “I was simply making the point
that there is a huge enthusiasm gap around Mitt Romney.”  Obama, too, has made an effort to tie Romney to the
national law.  “We designed a program that actually previously had
support of Republicans -- including the person who may end up
being the Republican standard-bearer and is now pretending like
he came up with something different,” he said in a March 21
interview with NPR’s Marketplace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  