-- Return to Seasonal Weather May Chill U.S. Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-23T14:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/return-to-seasonal-weather-may-chill-u-s-northeast.html
The Northeast may end March with a
return to lower, seasonal temperatures that boost demand for
heating fuels, while the center of the U.S. remains warmer than
normal, forecasters said.  Cooler weather may take hold from  New Jersey  to  New
England , including New York, from March 28 to April 2, according
to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  “We see more impressive dents in the eastern flank of the
warm ridge over the Northeast/mid-Atlantic with two cool pushes
next week,” Rogers wrote in a note to clients today.  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  Through yesterday, 6,077 daily record highs were set across
the U.S. in March, said Christopher Vaccaro, a spokesman for the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Some
temperatures were as much as 40 degrees above normal.  A record for the day of 78 degrees Fahrenheit (26 Celsius)
was set yesterday in  New York ’s Central Park, breaking the old
mark of 77 from 1929 and 1938, according to  the National Weather
Service .  NYC to Cool  New York City’s high today may reach 75. Temperatures will
drop into the high 50s over the weekend and be 52 by next week,
according to the weather service.  New England may use as much as 90 percent of its normal
energy needs for heating when the cooler weather returns to the
region, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri.  In the central U.S., including  Chicago , warmer temperatures
may mean 60 to 80 percent less energy will be needed for
heating. Chicago has had eight days this month where the
temperature reached at least 80 degrees, a record.  Forecasters differ on their outlooks for the first week of
April.  Rogers, in his 11- to 15-day forecast for April 2 to April
6, said the warm weather may retreat farther north, leaving the
East Coast more seasonal and southern  California  and most of
Mexico about 3 degrees below normal.  MDA EarthSat Weather’s outlook for the same period calls
for the East Coast to be 3 to 4 degrees above normal and much of
the Ohio Valley and Midwest to be even warmer.  The normal average temperature in New York on March 30 is
about 47 degrees, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 43 in Boston and Chicago, 52 in  St. Louis , 58 in Atlanta,
61 in Dallas, 66 in Houston, 49 in Seattle and 59 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  