-- Triodos Plans to Start a Successor Fund for Renewable Power
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-23T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/triodos-plans-to-start-a-successor-fund-for-renewable-power.html
Triodos Renewables Plc, the clean-
energy arm of the Netherlands’s Triodos Bank NV, plans to start
a successor to its Ampere Equity Fund this year, targeting
“hundreds of millions” of euros for renewable power.  Institutions that Triodos has talked with are “very
interested” in infrastructure areas such as offshore wind,
James Vaccaro, director at Bristol, U.K.-based Triodos
Investment Management, said in a phone interview.  Pension funds and institutional investors “are interested
in this area and we are well-placed to facilitate investments,”
Vaccaro said. “The U.K. offshore wind market is particularly
interesting and with our successful experience investing in the
Walney project, these are the sorts of projects a successor to
the Ampere fund would be looking at.”  Triodos and the Dutch pension fund manager PGGM NV in 2010
bought a 24.8 percent stake in the 367-megawatt Walney offshore
wind project from Dong Energy A/S for 16 million pounds ($25
million).  The  European Union  is aiming for 20 percent of its energy
to come from renewable sources by 2020. The U.K., pushing for a
15 percent share, is planning to build 18 gigawatts of offshore
wind by 2020 from about 2 gigawatts now.  The successor to the 320 million-euro ($425 million) Ampere
Equity Fund might not be structured as a fund because investors
want more direct involvement and control, Vaccaro said.  Triodos is also looking to raise about 15 million pounds in
the second half to invest in land-based wind and solar projects
of 5 megawatts to 20 megawatts, he said.  “In a way, solar is more attractive than wind now,”
Vaccaro said. “The economics of solar are just so much better
than they were last year -- it’s better from a sustainability
point of view, carbon saved, pound-spent basis and that makes it
politically less sensitive.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  