-- Rugby Fans to Sidestep Protesters on Hong Kong Election Day
-- B y   S t a n   J a m e s   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-03-23T05:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/rugby-fans-set-to-sidestep-protesters-on-hong-kong-election-day.html
Hong Kong  partygoers and sports
fans may cross paths with street protesters this weekend as the
city’s chief executive election coincides with its biggest
sporting and social event, the  rugby Sevens .  About 40,000 fans will pack the Hong Kong Stadium in the
city’s  Causeway Bay  district for the three-day competition
ending on March 25. That day, at least two local groups have
said they will hold demonstrations in the neighboring Wan Chai
area, whose bars and clubs draw many post-tournament revelers.  “Election, what election?” said Sam Tuckey, a British
tourist who flew in from  London  for the Sevens. “I had no idea
-- but then I’m not usually aware when there are elections in
the U.K.”  The crowds present a potential challenge for Hong Kong’s
police, who must also ensure security for Indonesian President
Susilo Bambang, arriving tomorrow for a two-day visit.
Protesters will congregate near an exhibition center where a
1,200-member committee will meet to elect a successor to Hong
Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang .  “Police will deploy sufficient manpower to ensure that the
final day of Hong Kong Sevens and the chief executive election
are smoothly held,” the police said in an e-mailed statement.  More than 200,000 pints of beer are consumed annually at
the Hong Kong Sevens, which is characterized by its festival-
like atmosphere, with many fans attending in fancy dress.  Tourist Boost  The 37-year-old tournament is the largest on the world
circuit for sevens, a shortened version of 15-man rugby union.
The event drew 21,000 overseas visitors last year, Hong Kong
Rugby Football Union Chairman Trevor Gregory said.  All Black legend John Kirwan, in Hong Kong as a rugby
ambassador for HSBC Holdings Plc, remembers the tournament’s
humble beginnings in the pre-professional era.  “I was here right in the beginning when we used to drink
all week before the game,” Kirwan, record-holder for the number
of tries scored in  first-class rugby  in New Zealand, said in an
interview today. “I played here four times. It’s the only
tournament I’ve never won but it was always great fun.”  Tourists spent an estimated HK$282 million ($36 million) in
the city last year during the Sevens, while locals injected
almost double that amount into the economy, Gregory said, citing
statistics from the city’s tourism board.  Besides beer, 60,000 glasses of Pimms cocktail, 10,000
glasses of wine and 40,000 cans of soft drinks are consumed at
the stadium during the event, according to the  Leisure and
Cultural Services Department .  Schmooze Fest  The tournament is a boon for Hong Kong food, beverage and
hospitality operators.  The Excelsior Hotel, within walking distance of the
stadium, is “running extremely high occupancy,” said Wendy
Lee, spokeswoman for operator Mandarin Oriental International
Ltd. The hotel’s basement sports bar Dickens Bar is also “very
busy as a lot of rugby fans like to come for the atmosphere,”
she said.  The city’s finance and business people use the three-day
event as an opportunity to entertain themselves, their clients
and colleagues.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , a former sponsor of the tournament,
holds an investors’ forum in the week preceding the competition.
The company, along with businesses including  Swire Pacific Ltd. (1972) 
and UBS AG, has hired a corporate suite at the stadium for the
weekend.  Ticket Scalpers  “The Hong Kong Sevens offers a great opportunity to
socialize with our clients in a relaxed setting,” said Robert
Gazzi, Hong Kong markets leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
“The whole atmosphere is like a carnival. Everybody’s relaxed
and having a good time, unless their team is taking a beating on
the field.”  Gazzi’s company has a corporate suite at the tournament.  Tickets for the Sevens went on sale to the public on Jan.
14, after presale allocations were opened to rugby clubs and
overseas agents in November, and were sold out on the day. The
price for the three days is HK$1,500, compared with HK$1,250 in
2009.  Unofficially, tickets were still available as of today,
with online websites offering them for as much as 320 pounds
($508) for a three-day pass.  Organizers have introduced a system that could help them
track the source of tickets if they discover them being sold on
the black market.  Tracking System  “Scalping has become a fact of life but hopefully the
tracking system will help,” Sean Moore, managing director of
Elite Step  Asia  Ltd., the public relations company for the
tournament, said.  The Hong Kong event offers the biggest total prize on the
Sevens circuit, at $150,000. The winning team takes home
$100,000. Sevens has been included in the 2016 Rio de Janeiro
Olympics.  The shortened version of the game will ensure the future of
rugby, and the Olympics will help take the game to the world,
Kirwan said.  “Asia will be the sevens place -- the people are
genetically suited to the game,” said Kirwan, who played 63
tests for New Zealand’s All Blacks and coached the 15-man teams
of Japan and  Italy . “And now, with the Olympics, governments
are going to put in money -- they’re going to say: here’s the
money, go and win the games.”  New Zealand , world champions in the 15-man game, won last
year’s tournament and lead the  HSBC World Series  standings with
92 points, followed by Fiji on 87.  Police said they received notification from one group that
it planned a “public meeting-cum-procession” on March 25 in
Hong Kong.  People Power and the League of Social Democrats are among
the groups planning protests. More than 1,000 people are
expected to gather outside the election venue, Avery Ng, the
league’s vice chairman, said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stan James in Hong Kong at 
 Sjames2@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  