-- Sanofi, Facebook, News Corp., Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/sanofi-facebook-bayer-apple-taymor-intellectual-property.html
Sanofi (SNY)  lost an appeals court ruling
on its patent-infringement claims against Roche Holding AG’s
Genentech and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for the cancer drugs Rituxan and
Avastin.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
upheld a lower court ruling that the drugs don’t infringe two
Sanofi patents. The opinion was posted on the court’s website.  Sanofi sued Genentech and Biogen Idec in 2008 after
Genentech said it was canceling a licensing agreement that dated
back to 1991. Paris-based Sanofi said the cancer drugs were made
using inventions it owned to enhance the expression of a gene
and make production more efficient.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in  San Francisco  ruled
that  Genentech  and Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen Idec
didn’t use the same steps as those covered by the Sanofi
patents. Sanofi said Illston misconstrued certain terms of the
patents. The Federal Circuit rejected the arguments.  Sanofi, which said it was disappointed in the decision, can
ask the court to reconsider the opinion.  “The company is currently evaluating its options and next
steps,” said Carrie Brown, a Sanofi spokeswoman.  Rituxan is Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s top-selling
drug, with sales of 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.6 billion) last
year. Roche is the world’s biggest seller of cancer drugs. The
drug is approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.  Avastin is approved for colon, lung, kidney and brain
cancer in the U.S., as well as for breast cancer in  Europe .
Sales of the drug fell 18 percent last year to 5.29 billion
Swiss francs from 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH v. Genentech
Inc., 2011-1397, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court cases are Sanofi-Aventis
Deutschland GmbH v. Genentech Inc., 09cv4919, and Genentech Inc.
v. Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, 08cv4909, both U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Facebook Said to Acquire 750 Patents From IBM Amid Lawsuits  Facebook Inc. (FB)  acquired 750 patents from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , adding intellectual property that may
help it counter allegations of patent infringement, a person
with knowledge of the transaction said.  The patents cover various technologies such as software and
networking, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the deal hasn’t been made public. The acquisition would
swell the size of Facebook’s portfolio, which includes at least
56 issued patents and 503 filed U.S. patent applications.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking service, is
bolstering its legal defenses amid a standoff with rivals that
have more intellectual property.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  sued Facebook
earlier this month, accusing it of infringing patents covering
functions critical to websites. Facebook had 22 patent suits
against it last year, according to LegalMetric.com.  The Yahoo suit involves patents covering Internet
advertising, information sharing and privacy. Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo asked for an order barring Facebook from
infringing the 10 patents. It’s seeking triple damages.  Facebook, which filed for an initial public offering last
month, also had 33 corresponding patents and 149 filed
applications in foreign countries as of the end of last year,
according to the  IPO filing . The Menlo Park, California-based
company is seeking to raise $5 billion in the offering, making
it the largest Internet IPO on record.  Facebook expects more patent lawsuits in the future,
according to the IPO filing.  “We expect the number of patent and other intellectual
property claims against us to grow,” the company said in the
Feb. 1 document, before Yahoo’s actions.  Acquired patents made up $51 million of goodwill and
intangible assets in 2011, up from $33 million in 2010,
according to Facebook.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment.  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for IBM, declined to comment.  Bayer, Regeneron Lose U.K. Patent Fight on Blockbuster Eye Drug  A potential blockbuster drug produced by  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  to treat a blindness-causing eye
disorder infringes a patent held by  Genentech Inc (DNA) ., a U.K. judge
ruled.  Regeneron and Bayer asked a London court to revoke a
Genentech European patent for the treatment of wet age-related
macular degeneration and rule their VEGF Trap-Eye product, also
known as Eylea, was valid.  Judge  Christopher Floyd  rejected that request, saying
yesterday in a written judgment that VEGF Trap-Eye infringed the
patent at issue.  Doreen Schroeder, a Bayer spokeswoman, said the ruling only
applied in the U.K. and that the patent will expire in October.  “We believe that the decision by the U.K. patents court is
wrong and will seek to appeal it,” she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Regeneron said in January it expected sales of Eylea to
reach between $140 million and $160 million in 2012.  “There is no impact at all of this decision on the
commercial availability or prospects for Eylea in the U.S.,”
said Peter Dworkin, a spokesman for Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron.  Macular degeneration, a disorder caused by abnormal blood
vessel growth behind the retina, is a leading cause of blindness
in the elderly. Genentech is a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based
 Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Proview Says Talks With Apple in IPad Trademark Dispute Stalled  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) ’s Shenzhen unit said
talks to arrange settlement negotiations with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
regarding the rights to the iPad name in  China  have stalled.  The talks between the failed Hong Kong-listed display maker
and the world’s most-valuable company were disclosed by Proview
International Chairwoman Sun Min at the High Court in Hong Kong
yesterday. The last face-to-face meeting with Apple was on Feb.
16, Proview founder Rowell Yang said when asked about the talks.  Apple on Feb. 29 appealed a November ruling by a lower
court that its 2009 contract to buy rights to the iPad name in
China was invalid because Proview’s Shenzhen unit, which owned
them, wasn’t a party to the agreement. The unit’s lawyer, Roger
Xie, said the Guangdong appeal court, which is due to rule
within three months, tried to organize mediation.  Yesterday’s pre-trial hearing in Hong Kong was part of the
Cupertino, California-based company’s lawsuit against Yang and
his companies for conspiring to breach the 2009 sale agreement.  A Hong Kong judge ruled in July “there is clearly a
serious question to be tried for the claim of conspiracy.” The
Hong Kong case is parallel to the Guangdong proceedings.  Proview sold the rights to Apple and is misleading Chinese
courts and customers, said Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based
spokeswoman for Apple.  “We respect Chinese laws and regulations, and as a company
that generates a lot of intellectual property we would never
knowingly abuse someone else’s trademarks,” Wu said.  She declined to comment on whether the two sides have held
settlement talks.  Xie said Proview is willing to hold them.  “We are trying to contact Apple and set up a formal
negotiation,” Xie said. “We haven’t started any formal
negotiation as of now.”  News Corp.’s ‘Glee’ Confusing, Not Amusing for U.K. Comedy Clubs  A British company’s suit against News Corp.’s Twentieth
Century Fox Film unit claiming its “Glee” television series
may be confused with U.K. comedy events using the same name was
sent to a higher London court yesterday.  The trademark-infringement claim was brought by Comic
Enterprises Ltd., which operates the “Glee Club” comedy venues
in Cardiff, Oxford and Nottingham that began in 1994. The
dispute was referred to a higher court by a patent judge.  The owner of Comic Enterprises claims the title of the U.S.
series about a high school music club “led to clear confusion
between his business and the program,” Judge Colin Birss said.  The claim for an injunction would have “catastrophic
consequences” for Fox if successful and should be decided in a
higher court, even if it means extra costs, Birss said in a
written ruling.  David Stone, a lawyer for Fox, declined to comment on the
suit or the judge’s decision.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Spider-Man’ Battle Reveals Taymor’s Mysterious Treatment  In their court battle against director Julie Taymor,
producers of “Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark” filed an outline,
dated July 1, 2004, representing her densely plotted concept of
“Spiderman/Caught.”  “The Dream: a city devastated, a huge battle is raging --
we see glimpses of Spiderman flying from one burning skyscraper
to another,” the treatment begins.  The two-and-a-half page, single-spaced synopsis is among
dozens of comic book excerpts, scripts and financial agreements
filed March 21 in federal court in Manhattan. The treatment is
to support the producers’ claim that Taymor isn’t owed author
royalties, because there’s little similarity between the
original book she helped write and the new one created after she
was fired a year ago.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the $75 million musical after
critics lambasted it during an extended preview period. She sued
producers in federal court in Manhattan on Nov. 8, saying they
violated her intellectual property rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties.  Her team filed a letter with the court suggesting that
producers were concerned that she would make a scene at the
show’s much-delayed opening, on June 14, 2011.  A spokesman for Taymor didn’t return an e-mail. A spokesman
for the lead producers,  Michael Cohl  and Jeremiah Harris,
declined to comment on the letter.  Taymor behaved with “grace and forbearance” at the
opening and throughout the “ordeal” of putting on the show,
Gelblum wrote in the letter. He said she alone isn’t responsible
for its problems.  In her treatment, the Green Goblin is defeated at the end
of act one and then mysteriously returns in act two as part of a
clique of villains.  The treatment, like her version of the show in previews, is
centered on a love-hate relationship between Spider-Man and the
mythic spider-woman, Arachne.  In a countersuit, the producers said Taymor made Arachne
the focus of the musical and failed to make changes they
requested. Arachne’s role was later minimized when a new
director and writer created a more conventional story that hewed
more closely to the source material.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  ArGen-X Hires Former Howrey Partner Rasser as IP Counsel  ArGen-X BV hired Jacobus C. “Koos” Rasser as
intellectual-property counsel, the Rotterdam-based biotechnology
company said in a  statement .  Rasser previously practiced at Washington’s now-defunct
 Howrey LLP (1196L) . He also was interim IP director at  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ’s
Organon unit.  Before he went to Howrey, Rasser was at  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , where he served as vice president and general counsel for
patents.  He has a master’s degree and a doctorate in chemical
engineering from Delft Technical University in the Netherlands,
and a law degree from Northern Kentucky University’s Salmon P.
Chase College of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 