-- Scene NYC: Thorne Perkin, Charlotte-Anne Swerling
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-23T13:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/sceene-nyc-thorne-perkin-charlotte-anne-swerling.html
Thorne Perkin, a managing director
at boutique advisory firm  Papamarkou Wellner  Asset Management
Inc., reflected last night on whether he’d get any work done at
the Frick’s Belle Epoque Ball.  “There’s always a little bit of business with pleasure,”
Perkin said.  His wife, Tatiana, proved the point: The marketer for  Milly 
wore Milly.  In between talk of weddings, babies and catching a midnight
screening of “Hunger Games,” guests mentioned job leads,
career changes,  gas prices .  Charlotte-Anne Swerling, a principal at the London-based
private equity firm Balderton Capital UK LLP, fielded an ethics-
related investment question.  “That was probably the only real conversation I’ll have
all night,” she said.  As the croque-monsieurs with cherry compote circulated,
the 600 guests gave in to the pleasures of coke and steel
industrialist Henry Clay Frick’s Fifth Avenue mansion.  In the East Gallery, the Renoirs called. In the Music Room,
it was the loud dance tunes. And in the Garden Court, the palm
trees and fountain lulled. The event for the museum’s Young
Fellows raised $240,000 for education programs and the Frick Art
Reference Library.  Chez Julian  Michele Norsa , chief executive of  Salvatore Ferragamo
Italia SpA (SFER) , spent Tuesday night at Julian Schnabel’s home in the
 West Village , whose name, Palazzo Chupi, conveys its Old World
charm.  “I like the library and the bathroom,” Norsa said.  And how about the crowd, there to celebrate Signorina,
Ferragamo’s new scent for young women?  “When I’m traveling, I meet mostly with bankers and
investors,” replied the Florence-based executive. “Tonight I
ate with a polo player from  Argentina  and an actor from  Spain .
It’s important for the brand to do things like this. It’s
something we didn’t do in the past.”  Waiters served strawberry Bellinis to actress Kate Mara and
photographer Rachel Chandler Guinness, who said she has been
wearing her grandmother’s size 11 Ferragamo shoes for years.  When Coco Sumner, a daughter of Sting and Trudie Styler, took
the stage with her band, I Blame Coco, model Bianca Balti was
standing next to a giant Signorina bottle featuring Ferragamo’s
signature neatly folded ribbon.  “I used to spray here and here,” Balti said, pointing to
her wrists and neck.  Now the “face” of the perfume featured in a global ad
campaign knows better. “I just learned,” she said. “You spray
in front of you and walk through it.”  The scent reminds Balti of getting out of the bath. “It
feels clean,” she said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 