-- Scene in D.C.: Jane Cafritz, Martha Raddatz, Doug Aitken
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-23T15:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/scene-in-d-c-jane-cafritz-martha-raddatz-doug-aitken.html
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden put romance in the air with an artist’s film projected on
the circular building’s facade.  It was the debut of Doug Aitken’s “SONG 1,” which
features random people in everyday situations singing the
classic love song “I Only Have Eyes for You.”  “If I weren’t married, I’d want to be proposed to in front
of this,” said museum trustee Jane Lipton Cafritz as she and
her philanthropist husband, Calvin, stood at sundown last night
with others gathered al fresco to view the short film.  Miami-based art collector Mera Rubell said she made the
trip to  Washington  to see the beauty and “mystery” that always
accompanies Aitken’s work. The artist showed his 2007 multimedia
installation “Sleepwalkers” on the facade of  New York ’s  Museum
of Modern Art .  Rubell caught up with Richard Koshalek, the director of the
Hirshhorn, who is credited with bringing the California-based
Aitken to Washington. Koshalek compared notes with D. Dodge
Thompson, the chief of exhibitions at the National Gallery of
Art.  ABC News correspondent Martha Raddatz joined a group for a
discussion with Aitken in the Hirshhorn’s Ring auditorium
moderated by Kerry Brougher, the museum’s deputy director and
chief curator.  ‘Museum for Insomniacs’  Aitken joked that his work is “like a museum for
insomniacs” because “SONG 1” and many of his other public
works can be seen only at night.  “I found myself looking around, and this is not a usual
crowd,” noted Raddatz, referring to the  modern-art  power couple
Aaron and Barbara Levine, seated just a few rows away.  After Aitken’s talk and taking in “SONG 1,” which runs
through May 13, guests headed upstairs for a buffet dinner
featuring make-your-own Chinese take-away and chocolate-popcorn-
to-go bags.  “SONG 1” will become part of the Hirshhorn’s permanent
collection.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 