-- Sealy Rejects Investor’s Criticism of KKR Role in Company
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-23T17:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/sealy-rejects-investor-s-complaints-of-kkr-influence-on-company.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , the mattress maker
that is 45 percent owned by private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,
responded to complaints by its second-largest shareholder over
KKR’s role in managing the company, calling the claims
“combative” and unconstructive.  H Partners Management LLC , which owns 14 percent of Sealy,
said in a March 11 letter to the company’s corporate governance
committee that KKR has “overloaded” the firm with debt and
made strategic errors that reduced Sealy’s earnings by half. The
New York-based investor also singled out Dean Nelson, head of
KKR’s consulting unit and a Sealy director since 2004, for
“excessive” influence on the board.  In its letter today, Sealy said KKR “has been a
responsible partner” and rejected the hedge fund’s claim that
Sealy’s board has nine directors with “current or previous
affiliations” with KKR. H Partners had proposed that Sealy
replace three directors with new members and appoint a
representative from the hedge fund.  “The board is composed of strong, highly qualified and
committed members,” with five out of nine meeting New York
Stock Exchange guidelines as independent, Sealy wrote. “Our
board has not changed since you invested in Sealy in the spring
of 2011, and its composition is sound.”  In an e-mailed statement, the hedge fund said today that
“Sealy’s response fails to address the board’s and KKR’s
significant role in the destruction of  shareholder value  at the
company.”  ‘Did Not Deliver’  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , bought
Trinity, North Carolina-based Sealy in 2004 for $1.5 billion
from an investment group that included Bain Capital LLC. KKR
paid $5.78 a share for the bedding maker and took it public two
years later for $16 a share.  Sealy’s  shares  have since lost 89 percent of their value,
closing yesterday at $1.76 in New York trading. The stock gained
2.3 percent this year before today.  H Partners also proposed that a representative from the
hedge fund be added to Sealy’s search committee for a chief
executive officer, as Lawrence J. Rogers is set to retire this
year after four years as CEO and 33 years at the company. Sealy
said in the letter that the board is working with an executive
search firm and “will pursue any qualified candidate, no matter
who the source.”  “We recognize you are disappointed with Sealy’s recent
performance in 2011 and we have made it clear that we did not
deliver financial results in line with the goals and objectives
we strove to achieve,” Sealy said. “We are focused on
delivering on the strategic and operating priorities for 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  