-- Wells Fargo Should Be Forced to Meet Subpoenas, SEC Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-23T21:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/sec-asks-court-to-force-wells-fargo-to-comply-with-subpoenas.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  failed to hand
over documents demanded in U.S. subpoenas and should be forced
to cooperate with a probe into its sale of almost $60 billion in
residential mortgage-backed securities, regulators said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission asked a federal
judge to compel the bank, the largest U.S. home lender, to
deliver documents it agreed to produce under subpoenas dating
from September, the agency said today in a  statement . The SEC
said it’s looking into possible fraud by the San Francisco-based
company and hasn’t concluded that anyone broke the law.  “Up until now, Wells has escaped some of the accusations
that most of its competitors have suffered,” said  Guy Cecala ,
publisher of the Inside Mortgage Finance newsletter. “It’s a
credit to them that they’ve escaped as many lawsuits or
challenges as they have. This may knock them off their
pedestal.”  Almost four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, and has also told Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that they may face civil claims.  The agency’s request, if granted, would give Wells Fargo 14
days to hand over 1,365 e-mails and attachments it has withheld
from the SEC, according to a court filing. The bank said in a
statement that enforcement action is unwarranted and that it
will defend itself in court.  The Watchdog  The watchdog is examining whether Wells Fargo
misrepresented or omitted facts in offerings from September 2006
to early 2008, according to the statement. While the bank
reviewed a sampling of loans and excluded those that failed to
meet its standards, Wells Fargo may not have taken steps to
address flaws in the remainder of the pool, the agency said.  Investigators are seeking information on the bank’s
underwriting guidelines and on due diligence, according to the
statement. The agency filed its request in federal court in  San
Francisco . Marc Fagel, the head of the SEC’s office in that
city, declined to comment.  “Wells Fargo believes the subpoena enforcement action is
inappropriate and unwarranted and will vigorously defend itself
in court,”  Mary Eshet , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement. The bank has cooperated with the agency and
believed it had an understanding on the requested documents,
which was violated by today’s filing, she said.  `Confident'  “Wells Fargo is also confident that the SEC staff has
inaccurately described its conduct with regard to residential
mortgage-backed securities,” Eshet said.  Wells Fargo said in its annual report filed Feb. 28 that it
received a so-called Wells notice from the SEC warning the bank
that it may face civil claims tied to the sale of mortgage-
backed securities. SEC lawyers send the notices when they intend
to recommend that the agency take action.  Four days before, on Feb. 24, the SEC told the lender that
it was considering enforcement measures, the agency said in
today’s court filing. The bank has attempted to use that as an
“excuse to avoid complying with the subpoenas,” the SEC said
in the filing.  Wells Fargo’s lawyer, who wasn’t named, told the SEC that
given the notice, “we assumed the investigation was over and we
had moved to a different phase,” according to the filing. The
lawyer told the SEC that he might agree to “revisit the issue
of any additional document production” after the SEC reviewed
the bank’s submission.  `No Basis'  “There is no basis for Wells Fargo’s refusal to comply
with the subpoenas because a Wells notice, such as the staff
provided, does not terminate the commission’s investigative
power,” the SEC said in its filing today.  The scope of the SEC’s probe “involves not just Wells
Fargo’s own potential violations of the securities laws, but the
roles played by other persons associated with the bank’s
residential mortgage-backed securities offerings,” according to
the filing.  The SEC said it has sent Wells notices to two individuals
associated with the bank’s mortgage offerings. They weren’t
named.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wells
Fargo & Co., 12-80087, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  