-- Senegal’s Wade Faces Former Ally Sall in Presidential Runoff
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-03-23T11:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/senegal-s-wade-faces-former-ally-sall-in-presidential-runoff-1-.html
Senegalese President  Abdoulaye Wade 
will face his former ally, Macky Sall, in an election runoff
March 25, pitting his bid for a third term in office against an
opposition that has rallied around Sall.  Wade, 85, won 34.8 percent of the votes in the first round,
not enough to secure victory. Sall, 50, who served as prime
minister from 2004 to 2007, won 26.9 percent of the vote.  The president “faces the possibility of losing in the
second round to his former prime minister and protege,”
Jonathan Hyman, Africa analyst at the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The odds are now stacked against him, given the opposition’s
recent re-discovery of unity.”  In the weeks before the Feb. 26 first round, Wade faced
growing protests against his bid to extend his 11 years in
office after his candidacy was approved by the Constitutional
Court. Demonstrators claimed his third term bid violated a law
that limits presidential tenures to two. At least nine people
died in clashes with police during the rallies, according to
 Amnesty International .  Protests have halted since the first round, after observers
said the vote was largely transparent and as a large group of
opposition support rallied around Sall.  Senegal  is the only
country in mainland West Africa to have never experienced a coup
d’etat.  Eurobonds  The yield on Senegal’s $500 million Eurobonds, which it
sold in May are are due in 2021, dropped 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 7.99 percent by 11:34 a.m. in Dakar, the
lowest since Sept. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We had been negative on the 21s before the first round of
the presidential election because of the deteriorating
institutional and security climate,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets strategist with Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-
mail to clients.  “The smooth electoral process since and the possibility of
an orderly transition in coming days would boost Senegal’s
historical reputation of political stability,” he said. “This
in turn is now shifting short-term risks to the yield outlook to
the downside.”  Sall’s coalition, called Benno Bokk Yakaar, or Grouping of
Forces for Change in the local Wolof language, includes 12 of
the 14 candidates who ran in the first round. It brings together
civil-society groups that organized the anti-Wade protests, such
as Y’en a Marre and Mouvement 23, as well as Grammy award-
winning singer Youssou N’Dour, whose candidacy was invalidated
by the  Constitutional Court  on a technicality.  Step Down  Senegal gained independence from France in 1960, and has
had three leaders since then. Wade has been in power since he
took over in 2000 from Abdou Diouf, who ruled for 19 years. Sall
was prime minister under Wade from 2004 to 2007.  While Sall’s coalition brings together candidates who won
more than 65 percent of the votes in the first round, Wade may
win voters’ favor with  a pledge  to step down after three years
to be able to finish infrastructure projects, such as a new toll
road and a 230 billion CFA-franc ($430 million) international
airport.  Rather than wait for Sall to finish a possible two terms,
“voters may prefer to have Wade in power for three years,
giving their candidates another chance to be elected,” said
Abdou Fall, Senegal analyst at the Institute for Security
Studies in  Pretoria ,  South Africa . “It is a long-term
calculation,” he said in an interview in the capital, Dakar.  Marabouts  Wade also has the support of religious leaders, known as
marabouts, who have given instructions to their followers to
vote for him, Fall said. “In the rural areas, the voting
instructions are powerful,” he said. Around two-thirds of
voters live outside Dakar.  If there is a narrow margin between the results of the two
candidates, this “could lead to allegations of fraud on both
sides, legal challenges and a strong likelihood of short term
instability which would have negative impact on markets,” said
Anna Osborne, senior analyst at Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, a
risk analysis company.  In  Ivory Coast , the biggest economy in the eight-member
West African monetary union that doesn’t include Nigeria and
 Ghana , a disputed presidential election in November 2010 led to
five months of violent clashes and an economic contraction of
4.7 percent, according to the IMF. The country also defaulted on
its $2.3 billion Eurobonds after missing a coupon payment.  “Wade will not try to cling to power like Cote d’Ivoire’s
ousted leader  Laurent Gbagbo , and the military would not support
him if he did,” said Philippe de Pontet, Africa director for
the New York-based Eurasia Group.  “If Sall wins he will face the daunting task of keeping
his loose coalition intact. Parliament could wind up as a
significant check on executive power,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Legislative elections will take place
later this year.  Senegal uses the monetary union’s CFA franc currency, which
is pegged to the euro. It gained 0.2 percent to 498.27 per
dollar by 11:37 a.m. in Dakar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  