-- Shell Sued in U.K. Over ’Massive’ 2008 Nigerian Oil Spills
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-23T17:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/shell-sued-in-u-k-over-massive-oil-spills-in-nigeria-in-2008.html
A unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Europe ’s largest oil company, was sued in Britain by 11,000
Nigerians who say their land, rivers and wetlands were spoiled
by two “massive” spills in the Niger River delta in 2008.  The lawsuit against Shell’s Nigerian subsidiary was filed
in  London  today by residents of the coastal Bodo community after
talks failed to produce a deal, the group’s  law firm  Leigh Day &
Co. said in a  statement . While Shell admits liability for the
leaks, it claims local people spilled most of the oil.  “The spills have caused extensive and long-lasting
devastation to the claimant’s lands and fishing waters and have
a profoundly detrimental impact on the life of the community,”
the lawyer for the Nigerians, Martyn Day, said in court papers.  The lawsuit, claiming a leak of 500,000 barrels, comes two
months after Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan said he would
seek compensation from Shell, based in  The Hague , for the
country’s worst offshore spill in more than a decade -- a leak
in December of nearly 40,000 barrels of oil at the company’s
Bonga field off Nigeria’s coast.  Before and after the Bodo leaks, local people spilled oil
during theft from the pipeline and sabotaged it to exaggerate
the environmental damage, Shell spokesman Jonathan French said
in a phone interview. The people have the “misguided belief
that more oil spilled equals more compensation,” he said.  ‘Lies and Deceit’  Patrick Naagbanton, who is from Bodo and runs a non-
governmental organization dedicated to protection of the
environment and human rights, said Shell makes the same claims
of theft and sabotage whenever there’s a spill or explosion.  “I’m used to their lies and deceit,” Naagbanton, who now
lives in nearby  Port Harcourt , Nigeria, said in a phone call
today. “This is what they say about a lot of communities in the
Niger delta and beyond, wherever their facility has destroyed
the environment of the local people.”  A joint team of Shell investigators and the Nigerian oil-
spill regulator  Nosdra  visited the site and determined the total
volume of oil spilled was about 4,000 barrels, French said.
Lawyers for the townspeople said that amount was spilling from
the pipeline nearly every day during one of the leaks that
lasted two months.  “We clearly disagree with that assessment,” French said.  The two Bodo spills leaked oil onto 90 square kilometers of
land, mangroves, creeks and streams and affected a coastline
similar in size to that of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Deepwater Horizon spill in
the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010, the law firm said. The human-rights
group  Amnesty International  said in November that Shell should
pay $1 billion to start cleaning the environment around Bodo.  35 Villages  The Bodo community has about 49,000 people in 35 villages
and most of its people are subsistence fishermen and farmers,
the law firm said. While Shell stopped oil extraction in the
area in 1994, the company’s pipelines still traverse it,
according to the complaint.  Shell continued pumping oil for weeks after learning of the
spill, “causing increasing devastation to Bodo’s environment,”
Day said in the statement. The pipeline should have been shut
immediately, he said.  Shell was unable to shut the pipeline quickly because its
workers were physically blocked by local people from entering
the area, French said. Shell admitted liability in late 2008 and
early 2009 -- as soon as the company confirmed the two spills
were caused by operational failings, he said.  The Bodo waterway at the center of the U.K. case recovered
from a “minor” leak in 2003 and a larger spill in 1986,
according to the complaint. The creek was “rich in fauna” and
“essentially free of hydrocarbons” before the latest
incidents, it said.  Nigeria , with daily production of 2.39 million barrels, was
Africa’s largest oil producer last year, according to the
country’s Petroleum Ministry. The west African nation is the
fifth-biggest source of U.S. crude imports.  In a separate case, Shell asked the U.S. Supreme Court last
month to rule the company can’t be sued by Nigerians seeking
damages for torture and murders committed by the national
government in the early 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  