-- Siemens to Increase R&D Spending to Retain Competitive Edge
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-23T09:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/siemens-to-increase-r-d-spending-to-retain-competitive-edge.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, plans to increase spending on research and
development this year to retain a competitive advantage.  The bigger budget comes irrespective of whether
technologies end up being commercially successful, Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said at an event at the
company’s Munich headquarters today. Siemens spent 3.9 billion
euros ($5.1 billion), or 5.3 percent of revenue, on R&D in its
last fiscal year through September, up from 5.2 percent a year
earlier.  “We would be ill-advised if we decided not to retain our
culture of doing research at the forefront of technology,” said
Klaus Helmrich, the Siemens management board member responsible
for corporate technology. “That’s not a spontaneous thing, but
needs continuity. You can’t just reduce it to the question of
economic success.”  Siemens has suffered setbacks as some technologies failed
commercially. The company said last year it will stop selling
equipment for its particle therapy technology for treating
cancer after amassing more than $1 billion in related charges.  Siemens allocated 1.6 billion euros of R&D spending to its
industrial operations last year, while spending 1.2 billion
euros for projects in health care, and 1 billion euros in energy
units. Helmrich’s corporate technology department spent
additional money.  The company said in January it plans to increase operating
expenditure this year by as much as 1.3 billion euros. Siemens
spent 14.2 billion euros on such items last year, with selling
expenses and R&D being the largest components.  Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said last month that
Siemens will increase investments at a slower pace this year
than planned, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  