-- Soldier in Afghan Killings Involved in Drunken Brawl
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-23T01:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/soldier-in-afghan-killings-involved-in-drunken-brawl-in-2.html
The U.S. Army staff sergeant held
in the killings of 17 Afghan civilians was involved in a drunken
altercation with a woman and her boyfriend in 2008 after making
comments about her, a police report and the woman involved say.  Robert Bales, 38, wasn’t charged in the incident outside a
bowling alley in Tacoma,  Washington , near the  Joint Base Lewis-
McChord  where he was stationed, according to police and court
records.  Records from the Pierce County, Washington,  Sheriff’s
Department  show that deputies were summoned after Myra Jo Irish,
then 54, accused Bales of assaulting her and her boyfriend
outside Paradise Valley Bowl on April 5, 2008.  “He was definitely drunk,” Irish, a caregiver who lives
in Tacoma, said in a telephone interview. “I went outside to
smoke a cigarette. He grabbed my hand and put it on his crotch,
and he assaulted my boyfriend.”  The incident is the second alleged assault reported since
Bales was identified as the soldier who allegedly killed 17
civilians, including women and children, in two villages in
southern  Afghanistan  on March 11.  Police and court records released earlier this week show
that Bales received a deferred sentence in 2002 after he was
charged with assaulting a guard at a Tacoma casino. He paid a
$300 fine and completed an anger-management course in that
incident, which also involved alcohol, according to police and
court records.  Bowling Alley  In the 2008 incident, Irish told deputies that she was
standing outside the bowling alley with her boyfriend, then 45-
year-old Eric Robert Cummings, when Bales complimented her on
her appearance.  Cummings demanded an apology from Bales, who responded by
pulling Irish’s hand to his crotch, the report states. A fight
broke out between the two men, and Bales punched and kicked
Cummings and knocked him to the ground, according to the police
report.  “He jumped on my boyfriend and tried to fight. Then the
security guard separated them, the police were called and so
forth,” Irish said.  Cummings wasn’t injured in the incident, police said in the
report.  According to the police report, Irish and Cummings
initially said they didn’t want to file charges in the matter
and later changed their minds and said they did.  A deputy contacted the two after the incident and found
that they hadn’t yet completed written-statement forms, the
police report says. In the interview, Irish said she completed a
police report and didn’t hear back about it.  A sheriff’s department spokesman couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment. Pierce County Office of the Prosecuting
Attorney spokeswoman Rebecca Stover wasn’t available for comment
after business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  