-- Soybeans Fall as Slow Economic Growth May Curb Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-23T03:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/soybeans-fall-as-slow-economic-growth-may-curb-demand-correct-.html
(Corrects export sale total in sixth paragraph in story
first published yesterday.)  Soybeans fell to the lowest in more
than a week on concern that demand will slow as economic growth
cools from China to  Europe . Corn rose for the first time this
week on speculation lower prices may spur overseas demand.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  Index of 24 commodities fell to
a two-week low after London-based Markit Economics reported a
slip in European manufacturing. A preliminary measure of Chinese
industrial activity also decreased. Soybeans have risen 15
percent in the past three months as hot, dry weather damaged
crops in  South America , boosting demand for U.S. supply.  “Commodity headwinds getting stiffer” will reduce demand
for oilseeds after this year’s rally,  Richard Feltes , the vice
president of research for Chicago-based R.J. O’Brien &
Associates, said in a note to clients today.  Soybean futures for May delivery dropped 0.4 percent to
$13.495 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
after touching $13.385, the lowest since March 13.  Corn futures for May delivery rose 0.4 percent to $6.445 a
bushel in Chicago, rebounding from a loss of as much as 0.8
percent.  The grain climbed after the government said U.S. exporters
sold 862,143 metric tons in the week ended March 15, up 3.1
percent from a week earlier even as prices rose to a five-month
high on March 19,  Jeff Thompson , a grain broker for ABN Amro
Clearing LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Speculation that China, the second-largest producer, may
need to increase imports to contain rising domestic prices also
supported the market, Thompson said. Corn in  China  rose to a
record last week.  The U.S. was the largest exporter of both crops in the year
that ended Sept. 30, according to government estimates. Soybean
production in the U.S. was valued last year at $35.8 billion,
second to corn, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  