-- Syria’s Assad Retains Power as Foes Try Guerrilla Tactics
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-23T10:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/syria-s-assad-retains-power-as-foes-try-guerrilla-tactics.html
(Corrects to show Sunnis are minority in  Iraq  in seventh
paragraph.)  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
days may not be as numbered as world leaders thought they were
when anti-regime protests started to escalate around the nation
a year ago.  Today, U.S. and other intelligence agencies and private
experts in  Europe  and the Mideast are predicting that Assad will
cling to power while battling what is evolving into guerrilla
warfare. The Syrian leader has won the first round of the fight
by forcing rebels from their urban strongholds, intelligence
officials said.  Though he may be unable to crush the opposition, Assad may
last at least until 2013, according to regional experts such as
 Joshua Landis , director of the Middle East Studies program at
the University of Oklahoma in Norman.  “It was a mistake to bet against the regime, which has got
its act together, and chances are it will gain the upper hand,”
Ken Pollack, director for the  Persian Gulf  at the National
Security Council during the Clinton administration, said in a
telephone interview. “The opposition, waiting in vain for
outside help that isn’t coming, has had to switch tactics.”  Suicide bombings last weekend at Syrian secret police
headquarters in Damascus marked the opening of a new chapter in
a conflict that, by UN estimates, has claimed more than 8,000
lives. Short on ammunition, the outnumbered rebel army seeking
the end of four decades of Assad family rule is now adopting the
kind of hit-and-run attacks used by insurgents in Iraq.  Regional Impact  An open-ended conflict would threaten the stability of the
region. The fighting already has sent thousands of refugees
across the border into Turkey, which also is a staging area for
the Syrian opposition; may engulf neighboring Lebanon and Iraq,
two countries that have already endured civil wars, and could
threaten Jordan’s minority Hashemite rulers.  Iraq’s minority Sunni Muslims support  Syria ’s Sunnis, who
make up about three-fourths of the population and much of the
opposition. In Lebanon, the power of the Hezbollah Shiite group
rests to some degree on support and weapons delivered from  Iran 
through Syria.  The growing political isolation of Assad, spurned by the
 Arab League  and hit with economic sanctions, have brought his
options -- kill or be killed -- into starker relief. His family
and collaborators are Alawites who, as members of a minority
sect governing a Sunni majority, have everything to lose.
Alawites and other Shiites account for about 13 percent of the
population, according to the U.S. State Department.  ‘No Return’  “He’s reached a point of no return,” said George Lopez, a
former UN sanctions investigator now at the Kroc Institute for
International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame  in
 South Bend ,  Indiana . “There are few incentives for him to
reverse course given the existential crisis he’s mired in.”  In a March 19 letter obtained by Bloomberg News, Bashar Jaafari, Syria’s UN envoy, wrote to  United Nations  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the president of the Security Council,
British Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant, to say, “There shall no
forgiveness for those who support terrorism.”  Hope is dwindling that Assad will stop killing the ill-
equipped armed opposition that is too small and too disorganized
to pose a serious threat, according to UN diplomats speaking on
condition of anonymity.  They said that, while most leaders agree that doing nothing
in Syria would be catastrophic, diplomacy had led to a series of
dead-ends, and there is no appetite for military intervention
during an election year in the U.S. and  France , two of the main
drivers along with the U.K. for the no-fly zone over  Libya  last
year.  New Realities  The new realities on the ground are starting to sink in
with Western countries and their Arab allies as they take stock
of the fact that Assad is unlikely to crumble like  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak and other leaders swept aside by the Arab Spring.  Ban, who dispatched his predecessor Kofi Annan to try to
extract concessions from Assad, said in  Malaysia  yesterday that
the “country faces the specter of sectarian strife.”  An earlier push for the  Security Council  to back an Arab
League plan with a resolution asking Assad to step down has
given way to a non-binding statement supporting an Annan peace
mission that few expect will succeed. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice
described the move as “modest.”  The council “has finally chosen to take a pragmatic look
at the situation in Syria,” said Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin, who twice vetoed Western-drafted resolutions seeking to
hold Assad accountable.  Russia , which sells weapons to Assad, is
one of Syria’s few remaining allies.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  Russia is “trying to give as much time to Assad while
trying not to appear impervious,” Landis said in a telephone
interview. “Assad saw the window of opportunity, and is seizing
it.”  Assad held back initially, relying on intimidation with
snipers and bands of plainclothes police to break up rallies and
frighten people into staying indoors, said Landis.  The Syrian opposition, he said, also has made a “bad and
costly mistake” in trying to hold territory and take on the
Syrian Army that dwarfs the rebel force, built on military
defectors and civilians who have abandoned peaceful protest.  Few senior military leaders have defected, and the violence
has spooked minorities, such as the Christians, who make up
about 10 percent of the population, to rally around the regime,
said Pollack, director of the Saban Center for Middle East
Policy at the Brookings Institution.  Fractured Opposition  There also is a growing detachment between the Syrian
National Council, a political group largely composed of educated
émigrés claiming to be the main opposition alliance, and the
people on the ground losing their lives.  To bridge this divide,  Turkey  next week will host a meeting
of all opposition groups to address the criticism that they are
fractured, one of the key reasons why outside countries have
held back from providing financial and military support, said
Mustafa Hamitoglu, an SNC member, in a telephone interview.  There are different models for the Syrian insurgency to
draw on, such as the mujahedeen guerrillas who, with covert U.S.
help, drove the  Soviet Union  out of  Afghanistan  in the 1980s.
Still, more recent history offers examples of when the
international community either took too long before stepping in,
as in Bosnia, or where military forays go wrong, such as the
decade-long U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to Jeff Laurenti of the Century Foundation.  Iraq, like Syria, has a large, very mixed Muslim
population, said Landis, adding that “we’ve seen this movie
before and we know how it ends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  