-- U.K. Subsidy Curbs Will End ‘Free Solar,’ Cut Jobs, HomeSun Says
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-03-23T17:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-k-subsidy-curbs-will-end-free-solar-cut-jobs-homesun-says.html
The U.K.’s proposed reduction to
solar-power subsidies will bring an end to free installations
and increase job losses, according to developer  HomeSun Ltd .  The government outlined plans Feb. 9 to lower solar feed-in
tariffs, a premium rate paid for renewable energy, from April
after photovoltaic-panel prices slumped. The proposals include a
new rate, at 80 percent of the full amount, for projects where
the company or owner has more than 25 solar installations.  “Early April is effectively the end of free solar in this
country,” Daniel Green, chief executive officer of Wembley,
England-based HomeSun, said in an interview. The new tariff has
already caused “thousands” of layoffs in the industry and will
trigger “thousands more” in April, he said.  The 80 percent rate adds to planned cuts of as much as 55
percent for small-scale installations completed after March 3,
and a further reduction of about 20 percent in July.  Free installations helped fuel the U.K.’s solar boom as
companies such as HomeSun,  British Gas  and retailer  Tesco Plc (TSCO) 
supplied rooftop panels to homes, allowing the householder to
use the power generated while pocketing the premium-rate payout
themselves. Such offers have contributed to a 10-fold increase
in photovoltaic capacity in a year to almost 1,000 megawatts.  Free installations “will not be viable in most cases after
the April cuts, and reductions planned in July will kill the
industry,” Green said yesterday.  Job Losses  Most companies that focus on free solar will have cut their
workforces by half by the end of March, and reductions in the
feed-in tariff may cost 20,000 jobs out of a total 28,000 in the
industry by July, he said.  The government is introducing the 80 percent tariff as it
recognizes that “multi-installations” can benefit from
economies of scale, a spokeswoman for the  Department of Energy
and Climate Change  said today by telephone, declining to be
identified. The rate remains “attractive,” she said.  HomeSun has already lost jobs and seen its installers cut
at least 40 percent of their staff, according to Green. The
company will now concentrate on non-free solar, a business that
will remain “reasonable” until July and become “very
difficult” thereafter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  