-- U.K. Supreme Court Refuses Government Appeal on Solar Cuts
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-03-23T14:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-k-supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-appeal-on-solar-subsidies.html
A U.K. government appeal to bring
forward solar-power subsidy cuts was refused by the  Supreme
Court , which upheld two previous rulings that early tariff
changes would be unlawful.  The court withheld permission for Energy Secretary of State
Edward Davey to appeal a Jan. 25 Court of Appeal ruling, it said
today in an e-mailed statement. That ruling prevented cuts in
so-called feed-in tariffs, or premium rates paid for solar
power, before a consultation on the matter was completed.  The government has sought to rein in a boom in solar-panel
installations following a slump in the price of photovoltaic
panels. Today’s decision means the government can only reduce
rates for small-scale solar-power projects from March 3, not
Dec. 12 as it intended. Projects completed thereafter will be
subject to a tariff cut of as much as 55 percent from April.  The government in December lost a case against Solarcentury
Holdings Ltd., HomeSun Ltd. and environmental group Friends of
the Earth after seeking to impose subsidy cuts for small-scale
solar plants almost four months ahead of schedule. After losing
an appeal in January, the government said it would bring in the
reductions on March 3 if it failed to overturn the rulings.  “For the first time in four months, the U.K. solar
industry can look forward and plan for the future without this
underlying uncertainty,” Alan John, head of renewable energy at
law firm  Osborne Clarke , said in a statement. “Most in the
industry will want to put the last few damaging months behind
them.”  The Supreme Court said it refused the application because
it didn’t “raise an arguable point of law of general public
importance.”  The refusal is a “landmark decision which will prevent
ministers causing industry chaos with similar subsidy cuts in
future,” Friends of the Earth said today in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  