-- U.S. Loan Fund Inflows Most Since June, Bank of America Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-03-23T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-s-loan-fund-inflows-the-most-since-june-bank-of-america-says.html
Investors poured $231 million into
U.S. loan funds this week, the biggest weekly inflow in almost
ten months, on expectations that the Federal Reserve may raise
 interest rates  as soon as next year, according to  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   Floating-rate bank debt has attracted the most interest
since the week of June 1, 2011, Bank of America said yesterday
in a research report.  “The market now believes that the Fed will start hiking up
interest rates sooner then they believed last month,” Hans
Mikkelsen, a New York-based credit strategist at Bank of
America, said today in a telephone interview. That means
investors “would become more excited about floating-rate
interest.”  While the Fed has pledged to keep its benchmark rate
unchanged until the end of 2014, the market now expects the
central bank to start raising it by October 2013, said
Mikkelsen.  U.S. monetary policy may be at a “turning point” and the
Fed’s first interest-rate increase since the global financial
crisis could come as soon as late 2013,  Federal Reserve  Bank of
St. Louis president  James Bullard  said in a speech earlier
today.  Investors are turning to the funds as loan prices rallied
2.6 cents since the beginning of the year while  Europe  moved
closer to approving the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) bailout
for Greece. The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
index  closed  on March 21 at 93.7 cents on the dollar, the
highest since Aug. 3.  It’s the first time since November that weekly fund flows
represented more than 0.5 percent of total net assets, according
to the Bank of America report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  