-- U.S. Agencies Allowed to Keep Residents’ Data for Five Years
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-s-agencies-allowed-to-keep-residents-data-for-five-years.html
The U.S. intelligence community
will be able to retain data on residents with no connection to
terrorism for as long as five years under new guidelines.  The revised rules governing data accessed and disseminated
by the National Counterterrorism Center, established in 2004 as
the main U.S. terrorism intelligence agency, were announced
yesterday in a statement released by the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence and the  Justice Department .  Allowing extended access to data maintained by other U.S.
government agencies will let the counterterrorism center
“accomplish its mission more practically and more
effectively,”  James Clapper , U.S. Director of National
Intelligence, said in the statement.  Rules in place since 2008 required the center to “promptly
review” data about U.S. residents and “promptly remove” any
information that isn’t reasonably believed to be terrorism
related according to the statement.  The decision to update the rules was prompted in part by
the government’s “limited ability” to access databases after a
mass shooting at Fort Hood,  Texas , and the attempted bombing of
an airliner landing in Detroit in 2009, according to the
statement.  Changing the retention period “is concerning,” said
Michael German, the  American Civil Liberties Union ’s national
security policy counsel and a former agent for the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  “There are very good reasons for having those rules,”
German said in a phone interview. “It protects the rights of
Americans to be free from intrusive surveillance, particularly
by the intelligence agencies and military that are supposed to
be focused on foreign threats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  