-- U.S. Wants Iran Oil Buyers to Pledge Cuts or Risk Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-03-23T14:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-s-wants-iran-oil-buyers-to-pledge-cuts-or-risk-sanctions-1-.html
The Obama administration wants
 China ,  India  and 10 other nations to present plans detailing how
they will curtail Iranian oil imports, saying past cuts aren’t
enough to win them an exclusion from new U.S. sanctions.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this week granted Japan
and European Union countries six-month, renewable exemptions
from the measures that take effect June 28, crediting them with
“significantly reducing” imports from the Persian Gulf nation.  While China and India, the two biggest buyers of Iran’s
crude, have made cuts in recent months and years, they were not
granted exemptions. The distinction is that the EU and Japan
offered assurances they will go beyond past reductions and
continue to curb purchases from the world’s fourth biggest
producer, U.S. officials say.  “What we are looking for is for countries to come to us
and tell us if they believe that they should be in that category
that deserves an exemption, what are the kinds of significant
reductions that they are willing to pursue,” said Carlos Pascual, the State Department’s special envoy and coordinator
for international energy affairs.  Japan , the No. 3 importer of Iranian oil, detailed to the
U.S. its plans to boost purchases from alternative suppliers,
the U.S. officials said. China, India, South Korea,  Turkey  and
eight other buyers of Iranian crude haven’t yet made similar
pledges, and past cuts alone can’t be taken as evidence of
future intent, said four U.S. officials who spoke on condition
of anonymity because diplomatic discussions are private.  ’Significant Reduction’  The new sanctions law, enacted Dec. 31, doesn’t define what
constitutes the “significant reduction” needed to qualify for
an exemption from penalties. U.S. officials say they haven’t
quantified it because there’s no rule of thumb or percentage of
cuts that applies to all cases. Each country has different
energy needs, and all will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis,
the officials said.  If a country doesn’t prove it’s making the necessary
reductions by the end of June, any institution in that nation
that settles petroleum trades through  Iran ’s central bank will
be cut off from the U.S. banking system.  The first round of exemptions, issued to EU nations and
Japan and valid until Sept. 16, were meant to set an example to
others, said  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman for the State
Department. The EU banned new oil contracts with Iran on Jan. 23
and embargoed all Iranian oil effective July 1.  Japan’s Cuts  Publicly available data shows Japan made “seasonally
adjusted” cuts of between 15 percent and 22 percent in the
second half of last year compared with the same period in 2010,
depending on the data source, Pascual testified before Congress
March 20.  Japan bought 53 million barrels (8.4 million kiloliters) of
oil from Iran from July through December 2011, compared with 64
million barrels (10.2 million kiloliters) in the same period of
2010, according to Japanese government statistics. That’s a 17.6
percent reduction. Japan’s finance minister,  Jun Azumi , said his
government welcomed the U.S. exemption and intends to “keep
reducing oil imports at a certain pace.”  The American sanctions are among dozens of measures taken
by the U.S. and the EU since November to ratchet up economic
pressure on Iran’s leaders in an effort to persuade them to
abandon any illicit part of their nuclear program. The U.S.,
 Europe  and  Israel  have accused Iran of seeking the capability to
build a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is solely for
civilian energy and medical research.  Under Pressure  The Obama administration is under pressure to turn the
screws on Iran even tighter as Israel warns that it’s prepared
to take military action to prevent Iran from developing nuclear
weapons.  The administration should accelerate the sanctions on Iran
that are due to take effect in June, Representative Mike Rogers,
a Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, said today on Bloomberg Television.  In addition, Rogers said, because neither Iran nor Israel
believes the U.S. is seriously considering military action, the
administration should signal that it’s willing to use force, for
example by holding military exercises in the region and pre-
positioning equipment that would be needed to strike Iran’s
suspect nuclear facilities.  “This is as serious a problem as I’ve ever seen,” Rogers
said.  Oil prices  in  New York  have risen 7.2 percent this year,
while  Brent crude  in  London  has climbed 15.6 percent, partly due
to concerns over supply disruptions from escalating tension
between Iran and the U.S. and its allies.  Nuclear Program  U.S. officials say they are in talks with the 12 importers
that haven’t received exemptions, and are hopeful they’ll reach
an understanding with each of them.  South Korea , the No. 4 buyer
of Iranian crude, has requested an exemption, and U.S. diplomats
say they’re optimistic that officials in Seoul will pledge
future cutbacks before the June 28 deadline.  South Korea is seeking exclusion from the sanctions, a
government official from the Asian nation said March 21. Talks
may be held before May, according to the official, who is
involved in the discussions and spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information is confidential.  South Africa  has “downscaled” Iran imports, partly in
response to requests from the U.S., and also to diversify
supplies, Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation, said yesterday.  China, India  While China and India, the world’s fastest-growing major
economies, supported four rounds of United Nations sanctions on
Iran over its nuclear program, neither has endorsed the
unilateral sanctions imposed by the U.S.  Indian Oil Minister Jaipal Reddy and Foreign Secretary
Ranjan Mathai have said the South Asian nation will continue to
buy from Iran. Still, India’s oil imports from Iran will be less
than 125 million barrels (17 million tons) in the year ending
March 31, Mathai said. That would be at least 8 percent lower
than imports for the 12 months ended March 2011 and 20 percent
below 2010 levels, according to government data.  India has been “following a general policy of diversifying
our oil imports,” Mathai said. Iran is currently India’s
second-biggest crude supplier. India needs to take care of local
consumer interests, and isn’t planning to cut Iranian crude
imports, oil minister Reddy said today.  While India hasn’t asked its refiners to stop purchasing
Iranian crude, the government has told processors in the South
Asian nation to seek alternative supplies and gradually reduce
dependence on the Persian Gulf state because of increasing
pressure from the U.S., said three Indian officials  with direct
knowledge of the situation.  Mangalore Refinery  India reduced purchases from Iran every year since the 12
months ended March 2009, according to government figures
presented to parliament this week. Imports are poised to fall
further as its biggest buyer of Iranian oil, state-owned
 Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , plans to cut its term
contract by about 15 percent compared with the previous 12
months, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  China, the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, cut imports by
45 percent in February compared with the previous month to the
lowest level since May 2010, after a disagreement over payment
terms between Iran and China International United Petroleum &
Chemical Co., the nation’s biggest oil trader. China reduced
Iran imports by 14.3 percent in January and 4.5 percent in
December, customs data show.  Barter Deals  “China has been importing Iranian crude through normal
channels based on our own needs for economic development,” Hong
Lei, a foreign ministry spokesman, said at a media briefing
yesterday, when asked if the Asian country was considering
import cuts from Iran. “China has always been against
unilateral sanctions, based on domestic laws, imposed by any one
country on another. We especially do not accept unilateral
sanctions that are forcibly imposed on a third-party country.”  Sanctions have made it increasingly difficult to insure,
ship and pay for Iranian oil. India has used a Turkish bank to
route payments to Iran, dealt in currencies such as the rupee
and yen, and asked Iran to secure its own ship insurance.  Efforts to arrange barter deals to pay for Iranian oil may
be perceived by some in  Washington  as a means to skirt
sanctions, one U.S. envoy said. India and Iran are considering
bartering commodities and other products for crude through a
rupee account with state-run  UCO Bank (UCO) , said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  “Despite whatever the Indians say about decreasing Iranian
oil imports, there are other ways they can continue to get it,
through Iraq and  Afghanistan , for example,” Barbara Slavin, a
senior fellow on Iran at the Atlantic Council, a research
institute in Washington, said in an interview. “India has such
energy needs, they can’t comply with these sanctions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  