-- U.S. Sales of New Homes Probably Climbed to One-Year High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-23T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/u-s-sales-of-new-homes-probably-climbed-to-one-year-high.html
Purchases of new homes in the U.S.
probably rose in February to the highest level in more than a
year, economists said before a report today.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 1.3
percent to a 325,000 annual pace, the fastest since December
2010, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 78 economists. That would mark the fifth gain in six
months.  Affordability is increasing as hiring picks up, incomes
grow,  home prices  steady and mortgage rates hold near record
lows. At the same time, builders face increasing competition
from foreclosures, which are hurting all property values.  “We’re in the early stages of a recovery in sales,” said
 Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “We’ve seen builders saying things
are improving, and the weather’s been pretty good.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 310,000 to
350,000.  New-home sales have lost their ability to forecast the
broader market as demand shifts to previously owned houses.
Purchases of existing homes are calculated when a deal closes
about a month or two later. New properties made up almost 7
percent of the market last year, down from a high of 15 percent
during the last decade’s housing boom.  Existing-home purchases eased to a 4.59 million annual rate
last month from a 4.63 million pace in January, the National
Association of Realtors reported this week. Even with the
decline, January and February sales marked the strongest start
to a year since 2007.  Warmer Weather  Warmer weather may have may have encouraged more Americans
to shop for new properties last month. The average temperature
was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4 Celsius), 3.6 degrees warmer
than the 20th century average and the 17th warmest February in
118 years, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Among other signs that housing is improving, builders this
year have broken ground on homes at the fastest pace since
October-November 2008, according to Commerce Department figures
released this week. Permits for construction climbed to the
highest level since 2008, the same report showed.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index held in March at the highest level since June
2007. Sales expectations climbed for a sixth month, according to
the March 19 report.  Investors also are upbeat about prospects for the industry.
The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has advanced 25
percent this year through yesterday, compared with the 11
percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  Positive Outlook  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , which builds homes with an average price
of $255,000 in 13 states, said it has a positive outlook for
2012.  “We finished the year on a strong note, entered the year
optimistic and still feel fairly optimistic today,” Larry
Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at the  Westlake
Village , California-based company, said March 6 at an investor
conference. “The good thing about the traffic we are seeing is
it’s new traffic. We feel a lot better than we did a year ago.”  Nonetheless, foreclosures remain a concern. Filings fell 8
percent in February, the smallest year-over-year decrease since
October 2010, as lenders began working through a backlog of
seized properties, RealtyTrac Inc. said last week.  “February’s numbers point to a gradually rising
foreclosure tide,” Brandon Moore, RealtyTrac’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “That should result in more
states posting annual increases in the coming months.”  To hold down borrowing costs like  mortgage rates , Federal
Reserve policy makers last week said they will continue to swap
$400 billion in short-term securities with long-term debt to
lengthen the average maturity of the central bank’s holdings, a
move dubbed Operation Twist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  