-- UBS Sees ‘Earlier’ Fed Move; Barclays Sees Rates on Hold
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-23T05:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ubs-sees-earlier-fed-move-barclays-sees-rates-on-hold.html
The  Federal Reserve  will
“normalize” monetary policy sooner than many investors
predict, according to  UBS AG (UBSN) , while Barclays Capital Inc. says
forecasts of central bank interest-rate rises are “premature.”  Investors are questioning whether Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
will stick to his pledge to keep the Fed’s benchmark interest
rate near zero at least through late 2014 as the  U.S. economy 
shows signs of improvement.  Yields (.FF2)  on two-year Treasuries --
among the most sensitive to what the Fed does with its target
for overnight bank lending because of their short maturity --
rose to 0.14 percentage point more than the Fed rate on March
20, surpassing the five-year average of 0.13 percentage point.  “We regard the trend toward higher yields as a healthy
development,” Andrew Cates in Singapore and Larry Hatheway and
Christine Li in  London  wrote in a UBS report yesterday. “It
reflects a healing process in the U.S. economy and recognition
that the Fed will be able to normalize monetary policy earlier
than many envisage.”  Investors should buy two-year Treasuries, Ajay Rajadhyaksha
and  Dean Maki , New York-based analysts at Barclays, wrote in a
report yesterday. “We consider the recent rise in Fed hike
expectations premature,” they wrote.  Two-year notes will “benefit from the Fed remaining on
hold,” Barclays wrote in a separate report yesterday.  The two companies are among the 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed and underwrite the U.S. debt.  Rates Near Zero  Policy makers have kept their target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The Fed has purchased
$2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage debt to cap borrowing
costs. The central bank is currently in the process of swapping
$400 billion of short-term Treasuries in its holdings for longer
maturities in a program it plans to end in June.  U.S. yields surged after the central bank’s policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  raised its assessment of the U.S.
economy on March 13.  Benchmark 10-year  rates  climbed to 2.40 percent on March
20, the highest level since October, rising from the record low
of 1.67 percent set Sept. 23. They were 2.29 percent at 2:30
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Two-year  rates  were 0.37 percent today, after rising to
0.41 percent on March 15, the most since July.  Officials are also debating what to do.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the best
time for the central bank to raise  interest rates  may be late
2013.  “It may be a good time to take stock of whether we may be
at a turning point,” Bullard said in a speech in Hong Kong
today. “As the U.S. economy continues to rebound and repair,”
further action “may create an overcommitment to ultra-easy
monetary policy.”  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said the central bank
needs to further ease policy to fuel the economic expansion, in
a speech yesterday in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  