-- Vietnam Stocks Rise Most in Asia on Rate Order: Hanoi Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-23T09:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/vietnam-stocks-rise-most-in-asia-on-rate-order-hanoi-mover.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index posting the biggest gain in Asia, after the
State Bank of Vietnam ordered the country’s top four banks to
reduce lending rates.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  increased
1.9 percent, the most since March 5, to close at 454.10. The
gauge slid 27 percent last year, the biggest decline among major
Asian indexes, as interest-rate increases to combat accelerating
inflation hurt economic growth and corporate earnings.  The central bank instructed five lenders in total,
including Vietnam Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development, the
country’s biggest lender,  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank
for Industry and Trade (CTG)  and Bank for Investment and Development
to cut lending  interest rates , according to a statement posted
on its website late yesterday.  The banks are required to come up with specific cuts before
April 10, it said. Banks are currently charging lending rates as
high as 25 percent, according a weekly report posted on the
central bank’s website yesterday.  “This is quite positive for companies,” Nguyen Minh Hung,
deputy chief analyst at Ho Chi Minh City-based Dai Viet
Securities, said by phone today. “It shows that the government
is taking drastic measures to push down interest rates in the
market to help businesses,”  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry & Trade,
the country’s second-largest publicly traded bank by market
value, increased 1.2 percent to 26,000 dong.  Bao Viet Holdings (BVH) ,
the biggest insurer, jumped 4.3 percent to 72,500 dong.  Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , known as Vinamilk, rose 4.9
percent to 96,000 dong.  “Traders also expect inflation to slow this month, as big
cities like Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City reported prices easing in
March,” Hung said.  Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  slowed for a sixth month in
February to 16.44 percent, after peaking at 23.02 percent in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Heath at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net  