-- Vipshop Raises Less Than Target
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-03-23T20:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/vipshop-raises-less-than-target-in-first-chinese-ipo-in-7-months.html
Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Guangzhou-
based online retailer, raised 39 percent less than targeted in
the first initial public offering in the U.S. by a Chinese
company since August.  Vipshop, which runs an online discount store in China for
branded goods through vipshop.com, raised $71.5 million by
selling 11 million American depositary receipts for $6.50 each,
according to a PR Newswire statement from the company today. The
retailer was seeking as much as $117.3 million by offering 11.2
million ADRs for $8.50 to $10.50.  A total of 13 Chinese companies completed IPOs in the U.S.
last year, down from 38 in 2010 which was the most since 2000 at
least, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as short sellers accused
Chinese companies listed on North American exchanges, such as
Sino-Forest Corp. and Focus Media Holding Ltd., of misstating
business and assets. Just three of the companies that raised
funds through IPOs in 2011 were trading above their offering
price as trading closed in  New York , the data showed.  “There is still a huge amount of skepticism for Chinese
companies given some of the issues with financial statements,
misrepresentations, and a couple of examples of outright
fraud,” Bruno Del Ama, chief executive officer of Global X
Funds, a New York-based exchange-traded fund company which
manages $1.3 billion including Chinese equities, said by phone
yesterday before the Vipshop IPO was priced. “The U.S. market
has become a lot smarter and a lot more discerning.”  Vipshop’s ADRs, each representing two ordinary shares,
started trading today on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol VIPS. The shares tumbled 15 percent to close at $5.50.  Twice as Expensive  “The market environment isn’t very good, and the IPO price
was below what we thought would be a fair price for our company
stock,” Eric Shen, Vipshop’s CEO, said by phone from New York.
A major concern from investors was that the stock price may
decline should they buy shares at IPO, Shen said, adding the
price would “correctly” reflect the company’s value in the
long run.  The midpoint of Vipshop’s offering range would have valued
the company’s stock at $463 million, or about two times net
revenue of $227 million in the 12 months through Dec. 31, a
statement from the company yesterday shows.  By that measure, Vipshop would have been twice as expensive
as Beijing-based competitor  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  The
online bookseller, which went public in the U.S. in 2010, is
valued at about $603 million, or 1.1 times sales of $566 million
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lost Market Value  Allegations regarding Chinese U.S.-listed companies by
research firms such as Muddy Waters LLC helped erase about $5
billion of market value and spurred losses for  John Paulson , the
billionaire who made his wealth from betting against subprime
mortgages, and former American International Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. slid 17 percent last year,
after two years of gains.  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) ,  China ’s second-largest video sharing
website, raised $174 million in its IPO on Aug. 16 at $29 per
ADR. The price has gained 15 percent since to $33.30.  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU)  a Beijing-based computer software developer, has
jumped 72 percent to $24.87 from its IPO price of $14.50 in
March 2011.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Beijing-based social-network operator, has
lost 62 percent since its May IPO to $5.30 per ADR.  DCM, Sequoia  While the U.S. market will gradually open up again to
Chinese companies, it will take time to get back to previous
levels, Global X Funds’ Del Ama said. “Only high-quality
companies are going to be able to come to the market in the next
couple of quarters.”  Venture-capital investors DCM, which held a 19.2 percent
stake in Vipshop, and Sequoia Capital China, which owned 19.3
percent, each added $10 million of the shares at Vipshop’s IPO,
Chief Financial Officer Donghao Yang said in the interview.  Vipshop’s business model is different from other major e-
commerce companies such as Dangdang as it focuses on flash
sales, in which branded products are offered at discounts on the
website in a short period of time, said Hurst Lin, DCM’s general
partner and also a director at Vipshop.  “We can exit sooner or later by selling the stocks, and
the time horizon for our holdings can go up to 10 years as
Vipshop is not a traditional company,” Lin said today in the
phone interview, in which Vipshop CEO Shen and CFO Yang also
took part. “The U.S. market has just come back from a loss last
year. When U.S. companies become too expensive to buy, investors
will turn to other companies or markets with faster growth.”  1,900 Brands  Vipshop , founded in 2008, will use the proceeds of the
share issue to fund capital expenditure, enhance its information
technology systems and for general purposes, according to a
filing yesterday. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the company had more than
1.7 million cumulative customers and sold over 1,900 brands, it
said in the statement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  managed the
share sale, the statement showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  