-- Westfield Retail Considers Redevelopments to Buoy Returns
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-03-23T05:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/westfield-retail-considers-redevelopments-sales-to-buoy-returns.html
Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) , the listed
vehicle spun off from  Westfield Group (WDC) , is planning as much as
A$300 million ($312 million) of redevelopments a year and may
sell some malls as it seeks to boost shareholder returns.  “There will be one or two projects we will push the green
light on before the end of the year,” Managing Director Domenic Panaccio said in an interview in Sydney yesterday, declining to
name potential projects. “There may be opportunities to recycle
assets, which will include disposals, potentially this year.”  Westfield Retail, which was created in November 2010 to
jointly own Westfield Group’s 54 Australian and New Zealand
malls, reported  net income  of A$851.7 million in its first full
year of operation. The trust is planning about A$1.3 billion of
redevelopments of malls it owns over the next five to seven
years, it said in February.  The company remains susceptible to weakness in the retail
industry and could see rent reductions on new leases this year,
analysts led by Lourens Pirenc at Morgan Stanley, wrote last
month. Pirenc has an “underweight”  rating  on the stock.  Australian  consumer confidence  dropped 5 percent in March
to the lowest level in three months, and the  unemployment rate 
rose to 5.2 percent in February, as banks raised  mortgage rates 
and a stronger currency hurt tourism and manufacturing.  Redevelopments  Westfield Retail is targeting an internal rate of return of
between 12 percent and 15 percent on malls that it redevelops,
Panaccio said. It is currently completing the development of
Westfield Sydney mall in the city’s center, with the project
expected to be finished next month, and Westfield Fountain Gate
in  Melbourne ’s south-eastern suburbs, which will open in
October.  While the Sydney-based company will also consider
acquisitions, “today, the most logical return, the best risk-
adjusted return you would get is reinvesting in the development
pipeline,” Panaccio said.  The trust’s plans could send its gearing, a measure of its
long-term debt compared to equity capital, into the “high
20’s” from 21 percent now in the next five years, Panaccio said
in the interview.  The company’s malls “require substantial ongoing capital
expenditure to maintain its strong appeal to the consumer, which
will, over time, result in higher debt,” Craig Parker, an
analyst at credit rating company  Standard & Poor’s , which
assigned it an A+ rating last April, wrote in a November report.
“We expect the trust would seek to reduce leverage in a timely
manner at a peak gearing level.”  Potential Sales  Westfield Retail may look to the U.S. bond market, where
terms are longer than in  Australia , to fund future projects and
acquisitions, Panaccio said. It will also weigh up sales of some
malls if returns on potential acquisitions or redevelopments are
higher than on the existing properties, he said.  “We’ve got to be mindful that we don’t necessarily have to
own every single asset we currently own,” Panaccio said. “The
recycling of assets, where you can sell an asset and reinvest in
something else that’s incrementally providing a bigger return,
is a way you can increase value for security holders.”  The  shares  climbed 1.2 percent to A$2.57 at 4:10 p.m. close
of trading in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  