-- Wise Ways to Spend a Tax Refund
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-03-23T21:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/wise-ways-to-spend-a-tax-refund.html
     Last year the  Internal Revenue Service  cut nearly 120
million refund checks with an average amount of nearly $3,000
each. If you’re in line for a nice fat refund this
year, creating a game plan before the money hits your checking
account can help ensure it generates maximum value.  Paying down credit-card debt, shoveling more money into
an emergency cash fund, and funding your 2012 IRA are solid
go-to refund moves. But c’mon, do you need to hear that again?
Didn’t think so. Here are some spending options for this
year’s tax refund. Yes, spending -- with an important twist:
What you spend today pays a dividend down the line.  FIX UP YOUR HOME. James Carey, co-author with his brother
Morris of Home Maintenance for Dummies, understands that
strapped homeowners have been “making do with what they have”
rather than tending to basic maintenance. That increases the
odds that today’s small problem could become a budget buster
or safety hazard if left unintended. Carey suggests making a
list of everything that isn’t up to snuff and prioritizing
what you want to tackle. His website, onthehouse.com, is full
of maintenance tips and DIY advice.  For example, maybe you can live with a busted
icemaker, but flickering lights or an outlet that isn’t
working can be a sign of a dangerous electrical problem, such
as an overloaded circuit. And while that shower drip doesn’t
seem like a big deal, it can signal that something bad is
happening behind the tile. “In this day and age it makes sense
to tackle the projects that address the long-term
sustainability of your home’s integrity and value,” says
Carey.  DRIVE A GOOD DEAL. We’re all angling to hold on to our
cars a bit longer. According to automotive marketing and
research firm Polk, the average new car is now held for a
record high 71 months. In 2008, it was less than 60 months.
Spending on some preventative maintenance is both smart and
safe.  Dan Edmunds, director of vehicle testing at
Edmunds.com, recommends a set of new tires and an alignment
while you’re at it. “There’s a tendency to buy a tire when you
need it and to buy just one or two. A complete set will
improve your handling and give you a much better ride.” For a
standard family car, Edmunds says you should be able to find
solid name-brand tires for around $100 apiece (or less). That
all-important alignment might run you $100 to $150.  If your odometer is closing in on six figures, Edmunds
suggests replacing the timing belt. It’s not a small outlay --
it can be $1,000 or more, depending on make and model -- but
if it snaps, you’re looking at thousands to rebuild your
engine (or more likely use toward a new car). Your original
owner’s manual will have information on the mileage at which a
change is recommended.  SHAPE UP. Use your  tax refund  to jump-start a health kick
-- a gym membership or series of sessions with a trainer. Or
simply cordon off a corner of the garage or extra room for a
small at-home gym. Fitnessmagazine.com has a series of best
buys for home workouts, ranging from $100 or less, to $1,200
for pro-level equipment.  Long term, you’re giving yourself a fighting chance of
having to shell out less on medical care when you’re retired.
Even in its current (nonreformed) state, Medicare typically
covers just two-thirds of medical costs for the over-65 crowd.
The Employee Benefits Research Institute estimates that a
65-year-old couple in 2020 whose cost for medications falls at
the median will incur $454,000 in out-of-pocket expenses for
everything not covered by Medicare. If that couple’s drug
expenses fall in the top 10 percent, out-of-pocket expenses
will be $200,000 higher. Suddenly spending some cash today to
get in shape doesn’t seem so profligate, eh?  TAKE A BREAK. More than half of us didn’t use all our
allotted vacation time last year, according to a Jet Blue
survey. On average, the workaholics among us forfeited 11
days, or about 70 percent of what we’re entitled to. Studies
show that folks who took an annual break had a lower
propensity for developing heart problems and ultimately dying
from a coronary. An added bonus, as behavioral economist Dan
Ariely explains in his book, The Upside of Irrationality:
Buying new stuff gives us only a temporal buzz, while
experiences can deliver long-lasting upside.  ADVANCE YOUR CAREER. The suits in the C-suite get
executive coaching as a perk. If you’re not there yet and want
to elevate your career or just get unstuck, consider a few
sessions with a career or life coach. According to the
International Coach Federation, the average hourly cost can
run about $200. A few sessions that help you strategize on how
to step up the corporate ladder, or step out into a new job
that floats your boat a bit more than the current one, can be
a great investment.  Claire Bula considers the $3,000 she paid in 2009 to work
with a career coach "the best money I ever spent." A string of
jobs and career shifts, including work as a marketer and a
prosecutor, weren't fulfilling. Six months of long-distance
work with career coach Maggie Mistal helped Bula drill down on
her skill strengths and focus on what makes her
tick career-wise. "I've found two fabulous jobs since working
with Maggie, and our work helped me with that," says Bula, who
is the marketing manager at Electronic Ink, a consulting firm
that helps businesses assess work processes and technology
systems.  If it’s basic training in new technologies you need, odds
are that in this economy your company isn’t likely to pick up
the bill. Pay for it out of pocket if it will keep you
competitive and burnish your résumé. If you itemize on your
federal  tax return  and the cost of business-related education
exceeds 2 percent of your adjusted gross income (along with
some other miscellaneous expenses), you may be able to deduct
the cost of training.  WRITE YOUR LEGACY. Or more specifically, have an estate
planning attorney draw up the legal docs you know you need to
take care of but have been procrastinating over for years.
That means a will, probably a revocable living trust, a power
of attorney, a power of attorney for health care, and an
advance directive. The cost might be as much as $2,500 for a
fairly standard package of docs. But that’s some serious peace
of mind you’re buying. 