-- Yankees’ Chamberlain Dislocates Ankle on Trampoline With Son
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-23T17:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/yankees-chamberlain-injures-ankle-on-trampoline-usa-today-says.html
New York Yankees pitcher Joba Chamberlain had surgery last night to repair a dislocated right
ankle after injuring it on a trampoline with his son, the team
said on its  Web site.   The injury was described as an open dislocation, which is
similar to a compound fracture because the bone protrudes from
the skin.  Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said the accident
happened last night at a children’s center with athletic
activities including trampolines. He told ESPN that it was a
significant injury and that Chamberlain, 26, would be in the
hospital several days.  The injury is the most recent setback to a pitcher whose
fastball so impressed the Yankees during his rookie season in
2007 that the team created so-called Joba Rules to prevent
manager  Joe Torre  from overusing him. In one stretch that year,
Chamberlain gave up one earned run in 24 innings.  Later that season during playoff game against the  Cleveland
Indians , Chamberlain lost his composure when a swarm of midges,
a gnat-type insect, descended upon the field. The Yankees were
ahead 1-0 during the eighth inning at the time, and Chamberlain
threw two wild pitches and gave up the tying run. The Indians
won 2-1 in 11 innings, and defeated the Yankees in the series.  The following year, Chamberlain was arrested in 2008 and
charged with driving under the influence in his hometown of
Lincoln,  Nebraska .  Chamberlain’s ankle was repaired last night at St. Joseph’s
Hospital in Tampa,  Florida . Manager  Joe Girardi  was at the
hospital this morning and Cashman is scheduled to visit this
afternoon, ESPN reported.  There is no timetable for Chamberlain’s return. The relief
pitcher, who will be paid $1.7 million this year, can become a
free agent after the 2013 season.  In five seasons with the Yankees, Chamberlain has a 20-13
record with an earned run average of 3.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  