-- Yen Falls Before U.S. Homes Data, After Bullard Comments
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-03-23T12:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/yen-set-for-weekly-gains-as-stocks-fall-on-china-concern.html
The yen weakened against most major
peers amid speculation  Japan ’s central bank will boost stimulus
and before a report analysts said will show U.S. new-home sales
rose last month, damping demand for the currency as a haven.  The Dollar Index fell after Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said monetary policy may be at a
“turning point” as the world’s largest economy strengthens.
 Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the central bank
and the government share the same view on the economy. The euro
climbed amid speculation three days of weakness was overdone.  “There was some more Japanese official comment today
making reference to yen weakness and a desire to go for
inflation, which is in itself a yen weakener,” said Neil Jones,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in London.  The yen was little changed at 82.55 per dollar at 8:04 a.m.
New York time, set for a 1.2 percent gain this week, the first
weekly advance in seven. It weakened 0.1 percent to 109.10 per
euro.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency strengthened 0.2 percent to
$1.3229 after dropping as much as 0.6 percent yesterday.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , used to track
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, slid 0.3 percent to
79.422 after touching 79.315 yesterday, the lowest level since
March 9.  ‘Turning Point’  In the U.S., sales of  new homes  probably climbed to a
325,000 annual rate in February from 321,000 the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 78 economists before
today’s report. That would be the fastest since December 2010.  With Fed policy currently “on pause, it may be a good time
to take stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Bullard
said in a speech in  Hong Kong  today. The  U.S. economy  may expand
3 percent this year, he said, “the outlook has improved
markedly” over the past eight months.  The Fed has held its target rate at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “I don’t think the trend for the dollar to gradually rise
against the yen has changed,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo . “The U.S.
economic recovery story hasn’t changed.”  Domestic Demand  The yen has weakened 1.8 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
climbed 1.6 percent, while the euro advanced 0.4 percent.  Barclays Plc recommended investors bet the dollar will
advance versus its Japanese counterpart. The yen may also fall
versus  Australia ’s dollar, the yuan, rupiah and ringgit,
according to a client note from Masafumi Yamamoto, chief
currency strategist at Barclays in Tokyo.  Australia’s dollar may decline toward $1.0260, the least
since Jan. 16, Commerzbank AG said, citing trading patterns.
That marks the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the Aussie’s
advance from 96.64 U.S. cents on Nov. 23 to $1.0856 on Feb. 29,
 Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and currency
technical analysis in  London , wrote in a note to clients.  “Beyond $1.0260 we look for losses to $1.0120, then $1,”
she wrote. The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0394
today.  Euro-Area Data  The euro snapped a three day slide against the dollar after
dropping to the lowest in almost a week yesterday amid a slide
in a gauge of euro-area industry based on a survey of purchasing
managers.  “People were taking a slightly more sanguine view of
negatives from the euro-zone PMIs and the risk environment was
looking a little more encouraging,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head
of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London. “There was an attempt to break up through the
$1.3290-$1.3295 area but that’s proved futile.”  The People’s Bank of  China  has strengthened the fixing of
the yuan 0.5 percent since March 18, ending a five-week drop.
The currency advanced 0.17 percent in the last 30 minutes of
trading yesterday, prompting speculation that the monetary
authority was buying yuan.  “If the policy is to boost domestic demand, ultimately the
currency needs to appreciate,” said  Nizam Idris  , a strategist
in  Singapore  at Macquarie Group Ltd. “An appreciating currency
boosts domestic purchasing power, which would be supportive of
consumption. A weak currency is only a subsidy to exporters.”  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao stressed on March 15 the need to
shift to a more sustainable and efficient economic model driven
by consumers and private businesses.  The yuan rose 0.2 percent this week to 6.3076 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
central bank today set the currency’s fixing 0.2 percent
stronger at a record high of 6.2891. The yuan is allowed to move
as much as 0.5 percent either side of the daily fixing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  