-- Commodity Currencies Advance as Stocks Gain Boosts Risk Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-23T21:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/yen-weekly-gain-most-since-11-as-growth-concern-boosts-demand.html
Currencies of commodity-exporting
countries, led by  New Zealand ’s dollar, rose against the U.S.
dollar as stocks and raw materials prices gained, boosting
demand for assets linked to growth.  Norway’s krone rallied as  oil prices  surged amid concern
about supply disruptions. Japan’s currency rose against the
dollar after a report showed purchases of new homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in February for a second month, signaling the
recovery in the housing market may be uneven. The euro climbed
against the yen after falling for three days, prompting bets the
move lower was overdone.  “We’ve had a big purge of commodity-currency long
positions this week, so it’s possible that the backup in oil has
been helpful,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . A long is a bet the price of an
asset will rise. “Volatility is low, which means the carry
trade is really attractive.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose 1.1 percent to 81.82 U.S. cents
at 5 p.m. in New York, paring its weekly loss to 0.8 percent.
The euro gained 0.5 percent to $1.3270. The yen rose 0.2 percent
to 82.35 per dollar, and was up 1.3 this week in its biggest
gain since the last five days of 2011.  The carry trade of using the yen to fund purchases of
assets denominated in the  Mexican peso , Brazilian real,
Norwegian krone and Australian dollar more than doubled today
after losing 77 percent in the week through yesterday.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the shared currency
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
82,954 on March 20, compared with net shorts of 99,336 a week
earlier.  ‘Proved Futile’  Sweden’s krona and the Norwegian krone were among the top
gainers of the major currencies today. The krona added 0.5
percent to 6.7333 per dollar and Norway’s tender strengthened
0.6 percent to 5.7565.  The krone appreciated after oil surged almost $3 a barrel
after Reuters reported Iranian oil exports will drop by 300,000
barrels a day because of tighter sanctions.  Crude rose 1.3 percent to $106.76, reaching as high as
$108.25.  Norway  is the world’s seventh largest oil exporter.  The euro rose for the first time in four days against the
dollar after dropping to the lowest in almost a week yesterday
amid a decrease in a gauge of euro-area industry based on a
survey of purchasing managers.  “There was an attempt to break up through the
$1.3290-$1.3295 area, but that’s proved futile,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in  London .  Inflation Target  The yen weakened earlier today after versus the dollar Bank
of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the central bank and
the government share the same view on the economy, increasing
concern the central bank may increase stimulus measures to boost
the nation’s economy, which would debase the currency.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
established an inflation target of 1 percent on Feb. 14,
replacing earlier wording that the central bank had an
“understanding” of where consumer prices should go. It also
said it would add 10 trillion yen ($119 billion) yen of stimulus
to the economy.  The Japanese currency breached its 21-day moving average
against the euro of 108.61, which will lead to further yen
appreciation, with support between 105.43 and 106.8,  MacNeil
Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical
strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York, wrote in a note.
Support refers to a level where buy orders may be clustered.  The euro has dropped 0.5 percent against the yen this week.  Home Sales  U.S. new-home sales dropped 1.6 percent to a 313,000 annual
pace, the slowest since October, from a 318,000 rate in January
that was weaker than previously reported, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
325,000.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to track
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, slid 0.5 percent to
79.345. It rose to as high as 80.738 last week as signs of
strength in the U.S. economic recovery damped expectations of
further Federal Reserve asset purchases, or quantitative easing.  “You saw the U.S. dollar rallying on good data, which you
hadn’t seen in a long time because there was so much focus on
QE3 being priced out,” said David Grad, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America in New York. “That intense focus
on pricing out on QE3 has calmed and that’s why you’ve seen the
risk-on, risk-off trade come back.  ‘Turning Point’  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said monetary
policy may be at a ‘‘turning point” as the world’s largest
economy strengthens.  With Fed policy currently “on pause, it may be a good time
to take stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Bullard
said in a speech in  Hong Kong  today. The  U.S. economy  may expand
3 percent this year, he said, adding that “the outlook has
improved markedly” over the past eight months.  The Fed has held its target rate at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “I don’t think the trend for the dollar to gradually rise
against the yen has changed,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo . “The U.S.
economic recovery story hasn’t changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  