-- YPF Loses Two Oil Licenses in Argentina’s Mendoza Province
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-23T17:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/ypf-loses-two-oil-licenses-in-argentina-s-mendoza-province-2-.html
Argentina’s Mendoza province
revoked two concessions from  YPF SA (YPFD) , the country’s biggest oil
producer, raising the number of fields lost by the company this
month to nine as the government seeks increased investments.  Economic growth in recent years has led to “larger demand
for energy and fuel,” which hasn’t been met by YPF investments,
Francisco Perez, governor of the western province of Mendoza,
said at a press conference today. The provincial government
dismissed a proposal by YPF to repair a well and invest in a new
one, Perez said.  The government of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
is pressuring YPF and other oil companies since January to boost
investments to help curb declining output and rising fuel
imports. It supported decisions by three provinces to withdraw a
combined seven YPF licenses in the past two weeks.  South America ’s second-largest economy grew 9.2 percent in
2011, according to Fernandez, following average growth of 5.6
percent between 2008 and 2010.  “The company informs that it will take legal actions,”
YPF said in an e-mailed statement. The company said it invested
$600 million in Mendoza last year and boosted investment
annually since 2007.  Ceferino and Cerro Mollas were the fields withdrawn in
Mendoza, YPF said.  Government Opposition  YPF’s management this week defied a government proposal to
skip dividends and reinvest profit. Instead the board chose to
use profit to issue new shares. The decision, which is pending
shareholders’ approval at an April 25 meeting, will be opposed
by the government with “all measures,” Deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof said March 21.  YPF is controlled by  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest energy
company, which owns a 57.4 percent stake. Argentina’s Grupo
Petersen owns another 25.6 percent and operates the unit. Under
the terms of the sale through which Petersen bought its stake in
2008 from Repsol, YPF distributes 90 percent of annual net
income in dividends in semi-annual payments.  YPF rose 1.7 percent to 146 pesos at 1:49 p.m. in  Buenos
Aires . It has dropped 14 percent this year. Repsol declined 1.9
percent to 19.24 euros in Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Saponar at 
 rsaponar@bloomberg.net  