-- Zynga’s Pincus to Sell 15% of Stake in Secondary Offering
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-23T13:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-23/zynga-ceo-pincus-to-sell-15-of-stake-during-secondary-offering.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Pincus , the largest shareholder in the social-gaming
company, will sell stock valued at about $227 million in a
secondary offering.  Pincus plans to sell 16.5 million shares, or 15 percent of
his 111.9 million Class B and Class C stock, San Francisco-based
Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on Facebook, said
in a regulatory filing today. The value was based on yesterday’s
closing price of $13.76.  Zynga, which raised $1 billion in December in its initial
public offering, is enabling large shareholders to cash out in a
secondary offering of 43 million shares. The terms require the
sellers, including Pincus, to agree to a longer “lockup”
period that keeps them from unloading additional shares until as
late as August, according to the filing.  Others selling shares in the offering include Zynga Chief
Financial Officer Dave Wehner and Chief Operating Officer John Schappert, as well as investors  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Silver Lake and
 Reid Hoffman . Zynga won’t receive any proceeds from the
offering.  Zynga fell 3 percent to $13.35 at 9:42 a.m. in  New York .
The shares gained 46 percent this year through yesterday.  Company insiders are typically forbidden from unloading
shares for six months after an IPO, in part to keep sell orders
from flooding the market.  In its filing today, Zynga also disclosed that it paid
about $180 million to acquire OMGPOP Inc., maker of the popular
“Draw Something” application played on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones.  The share sale is being underwritten by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , as well as  Bank of America   Merrill
Lynch (MER) ,  Barclays Capital , Allen & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Bloomberg reported last week that Zynga planned to hold a
secondary offering designed to get large shareholders to agree
to a longer lockup period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  