-- 
‘Barrage’ Confronts Chipmaker as Quake Creates Go-To Supplier

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n ,   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-04T03:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/-barrage-confronts-u-s-chipmaker-emerging-as-go-to-supplier-after-quake.html
Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP)  Chief
Executive Officer Steve Sanghi is fielding a “barrage” of
requests for replacement parts as the Japanese earthquake
disrupts global semiconductor supplies.  Customers should order at least 12 weeks’ worth of their
needs for microcontrollers, used in devices from washing
machines to coffee makers to car parts, Sanghi wrote in a March
21  letter . Many recent deals have only been for “near-term
backlog,” he said, without elaborating.  “I am expecting a huge surge of redesign inquiries,”
Sanghi wrote. “Our existing customers should get in line first.
We work from backlog, and those who commit backlog to us secure
the supply first.”  Three weeks after the March 11 disaster idled scores of
Japanese factories, U.S. companies are bracing for rising demand
for everything from fish meal used in shrimp farming to caustic
soda that helps make soap and paper. Shortages may worsen in
coming weeks as more manufacturers gauge which parts are
unavailable from their suppliers’ suppliers.  “It’s a wake-up call for companies about the risk of a
global supply chain: ‘Hello, now we have a huge disruption
that’s going to be very costly,’” said Clyde Prestowitz Jr.,
president of the Economic Strategy Institute in  Washington ,
which promotes U.S.-based manufacturing. “Business is going to
be good for guys who have maintained a presence in the U.S.”  Omega, Dow  Omega Protein Corp. (OME) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  were among more than 20 companies singled out
in interviews last week with analysts, executives and
consultants as being among hundreds of U.S. producers that may
benefit from shifts in purchasing patterns after the earthquake.  Japan  sold $120.3 billion in products to the U.S. in 2010
and bought $60.5 billion worth, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. Lost Japanese production creates openings for U.S.
companies to substitute their wares or expand existing markets.  While Microchip has had “zero” supply-chain disruptions,
customers should act because the Chandler, Arizona-based company
has “received a barrage of inquiries from customers in need of
a quick ‘replacement’ for several non-Microchip microcontrollers
that they had in production,” CEO Sanghi wrote.  Asking buyers to order enough microcontrollers to last a
quarter would be more than normal, said Chris Caso, a
Susquehanna International Group analyst in  New York . That much
lead time would be typical if supplies get tight, he said.  ‘Have a Look’  “If you are a Japanese company that hasn’t used Microchip
before, you have an incentive to have a look at them now,” said
Caso, who recommends buying the shares.  Microchip’s main competitor in Japan is  Renesas Electronics
Corp. (6723) , according to Caso. Kanagawa, Japan-based Renesas said
March 28 that work resumed at two of five chip plants damaged in
the quake. Its Naka factory, which produced about 20 percent of
its microcontrollers, was among the hardest hit and remained
offline, according to a company statement.  Microchip reported revenue of $947.7 million in the fiscal
year that ended in March 2010, with 51 percent of its sales in
 Asia . It has manufacturing locations in Chandler and Tempe,
Arizona; Gresham, Oregon; and Bangkok. Sanghi’s letter resonated
with customers, said Eric Lawson, a company spokesman.  “We’re seeing a lot of interest,” Lawson said, without
elaborating. “There have been a substantial amount of
inquiries.”  Food Chain  Interest in U.S. food exports is rising in Japan on concern
that local goods are tainted by radiation, companies and
industry groups said. Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare said March 26 that 99 products, including milk and
vegetables, were found to be contaminated in  Tokyo  and five
prefectures.  “A real question is whether seafood consumption in Japan
loses some of its share of stomach to U.S. protein,” said
Timothy S. Ramey, a Lake Oswego, Oregon-based analyst at D.A.
Davidson & Co.  Black cod coming into Hallmark Fisheries in Charleston,
Oregon, are fetching about $9.30 a pound, $1 more than when the
previous season ended in December as Japan confronts a shortage,
Production Manager Scott Adams said.  “I’m not trying to make money off of someone else’s
misfortune, but Japanese love their seafood,” Adams said.
“They are going to want fish they know is caught from a safe
area.”  Fish Food  Farm-raised salmon and shrimp in Japan also may be in for a
dietary shift: Houston-based Omega may be able to boost
shipments of fish meal because of earthquake and tsunami damage
to the country’s fishing fleet.  The aquaculture industry, which uses fish meal as feed,
will need products harvested from new locations, Omega Chief
Financial Officer Bret Scholtes said in an interview. He said
fish meal generated 69 percent of the $168 million in 2010 sales
for the company, which operates a 49-vessel fleet harvesting
menhaden from the  Gulf of Mexico  and Atlantic Ocean.  Tyson, which is based in Springdale, Arkansas, and is the
largest U.S. meat processor, saw a short-term boost in Japanese
demand and requests to fill orders more quickly for that country
after the quake, Chief Operating Officer Jim Lochner said at a
March 30  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  conference.  Pork Demand  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest pork processor,
recently has seen rising Japanese demand for the more-profitable
fresh pork sold to retailers over the frozen meat typically used
for ham or sausage, Chief Financial Officer Bo Manly said at the
JPMorgan event. Japan accounts for 41 percent of the Smithfield,
Virginia-based company’s international shipments, according to
its website.  With the Japanese government estimating quake-and-tsunami
damage at as much as $309 billion, almost four times as much as
the U.S. toll from Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the recovery
effort also may be an opportunity for manufacturers such as
Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of earthmoving equipment.  As Caterpillar gains, so would suppliers such as  Parker
Hannifin Corp. (PH) , said Jeff Windau, an Edward Jones & Co. analyst
in St. Louis who recommends buying both companies.  “Parker Hannifin makes the hydraulics that raises the
bucket in the Caterpillar hauler,” Windau said. “They also
make hoses, controllers and other parts. So they benefit, too.”  Jim Dugan , a spokesman for Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar, said the company had no comment on analysts’
predictions. Christopher Farage, a spokesman for Cleveland-based
Parker Hannifin, also declined to comment.  Caustic Soda  With Japanese plants forced to idle 19 percent of their
capacity for caustic soda because of the earthquake, U.S.
chemical producers such as Dow and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
may benefit, said Mark Eramo, executive vice president of
consultant Chemical Market Associates Inc. in Houston.  Caustic soda, produced in tandem with chlorine, is used to
make pulp, paper and soap. Midland, Michigan-based Dow is the
world’s largest maker of chlor-alkali, followed by Occidental,
 Olin Corp. (OLN)  and  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  Richard S. Kline, a spokesman
for Los Angeles-based Occidental, declined to comment, and Dow’s
Greg Baldwin didn’t return calls and e-mails.  Also hampered by the quake are producers of paraxylene,
which is used in plastic beverage bottles, with 24 percent of
Japan’s capacity offline, Eramo said. The country accounts for
almost a quarter of global exports, he said. Plastic beverage
bottles are primarily produced outside the U.S.  ‘Not in Japan’  “If you are a large producer not in Japan, you’ll benefit
from the pricing spike,” said  Hassan Ahmed , an analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors in New York. The biggest U.S. paraxylene
producer is  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   U.S. electronics companies other than Microchip also may be
able to take advantage of a Japan-built parts shortage that
industry forecaster IHS Automotive says may have contributed to
a global production loss of 585,000 cars and trucks in March.  These include Freescale Semiconductor Holdings, the world’s
second-largest supplier of microcontrollers after Japan’s quake-
disrupted Renesas, said Dale Ford, a senior vice president at
industry researcher IHS iSuppli in Santa Clara,  California .  “We’re continuing to work directly with our customers and
assess the situation,” said Rob Hatley, a Freescale spokesman,
who wouldn’t comment on any possible gain in sales or pricing.  With output slowed at plants operated by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the
second-biggest maker of flash memory, rising prices would
benefit Boise, Idaho-based  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , Ford said.  Flash Memory  Micron expects quake-related supply disruptions, Chairman
and CEO Steven R. Appleton told investors on a March 23 call.
Any increase in flash-memory demand is probably more than two
months away, and it’s also possible that orders will decline,
Appleton said.  The benefits to companies that have kept factories in the
U.S. may help generate support for President Barack Obama’s
efforts to nurture more manufacturing jobs, said Prestowitz,
author of “The Betrayal of American Prosperity: Free Market
Delusions, America’s Decline, and How We Must Compete in the
Post-Dollar Era.”  Asia became the center for so much of the world’s
manufacturing and development because countries in region such
as Japan developed policies to support it, he said.  “We haven’t had any real policy,” Prestowitz said.
“We’ve just been in ‘let it happen’ mode, and they’ve been in
‘we’re going to grab it’ mode.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  