-- 
Accused Mastermind of 9-11 Attack Has Indictment Dismissed, Faces Tribunal

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-04T20:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/accused-mastermind-of-9-11-attack-has-indictment-dismissed-faces-tribunal.html
A  Manhattan  federal judge ordered
the unsealing and dismissal of criminal charges against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the U.S., as the government announced he
will instead face a military tribunal.  The 80-page indictment, which names the almost 3,000 people
killed in the attacks, charges Mohammed and four others with
conceiving and helping execute the plan to hijack airliners and
crash them into U.S. buildings “causing maximum casualties and
destruction.”  The indictment charges Mohammed, Walid Bin Attash, Ramzi Bin Al-Shibh, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali and Mustafa Al-Hawsawi with
nine criminal counts including conspiracy, acts of terrorism
transcending national boundaries, violence on and destruction of
aircraft, aircraft piracy, murder of U.S. officers and
employees, destruction of the World trade Center and conspiracy
to kill Americans.  The unsealing of the indictment by U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy today makes public for the first time that Mohammed and
the others were indicted Dec. 14, 2009, for the attacks. The
case is being referred to the military justice system, Attorney
General  Eric Holder  said in a statement in  Washington  today.  Mohammed was previously named in an indictment filed
against his nephew for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing case.
The nephew, Ramzi Yousef, was convicted at a trial of
orchestrating the first World Trade Center bombing. Mohammed was
charged with being a co-conspirator in the earlier attack.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, 93-cr-180, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at 
9245 or  pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 