-- 
Afghanistan Policeman Shoots Dead Two U.S. Soldiers in Northwest Province

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-04-04T12:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/afghanistan-policeman-in-northwest-shoots-dead-two-visiting-u-s-soldiers.html
A uniformed member of the Afghan
Border Police killed two U.S. soldiers visiting his unit’s
headquarters in the  northwestern province  of Faryab, border
police commander Najmuddin Sardari said.  The U.S. troops died after a dozen American army soldiers
drove in armored vehicles to border police offices in the
provincial capital, Meymaneh, for a routine meeting, Sardari
said in a phone interview from his office today. The attack came
as officials said 24 people have now died and 140 been injured
in four days of protests against a U.S. cleric’s burning of the
Islamic scripture, the Koran.  As Sardari conferred with three U.S. officers on logistical
cooperation, “we heard gunshots outside,” he said. “When we
ran out, two American troops had been shot by one of our
policemen, who then threw down his weapon and fled.”  The killing of U.S. and allied troops by an Afghan in
uniform was the latest of a half-dozen such incidents in 18
months, as the U.S. accelerates a program to expand Afghan
forces that are to take over security duties in several cities
and provinces this year. In the deadliest attack, a member of
the border police killed six U.S. troops in November during a
training mission in eastern  Afghanistan .  Hundreds of Afghans demonstrated for a fourth day against
the burning of the Koran by Florida-based pastor  Terry Jones .
Three people died amid protests yesterday in the southern city
of Kandahar, provincial government spokesman Zalmai Ayoubi said,
after a total of 21 -- including seven UN workers -- were killed
in the first two days, he and other officials said by phone.  Security Handover  In Mehtarlam, an eastern provincial capital, about 500
people marched, some throwing stones, said General Abdul Aziz
Gharanai, the police chief for Laghman province. “The police
are not firing at them, but are firing in the air to try to stop
them without causing more violence,” he said by phone.  Beginning in July, Afghan police and troops are to replace
troops of the NATO-led  International Security Assistance Force ,
or ISAF, in the relatively stable north-central provinces of
Bamiyan and Panjshir, as well as in all except one district of
Kabul province, around the capital city, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  announced March 23. They also will handle security in
four provincial capitals.  ISAF said in a statement that it and Afghan police are
investigating the killings of the U.S. soldiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  