-- 
AIG Warrants Fall by Half From January’s ‘Ridiculous’ Price

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-04T21:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/aig-warrants-fall-by-half-from-january-s-ridiculous-price-as-costs-rise.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
warrants dropped for a sixth day, extending their plunge to more
than 50 percent since they began trading in January as the
insurer faced costs to bolster reserves and pay  Japan  claims.  The 10-year warrants, which allow investors to buy common
stock at $45 a share, fell 32 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $10.78
at 4:15 p.m. in New York. That compares with a closing price of
$22.18 on Jan. 13, when the contracts began trading.  “The first four days were ridiculous” when trading began,
said Clay Struve, a partner with Chicago-based CSS LLC, who said
he acquired the contracts later at a “more normal price.”  AIG’s stock has posted the second-biggest decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year, as the company had to set
aside $4.2 billion to boost reserves at the property-casualty
unit after claims costs were higher than the firm projected. The
warrants were issued to private shareholders in January as part
of the New York-based insurer’s bailout repayment plan.  Investors in the warrants “were confused” in the first
days of trading, Struve said. “Nobody who had them could sell
them, and whoever was buying them didn’t know what they were
buying.”  AIG shares slumped $1.06, or 3 percent, to $33.94 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 30
percent this year. The U.S. Treasury Department, which holds 92
percent of the stock, is seeking to divest its holdings through
public offerings. Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to
comment.  Earthquake Costs  First-quarter catastrophes led by the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami in Japan will cost the company about $1 billion, AIG
said last month. The figure excludes losses from participation
in the Japanese Earthquake Reinsurance Co., which handles
policies on residential dwellings.  The insurer, which was bailed out in 2008, was rebuffed
last week in its bid to repurchase mortgage-backed bonds from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  for $15.7 billion. The
rejection was a “huge problem” for the company, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  told the New York Times. AIG
had counted on the bonds to boost investment returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  