-- 
Malaysia Stocks: ECM, Esso, Ho Wah, K&N Kenanga, OSK, Sunway

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-04T09:48:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/malaysia-stocks-ho-wah-genting-osk-holdings-sunway-holdings.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in  Kuala
Lumpur , unless stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index was little changed at
1,555.48.  Brokerages:  ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. (ECML)   jumped
7.8 percent to 97 sen, its highest close since Oct. 12, 2007,
and  K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd. (KNK)   rose 5.7 percent to 83.5
sen. The Edge weekly newspaper reported that the two
stockbroking and investment banking groups were considering a
merger, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  ECM Libra spokeswoman Maureen Jeyasooriar didn’t respond to
an e-mail or a phone call seeking comment. K&N Kenanga Chief
Executive Officer Lee Kok Khee wasn’t available for comment when
contacted by Bloomberg at his office.        Esso Malaysia Bhd. (ESSO)   rose 4 percent to 4.20
ringgit, the highest close since May 1998, after the Edge weekly
newspaper reported that Boustead Holdings Bhd. and its parent
Lembaga Tabung Angkatan Tentera may acquire a stake in the local
unit of Exxon Mobil Corp. Esso said in a statement it’s unaware
of any such plan.        Ho Wah Genting Bhd. (HWG)  , a manufacturer of wires and
cables, rose 4.1 percent to 75.5 sen, its highest close since
Feb. 18. The company said it received a government license to
manufacture ferro silicon at the Samalaju Heavy Industrial Park
in Sarawak state. Ferro silicon, an alloy of iron and silicon,
is mainly used in steelmaking and foundries, the company said in
a statement.       IJM Corp. (IJM MK), a builder, climbed 1.6 percent to 6.45
ringgit, the highest since Feb. 22, after the builder and its
affiliate won government approval to build the West Coast
Highway and extend an existing elevated road.    OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  , a stockbroker, added 1.1
percent to 1.82 ringgit, its highest level since Feb. 17. The
company said it agreed to buy 48.9 percent of Thailand’s BFIT
Securities Pcl for 1.032 billion baht ($34 million), according
to a company statement. OSK’s OSK Investment Bank Bhd. unit will
buy the stake from Bangkok First Investment & Trust Pcl, it
said.        Sunway Holdings Bhd. (SGW)  , a construction and property
group, advanced 0.9 percent to 2.32 ringgit. The company said it
won a 22.6 million ringgit ($7.5 million) contract from
Perumahan SLG Central Sdn. to carry out piling works for an
office and apartment project in Kuala Lumpur, according to a
company statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  