-- 
Malaysian Drug Trafficker Loses Bid to Escape Death Sentence in Singapore

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-04T08:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/malaysian-drug-trafficker-loses-appeal-to-escape-singapore-death-sentence.html
Yong Vui Kong, a 23-year-old
Malaysian who faces execution for smuggling 47 grams (1.7
ounces) of heroin to  Singapore , lost a bid at the city state’s
highest court for a presidential review of his sentence.  Yong’s lawyer M. Ravi asked a three-judge appeal panel to
re-examine Singapore’s clemency process, in the first case of
its kind. Ravi had argued the president had the power to grant a
pardon, rather than Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s cabinet,
which had earlier advised President SR Nathan not to commute the
sentence.  Yong’s appeal was “devoid of merit,” Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong said in delivering the verdict today on behalf of a
three-judge panel.  Singapore, which has one of the world’s lowest crime rates,
according to the  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes,  has
a mandatory death sentence for drug smuggling. Yong had lost an
earlier appeal in which he argued the mandatory provision was
unconstitutional.  Ravi said he plans to appeal again to the city state’s
cabinet seeking clemency.  “He was hoping for the best,” Ravi said after the ruling.
“He’s deeply disappointed and aggrieved by the judgment.”  Yong, who appeared in court today in a purple prison
jumpsuit with his head shaved, was a former kitchen helper who
sold DVDs in a night market. He claimed he tried to provide
money for his mother by smuggling drugs into Singapore. An
 online petition  appealing for clemency for Yong had at least
42,039 signatures.  Mandatory Death Sentence  Singapore also imposes a mandatory death sentence for
murder and some firearms offenses. The city’s overall crime rate
slipped 0.6 percent to 32,986 cases last year, according to data
from the police.  “We take a very serious view of drug trafficking,” Lee
said in December 2005, when he dismissed  Australia ’s calls to
commute Australian drug smuggler Nguyen Tuong Van’s death
sentence. “The penalty is death.”  Nguyen’s death sentence for smuggling 396 grams of heroin
into Singapore in 2002 caused an uproar in Australia. Consumers,
politicians and newspapers editorials there called for boycotts
of companies including Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s Optus
unit and Singapore Airlines Ltd.  The case is Yong Vui Kong v Attorney-General CA144/2010 in
the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  