-- 
AllianceBernstein's $52 Million CEO Kraus Fails to Stop Fund Redemptions

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/alliancebernstein-s-52-million-ceo-kraus-fails-to-stop-fund-redemptions.html
Peter Kraus has worked for more than
two years to stem client defections from New York-based
investment manager AllianceBernstein LP.  Since joining the company as chairman and chief executive
officer in December 2008, with a pay package valued at $52
million, he has recruited money managers, tied compensation more
closely to stock performance and rolled out new products in
areas such as inflation protection and  asset allocation . It
hasn’t stopped the bleeding.  Clients pulled $126 billion in the two years ended Dec. 31,
mostly institutions exiting its  stock funds . At 28 percent of
assets, the withdrawal rate was the highest for any publicly
traded U.S. mutual-fund manager. In February, AllianceBernstein
ranked last among 23 rivals in an institutional investor brand-
loyalty survey by  Cogent Research , a research and consulting
firm in Cambridge Massachusetts.  “Their clients are walking out the door and a lot of
institutional investors don’t have a positive impression of
them,” said  Christy White , a principal at Cogent. “It doesn’t
bode well for the future.”  When Alliance Capital Management LP acquired Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in 2000, the $3.5 billion deal combined
Alliance’s focus on investing in fast-growing companies with
Bernstein’s specialty in stocks its managers deemed undervalued.
Bernstein also ran a highly regarded investment-research unit.  The combined firm’s assets peaked at $837 billion in 2007,
and have since tumbled 42 percent to $487 billion as of Feb. 28.  ‘Episodic’ Performance  AllianceBernstein’s equity funds trailed 67 percent of
peers in the three years ended Feb. 28, data from Denver-based
Lipper show, a period that includes most of 2008, when the MSCI
AC World Index fell 42 percent. For the past year, the funds
beat 51 percent of rivals.  Kraus, 58, blamed the withdrawals on “poor” stockpicking
in 2008 and what he called “episodic and volatile” performance
in some of the firm’s equity funds over the past two years.  “I see no reason why our returns in the future won’t be
consistent and better than the competition,” he said in an
interview at the company’s Midtown Manhattan headquarters. “I
also understand why some people are saying they will wait for
the proof.”  The firm’s relative returns will improve as 2008 results
drop out of three-year performance numbers, Kraus said.  “I don’t think our clients believe we have become somehow
mentally incapacitated or that we are not good stockpickers,”
he said.  The firm suffered because many of its funds held a lot of
financial stocks that collapsed in the second half of 2008,
Katie Rushkewicz, an analyst for Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.,
said in a telephone interview.  52% Loss  AllianceBernstein Global Value had 29 percent of its assets
in the group, including  Fannie Mae , American International Group
Inc. and Citigroup Inc., on May 31, 2008, regulatory filings
show. The fund lost 52 percent that year, more than 91 percent
of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have long memories and it takes a while to
regain their favor,” Burton Greenwald, an independent mutual-
fund consultant in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.
“There is no shortage of other choices in this business, and
there is always someone out there with a pretty good record.”  Big investors that have pulled money from AllianceBernstein
include  New York  state’s pension system and Vanguard Group Inc.,
the largest U.S. mutual-fund manager, which uses the firm as a
subadviser. As of Feb. 28, 57 percent of AllianceBernstein’s
assets were from institutions, 27 percent from retail investors
and the rest from high net-worth individuals, according to a
March 10 statement.  Shares Trail Rivals  Like AllianceBernstein,  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  and  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM)  have struggled to limit redemptions. Assets at all
three firms remain below the peaks reached before the financial
crisis, which erased $37 trillion in value from global equity
markets from November 2007 through March 2009.  Still, since world stocks bottomed out on March 9, 2009,
Legg Mason’s shares have returned an annual average of 84
percent including dividends, while Janus’s gain is 71 percent.
Shares of  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , the New York Stock
Exchange-listed partnership that holds a 38 percent stake in
AllianceBernstein LP, have returned 54 percent.  In a March presentation, Chief Operating Officer David Steyn said AllianceBernstein hoped to build its business in
401(k)-style  retirement plans  from $30 billion in assets to $100
billion, though he didn’t give a specific timeframe. He also
said the firm wants to add more alternative assets, a category
that includes  hedge funds  and private equity. Alliance oversees
$12 billion in such funds, he said.  Support From Gabelli  “ Peter Kraus  is turning the franchise around,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst at Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., said in
a telephone interview. Gamco Asset Management, Gabelli’s money-
management arm, and Gabelli Funds LLC own a combined 831,000
AllianceBernstein shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kraus succeeded Lewis Sanders, a well-known value investor,
who sold Sanford C. Bernstein to Alliance Capital. Sanders ran
the combined company from 2003 until he retired in 2008. He is
now chief executive officer of Sanders Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based asset manager.  Kraus spent 22 years at Goldman Sachs, working both in
investment banking and money management. When he left in 2008,
he was co-head of the New York-based company’s investment-
management division.  Restricted Stock  In September 2008, Kraus joined Merrill Lynch & Co. as an
executive vice president with a compensation package originally
valued at as much as $95 million, people with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. Merrill Lynch, based in New York,
announced his departure a month later, after its takeover by
Bank of America Corp. of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Kraus left Merrill Lynch with as much as $25 million, the
Wall Street Journal reported at the time. With the change in
control, Merrill Lynch was “obligated to fulfill the terms of
its contract with Peter,” John Meyers, an AllianceBernstein
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail,  When he was hired by AllianceBernstein, Kraus got 2.7
million shares of restricted stock that vest over five years.
The grant was valued at the time at $52 million, according to a
 regulatory filing .  Kraus has put his stamp on the firm’s lineup of money
managers. Last year he promoted Sharon Fay, a 20-year company
veteran, to chief investment officer of equities, hired Laurent Saltiel from Janus to manage international large-cap stocks and
brought in Ashish Shah from  Barclays Capital  to be co-head of
global credit investment.  Personnel Turnover  Departing last year were Lisa Shalett, head of growth
equities, and brothers James and Michael Reilly, who managed
large-cap  growth stocks . Chief Financial Officer  John Howard 
left in February after less than a year on the job.  Shalett, Michael Reilly and Howard didn’t return messages
seeking comment. James Reilly couldn’t be reached.  “The high turnover rate (relative to competitors) will
make the product even more difficult to sell,” Roger Smith, a
Macquarie USA analyst, wrote in a February research note.  Kraus dismissed concerns that the personnel changes will
affect fund sales, saying that the senior people who left had
either been reassigned or given different responsibilities prior
to their departures.  “Of those who left, we knew we were taking some risk,” he
said.  AllianceBernstein LP is majority-owned by French insurer
 Axa SA. (AXA)  The firm earned $427.1 million in 2010, a decline of 26
percent from the previous year. Revenue climbed 1.4 percent to
$2.95 billion.  Better With Bonds  AllianceBernstein’s large-cap equity funds continue to
struggle. Its large-cap international and U.S. strategies rank
in the bottom 5 percent of peers over the past three years,
according to data from  eVestment Alliance , an Atlanta-based
researcher that tracks the performance of money managers serving
institutional clients.  AllianceBernstein has fared better with bonds. Its bond
funds beat 68 percent of peers over the past year and 50 percent
over three years, Lipper data show. The company’s global high-
yield products beat 76 percent of rivals in the three years
ended Dec. 31, eVestment numbers show.  “We continue to see a healthy pipeline in fixed income,”
Steyn, the operating chief, said in his presentation last month.  AllianceBernstein managed $206 billion in bonds at the end
of 2010, up 26 percent from the end of 2008, regulatory filings
show. Equity assets fell 16 percent to $219 billion in the same
period, even as the  S&P 500  gained 39 percent.  Cogent Survey  Investors pulled $56.2 billion from the company last year,
down from $69.7 billion the year before. Withdrawals were $1.4
billion in January, the company said in a conference call with
investors in February. Redemptions continued in February, the
company said, without providing details.  The client defections may not be over, said White of Cogent
Research. Cogent’s survey, based on questions sent to 590
institutional investors, found 23 percent of AllianceBernstein
customers who responded said they planned to leave in the next
12 months, the highest rate of any firm.  “They have some real perception problems to face,” she
said. Because the survey was done for the first time this year,
there is no way to know how accurately it will reflect investor
decisions, according to White.  Art Collector  Pacific Investment Management Co., the  Newport Beach ,
California-based manager of the world’s largest bond mutual
fund, got the highest marks in the Cogent survey.  Kraus said withdrawals should slow this year, “assuming
our performance continues to be positive.”  “We are pleased with the steps Peter is taking to position
AllianceBernstein to take advantage of the opportunities the
market is providing,” Chris Winans, a spokesman for Axa
Financial, a subsidiary of  Axa SA (CS) , said in an e-mail about
Kraus’ tenure as CEO.  ARTnews  Magazine named Kraus and his wife Jill to its 2010
list of the world’s top 200 art collectors for his holdings of
contemporary art. Assembling an art collection, Kraus said, is
not mainly a matter of having money.  “It takes perseverance, tenacity and a good eye,” he said
in the interview. Similarly, perseverance will lead to better
performance at AllianceBernstein, Kraus said.  “Asset management companies aren’t built overnight and
they don’t decline overnight,” he said. “What we are doing is
executing. We are out there hitting singles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  