-- 
Alterian Falls Most in Almost 10 Years on Profit Warning

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-04T16:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/alterian-falls-most-in-almost-11-years-on-profit-warning-ceo.html
Alterian Plc (ALN) , a U.K. software maker,
fell the most since September 2001 in London trading, after
Chief Executive Officer David Eldridge said he is stepping down
to take responsibility for a profit warning.  The stock fell 19 percent, or 36 pence, to 154 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close, after earlier slipping as much as 23 percent,
giving the Bristol, England-based company a market value of 93.8
million pounds ($151.3 million).  Revenue for the year to March 31 may be about 10 percent
below market forecasts of 42 million pounds to 44 million
pounds, Alterian said in a Regulatory News Service statement,
citing the deferral of a licensing contract. The company said it
expects the revenue shortfall to affect profit for the year.  “The results for the year will be disappointing,
principally as a result of the deferral,” Eldridge said today
in the statement. “I take my responsibilities seriously and am
stepping down from my role as the chief executive.”  Alterian, which also had to defer “several substantial”
new business contracts last year, said it considers it likely
that the contract renewal and extension will be agreed, although
it cannot be certain when or whether this will happen. The
company, which didn’t name the other party to the contract, said
it will give further guidance on the results for the year in a
post-closing trading statement on or about April 18.  Alex Jarvis, an analyst at Peel Hunt, today reduced his
adjusted pretax profit estimate for Alterian for the year to 4
million pounds from 8.5 million pounds, and earnings per share
to 5 pence from 10.3 pence for the same period.  Alterian “recognizes that it was too dependent on lumpy
deals and new products were perhaps released too late in the
year to make an impact,” Jarvis said. “We will want visibility
on the CEO succession.”  Eldridge, one of the founders, will continue to play a role
in managing the company while a successor is recruited, Alterian
said. Iain Johnston, who had been a non-executive director, will
become deputy chairman to provide additional management support.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  