-- 
AMD Says Globalfoundries Revision Gives Downside Protection

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-04T20:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/amd-says-globalfoundries-accord-amendment-is-downside-protection.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of personal-computer processors, said
changes to a supply agreement with Globalfoundries Inc. are
designed to protect it if there are more production delays.  The companies yesterday announced changes in an agreement
covering chips made this year with the latest technology -- so-
called 32 nanometer -- specifying that Sunnyvale, California-
based AMD only pay for working chips.  “The discussion was triggered last year when the 32-
nanometer ramp was a bit more challenging,” said interim Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Seifert on a conference call. “From
today’s perspective, it’s rather a downside protection.”  While Globalfoundries has now improved its output to meet
AMD’s targets, the two went ahead with the revised agreement to
provide an incentive for Globalfoundries to continue to make
improvements, Seifert said. The arrangement also compensates AMD
for shortfalls in production last year and makes Globalfoundries
seem more attractive to other prospective customers, Joanne Feeney, an analyst at Longbow Research, said in a report.  Separately, AMD’s new Llano chip is now being shipped to
paying customers, Seifert said.  New Technology  The revision is intended to give Globalfoundries an
incentive to improve production of 32-nanometer chips this year.
Under their previous deal, AMD paid for all chips produced at
cost plus a markup for Globalfoundries.  AMD estimates it will pay Globalfoundries $1.1 billion to
$1.5 billion in 2011 and $1.5 billion to $1.9 billion in 2012
for outsourced manufacturing. That compares with about $1.2
billion in 2010.  The government of  Abu Dhabi  is AMD’s largest shareholder,
with about a 16 percent stake. AMD is also the biggest customer
of Globalfoundries, which Abu Dhabi created out of manufacturing
operations it bought from AMD and  Singapore ’s Chartered
Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. in 2009. AMD is now primarily a
chip designer.  AMD fell 26 cents to $8.10 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are little changed in
value this year.  AMD ranks second to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in PC processor sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  