-- 
Anglo to Struggle to Meet Collahuasi Copper Goal on Floods

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-04-04T20:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/anglo-american-says-world-s-no-3-copper-mine-will-struggle-to-meet-target.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said it will
struggle to meet its 2011 production target at the Collahuasi
copper mine in Chile, the world’s third-largest, after heavy
rains reduced output in the first two months of the year.  Production at the mine, which London-based Anglo operates
with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , was “well below target” in January and
February, John MacKenzie, head of Anglo‘s copper business, said
in an April 1 interview in Santiago. The unit that operates the
facility is seeking to make up for the lost output, he said,
without disclosing this year’s target for the mine.  “Certainly we can see in the first quarter a negative
impact on Collahuasi production,” MacKenzie said. “It’s going
to be a push” to achieve its full-year output target, he said.  Teck Resources Ltd.’s Quebrada Blanca copper mine, which
lies adjacent to Collahuasi, was also affected after the rains
washed sediment into ponds used to leach ore, spokeswoman
Claudia Onetto said in a telephone interview today. She declined
to say how much production was affected. Quebrada Blanca, which
shipped 90,000 metric tons of copper last year, has since
returned to normal operating capacity, she said.  Mining companies are struggling to meet rising copper
demand, helping drive prices to a record earlier this year.
Collahuasi’s output fell 6 percent last year to 504,090 metric
tons after two strikes. Above-average seasonal rainfall in the
Andean Highlands during the first two months of the year made
conditions at the mine too dangerous for trucks to operate
normally and clogged crushers at the site, MacKenzie said.  ‘De-Bottlenecking’  Collahuasi’s board, which includes MacKenzie, approved a
second “de-bottlenecking” plan last month that will increase
processing of ore to between 150,000 and 160,000 tons a day to
mitigate the impact of lower ore quality, he said. The first
drive to boost processing will come online in August.  Anglo gained 28.5 pence, or 0.9 percent, to 3,285 pence by
the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading.  MacKenzie said expansions later this decade could increase
production at Collahuasi to between 800,000 and 1 million tons.
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida, the world’s largest copper mine,
also located in  Chile , produced 1.1 million tons last year.  Collahuasi’s operating company last week lifted force
majeure, a legal clause invoked when companies can’t meet supply
obligations because of circumstances beyond their control. The
mine declared force majeure in December after a ship-loader
collapsed at the mine port, killing three workers.  Record Prices  Copper futures for May delivery fell 0.60 cent, or 0.1
percent, to $4.2525 a pound on the Comex in  New York  at 4:01
p.m. The price rose to a record $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15 amid
a growing shortage of the industrial metal.  The shortages will push copper prices to a record by year-
end, according to estimates of 24 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The shortages will be the biggest since 2004, when
prices jumped 37 percent, the survey showed.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the largest publicly
traded copper producer, said in January that it would produce
less metal than forecast this year. The Phoenix-based company is
mining layers of ore with less metal content at its Grasberg
mine in  Indonesia , which it says has the biggest recoverable
copper reserves in the world.  More than 500 delegates from the  mining industry  meet today
for the three-day World Copper Conference in Santiago, the
capital of the world’s biggest copper producing nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  