-- 
Lanka IOC Asks Ceypetco to Further Raise Prices to Cut Losses

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-04-04T13:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/lanka-ioc-asks-ceypetco-to-further-raise-prices-to-cut-losses.html
Lanka IOC Plc (LIOC) , the unit of  India ’s
biggest crude oil refiner, asked state-owned rival Ceylon
Petroleum Corp. to sell fuels at higher prices to help it stay
profitable and cut losses.  The Sri Lankan arm of Indian Oil Corp. loses about 4.50
rupees (4.5 U.S. cents) on a liter of gasoline and 22 rupees on
a liter of diesel even after it increased its pump prices on
April 2 by 9 percent to 125 rupees and 16 percent to 85 rupees
respectively. Policy makers also need to consider lowering
import duty on crude, said Managing Director Suresh Kumar.  Sri Lanka , after freeing controls on private  oil companies 
in June 2006, still tells government-controlled Ceypetco to cap
gasoline and diesel prices to cool inflation. The limits have
forced Lanka IOC to sell its products below cost to remain
competitive, incurring losses. Inflation in the island-nation
accelerated to a 26-month high in March, increasing pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates .  “We need a phased-out increase in prices,” Kumar said in
a telephone interview today. “A price rise on its own, or
together with a further compensating duty cut, will help to
break even.”  Ceypetco, the country’s dominant fuel distributor and Lanka
IOC sell 90 Octane gasoline at the same price, while the former
has set its diesel 9 rupees cheaper than its rival.  The Sri Lankan government’s reduction of customs duty on
gasoline in January to 5 rupees a liter from 15 rupees had
helped it narrow losses and “further duty cuts would be
welcome,” Kumar said.  Lanka IOC, which runs about a third of the country’s retail
fuel network, reported a surge in third-quarter profit to 602
million rupees from 12 million rupees a year earlier after
higher lubricants sales, bunkering operations and foreign-
exchange gains, Kumar said.  The company will “see how the market reacts” to the price
differential with Ceypetco to make new sales and profit
forecasts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  