-- 
Apax Partners to Buy U.S. Software Makers Epicor, Activant for $2 Billion

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-04-04T20:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/apax-partners-to-buy-u-s-software-makers-epicor-activant-for-2-billion.html
Apax Partners LLP, the London-based
private equity firm, agreed to buy U.S. business-software makers
 Epicor Software Corp. (EPIC)  and Activant Solutions Inc. in deals
valued at about $2 billion. It plans to combine the two.  Epicor investors will get $12.50 a share in cash, valuing
the Irvine, California-based company at $976 million, according
to a statement from Epicor today. That’s 11 percent more than
Epicor’s closing price on the Nasdaq on April 1. The companies
didn’t give an exact price for closely held Activant, which is
based in Livermore,  California .  Apax plans to merge the companies to create a software
maker with $825 million in annual sales and a focus on
manufacturing, distribution, services and retail industries.
Epicor, which has had four straight quarters of sales growth,
makes programs that help companies manage supply chains and
customer relationships.  “In addition to the immediate product and service
portfolio enhancements that will result from the combination,
both companies’ customers will benefit from the strong financial
backing of  Apax Partners  and our commitment to building the new
Epicor into the global leader for enterprise business
applications,” Jason Wright, a partner at Apax Partners, said
in a statement.  New Fund Planned  Private equity firms such as Apax are resuming takeovers
after the financial crisis almost halted buyouts for two years.
Apax, which is investing an 11.2 billion-euro ($15.9 billion)
fund raised in 2007, dropped a 6.4 billion-euro bid in January
to buy ISS A/S, the world’s largest cleaning-service provider,
after the owners asked for more money. The transaction would
have been the largest leveraged buyout in  Europe  since the
credit crisis. Apax is planning to start marketing a new fund
later this year, a person with knowledge of the matter
previously said.  Epicor rose $1.32, or 12 percent, to $12.56 at 4 p.m. New
York time in  Nasdaq  Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 24 percent this year.  Leveraged buyout firms such as Apax pool money from
investors to take over companies, financing purchases mostly
with debt, planning to sell them later for a profit. They have
led $90 billion of transaction this year, more than twice the
amount last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Epicor’s board unanimously approved the deal, Epicor said.
Elliott Associates LP, which owns about 14 percent of the
company’s shares, supports the transaction, Epicor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  