-- 
Marks & Spencer CEO Bolland's Honeymoon May Be Over as Clothing Sales Drop

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/marks-spencer-ceo-bolland-s-honeymoon-may-be-over-as-clothing-sales-drop.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  pledged in November to revamp his
clothing business by becoming more fashionable. He won’t have
much to show for the push when he reports sales tomorrow.  The retailer, which Bolland has led for less than a year,
may say fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year fell
6 percent in the general merchandise unit, according to the
average estimate of 15 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be less than the prior quarter’s 3.8 percent increase and
the worst performance since the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  The 52-year old Dutchman has sought to update his clothing
department by eliminating underperforming brands and increasing
marketing at others, including the Limited Collection. The line,
which includes items such as a 49.50-pound ($80) halterneck
jumpsuit, is aimed at winning younger customers who have shopped
elsewhere for trendy items. With the “Only at Your M&S”
campaign, which features models like Twiggy dancing at a pool
party and on yachts in Miami, he’s promoting image and style.  “It’s not happening fast enough, they are still behind the
curve, appealing to an older market,” James Monro, an analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s  equity research, said by phone. “The more
famous faces the better.” Monro rates the shares “sell.”  Bolland has also been hit by an increasingly cash-strapped
shopper. The U.K. consumer has been less willing to spend since
January, when a value-added tax increase took effect, and as
higher  oil prices  knocked back spending power. Competitor  John
Lewis  reported a sales decline of 3.8 percent in the week ended
March 26, with fashion ranges being the hardest hit.  Late Easter  “From a macro point of view it’s tough,” said Jan Meijer,
an analyst at ING Wholesale Banking. Focusing on brands “is a
really good strategy, I’m excited about it and the multi-channel
approach looks really amazing. Whether he can prove it remains
to be seen.”  Sales growth will also be hit by this year’s late Easter,
which will push business related to the holiday into the first
quarter of the new fiscal year, and the fact that most of the
post-Christmas sales fell in the prior quarter, analysts said.
Those factors combined will reduce same-store sales by about 5
percent, Deutsche Bank AG’s Rod Whitehead estimates. He expects
Marks & Spencer to say same-store revenue in the general
merchandise unit declined by 8 percent.  Expanding Abroad  Bolland is making other changes to boost the business. He
announced last week that Marks & Spencer is returning to  France 
this year with a flagship food and clothing-department store on
the iconic Parisian boulevard Champs-Elysees. He also hired
former Tesco Plc executive Laura Wade-Gery to develop its online
platform as the retailer seeks new ways to bolster sales.  The changes haven’t yet helped the stock. Marks & Spencer
shares have slumped 7.2 percent this year, compared with the 6.3
percent decline of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index.  “You could say the honeymoon is over because it’s time for
him to prove his mettle,” John Stevenson, a retail analyst at
Peel Hunt with a “sell” rating on the stock, said by phone.  Sales at the food unit have also stumbled. Growth probably
slowed to 1 percent, the estimates suggest, from 1.8 percent in
the prior quarter, the slowest rate in more than a year.  Marks & Spencer, which sells upmarket meals like a 3.99-
pound beetroot and goat’s cheese risotto, has been among the
hardest hit in grocery-store sales growth, which almost halved
in the past four weeks, according to Nielsen research. Sales
advanced 1.4 percent in the past 12 weeks, the second-slowest
pace of the nine major food retailers, Nielsen said.  ‘Value Perception’  “There is still a value perception issue at M&S relative
to peers,” said  John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “It seems to me, unfortunately, that
consumers are voting with their feet and shopping elsewhere.”  Waitrose Ltd., which offers similar quality produce to
Marks & Spencer alongside its cheaper “Essentials” line,
performed better than the larger chains, alongside discount
stores Aldi Group and Lidl, the Nielsen report shows. Bolland,
whose last job was turning around William Morrison Supermarkets
Plc, is widening the food range by focusing on innovations such
as the “Taste East” range of Asian-inspired nibbles, alongside
the “Dine In for 2” dinner promotions for 10 pounds.  Marks & Spencer, whose products are mostly own-brand,
appeals to shoppers seeking special meals with its focus on high
quality food. That may have weighed on recent sales, along with
the lack of an event such as Mother’s Day or Easter which
attracts shoppers looking to buy a special treat, according to
Mike Watson at Nielsen research.  ‘Too Niche’  “M&S are once more exposed as being too niche for most
shoppers,” Watson said. The next eight weeks may show a rebound
as promotions increase around events like Easter, he said.  Bolland said in January that promotions were at roughly the
same level as last year. RBS’s Guy estimates that the company is
running promotions on as much as 45 percent of goods sold,
compared with an industry average of about 39 percent, and that
that will weigh on margins.  Still it’s not all bad news, according to Tom Gadsby at
Matrix. “The newspaper headlines following the M&S update will
undoubtedly refer to blood on the high street and a total retail
collapse in the U.K.,” he said. “We prefer to keep a sense of
perspective. This quarter is the least important for M&S, we
expect a rapid rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 