-- 
Marriott, Hilton Hit by Breach to Client E-mail Information

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-04-04T23:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/marriott-hilton-hit-by-data-breach-giving-access-to-customer-information.html
Marriott International Inc. and
Hilton Worldwide are among the growing list of companies
affected by a data breach last week that provided unauthorized
access to customer names and e-mail addresses.  The affected files didn’t include customer financial
information or physical addresses, the hotel chains said in
separate  statements  today. The breach occurred at  Epsilon , a
Dallas-based provider of e-mail marketing services.  Marriott, the largest U.S. hotel chain by revenue, and
Hilton, owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , join companies including
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as victims of the breach.
 Epsilon  said it’s conducting an investigation into the
incidents, which occurred March 30.  “Epsilon is a major player in this area -- one of the
largest,” Mikko Hypponen, a manager at Helsinki, Finland-based
F-Secure OYJ’s anti-virus division, said in an interview. “When
you have such a large company, there’s a lot of data lost.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, and  Kroger Co. (KR) , the grocer, began the warnings on April
1.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  were also affected.
Companies and law enforcement are also investigating the
incidents.  ‘Thorough Investigation’  The nonprofit  College Board , which hosts a website that
posts SAT scores and helps high school students prepare for
college, also has been affected. First and last names and e-mail
addresses of some customers were exposed, said Peter Kauffman, a
spokesman at the New York-based organization.  “We are conducting a thorough investigation into this
matter and will continue to update those who may have been
affected,” Kauffmann said in an e-mailed statement. [bn:WBTKR=BARC:US]   Barclays Plc’s [] U.S. payments business, Barclaycard U.S.,
notified customers April 3 that some names and e-mails were
compromised and is working with law enforcement authorities,
said Kevin Sullivan, a spokesman for Barclays, which is
Britain’s third-biggest bank.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s travel subsidiary sent e-mails warning
customers that it had also been exposed to the breach.  Such e-mail breaches usually involve people who want to
sell lists of names to spammers, who can then either spam the
names gathered, or use the contact information to impersonate a
sender and bypass e-mail filters, Hypponen said.  ‘Sending Spam’  “Some of these people will look like they’re sending spam
when they aren’t,” he said.  There isn’t much hackers can do with e-mails beyond using
the information to send additional messages, said Bruce Schneier, chief security technology officer at BT Group Plc.  “This is mild,” he said. “They just got e-mail
addresses. It’s like car crashes. It happens all the time.”  The situation “will not be a big deal from a legal
perspective or a financial perspective” if it remains limited
to e-mails and doesn’t involve credit card data, said Robert
Scott, managing partner at Southlake, Texas-based law firm Scott
& Scott LLP, which focuses on privacy security and regulation
issues.  Marriot, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , fell 17 cents to
$35.24 today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Hilton Worldwide is based in McLean, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;  Chris Burritt  in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 