-- 
Harvard or Beer? Applying to College Sharpens Priorities: Books

-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 
2011-04-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/harvard-or-beer-applying-to-college-helps-sharpen-priorities-book-review.html
Not everyone wants to be Amy Chua,
the infamous  Tiger Mom  who wrote a book about her high-pressure
parenting technique -- but most parents would like their kids to
get into Harvard and Yale, as Chua’s oldest daughter just did.  Andrew Ferguson is a pretty mellow dad, but even he gets
stressed out when his son falls asleep at college night and
tells his guidance counselor he’s looking for a “place where I
can go to a football game, take off my shirt, paint my chest and
major in beer.”  Remarkably, he keeps his sense of humor through the
insanely complicated application process, which he recounts in
“ Crazy U: One Dad’s Crash Course in Getting His Kid Into
College .” You need some humor while interviewing an independent
admissions counselor who charges $40,000 for a “platinum
package” -- even if you’re only planning to put her in a book,
not spring for the fee yourself.  Are people nuts to pay that much, for advice or school?
Ferguson unsurprisingly wonders if we’re living in the middle of
a college bubble.  “No one can really say that a degree from Princeton is
worth $52,000 a year,” a friend says. “The only thing that
keeps that number afloat is unrealistic enthusiasm.”  Ferguson structures his book around the admissions cycle,
taking us along as his son tours campuses, studies for the SAT,
writes his application essays, has an alumni interview and waits
to hear whether he’ll be accepted.  First Choice  I don’t think it’s any great spoiler to say that the kid
gets into his first choice; I figured it out on page 31, since
it’s the only school Ferguson never names. He calls it only Big
State University in a surely futile attempt to safeguard his
son’s privacy.  Adding bulk to the book are easily digestible digressions
on the history of American higher education and the SAT, an
interview with the man who runs the US News & World Report
 college rankings , and a peek at the website  College Confidential 
(“as in other areas of life, such as pornography and day
trading, the Internet hasn’t caused the problem, it has just
made it worse”).  Ferguson, a senior editor at the  Weekly Standard , has a
light touch when writing about his own anxiety. It can be
annoying when he veers off into random, Jerry Seinfeld-like
comic riffs (“Where did this misnomer, ‘continental breakfast,’
come from?”) in the middle of a scene. But parents in his
situation will find him a reassuring guide.  “Crazy U” is published by  Simon & Schuster  (228 pages,
$25). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 