-- 
Commodities Climb to Two-Year High as Stocks Advance on Takeover Optimism

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-04T21:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/asia-stocks-advance-on-recovery-outlook-takeovers-oil-at-30-month-high.html
Commodities rose to a two-year high
following industry takeovers and evidence economic growth is
being sustained, and stocks gained for a fifth straight day.
Six-month bill rates declined to a record low as the Treasury
reduces sales of short-term securities, and European  default
risk  fell to a three-year low.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials added
0.9 percent at 5 p.m. in New York. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of shares in 45 nations climbed 0.4 percent, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained less than 0.1 percent. Rates
on six-month bills fell as much as three basis points to 0.1099
percent. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40
European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell
five basis points to 368.  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208)  made an unsolicited offer of about
$6.5 billion for Perth-based  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  to gain
control of Africa’s largest copper mine.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  agreed to buy
 Rhodia SA (RHA)  for about $4.8 billion to add specialty chemicals.
Raw-materials producers led global equities higher, climbing 0.7
percent for the biggest gain among 10 industries tracked by
Bloomberg. Stocks gained for a second day after the U.S.
unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to a two-year low.  “It’s a perfect recipe for M&A,” said  Philip Orlando , the
New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which manages $358.2 billion. “The global
economy continues to heal. Commodity prices are rising. In
addition, you still got a ton of cash out there and stock prices
are relatively inexpensive. It’s not at all surprising that
those trends are converging.”  Global Takeovers  The S&P/GSCI index has risen 17 percent this year while the
MSCI gauge of worldwide stocks has advanced 4.9 percent. There
have been 6,239 deals announced globally this year, totaling
$642.6 billion, a 27 percent increase from the $506.5 billion in
the same period in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. After the close of U.S. stock exchanges,  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  said it will purchase  National Semiconductor
Corp. (NSM)  for about $6.5 billion.  Lead rose to the highest price in almost three years in
 London  on speculation rebuilding in Japan after last month’s
earthquake and revived car sales will spur demand. Lead for
three-month delivery rose to $2,775.25 a ton, the highest
intraday price since April 2008.  Corn, Wheat  Corn prices climbed to the highest since July 2008 after a
government report showed shrinking U.S. inventories, while
storms in the Midwest threatened to delay spring planting.
Futures for May delivery rose 24.25 cents, or 3.3 percent, to
$7.6025 a bushel after touching $7.65, the highest for a most-
active contract since July 7, 2008. Prices have more than
doubled in the past year as global supplies plunged.  Wheat rose to an almost four-week high as persistent
dryness threatened crops in the southern U.S. Great Plains,
while wet weather raised concern that spring planting will be
delayed in northern areas. Wheat futures for May delivery
reached $7.92, the highest intraday price since March 8.  Stock indexes for  Hong Kong , Norway, India, China,
Argentina and Turkey gained more than 0.7 percent. The  S&P 500 ,
the benchmark measure of U.S. shares, swung between a loss of
0.1 percent and a gain of 0.3 percent. Hewlett-Packard Co. and
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  fell the most in the Dow Jones Industrial Average,
losing more than 1.1 percent, as the Semiconductor Industry
Association said three-month average sales dropped 1.1 percent
in February.  Obama, Congress Wrangle  Treasury six-month bill rates declined to a record low as
the U.S. reduces sales of short-term securities while President
Barack Obama’s administration and Congress wrangle over budget
cuts and raising the U.S. debt limit.  The U.S. will reach its legal debt limit no later than May
16 unless Congress acts before then, and emergency measures may
provide extra borrowing room to last only until about July 8,
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today. Since
February, the Treasury has cut by $195 billion the amount of
outstanding Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it
sells on behalf of the  Federal Reserve  in a program set up in
2008 amid efforts to prop up the financial system.  “It’s created a log-jam at the front end of the yield
curve,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York , one of the 20 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “It exacerbated what was already a bit
of a collateral squeeze at the front end.”  Treasuries rose as Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S. economic recovery faces headwinds,
reducing speculation the central bank will cut its $600 billion
debt-buying program.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.42 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Two-year note yields dropped four
basis points to 0.76 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 