-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Fund Inflows, U.S. Jobs Report

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-04T09:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-won-on-fund-inflows-u-s-jobs-report.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  South Korea ’s won and Indonesia’s rupiah, on speculation
overseas investors are adding to holdings of the region’s assets
to take advantage of the economic growth outlook.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies, rose to the highest level
since 1997 after global funds bought $3.2 billion more South
Korean, Taiwanese and Thai equities than they sold last week.
Thailand’s export growth accelerated in February and  China ’s
manufacturing expansion quickened in March, reports last week
showed. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares rallied
after the March U.S. jobless rate dropped to a two-year low.  “Risk appetite is improving,” said Shigehisa Shiroki,
chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “When stock-market performances
are solid, the money tends to flow into emerging markets.”  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,086.70 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in Seoul and the rupiah climbed 0.5 percent to 8,661,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Singapore dollar 
gained 0.2 percent to S$1.2603 and the  Thai baht  added 0.1
percent to 30.25.  Developing-nation equity funds attracted inflows of $2.6
billion in the week to March 30, the most since the period ended
Jan. 5, according to EPFR Global data. Emerging-market bond
funds had inflows of $2.3 billion in the first quarter, down
from $11.5 billion a year earlier.  Korean Stocks Popular  Asia ’s emerging-market economies may expand 8.4 percent
this year, compared with 2.5 percent growth in developed
countries, according to an  International Monetary Fund  forecast
released in January. Thailand’s exports increased 29.1 percent
in February from a year earlier after rising 21.4 percent the
previous month, a March 31 report showed. China’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from 52.2 in February,
according to data released April 1.  The won climbed to a 30-month high as overseas investors
boosted their holdings of South Korean shares for a 13th day,
the longest streak of net purchases this year. The currency may
strengthen to 1,060 by the end of this month, Shiroki said.  “The U.S. jobs report is prompting investors to buy more
stocks around the world and also spurring foreign investors to
buy Korean stocks, supporting the won,” said Ko Yun Jin, a
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in  Seoul .  Slowing Indonesian Inflation  The rupiah rallied to its strongest level in almost four
years after official data showed last week that inflation slowed
for a second month in March.  “The main factors driving the rupiah are the inflation
data and inflows into Indonesian stocks,” said Lindawati
Susanto, head of foreign-exchange trading at PT Bank Resona
Perdania in Jakarta. “The economy is set for strong growth.”  Consumer prices rose 6.65 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with an increase of 6.84 percent in February,
according to official data released on April 1. The economy may
expand 6.6 percent in the three months through March, compared
with an earlier forecast of 6.4 percent, Bank  Indonesia  Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on March 16.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso strengthened 0.2 percent to
43.30 per dollar. Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at
3.0256, while Vietnam’s dong gained 0.05 percent to 20,870.
Onshore financial markets are closed in China and  Taiwan  today
for a public holiday.  India ’s foreign-exchange market is closed
for a local holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  