-- 
Australian Services Industry Contracts as Sales, New Orders Slow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-04T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/australian-services-industry-contracts-as-sales-new-orders-slow.html
Australia ’s services industry
contracted for a fifth straight month in March as sales and new
orders weakened while input costs accelerated, a survey showed.  The performance of services index was 46.5 from 48.7 in
February,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates
contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which increased its
overnight cash rate target seven times from October 2009 to
November last year, will hold the benchmark at 4.75 percent
today, a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed. Australian
employers boosted hiring as the nation undergoes a mining
investment boom, helping spur a 12.8 percent gain in the local
dollar in the past year, the third-best performance among the 16
major currencies.  “Notwithstanding the very strong outlook in the minerals
sector and its implications for the broader economy, consumers
and businesses remain highly cautious,” Australian Industry
Group Chief Executive Officer  Heather Ridout  said in a
statement. “Trade-exposed businesses in the services sector are
feeling the competitiveness pinch of the persistently high
dollar.”  The index’s gauge for sales declined to 47.7 from 53.9, and
the reading for new orders slid to 47.2 from 47.4. The wages
indicator dropped to 56.1 from 57.1, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  