-- 
May Robusta Coffee’s Premium Over July Halves on Ample Supplies

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-04T14:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/may-robusta-coffee-s-premium-over-july-halves-on-ample-supplies.html
May-delivery robusta coffee’s
premium over beans for July delivery fell by more than half
today on signs supplies are ample and beans are being shipped to
satisfy the May contract expiry.  Robusta for May delivery cost $29 a metric ton more than
July beans at 3:25 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in  London , narrowing from
$74 at the close on April 1, data on Bloomberg show. The gap
opened as far as $205 on March 17 after the market entered a
backwardation, when front-month contracts trade above later-
dated accords, on March 9.  “I think the realization that there will be large
shipments coming in from  Asia  in particular and that there is no
shortage of nearby robusta coffee is helping push the spread
lower,” Ralph Hawes, manager of coffee trading at Sucden
Financial Ltd., said by phone from London today.  Bean stockpiles in  Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam, will drop
“considerably” as coffee is shipped to  Europe  to meet delivery
for NYSE Liffe’s May contract, Hamburg-based broker  Eugen Atte 
said in a report. Warehouses in the Belgian port of Antwerp are
ready to take “huge volume,” it said March 31.  Vietnam  is the
world’s largest producer of robusta coffee.  Beans from  Indonesia , the third-biggest robusta grower,
will likely be shipped for delivery against NYSE Liffe’s July
contract because farmers in Vietnam have sold all their stocks
to export firms, according to German researcher F.O. Licht.  “Buyers started to turn to beans from rival producer
Indonesia, where they are mostly lining up to make purchases
against the London July contract, rather than the May
contract,” it said in a report today.  Instant Coffee  Robusta production will climb to 54.7 million bags in the
current season that started Oct. 1 from about 53 million bags in
2009-10, according to estimates from Rabobank International.
Output of the beans, used in espresso and instant coffee, will
fall to about 53.3 million bags in 2011-12, it predicts.  “The structure of the forward curve did not seem to
reflect the true fundamentals of the underlying market,”
London-based Rabobank analyst Keith Flury said by e-mail today,
referring to the gap between the May and July robusta contracts
as of last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 