-- 
Taylor Bean Ties to Freddie Mac Loom in Mortgage-Fraud Trial

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-04T22:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/taylor-bean-ties-to-freddie-mac-loom-in-1-9-billion-mortgage-fraud-trial.html
Lee Farkas , the former chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., went on trial today as
the accused mastermind of a $1.9 billion fraud conspiracy.
Looming in the background was the company’s relationship with
the bailed-out federal mortgage financier,  Freddie Mac .  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a scheme
involving fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s
largest financial institutions, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
targeted the U.S. bank bailout program and contributed to the
failure of Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank. Freddie Mac
was the most important ingredient in Taylor Bean’s growth into
the largest U.S. non-depository mortgage lender by 2008.  “This is a case about lying and stealing on a staggering
scale,” Patrick Stokes, deputy chief of the U.S.  Justice
Department ’s Fraud Section, said during opening statements today
in Alexandria, Virginia, federal court.  Lawyers have said they expected the trial before U.S. Judge
Leonie Brinkema to last about a month. Prosecutors have said
they planned to call 35 witnesses and show the jury more than
950 exhibits, including e-mail, recordings of Farkas, property
records and a photograph of Farkas’s jet.  Prosecutors described in court papers the loans sold to
Freddie Mac during an alleged seven-year conspiracy as the
“lifeblood” of Taylor Bean, once the 12th-largest U.S.
mortgage lender. Six people have already pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and are scheduled to testify against Farkas, who may
spend the rest of his life in prison if convicted on 14 counts
of wire, bank and securities fraud.  Denied Wrongdoing  Farkas has denied any wrongdoing. His lawyer, Craig Kuglar
of Atlanta, told the jury it was the federal government that
created a “death spiral” for Colonial Bank and  Taylor Bean 
when it raided the company’s headquarters in August 2009 relying
on information from an auditor at  Deloitte & Touche  who didn’t
understand Taylor Bean’s business arrangements.  “The evidence will show Mr. Farkas did not steal
anything,” Kuglar said.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  Freddie Mac started picking up most of Taylor Bean’s
business in 2002 after its government-sponsored competitor,
 Fannie Mae , stopped buying loans originated by the company in
April of that year.  Didn’t Trust Information  Fannie Mae didn’t trust the accuracy of information it was
getting from Taylor Bean and ordered the company to sell its
portfolio of servicing rights, according to a  prospectus  filed
by Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Securities Corp. with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for sales of pools of
Taylor Bean-originated loans.  A Fannie Mae spokeswoman,  Amy Bonitatibus , declined to
comment on the reason the company dropped Taylor Bean.  Freddie Mac sent auditors and executives to Florida in 2002
to review Taylor Bean’s books before deciding to accept the
business that had previously gone to Fannie Mae, said a former
Freddie Mac official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
he said his comments could involve him in the case. The cutoff
by Fannie Mae was viewed as a stigma, the person said.  Brad German , a Freddie Mac spokesman, declined to comment
on the company’s relationship with Taylor Bean. He didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the evaluation of its
books.  Fierce Competition  Clifford Rossi, a Freddie Mac official from 1996 to 2004
who said he wasn’t involved in dealing with Taylor Bean, said
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae competed fiercely for relationships
with loan generators such as Taylor Bean.  Taylor Bean’s primary business was origination,
acquisition, sale and servicing of residential  mortgage loans 
that came from a network of small mortgage brokers and banks.  “The business reasons must have outweighed the risk
exposure,” said Rossi, a former senior risk officer at
Countrywide Financial Corp.,  Washington  Mutual Inc. and
Citigroup Inc.  Farkas maintained frequent contact with Freddie Mac,
personally meeting with officials at its headquarters in McLean,
 Virginia , on seven occasions from 2006 to 2009, the U.S. has
said. In 2003, he hired  Paul R. Allen , a former senior executive
at Freddie Mac, as Taylor Bean’s chief executive officer. Allen
worked out of his home in Oakton, Virginia, to be closer to
Freddie Mac headquarters, according to prosecutors.  ‘No Coincidence’  “The senior executive’s location in northern Virginia was
no coincidence,” prosecutors said in court papers. “He was a
former senior executive at Freddie Mac, and Freddie Mac was
critical to TBW’s business as a buyer of TBW-originated mortgage
loans.”  Allen pleaded guilty on April 1 to conspiracy and to making
false statements to federal auditors. He didn’t return e-mails
and voice-mail messages seeking comment.  Freddie Mac-connected witnesses on the prosecution list
include  Raymond Romano , the executive vice president and chief
credit officer at Freddie Mac, who the government claims had
direct contact with Farkas. Philip Theis, a customer management
director at Freddie Mac, may also be called, the U.S. said.  Ginnie Mae  Also listed is Stephen Ledbetter, a senior vice president
in Ginnie Mae’s Office of Mortgage Backed Securities.  Ginnie
Mae , a government entity that guarantees returns on securities
backed by U.S. agencies such as the Veterans Administration,
guaranteed many of the loans originated by Taylor Bean,
according to a court filing by prosecutors.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
and Peter Carr, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, declined to comment.  At the same time Fannie Mae dropped Taylor Bean, Farkas was
having trouble coming up with cash for operating expenses, such
as payroll and mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to Freddie
Mac and Ginnie Mae, prosecutors said.  With assistance from officials at  Colonial Bank , at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas masked shortfalls of
about $15 million a day by moving money from another Taylor Bean
account into the company’s master account, then returning the
money later in the day, according to a related SEC lawsuit.  Overdrawn Account  By December 2003, Taylor Bean was overdrawing its account
by about $150 million a day, the SEC said.  Farkas and other conspirators, in a scheme they called
“Plan B,” began sending mortgage data to Colonial Bank for
loans that didn’t exist or that Taylor Bean had already
committed or sold to other investors, according to the
government.  By the end of 2007, the scheme consisted of about
$500 million in fake residential mortgage loans and about
$1 billion in unmarketable residential mortgage loans and
securities, the SEC said in court papers.  Farkas and the conspirators diverted cash from Ocala
Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by Taylor
Bean, to cover its losses, according to court papers.  Ocala Funding issued asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institutions including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, and Paris-based BNP Paribas, according to court
papers. By August 2009, Ocala’s deficit had grown to
$1.5 billion, according to Allen’s plea agreement.  ‘Competing Claims’  “Many of these loans had already been sold to Freddie
Mac,” the SEC alleged in its lawsuit against Farkas, adding
Freddie Mac, Colonial Bank, and investors “have competing
claims to approximately $1 billion of mortgage loans originated
by TBW.”  Taylor Bean accounted for about 2 percent of the mortgages
for single-family homes by volume bought by Freddie Mac in 2009,
according to a company filing. The firm said it filed a claim in
Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy for $1.8 billion, with $440 million
relating to funds deposited with Colonial Bank.  Farkas and other alleged conspirators also committed wire
and securities fraud in an attempt to secure $553 million in
funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program for Colonial
BancGroup, Colonial Bank’s parent, prosecutors said.  The application for funding included false information
related to the mortgage loans and assets held by Colonial. Also,
a purported plan to first inject capital into Colonial bank from
a group including Taylor Bean and Farkas caused Colonial
BancGroup to file a false report with the SEC, according to
prosecutors.  Colonial never got the TARP funds, the U.S. said.  Property Seizures  Prosecutors are seeking to seize five properties that
Farkas owns in Florida and  Georgia , as well as nine vehicles,
including a 1929 Ford Model A and 1963 Rolls Royce.  Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy estate alleged in court papers
that in addition to his salary, Farkas withdrew more than
$50 million from the company for his personal benefit.  Alabama regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was appointed as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup and Taylor Bean filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 