-- 
Boutique Firms Grab Record Share of European Merger Advice Fees

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-04-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/lazard-leads-boutique-advisers-amassing-record-share-of-european-m-a-fees.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
agreed on more than the price when they engineered the biggest
takeover of a European company this year: They both turned to
independent firms for advice.  Rothschild is advising the French media company on its
$11.3 billion purchase of Vodafone’s stake in SFR, France’s
second-largest mobile phone network operator.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and
BNP Paribas SA are advising Vodafone.  European companies are increasingly favoring independent
advice, helping Lazard, Rothschild and  Perella Weinberg  Partners
LP grab a record share of merger advisory fees in  Europe . The
firms accounted for 37 percent of fees in the region last year,
earning about $2.2 billion, according to New York-based research
firm Freeman Consulting. That’s up from a 26 percent market-
share in 2008 and 30 percent in 2009, the data show.  “There has been a pendulum swinging back to advisory-only
firms,” Robert Leitao, Rothschild’s head of U.K. Global
Financial Advisory, said in an interview in  London  before the
Vivendi purchase was announced. It’s “been accelerated by the
unraveling of the crisis and the fact that there are stresses
and strains within the universal banking model, which aren’t
always client friendly.”  Solange Maulini, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Vivendi, and
officials at Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , declined to
comment on their advisers on the deal, announced on April 3.  ‘Pure Advisory Firm’  Lazard topped the list of independent advisers in Europe
last year, ranking eighth among all banks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm was followed by Rothschild at
ninth. Lazard was also the top-ranked independent in 2009,
placing seventh among all banks, followed by Rothschild at ninth
and Perella Weinberg at 20th, the data show.  “We like to use Lazard because they are a pure advisory
firm,” said Mike Biggs, chairman of  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , Britain’s
biggest insurance buyout firm. They “have none of the balance-
sheet related conflicts others may have from time to time.”  Lazard, headed in London by U.K. Chief Executive Officer
William Rucker, provided Resolution with a fairness opinion on
its 2.75 billion-pound ($4.4 billion) purchase of Axa SA’s U.K.
life insurance unit, a deal completed in September. A fairness
opinion gauges the price and terms of a transaction. Rothschild
was the sole adviser to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in its
sale of rehab clinics operator Priory Group Ltd. The $1.5
billion sale to private equity firm Advent International Corp.
closed in January.  Larger Deals  Independent firms are increasingly working on larger
transactions alongside their bigger competitors, gaining fees in
the process. Ondra Partners, the firm started by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s former U.K.  investment banking  chief Michael Tory, helped advise on 2010’s top deal in Europe, GDF Suez SA’s
purchase of International Power Plc. The previous year, Lazard
helped to advise  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  on the $21 billion purchase of
Cadbury Plc, the British chocolate maker.  “Ten years ago, there were many transactions of scale,
multi-billion dollar deals, with no independent adviser,” said
Paulo Pereira, partner at Perella Weinberg Partners in London.
“Now it’s almost the exception to have a significant
transaction announced without one or more independents being
involved.”  Companies are turning to independent advisers on concern
that firms offering merger advice as well as additional services
such as equity underwriting and trading may put their own
interests before the client, says Philip Keevil, a partner at
New York-based advisory firm Compass Advisers LLP and a former
head of European mergers at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   ‘Guns for Hire’  “Conflicts frequently develop and when a full-service bank
is retained on a deal, the team tends to push the client to do
that deal as they may be conflicted on the next,” said Keevil.
Independent firms “also don’t have to worry about quarterly
earnings as much. They are less likely to act as guns for hire
and more likely to advise a client not to do something that
would be harmful to its long-term interests.”  “We are in a position to offer more comprehensive M&A
advice,” advising clients on selling bonds and stock and
hedging against foreign-exchange risks, said Wilhelm Schulz,
head of European mergers at Citigroup. “We wouldn’t have a
sustainable business model if we were focused -- even for one
second -- on shoving it down our clients’ throats.”  Del Monte   In February, a Delaware judge publicly rebuked  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , the third-biggest British bank, over conflicts of interest
in the sale of  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  London-based Barclays, which
advised the fruit-juice and pet-food company on its $5.3 billion
sale to a group led by KKR & Co., deceived its client by failing
to disclose until late in the process plans to provide financing
for the purchaser, Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster said in
a Feb. 14 opinion.  Following the judge’s opinion, Del Monte sought new offers
and it hired Perella Weinberg to solicit potential buyers, which
didn’t lead to higher offers. KKR closed the purchase in March.  “We look forward to the opportunity to set the record
straight in court,” Barclays said in an e-mailed statement.
“Barclays’ financing role, in a minority position, was fully
disclosed and specifically authorized by the company and its
counsel.”  To be sure, independent firms are trailing their larger
competitors in the league tables.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was the
top-ranked adviser on European deals in the first quarter of
2011, working on about $83 billion of deals, compared to $20
billion at Rothschild, Bloomberg data show.  “If you sum all the independents, it’s still a fraction of
the total capacity,” said Perella’s Pereira.  ‘Big Boys’ Return  “While we can argue the ‘independent advice thing’, it may
be a product of weak markets and deals won by boutiques having a
bigger impact on the statistics,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London. “When big deals
return, I would expect the big boys to take share.”  The size of the average Europe deal increased in the first
quarter of 2011 to $302 million from $242 million in 2010 and
$211 million in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The ability to provide financing will limit the potential
for independent firms once larger deals return, bankers said.
JPMorgan, which is advising AT&T Inc. on a $39 billion bid for
Deutsche Telekom AG’s U.S. wireless unit committed to lending
$20 billion to AT&T. New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup,
which are advising the U.K.’s  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  on the
sale of 600 branches, were asked to provide 7.5 billion pounds
each in financing to help fund the deal, a person familiar with
the matter said on March 28.  ‘Struggle to Grow’  “Some boutiques have benefitted from the fallout of the
financial crisis,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  banking analysts led by Huw van Steenis and consulting firm  Oliver Wyman  said in a March 23
report. The firms “may struggle to grow from here” as
investment banks regroup after the credit crisis.  Boutique firms are broadening the range of services they
provide, offering to advise clients on stock and bond sales as
well as takeovers.  “The M&A market remains challenging,” said Mark Aedy,
former head of European investment banking at Merrill Lynch &
Co. and now head of investment banking for Europe at Moelis &
Co. “It remains a ferociously competitive environment. You do
have to provide the full menu of advisory capabilities” instead
of focusing only on mergers in one industry.  The firms assist companies planning an initial public
offering in selecting investment banks that will find buyers for
shares. Investment banks are paid a commission on the amount of
stock they sell. In 2009, half of stock sales by volume in the
U.K. involved an independent adviser, according to Aedy.  Debt, Equity Advisory  Debt and equity advisory were “significant contributors”
to Rothschild’s revenue in 2010, Leitao said, declining to
elaborate. Rothschild also has a unit advising companies on
restructuring.  Boutiques “are looking to broaden their offer as they
start to hit a ceiling on a monoline offering,” Morgan Stanley
banking analysts led by Huw van Steenis wrote in a report to
clients on March 23.  That isn’t deterring boutiques like Moelis. The Los
Angeles-based investment-banking firm founded by Kenneth Moelis
in 2007, climbed 32 spots in the merger ranks to 44th in 2010
from 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies, governments and private equity houses
increasingly want somebody who hasn’t got skin in the game,”
Aedy said. “We want to be paid for the right advice, which
could ultimately be ‘don’t do it.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at  at  eevans3@bloomberg.net  