-- 
Bank Segregation, Flight Secrets, Fed Crisis, Stress Tests: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-04T12:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bank-segregation-flight-secrets-fed-crisis-stress-tests-compliance.html
Banks may save about 10 billion
pounds ($16 billion) in capital and other costs under proposals
being considered by the U.K.’s  Independent Commission on Banking 
aimed at securing the financial system against the collapse of a
single lender, a person with knowledge of the plans said.  The commission may suggest banks segregate their consumer
banking operations and capitalize them separately, a cheaper
alternative to earlier proposals outlined by  ICB  Chairman  John
Vickers  in January, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  The proposal would lead to one-time costs in the low
billions of pounds rather than the 15 billion-pound maximum
estimated annual cost of full-functional or geographic
segregation, where banks would turn their units into stand-alone
subsidiaries, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The government-sponsored commission releases its first
findings on April 11.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Business-Jet Owners Win U.S. House Vote to Keep Flight Secrecy  Business-jet owners won U.S. House approval March 31 to
keep their flight plans secret, a move aimed at halting
 Transportation  Secretary Ray LaHood’s bid to require more public
disclosure.  Legislation by Representative John Mica, a Florida
Republican who chairs the House transportation committee, would
ensure that companies can prevent the  Federal Aviation
Administration  from disclosing the origins, destinations and
flight paths of their trips.  The FAA’s announcement last month that it planned to
disclose more information about private-jet flights brought
protests from corporations. They said security and business
deals would be risked with public knowledge of their trips.
LaHood countered that many fliers taking advantage of the
secrecy, including drug dealers, don’t deserve it.  The FAA requires business-jet operators to provide their
origin, route and destination so the agency can manage traffic
flow. Anyone who knows the registration or “N” number on the
tail of an aircraft can use Web sites such as  FlightAware.com ,
the largest tracking service, to see that information.  The full chamber voted 251-168 for an amendment that
contains Mica’s plan. The FAA is taking comments on the plan
through April 4.  For more, click here.  EU Stress Test Pass Rate ‘Expected’ to Be 5% of Core Tier 1  European Union bank regulators are “expected” to set a
tougher pass rate of 5 percent core Tier 1 capital for this
year’s round of bank stress tests, according to the  European
Commission .  Core Tier 1, as defined by global regulators in the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, largely consists of banks
common stock and retained earnings. The 2010 tests were
conducted against a pass rate of six percent Tier 1 capital,
which encompasses a broader range of securities including hybrid
instruments such as preference shares.  Last year’s EU stress tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  The “final decision” on the rate will be taken by the
 European Banking Authority ,  Amadeu Altafaj , a spokesman for the
Brussels-based commission said.  Reuters reported April 1 that the EBA may publish as early
as today its definition of what banks can count as capital in
the tests, designed to show their resilience to financial
shocks.  Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for the EBA, didn’t
immediately respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Private Sector May Be Pushed Out of Low-Income Mortgage Market  As U.S. regulators spend the next few months refining new
mortgage rules, they will try to determine how the government
and private sector should divide the risk for lending to poor
and middle-class homebuyers.  Six federal agencies last week asked for public feedback on
a proposal, mandated by the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, that
requires securitizers to keep a 5 percent stake in loans with
down payments of less than 20 percent.  Consumer advocates, home builders, real estate agents and
securitizers say the rule would make lenders reluctant to issue
mortgages to borrowers with smaller down payments -- unless they
are insured by the government -- at a time when officials are
trying to decrease the federal role in the housing market.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , whose
agency is among those writing the rule, said in a statement last
week that she takes concerns about the rule’s impact on non-
wealthy homebuyers “very seriously.” She suggested that the
Federal Housing Administration might be an avenue for those
buyers under the new rules and welcomes comments on how FHA
might provide a solution.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Offshore Account Reports Double Under IRS Audits: Chart of Day  The number of U.S. residents who reported that they have
$10,000 or more in a foreign bank account more than doubled to
almost 600,000 in 2010 from a year earlier, as shown in the
CHART OF THE DAY.  In 2009  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said that it
had helped U.S. taxpayers hide their accounts, paid a $780
million fine and agreed to turn over information on thousands of
U.S. residents with accounts in Switzerland.  The UBS action, the creation of a special audit group and a
temporary amnesty offered by the  Internal Revenue Service 
combined to lead more people to report overseas bank accounts.  U.S. residents with unreported foreign bank accounts who
voluntarily comply will pay penalties and interest on the
previously unreported income, avoiding criminal prosecution. If
they don’t comply and are convicted of tax evasion they may face
a maximum of five years in jail.  Greece Gives Veto to State on Bank Mergers in Liquidity Plan  Greece’s government will extend the powers of state
representatives on the country’s banks under a new tranche of
government guarantees to boost liquidity.  Veto powers of the state representatives will extend to
decisions related to “legal and financial” aspects of the
institution such as plans to merge with another bank, according
to an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based Finance Ministry
March 31.  The clause is part of draft laws submitted to parliament to
approve 30 billion euros ($42.5 billion) of government
guarantees that banks can use to secure funding.  Greek banks are largely reliant on funding from the
 European Central Bank  as money markets remain virtually shut to
them in the wake of the country’s debt crisis. The additional
state guarantees should “preserve a sufficient margin of
liquidity,” the  IMF said in a March 14  statement.  Those guarantees will be contingent on banks detailing how
they will wean themselves off ECB money and seek alternative
financing sources.  Steel Industry to Sue EU Over Post-2012 Carbon Permits Plan  The association of European steel producers Eurofer said it
will sue the European Union over the design of a method to
allocate free carbon-dioxide permits in the 27-nation bloc’s
emissions trading system after 2012.  The carbon-efficiency benchmarks for distributing a
dwindling supply of free allowances to the steel industry in the
next phase of the EU emissions program infringe the law and will
result in additional costs to producers of around 5 billion
euros ($7.1 billion), according to Eurofer, whose members
include the world’s largest steelmaker ArcelorMittal and
 Germany ’s largest steel producer ThyssenKrupp AG.  The draft regulation on allocating free permits in the next
eight-year phase of the region’s cap-and-trade program through
2020 is on track for final approval in the coming weeks.  The EU emissions trading system is the world’s biggest.  Special Section: Fed’s 2008 Crisis Lending  Fed Took Junk as Security, Made Loans to Libya and Other Nations  At the height of the financial crisis, the  Federal Reserve 
allowed the world’s largest banks to turn more than $118 billion
in junk bonds, defaulted debt, securities of unknown ratings and
stocks into cash.  Collateral of those asset types made up 72 percent of the
total $164.3 billion in market-rate securities pledged to the
Fed on Sept. 29, 2008, two weeks after the bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , according to documents released March
31. The collateral backed $155.7 billion in loans on the largest
day of borrowing from the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, or
PDCF, which was created in March 2008 to provide loans to
brokers as Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed.  Fed spokesman  David Skidmore  declined to comment. No public
money was lost in the Fed’s emergency lending programs, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  testified to the  Senate Banking Committee  in
July, 2010. The loans didn’t represent permanent cash given to
the dealers and had to be repaid the next day.  The documents released March 31 included the most detailed
view of collateral to date for the facility, which operated from
March 16, 2008, to Feb. 1, 2010.  The loans extended to primary dealers under the PDCF by the
New York Fed were recourse loans, meaning the potential
liability of borrowers who defaulted was greater than the value
of the collateral pledged, according to the Fed.  The biggest borrowers from the 97-year-old discount window
as the program reached its crisis-era peak were foreign banks,
accounting for at least 70 percent of the $110.7 billion
borrowed during the week in October 2008 when use of the program
surged to a record. The disclosures may stoke a reexamination of
the risks posed to U.S. taxpayers by the  central bank ’s role in
global financial markets.  Arab Banking Corp., the lender part-owned by the Central
Bank of Libya, used a New York branch to get 73 loans from the
U.S. Federal Reserve in the same 18 months period.  The bank, then 29 percent-owned by the Libyan state, had
aggregate borrowings in that period of $35 billion -- while the
largest single loan amount outstanding was $1.2 billion in July
2009, according to Fed data released March 31. In October 2008,
when lending to financial institutions by the central bank’s so-
called discount window peaked at $111 billion, Arab Banking took
repeated loans totaling more than $2 billion.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest
lender, tapped $100 million from the Fed’s discount window in
2008 as the global financial crisis reached its peak. The
Sydney-based bank borrowed $75 million on July 17, 2008, and $25
million on Nov. 12, 2008, according to documents released March
31.  “Given the fragility of markets at this time, the Group
was taking the precautionary measure of trialing our access to
various central bank windows to ensure that our systems and
processes were in order should the situation worsen such that we
needed emergency funding,” Sydney-based spokesman Steve Batten
wrote in an e-mailed statement. “There is absolutely nothing
more to be read into those transactions.”  Dexia SA (DEXB) , based in Brussels and Paris, borrowed as much as
$33.5 billion through its New York branch from the Fed’s
“discount window” lending program, according to newly released
Fed documents. Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc, taken over in 2007
by a German real-estate lender later seized by the German
government, drew $24.5 billion.  Separate data disclosed in December on temporary emergency-
lending programs set up by the Fed also showed big foreign banks
as borrowers. Six European banks were among the top 11 companies
that sold the most debt overall -- a combined $274.1 billion --
to the Commercial Paper Funding Facility.  Fed officials say all the discount window loans made during
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s have been repaid with
interest.  For more about Libya’s borrowing, click here.  For more on foreign lending, click here.  For more about lending to U.S. banks, click here.  For an interview of Thomas Brown, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Donovan Says Stress Tests Show ‘Final Bill’ for Ireland  Donal Donovan, visiting professor at Trinity College,
Dublin, and former deputy director of the  International Monetary
Fund , talked about the result of the Irish bank stress tests.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Belgian Banks Will Meet Basel III Rules, Coene Tells Tijd, Echo  Belgian Central Bank Governor Luc Coene said the nation’s
banks will be able to meet Basel III rules without raising
capital, newspapers  De Tijd  and  L’Echo  reported, citing a joint
interview.  Belgian banks will be able to meet capital rules set by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision using retained earnings,
Coene said in the interview. There will remain “room for”
dividend payments, though payouts will be lower than pre-crisis
levels, he told the newspapers. Banks will also need to stick to
restructuring plans, he said.  When asked about the outcome of stress tests for  KBC Groep
NV (KBC)  and Dexia SA, Coene said he expects “no big problems,” the
newspapers reported.  In response to questions about bankers’ pay, Coene said
that BNP Paribas Fortis, Dexia and KBC shouldn’t give bonuses to
management or traders before repaying state support, the
newspapers reported.  UniCredit Has Adequate Capital, Chief Ghizzoni Says  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s capital is sufficient and the bank’s ratios
already meet the Basel III requirements, according to Chief
Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni . He made the comments at a
conference in Cernobbio, Italy.  Comings and Goings  David Gilo Chosen by Minister to Head Israel Antitrust Authority  David Gilo has been chosen by  Israeli Industry, Trade and
Labor  Minister Shalom Simhon to head the Israel Antitrust
Authority, according to an e-mailed statement from the ministry
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  