-- 
Bank of Ireland Will Sell $4.3 Billion Portion of Project-Finance Business

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-04T16:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bank-of-ireland-to-sell-part-of-project-finance-business.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s
largest bank, hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to sell an almost 3
billion-euro ($4.3 billion) portion of its project finance
business.  The size will comprise mostly U.K. infrastructure loans and
exclude its Irish business, spokeswoman Anne Mathews said in a
telephone interview today.  Bank of Ireland joins  Portugal ’s Banco Espirito Santo SA
and Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc in selling project
financing loans as part of the efforts to reduce their balance
sheets. The Dublin-based bank has also hired Hawkpoint Partners
Ltd. to advise it on the sale of Burdale Finance Ltd, an asset-
based lender bought in 2005 for about 71 million euros.  Bank of Ireland’s portfolio is made of more than 150
transactions. The deals the bank have done include a 95 million-
pound facility for the Greater Manchester waste project, Mathews
said. The bank was also one of the lenders to a 357 million-euro
financing for the development of Arsenal Football Club’s 60,000-
seat stadium at Ashburton in London.  The unit, set up in 1996, employs about 25 people in the
U.K. and the U.S., the bank said. It arranges project financing
transactions in Ireland, the U.K.,  Europe , the Middle East,
 North America  and  Australia , she said.  Royal Bank of Scotland in December sold about 3.9 billion
pounds of project finance assets to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. to shed assets after the Edinburgh-based lender received
the world’s biggest banking bailout in 2008.  Central Bank Instructions  Banco Espirito in January put up for sale 2.7 billion euros
of project loans.  Ireland’s central bank instructed four lenders on March 31
to raise 24 billion euros and announced plans to merge two of
them. The government already injected 46.3 billion euros into
the financial services industry and set up an agency that paid
more than 30 billion euros for banks’ risky property loans in
the past year. The total equates to about two-thirds the size of
the Irish economy.  Bank of Ireland was ordered on March 31 to raise 5.2
billion euros after the country’s central bank published the
outcome of stress tests of lenders. The lender, already 36
percent-owned by the state, has also been directed to dispose of
about 30 billion euros of non-core loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  