-- 
Bank of Canada Survey Shows Fewer Businesses Predict Faster Sales Growth

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-04T17:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bank-of-canada-survey-shows-fewer-business-managers-predict-sales-growth.html
The Bank of  Canada ’s quarterly
survey of executives found the lowest gauge of future sales
growth in two years, while more business leaders forecast
quicker inflation.  Some 51 percent of companies said they expect faster sales
growth over the next 12 months while 38 percent predicted growth
would slow, leaving the so-called balance of opinion at 13
percentage points, the  Bank of Canada  said today in its
quarterly Business Outlook  Survey . That was the lowest since a
reading of negative 22 in the first quarter of 2009.  The share of executives who predicted the inflation rate
would advance by more than 3 percent over the next two years
increased to 15 percent from 3 percent. Another 58 percent said
the  consumer price index  would rise between 2 percent and 3
percent, up from 44 percent. The Ottawa-based central bank has
an inflation target of 2 percent, and said today that food and
energy costs led to higher inflation expectations.  The bank will probably keep its benchmark interest rate at
1 percent at its next decision April 12, according to a
calculation by Credit Suisse based on overnight index swap
rates. Governor Mark Carney has kept the rate unchanged since
September and said at the last announcement on March 1 policy
makers would carefully consider future increases in a recovery
that is “slightly faster” than they forecast.  Raised Expectations  “Businesses remain positive about the economic outlook,
although some forward-looking indicators have eased from the
levels recorded in recent surveys, and the strength in commodity
prices has raised expectations for costs and inflation,”
today’s report said.  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.5 percent to 96.79 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 12:00 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier touching
96.16 cents, the strongest since November 2007. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0332.  The survey today also said that “a number of firms voiced
concerns about the impact of the high Canadian dollar and strong
foreign competition on their business.” The Canadian dollar has
been worth more than the U.S. dollar since the start of
February.  Some 46 percent of executives predicted more investment in
machinery and equipment, versus 22 percent who predicted less.
The balance of opinion fell to 24 percent from 29 percent. The
survey also found that 43 percent of businesses would have
“some” or “significant” difficulty meeting an unexpected
rise in demand, up from 38 percent.  ‘Dwindling Away’  “Spare capacity is still dwindling away and we still have
a pretty good economic outlook,” said  Jacqui Douglas , a senior
economic and currency strategist at TD Securities in Toronto.
She predicts a July rate increase.  The higher inflation expectations may have been amplified
by unrest in the Middle East and northern  Africa  that drove up
 oil prices  as the survey was taken, Douglas said. About 100
managers were canvassed from Feb. 14 to March 10, and crude oil
prices surged to a 29-month high on March 1.  The survey found 21 percent of companies said credit
conditions had loosened while 14 percent said they were tighter.  A  separate survey  of lending officers suggested credit
conditions eased in the first quarter. The balance of opinion on
overall conditions was negative 31.7 percent, with readings less
than zero indicating conditions became looser.  The senior loan officer survey gathered responses from
“major Canadian financial institutions” from March 7 to March
11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net .
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  