-- 
Barnes Bay, Viceroy Anguilla Owner, Files Liquidation Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/barnes-bay-viceroy-anguilla-owner-files-liquidation-plan-1-.html
Barnes Bay Development Ltd., owner
of the  Viceroy Anguilla Resort & Residences  on the British West
Indies island of Anguilla, filed a plan of liquidation based on
a proposed sale to an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group LLC.  The  Beverly Hills , California-based company listed about
$531 million in assets and about $462 million in debt as of Dec.
31 in Chapter 11 documents filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The affiliate of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Starwood
Capital Group bought the company’s $370 million in secured loans
in October, according to court documents. The Starwood
affiliate, which has agreed to provide as much as $5 million in
financing for the bankruptcy, would act as the so-called
stalking-horse bidder at an auction.  The lender would be allowed to bid its debt at the auction,
which Barnes Bay wants to hold on May 24 in  Anguilla , court
papers show. The company will seek court approval of the auction
and sale guidelines at a hearing set for April 12. Barnes Bay
will seek court approval of the disclosure statement explaining
the liquidating proposal at a hearing scheduled for May 3.  Beachfront Villas  The resort covers 35 acres, with 3,200 feet of beach
frontage featuring 166 “beachfront and blufftop villas,”
townhouses, four restaurants and a water-purification plant. As
of October, the company had buyers lined up for 70 percent of
the residences, which sell for as much as $6.5 million,
according to court papers.  The company collected $49 million in deposits on 97
residences with a total sale price of $220 million, court papers
show. Some buyers have sued to terminate the purchase
agreements.  As part of the plan the prospective buyers can elect to
complete the sale at a reduced price to account for the delay in
delivering the property, according to court documents. If they
choose to terminate the sale agreement they would share a $4
million fund. General unsecured creditors would share a $1
million fund.  The project was expected to take two years to complete when
construction began in 2005, at an estimated cost of about $144
million. Expense projections more than doubled by January 2007
to $327 million, according to court documents. Labor disputes
and Hurricane Omar further delayed construction on the resort,
which opened in October.  The case is In re Barnes Bay Development Ltd., 11-10792,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 