-- 
BBVA Bancomer Betting on Inflation Jump by Buying CPI Bonds: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-04-04T22:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bbva-bancomer-bets-on-cpi-pickup-in-bond-market-mexico-credit.html
BBVA Bancomer, the largest holder of
Mexican government peso bonds, plans to buy inflation-linked
debt as a bet consumer price increases will quicken beyond
forecasts after slowing to a five-year low.  Jorge Perez Samano, who manages about 450 billion pesos
($38 billion) at Bancomer, said he expects inflation to
accelerate to as much as 4.2 percent this year, higher than the
3.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Faster economic growth spurred by the U.S. recovery will drive
up prices in 2011, boosting demand for bonds that protect
against inflation, he said.  “Inflation-linked bonds are a great investment,” Perez
Samano, who holds the notes in his portfolio and plans to add
more of the bonds, said in a March 30 interview in  Mexico  City.
“We are very optimistic about growth in Mexico this year.”  The securities dropped 3.2 percent in 2011, compared with
an advance of 1.9 percent for similar notes sold by Latin
American governments, according to Barclays Plc indexes. The
average yield on the Mexican bonds jumped 62 basis points this
year to 3.85 percent, or 225 basis points less than Brazilian
bonds tied to consumer prices.  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
boosted  interest rates  in the past year as prices increased at
the third-slowest pace in the region after Chile and  Peru .
Mexican inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12 months through
mid-March, the lowest annual rate since May 2006 and half the
6.1 percent pace in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy.  Real Rates  Developing nations from  China  to  South Africa  are
struggling to stem inflation spurred by a 30 percent increase in
commodities in the past 12 months.  Annual inflation in Mexico may quicken to 3.96 percent over
the next five years, according to the yield difference, or
breakeven rate, between fixed-rate bonds and debt linked to
consumer price increases.  Mexico’s inflation-adjusted, or real, benchmark rate is
0.93 percent, higher than the rates of -1.5 percent in  Russia 
and -5.01 percent in Bulgaria, countries that share Mexico’s
foreign debt rating of BBB from  Standard & Poor’s , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil, which is rated BBB-, or one
level below Mexico, has a real interest rate of 5.74 percent.  “Investments in instruments tied to real rates have a lot
more value right now because of the pickup in inflation that is
coming,” Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion
pesos of fixed-income debt at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA,
said in an interview. Inflation-linked bonds are “a really good
option,” he said.  Rate Outlook  Annual inflation may quicken to as much as 3.8 percent this
year, said Belaunzaran, who recommends buying bonds tied to
consumer prices that mature in more than 10 years.  Price increases will prompt Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens to raise the overnight lending rate about 75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 5.25 percent by year-end,
trading in 28-day interbank rate futures contracts, known as
TIIE, shows. The bank has left its benchmark lending rate at a
record low 4.5 percent since July 2009 to support the economy’s
recovery from its worst recession since 1995.  Gross domestic product may grow as much as 5 percent this
year after expanding 5.5 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in 10
years, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said last month.  U.S. Recovery  Growth in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of Mexican
exports, may accelerate to 3.1 percent this year from 2.9
percent in 2010, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 68 economists. The U.S. rebound helped drive Mexican
exports to a record $298 billion last year.  The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to a two-
year low of 8.8 percent in March as employers created more jobs
than forecast, adding to evidence of a recovery in the labor
market.  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 fell
3 basis points today to 7.797 percent, according to Banco
Santander SA.  Yields on the TIIE futures contract maturing in July were
unchanged at 5 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 101, according to CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  Peso Rally  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed one basis point to 132
today, according to JPMorgan.  The peso slipped 0.1 percent to 11.84990 per dollar, near
the strongest since October 2008, and is up 4.2 percent this
year.  Mexico plans to sell about 2.8 billion pesos of 29-year
inflation-linked bonds tomorrow.  Inflation will accelerate to 3.92 percent this year,
according to a monthly central bank survey conducted in March
and released on April 1. The median forecast was 3.94 percent in
February.  “I still don’t see any opportunities to buy these bonds
because inflation is well anchored,”  Benito Berber , an
emerging-market analyst at Nomura Securities in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. “The lack of concern about inflation
is keeping demand low.”  The yield on Mexico’s inflation-linked bonds due in 2012
rose 58 basis points this year to 1.87 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexican bonds tied to consumer prices returned 11 percent
in 2010, their seventh straight year of gains, according to
Barclays.  “An investor that is planning for the long-term must have
this kind of instrument in his portfolio,” Perez Samano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  