-- 
Belectric Wins Contract for Largest Saudi Solar Plant in a Parking Lot

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-04-04T15:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/belectric-wins-contract-for-largest-saudi-solar-plant-in-a-parking-lot.html
Belectric Solarkraftwerke GmbH , a
German solar project developer, will build  Saudi Arabia ’s
largest photovoltaic plant on a parking lot at a new Saudi
Arabian Oil Co. office complex in Dhahran.  The company, known as Beck Energy until last month, said
the 10-megawatt project was awarded by  Al Yamama Group , the
Saudi contractor building the Northpark office complex for the
state-owned oil group. The plant is the world’s biggest solar
facility on a parking lot, it said in a  statement  on April 2.  Solar energy is expected to be part of a $100 billion
spending drive planned by Saudi Arabia to reduce the oil it uses
to generate electricity, government officials said last week.  So far, the largest solar park in the country is a 2-
megawatt rooftop plant at the  King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology  near Jeddah, built by  Conergy AG (CGY)  last
year. Another German group,  Phoenix Solar AG (PS4) , is developing a
3.5-megawatt project near  Riyadh  for the oil group.  The Volkach, Germany-based group is working on the “solar
carport” project with Sun & Life, a solar power unit of local
utility  ACWA Power International . The companies plan to set a
joint venture for engineering, procurement and construction of
solar plants in Saudi Arabia, according to the statement.  Belectric will cover 4,500 parking spaces with copper
indium selenide thin-film solar modules supplied by the Japanese
manufacturer Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.  The plant will be connected to the national grid by the end
of the year, the company said. It was not available to provide
further details today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  