-- 
Bernanke Urges Strong Risk-Management Rules for Clearinghouses

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-04T23:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bernanke-urges-strong-risk-management-rules-for-clearinghouses.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. should subject clearinghouses for
financial trading to “strong” risk-management oversight to
minimize the chance they’ll require emergency government aid.  The existence of a backstop “could give rise to moral
hazard” and lead to “insufficient attention” to private-
sector aid solutions, Bernanke said in a speech today in Stone
Mountain,  Georgia . “The Federal Reserve believes it essential
that the regulatory regime for these institutions include strong
prudential requirements for credit and liquidity risk
management,” default procedures, cash buffers and collateral,
he said.  Bernanke affirmed his support for the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010, which aims to reduce the risk of repeating the 2007-08
financial crisis by having most interest-rate and credit-default
swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses that settle and
process trades. He didn’t discuss the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy in the speech.  “As we rely even more heavily on these institutions in the
 United States  and around the world, we must do all that we can
to ensure their resilience, even as our financial system
continues to evolve rapidly and in ways that we cannot fully
predict,” Bernanke, 57, said in the text of remarks at the
Atlanta Fed’s annual conference on financial markets.  Given that the same global banks participate in the major
clearinghouses, who in turn rely on “similar sets of banks”
for services and liquidity, “the need for strong risk
management and oversight will only increase as we go forward,”
Bernanke said.  Monitor Risks  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the  Securities
and Exchange Commission  have proposed rules under the law
governing how clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their
members, should monitor risks in swap transactions.  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said Dec. 16 that by allowing
more companies to become members of clearinghouses, the proposed
rule would fulfill Dodd-Frank’s aim of promoting “fair and open
access” for clearing in interest rate, credit and other swaps.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
including Bernanke, voted on March 17 to propose rules to decide
which clearinghouses are systemically important and require
more-stringent oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Stone Mountain, Georgia, at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  