-- 
Bigpoint Appoints Former Discovery Manager Arthur Bastings as Co-Chief

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-04-04T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bigpoint-appoints-former-discovery-manager-bastings-as-co-ceo.html
Bigpoint GmbH, one of  Europe ’s two
biggest online games companies, hired former  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  executive Arthur Bastings as co-chief
executive officer to help steer its expansion.  Bastings, 44, joined Discovery in 2004 and was head for
Europe, Africa and the Middle East when he left last year. He
will join Bigpoint founder and 30 percent owner Heiko Hubertz on
April 7 and will be based at the Hamburg headquarters, the two
managers said in a telephone interview. The duo will oversee the
company’s expansion from Web browser games onto mobile platforms
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android;
and in the North and South American markets, Bastings said.  “We needed someone who understands how to build a multi-
country, multi-product business,” Hubertz said, likening the
appointment to Google’s hiring of  Eric Schmidt  in 2001: bringing
a more experienced senior manager to make the company “more
successful and more organized.”  Bigpoint, like German competitor Gameforge AG, which has
more than 200 million registered users, offers games for free
and earns money by selling virtual items and services to
players. That market, dominated by titles such as Zynga Inc.’s
“FarmVille” and gamemakers in  South Korea  and  China , may more
than double by 2014 from more than $7 billion last year,
according to market researchers at In-Stat.  Looking for Acquisitions  Bigpoint, which has more than 190 million registered
users, is on the lookout for acquisitions to enter new markets
and platforms, and could raise debt or go for an initial public
offering to accelerate expansion, Hubertz said.  Bigpoint’s biggest revenue generators include the pirate
game “Seafight” and the spaceship title “DarkOrbit.”  The business has roughly doubled its revenue every year
since 2003, Hubertz said. The goal is to become the leader in
online games, beating makers of popular titles such as “World
of Warcraft,” by Blizzard Entertainment, and Zynga’s
“FarmVille,” which was created for Facebook.  “What attracted me is Bigpoint’s ambition in being an
industry leader,” said Bastings, who before joining Discovery
headed the Asian operations of  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s MTV unit. “We want
to retain an amazing speed, but we have to marry that with more
complexity.”  Hubertz said he intends to keep his stake in the company,
while the other investors, London-based GMT Communications
Partners and NBC Universal’s Peacock Fund, “are looking for an
exit at some point.”  The other two investors acquired their combined 70 percent
stake for 70 million euros ($99 million) in 2008. In January
last year, Natalie Tydeman, a partner at GMT, said it keeps its
investments for an average of three years and wants Bigpoint to
reach a “billion euros” valuation before it considers an exit.  At the time, Hubertz estimated Bigpoint was worth a “good
middle triple-digit-euro amount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  