-- 
Blackstone, Carlyle Fuel 84% Surge in European Leveraged Loans

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-04-04T10:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/blackstone-helps-fuel-84-jump-in-leveraged-loans-on-floating-rate-demand.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Bain Capital
LLC, and the Carlyle Group helped fuel an 84 percent increase in
European leveraged loans in the first quarter as demand for
floating-rate debt fed private-equity led acquisitions.  Deals by targets of leveraged buyouts and other
speculative-grade borrowers surged to $35 billion in the first
three months of the year, compared with $19 billion in the
corresponding period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Buyout loans more than doubled to $6.7 billion.  Concern that benchmark lending rates will rise has driven
investors to pump record amounts into funds for floating-rate
debt. Worldwide inflows to funds dedicated to loans and
floating-rate debt jumped to $8.5 billion this year, compared
with $1.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  recommended the
debt earlier this year as a hedge against rates.  “Borrowers are clearly in the driver’s seat now when it
comes to getting leveraged loans for buyouts because there is so
much demand and still not enough of new deals,” said Miguel Ramos-Fuentenebro, founder of London-based Carador Income Fund,
managed by Blackstone Group LP’s GSO Capital Partners
International LLP.  Reverse Flexes  Mivisa, a Spanish can maker owned by Blackstone and
partners, cut the interest margins by as much as 75 basis points
on a part of a loan to fund its buyout. IMCD Group BV, the Dutch
chemical distributor being bought by Bain Capital LLC, reduced
the interest margin it pays on a seven-year  term loan  by 25
basis points. Integrated Dental Holdings shaved 25 basis points
off the cost of loans to finance its acquisition by the  Carlyle
Group  and Palamon Capital Partners. The companies all benefited
from reverse flexes, when borrowers renegotiate margins while a
deal is being marketed to reduce their interest costs.  BNP Paribas SA was the most active arranger of leveraged
loans, moving up from No. 2 last year and toppling Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, which dropped to No. 21.  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
unseated Lloyds Banking Group Plc as top underwriter of deals to
fund leveraged buyouts in the first quarter, rising from No. 6
last year and syndicating 10 percent of deals, Bloomberg data
show. Lloyds fell to the No. 3 spot.  “Although it’s nice to be No. 1 on the league table now,
it’s not necessarily the ranking we will strive to maintain,”
said Gerrit Stoelinga, global head of structured acquisition
finance at ING in Amsterdam. “We will not compromise on  credit
quality .”  Eat MBO  Overall, lenders cut the interest margin they charge for
new senior loans to 438 basis points from 454 a year earlier,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “There’s now a lot of money to be invested in the bigger
end of the market, money that needs to be put to work as sitting
on cash gets you a nil return,” said Andrew Aylwin, a London-
based partner at Lyceum Capital Partners LLP, which is borrowing
to buy a controlling stake in U.K. sandwich chain Eat Ltd.
alongside its founders and management.  Non-bank investors including collateralized loan
obligations recouped 9 billion euros from repayments from
December to the end of February, according to Henderson Global
Investors Ltd.  “In some cases, investors get allocated just a very small
portion of the amount they want to lend,” Carador’s Ramos-
Fuentenebro said. “I don’t see the imbalance improving in the
near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  