-- 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance Honors Ten New Energy Pioneers

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-04T21:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bloomberg-new-energy-finance-honors-ten-new-energy-pioneers.html

Press Release  Global Companies Recognized for Their Commitment to the
Field of
Clean Energy, Technology and Innovation  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the world’s
leading provider of news, data and analysis on the clean
energy and carbon markets, today announced its selections
of 2011 New Energy Pioneers at the Bloomberg New Energy
Finance Summit in  New York City .  In its second year, the Bloomberg New Energy Finance
Pioneers program identifies companies from across the world
that are making significant gains in the field of clean
technology and innovation. A panel of industry experts, led
by Bloomberg New Energy Finance technology specialists,
chose the honorees by assessing them against three
criteria: potential scale, innovation and momentum.  This year’s winners represent a broad range of industries
including bioenergy, energy, smart technologies, water and
solar. Each of the New Energy Pioneers has worked to
develop unique technologies and has demonstrated the
potential for these technologies to be competitive in the
marketplace and implemented on a large scale.  “The panel chose these companies because we feel they are
potential game-changers,” said Michael Liebreich, Summit
Chairman and Head of Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “In this
fast-evolving sector, the Pioneers will play a significant
role in the world’s transition to a lower carbon energy
system.”  The 2011 New Energy Pioneers are:  BrightSource Energy BrightSource Energy designs, develops,
builds and sells large-scale solar thermal power systems
that deliver reliable, clean energy to utilities and
industrial companies worldwide.  eMeter’s data management software delivers a fast, cost
effective path to smart metering. The platform allows
utilities and their customers to manage energy consumption,
balance loads, and increase efficiency across the grid.  Epuramat provides systems for the treatment of municipal
wastewater and industrial process water. The patented ExSep®
technology enables industrial companies to re-process and
re-use water with limited energy and chemical demand. This
reduces fresh water needs and wastewater fees. Epuramat is
currently performing oil water separation tests in a
demonstration plant, and expects a boost in demand
following recent tests conducted on behalf on its clients.  Green Biologics has developed an advanced fermentation
process to convert readily available waste and agricultural
by-product feedstocks into high value chemicals and
biofuels. GBL focuses on the production of butanol, a
widely used chemical and advanced next-generation biofuel
with superior fuel and sustainability characteristics.
Green Biologics’ technology likewise aims to produce
biochemicals and biofuels from sustainable feedstocks at a
lower cost than their petroleum equivalents.  Metabolix has pioneered the creation of
Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA)-based plastics and chemicals,
which will enable the displacement of petroleum-based
feedstocks. At Metabolix, PHAs are produced via
fermentation of sugars, or expressed directly in crops.
Fermentation feedstocks can be sugars derived from corn, or
lignocellulosic sugars derived from energy crops. In a
technical breakthrough, the company has successfully
expressed PHAs in both biomass and industrial oil seed
crops.  On-Ramp Wireless has developed the Ultra-Link Processing™
(ULP) system to address a broad spectrum of device
communications applications from Smart Grid and other
 energy efficiency  applications, to process automation and
homeland security. Deployment of the ULP system can
significantly help monitor and lower energy consumption
across utilities and energy intensive industries.  Redwood Systems is re-inventing smart lighting by powering,
communicating and controlling LEDs over networks, for
maximum energy savings and improved building performance.
Their solution fundamentally changes the way we wire,
power, and intelligently control commercial lighting.  SAGE Electrochromics  - SAGE is the world’s leading
developer of dynamic window glass that optimizes daylight,
improves the human experience within buildings and reduces
energy consumption.  TaKaDu helps water utilities worldwide take control of
their networks by giving real-time knowledge and alerts
about leaks and other problems in their water distribution
infrastructure. TaKaDu’s Software-as-a-Service solution is
quick to set up and easy to use. It requires no changes to
existing equipment or upfront investment.  Winafrique is an end-to-end renewable energy solutions
integrator. The company is commercializing off-grid power
systems through small-scale hybrid renewable energy storage
using flow batteries.  The Bloomberg New Energy Finance Pioneers Program is
sponsored by AutoDesk and Morrison & Foerster.  About Bloomberg New Energy Finance  Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading
independent provider of news, data, research and analysis
to decision‐makers in renewable energy, energy smart
technologies, carbon markets,  carbon capture  and storage
and nuclear power. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff
of more than 180, based in  London , Washington D.C.,  New
York ,  Tokyo , Beijing,  New Delhi ,  Singapore ,  Hong Kong ,
Sydney,  Cape Town , São Paulo and Zurich.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep
market analysis to investors in wind, solar, bioenergy,
geothermal, carbon capture and storage, energy efficiency,
and nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services for
each of the major emerging carbon markets: European, Global
Kyoto,  Australia , and the U.S., where it covers the planned
regional markets as well as potential federal initiatives
and the voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New Energy
Finance’s Industry Intelligence Service provides access to
the world’s most comprehensive database of investors and
investments in clean energy and carbon. The News and
Briefing Service is the leading global news service
focusing on clean energy investment. The group also
undertakes applied research on behalf of clients and runs
senior‐level networking events.  New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P.
in December 2009, and its services and products are now
owned and distributed by Bloomberg Finance L.P., except
that Bloomberg L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute
these products in  Argentina ,  Bermuda ,  China ,  India ,  Japan ,
and  Korea .  For more information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance:
 http://www.bnef.com   About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information
for financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg
combines innovative technology with unmatched analytics,
data, news, and display and distribution capabilities, to
deliver critical information via the Bloomberg Professional
service and multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg
Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s
media properties span television, radio, digital and print,
making up one of the world’s largest news organizations.
Headquartered in  New York , the company employs more than
12,900 people in 166 locations around the world.  Contact:  Sarah Feinberg,+1 202-654-4360,  Sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net 
