-- 
BofA Was Pressed by SEC for Disclosure on Reserves for Mortgage Buybacks

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-04T22:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bofa-was-pressed-by-sec-for-disclosure-on-reserves-for-mortgage-buybacks.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , in an
exchange of letters with U.S. regulators that lasted over a
year, was pressed for information about its reserves to cover
the cost of buying back faulty home loans.  “Discuss the level and type of repurchase requests you
are receiving, and any trends that have been identified,
including your success rates in avoiding settling the claim,”
the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a Jan. 29, 2010,
letter to the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank that was
released today. “Tell us and disclose in future filings how you
establish repurchase reserves for various representations and
warranties that you have made.”  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, said Jan. 21 this
year that resolving disputes could cost as much as $7 billion to
$10 billion more, after setting aside $4.1 billion in the fourth
quarter. The company has been battling accusations that mortgage
investors were duped into buying loans issued with overstated
property values and inflated borrowers’ incomes.  The 2010 document was one of at least a dozen letters
exchanged by the regulator and the bank over disclosures tied to
credit cards, home-equity loans and the establishment of
reserves. The SEC said Feb. 18 that it had reviewed the
company’s filings, including one on Jan. 21 of this year, and
had no further comments. Such correspondence is typically
released about six weeks after an SEC review is complete.  ‘It’s Not Unusual’  “It’s not unusual for the SEC to have questions about our
regulatory filings and as the letters indicate we responded to
those questions and the issues appear to be resolved,” Bank of
America spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said in a phone interview.  Regulators released correspondence with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last
month that showed the SEC had questions about the New York-based
bank’s representation and warranties going back to April of last
year.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  received a similar letter.  “More thoroughly discuss the risks and uncertainties
associated with developing your estimated liability for
representations and warranties, particularly in situations where
you have limited experience dealing with certain
counterparties,” the SEC said in the April 30 letter to
Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  