-- 
BP Doesn’t Have Agreement to Resume Gulf of Mexico Drilling, Salazar Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-04T16:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bp-needs-to-follow-regular-permitting-process-salazar-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  doesn’t have an agreement
with the U.S. to resume drilling in deep waters of the  Gulf of
Mexico , Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  Salazar spoke on a conference call with reporters today,
denying a report in the Sunday Times of  London , which cited
unnamed persons saying the London-based company had reached an
agreement with the U.S. to resume drilling.  “There is no agreement with respect to BP, nor will there
be any agreement with respect to BP or anybody else that isn’t
within the normal process that we have,” Salazar said on a call
from Mexico City. “We receive applications for wells, and those
applications will be taken through the same process, with the
same rigorous review that we are requiring of any other
company.”  Companies that want to explore for oil in the Gulf’s deep
waters have to apply to Interior’s  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement , demonstrate access to
equipment helping contain spilled oil, and meet higher safety
and environmental standards introduced after BP’s Macondo well
in the Gulf exploded on April 20, causing the biggest U.S.
offshore oil spill.  Eight Wells  The bureau has approved drilling on eight wells in waters
deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after a ban on such operations
was lifted in October. BP has a stake of about 47.5 percent in
the site called the Santiago prospect, which was the first to
win Interior’s approval to resume operations on Feb. 28.
Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  is the operator on that project.  BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  didn’t return a phone call and an
e-mail seeking comment today on reports citing unnamed company
executives, including in the New York Times, that BP is seeking
approval to resume drilling.  “There are no ongoing talks” with BP, Melissa Schwartz, a
spokeswoman for Interior Department’s agency regulating offshore
drilling, said in an e-mail today. “We issue permits based on
the merits of the application.”  Schwartz declined to comment further when asked whether
there had previously been talks with BP about a proposal to
resume drilling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 