-- 
BP Said to Have Applied to Drill One Deep-Water Well in Gulf

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-04T18:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/bp-said-to-have-applied-to-drill-one-deep-water-well-in-gulf.html
BP Plc (BP/)  has applied to drill one well
in the deep waters of the  Gulf of Mexico  since an exploration
ban was lifted in October, according to a person in the U.S.
government familiar with the application who asked not to be
named because a decision hasn’t been reached.  The London-based company doesn’t have an agreement with the
U.S. to resume drilling, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said on
a conference call with reporters today. He denied a report in
the Sunday Times of  London , which cited unnamed sources, that
said BP had reached an agreement.  BP hasn’t done exploratory drilling in the Gulf since its
Macondo well exploded there last April, causing the worst U.S.
offshore spill.  “There is no agreement with respect to BP, nor will there
be any agreement with respect to BP or anybody else that isn’t
within the normal process that we have,” Salazar said on a call
from Mexico City. “We receive applications for wells, and those
applications will be taken through the same process, with the
same rigorous review that we are requiring of any other
company.”  Companies that want to explore for oil in the Gulf’s deep
waters have to apply to Interior’s  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement , demonstrate access to
equipment helping contain spilled oil, and meet higher safety
and environmental standards introduced after BP disaster.  Eight Wells  The bureau has approved drilling on eight wells in waters
deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after a ban on such operations
was lifted in October. BP has a stake of about 47.5 percent in
the site called the Santiago prospect, which was the first to
win Interior’s approval to resume operations on Feb. 28.
Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  is the operator on that project.  BP isn’t saying whether it has sought permission to drill,
 Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman in Houston, said in an e-mail
today. The New York Times today reported that the company is
seeking approval to resume drilling, citing unnamed BP
executives.  Interior Department spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff declined to
comment.  BP’s American depositary receipts, each equal to six
ordinary shares, rose 9 cents to $45.75 at 1:58 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading and climbed 3.4 percent this
year through April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  