-- 
Brazil Broadens IOF Tax in Bid to Counter Inflows, Stem Currency's Rally

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 
2011-04-05T04:09:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/brazil-considers-new-capital-controls-to-fight-inexorable-currency-rally.html
Brazil  yesterday announced it will
extend a higher tax for the renewal of foreign loans with
maturities of up a year after Finance Minister Guido Mantega
said the country will continue to adopt measures seeking to
reduce “excessive” dollar inflows.  Brazil last week increased to 6 percent the so-called IOF
tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks, which
will now be applied to renewed, renegotiated, or transferred
loans, the central bank said on its  website . Companies
previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90 days and
zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  Taxes on foreign investment in the financial markets of
Latin America’s biggest economy failed to stop the country’s
currency from rallying the most in more than 20 months last
week. As the real strengthens toward 1.60 per dollar, the
government may be running out of options, said Pedro Tuesta, a
Washington-based economist for Latin America at 4Cast Inc.  “There’s not much they can continue to close, unless they
really want to reduce investment,” Tuesta said in a telephone
interview. “It’s just closing a loophole -- the market was
already expecting something like that, because they knew there
was a loophole there.”  The real surged 3.4 percent last week, the biggest weekly
gain since the period ended July 17, 2009. Yesterday, the
currency traded little changed at 1.6073 per dollar from 1.6070
on April 1, its strongest close since August 2008.  According to the central bank, $5.6 billion of debt
maturing in up to 360 days was either renewed, renegotiated or
transferred in January and February.  ‘Inexorable’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  will discuss a new round of
 capital controls  in meetings with government officials,
including central bank President Alexandre Tombini, in coming
days, said a ministry official briefed on the plan who asked not
to be named because the talks aren’t public.  Mantega is seeking ways to reduce foreign capital from
going into local markets without hurting infrastructure and
industrial investments, the person said.  Interest rates close to zero in  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan 
have boosted demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging
markets. Brazil’s 11.75 percent benchmark interest rate compares
with 8 percent in  Russia  and 6.5 percent in  Turkey .  “The appreciation is inexorable,” Raul Velloso, a former
Planning Ministry secretary who advises lawmakers at Brasilia-
based ARD Consultores Associados, said April 3 in a telephone
interview. “There’s not much they can do other than buying
dollars.”  Inflows  Brazil received net inflows of $10.5 billion from trade and
financial investments March 1 to March 25, compared with $7.4
billion for all of February, according to the central bank. This
year to date, inflows totaled $33.45 billion, compared with
$24.35 billion for the whole of 2010.  The interest-rate futures contract maturing in January
2012, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.16 percent.  Brazil’s credit rating was raised one level yesterday by
 Fitch Ratings , which cited the economy’s growth prospects and
budget cuts under President  Dilma Rousseff .  The country’s foreign debt rating was increased to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade and in line with Mexico, Russia
and  Thailand , from BBB-.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service rate the country one step lower.  The possibility of new government measures to curb the
currency rally was reported by O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper in
its April 2 edition.  The measures may include an additional tax increase for the
financial markets and restrictions on foreign capital, Estado
said, citing an unnamed government official.  The government needs to curb spending to be able to bring
down  interest rates  without stoking inflation, Velloso said.  Reducing overlays would allow the government to buy more
dollars to build up reserves without having to increase debt, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at   aarai1@bloomberg.net  