-- 
Brazil Credit Rating Raised by Fitch as Rousseff Shows `Fiscal Restraint'

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-04-04T19:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/brazil-s-credit-rating-raised-one-level-by-fitch-to-bbb-outlook-stable.html
Brazil’s credit rating was raised
one level by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the economy’s growth
prospects and budget cuts under President  Dilma Rousseff .  The country’s foreign debt rating was increased to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade and in line with Mexico, Russia
and  Thailand , from BBB-. The outlook is stable, Fitch said in a
statement. The ratings company last boosted Brazil’s ranking in
May 2008.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service rate
the country one step lower.  Latin America’s biggest economy may grow 4.1 percent this
year after expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in more
than two decades, according to the median estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Rousseff, who took office Jan.
1, pledged to cut this year’s budget by 50.7 billion reais ($31
billion) to help the central bank contain inflation.  “The Rousseff administration has displayed signs of
greater fiscal restraint, which coupled with healthy growth
prospects should allow for a fall in  Brazil ’s heavy general
government debt burden,” Fitch said in the statement.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 168 at 3:20 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Bovespa stock index rose 0.5
percent. The real pared its drop and was down 0.1 percent to
1.6090 per dollar.  Debt Ratio  Brazil’s net debt fell to 40 percent of gross domestic
product in February from 60 percent in January 2003, when Dilma
Rousseff’s party, the Workers’s Party, first won the presidency.
Rousseff has pledged to slash spending to ensure net debt will
continue to drop as a percentage of GDP and help the central
bank fight inflation.  “What they’ve accomplished so far has been met with strong
approval, upgrades and tighter trading debt, so it’s almost like
a positive feedback loop,” said Gunter Heiland, who helps
oversee $2.1 billion of emerging-market assets at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based investment fund Gramercy. “Now we’re just
looking for a continuation of that great behavior that we’ve
seen.”  Brazil’s international reserves stood at $317 billion on
April 1, up 30 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  