-- 
Pound Rises Against Dollar as Construction Pace Accelerates

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-04T15:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/british-pound-advances-against-dollar-euro-before-house-price-report-boe.html
The pound rose against the majority
of its most-traded peers as a report showed U.K. construction
expanded at a faster pace than economists predicted last month,
fueling optimism that the economic recovery is picking up.  Sterling climbed to the highest level in more than a week
against the dollar. U.K.  government bonds  slipped before a sale
of 2021 securities tomorrow as rising stock markets in Europe
and  Asia  curbed demand for the relative safety of fixed income.
The FTSE 100 Index gained 0.2 percent.  “There has been over-pessimism on the U.K. economy,” said
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “There’s also risk-on sentiment
at the moment. If we continue to get higher stocks, sterling
will be one of the currencies to gain.”  The pound advanced 0.1 percent to $1.6132 at 4:14 p.m. in
London, after strengthening to $1.6177, the strongest level
since March 24. It appreciated to 88.18 pence per euro from
88.35 pence last week.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers was at 56.4 last month, near the eight-month
high in February, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today. The median of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the measure to drop to
54.8. It has been above the 50 level that signals expansion for
three months after dipping to 49.1 in December.  Home Price  Home prices probably increased 0.2 percent in March from
February, when they declined 0.9 percent, figures from Halifax,
the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc will say this
week, according to the median forecast of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Britain’s currency climbed 2.7 percent against the dollar
in the first quarter as other data signaled the economy may be
rebounding after shrinking in the fourth quarter by 0.5 percent.
The central bank said March 29 that mortgage approvals rose in
February to the highest level since November.  “U.K. construction companies reported a strong end to the
first quarter,” Markit economist Sarah Ledger said in the
report. The data adds to “evidence that the economy rebounded
strongly from the surprise contraction of gross domestic product
in the final quarter of last year. However, whether the
resurgent growth will prove long-lasting remains in doubt.”  U.K. Inflation  The 10-year gilt yield rose for a fifth day, climbing one
basis point to 3.73 percent after reaching 3.77 percent on April
1, the most since Feb. 21. The two-year yield was little changed
at 1.38 percent.  British government bonds have handed investors a 0.9
percent loss this year, compared with a 2.4 percent decline for
German bunds, according to indexes developed by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Gilts outperformed their German counterparts amid
speculation the  Bank of England  will lag behind the  European
Central Bank  in raising  interest rates , even as U.K. inflation
runs at almost twice the level in the euro area.  The U.K. central bank will keep its benchmark interest rate
at a record low 0.5 percent on April 7, while the ECB in
 Frankfurt  will increase the refinancing rate for the 17
countries that share the euro by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent, Bloomberg surveys of economists showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 