-- 
Cameron Delays U.K. Health-Service Bill Amid Voter Concerns

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-04T17:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cameron-delays-u-k-health-service-bill-amid-voter-concerns.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
delay the passage of legislation to overhaul Britain’s  National
Health Service  as he seeks backing from voters and lawmakers for
the plans.  Health Secretary Andrew Lansley told lawmakers in London
today the government will take time out to listen to ``concerns”
over the Health and Social Care Bill, which proposes the biggest
shakeup of the state-funded health system since it was created
in 1948.  “We recognize that the speed of progress has led to
substantive concerns,” Lansley said in a statement in
Parliament. “We propose to take the opportunity for a natural
pause in the passage of the bill to listen and engage.”  The move comes amid news reports that lawmakers from the
Liberal Democrat party, the junior partner in Britain’s
coalition government, are planning a rebellion over the
proposals.  The bill allows for the transfer of about 60 percent of the
NHS budget to consortia run by community doctors known as
general practitioners; the abolition of a layer in the
organization’s control structure; and the extension of a market
in health-care provision. The proposals apply only to  England .  Lansley made no concessions to critics of the changes
today, saying the government will seek to overcome concerns that
are “misplaced” or come from “misrepresentation.”  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  urged the
government to scrap its “reckless” proposals, attacking the
“horse trading” between the two governing parties over the
future of the bill.  There are “contradictory briefings to the newspapers from
Tory sources, from Treasury sources, from health department
sources and -- in case we forgot -- from the  Lib Dems ,”
Miliband told the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
Manufactures and Commerce in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  