-- 
Cameron to Deploy Four Extra U.K. Ground-Attack Jets for Libyan Operation

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-04-04T18:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cameron-to-deploy-four-extra-u-k-ground-attack-jets-for-libyan-operation.html
Britain will deploy four extra
Panavia Tornado GR4 ground-attack aircraft to southern  Italy  to
help prevent attacks on Libyan civilians by Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  “Four new additional Tornados will be deploying in the
next couple of days, which will mean we will have 10 Typhoons
for the mission in terms of the no-fly zone, and we’ll have a
total of 12 Tornado ground-attack aircraft involved in
operations,” Cameron told reporters as he flew to Italy to visit
aircrew involved in the mission at the Gioia del Colle base.  The United Nations-backed mission is intended to protect
civilians as Qaddafi attempts to quash a rebellion centered on
the eastern city of Benghazi. Cameron has called repeatedly for
Qaddafi to quit. U.K. aircraft have flown more than 70 missions
from the Italian base.  “We’re rebalancing the number of offensive assets we
require in theater, we have control of the air, now we’re
refocusing on control of the ground,” Wing Commander Andy Turk,
who leads the Tornado squadron, told reporters at Gioia del
Colle. “It’s all about protecting Libyan civilians and that’s
how we do it.”  Cameron spoke to Typhoon pilots who had landed just 10
minutes before from operations over  Libya . As he talked to them
Tornados returning from operations landed on the nearby runway.  ‘Every Chance’  “We are rightly saying no ground troops, no occupation so
it’s less easy to say how the end game will work,” Cameron told
the aircrew. “But the pressure you are putting on is giving
every chance for some sort of Qaddafi-free future for Libya and
a peaceful transition, which will be in our interests and theirs
as well. At some stage there will have to be a genuine
ceasefire, then the political process can start. Until then
we’ve got to keep the pressure up.”  The prime minister said he was visiting the Gioia del Colle
base to thank the crews and said the British public should be
proud of what they’ve done.  “They’ve been extremely successful in holding back
Qaddafi’s forces; just over the weekend they have destroyed 10
armored vehicles and three tanks,” Cameron told reporters.
“They’ve done an incredible job in a short period of time to
save literally thousands of lives in Benghazi and elsewhere in
Libya.”  Defense Cuts  Cameron pushed with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  for
the imposition of the air-exclusion zone under UN Security
Council Resolution 1973, even as the U.K. cuts spending on
defense over the next four years to help narrow the  budget
deficit . Defense Minister Nick Harvey announced a first round of
job losses today in the U.K’s army and navy, saying 2,600
personnel would go.  Air Chief Marshall Stephen Dalton, the head of the Royal
Air Force, said the service will need investment if it is going
to keep up the range of operations expected by the government.  “On current planning, we can continue in  Afghanistan , the
Falklands and Libya with what we have got. But that does bring
you nearer the point that you have just about exhausted the bag.
It’s a heck of a lot to be doing at one time,” Dalton said in
an interview with the  Guardian newspaper . “The key factor is
that if we are to meet the requirements laid upon us, there is
no question that more investment will be needed to achieve
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Gioia del Colle, Italy, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  