-- 
Cameron to Call for ‘Fresh Start’ in Britain's Relationship With Pakistan

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-04-05T11:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cameron-calls-for-a-fresh-start-in-u-k-pakistan-relations.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  called
for a “fresh start” in relations between Britain and Pakistan
after he last year accused elements in the South Asian country
of exporting terrorism.  Cameron, on his first visit to Pakistan since he took
office almost a year ago, told university students in Islamabad
today he wants to “clear up the misunderstandings of the past”
and “mark a new chapter” in ties between the two countries.  “We want a strong relationship with a secure, prosperous,
open and flourishing Pakistan,” he said. “I acknowledge that
there are challenges that our friendship must overcome. But I
want to argue today that they shouldn’t hold us back anymore.”  Cameron sparked a diplomatic storm when he said during a
visit to  India  in July that Pakistan, a key ally in the fight
against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants based along its frontier
with Afghanistan, should not be allowed to “look both ways” on
terrorism or “promote the export of terror whether to India,
whether to Afghanistan or to anywhere else in the world.”  The dispute raised concerns that Pakistan might curtail
intelligence sharing, seen as vital in preventing acts of
terrorism in the U.K. Jonathan Evans, director general of the
MI5 intelligence service, said in September that the tribal
areas of Pakistan accounted for half of all terrorist plots
against the U.K.  Intelligence Flow  “The most important thing for European governments is a
constant flow of intelligence from Pakistan,” said Zafar Nawaz Jaspal, professor of international relations at Quaid-e-Azam
International University in Islamabad. Cameron “is going to try
to restore that relationship if there was any damage after his
comments in India.”  Speaking after talks with Cameron today, Pakistani Prime
Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  said his country is committed
to the fight against terrorism and ready to share intelligence.  “I want to assure you, through you the media, that
Pakistan has the resolve and has the commitment to fight against
extremism and terrorism and we have the ability,” Gilani told
Cameron at a joint news conference in Islamabad. Pakistan had
“paid a very heavy price” for its efforts, with tens of
thousands of people killed and injured, he said.  Cameron replied that the Pakistani government is engaged in
“a huge fight” against terrorism that had cost the lives of
“many, many people.”  Wikileaks  Cameron made his comments last July after military
documents published on the Wikileaks website suggested
 Pakistan ’s main intelligence agency, the Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate, secretly aided the Taliban and other
militant groups. He later said he was referring to “people
within Pakistan” who are responsible for terrorism rather than
the government.  At his press conference with Gilani today, Cameron said the
U.K. and Pakistan had an “unbreakable” friendship and that it
was in British interests to see Pakistan succeed. Accompanied by
John Sawers, chief of the U.K.’s Secret Intelligence Service,
and head of the armed forces, David Richards, Cameron earlier
held talks with Gilani, army chief Ashfaq Pervez Kayani and
intelligence chief Ahmed Shujaa Pasha in Islamabad.  The two prime ministers signed a document detailing
“enhanced strategic dialogue,” committing the U.K. to working
with the U.S. and Pakistan on setting up a “centre for
excellence” to share expertise in countering roadside
explosives. The homemade bombs, known as improvised explosive
devices, are the “main threat” to British soldiers
in  Afghanistan , Foreign Secretary  William Hague   said in October .  Tax Plea  The agreement included as much as 650 million pounds ($1.05
billion) in aid over the next four years to provide education
for 4 million of the 17 million Pakistani children not in
school. The countries pledged to double trade between them to
2.5 billion pounds a year by 2015.  Cameron also urged Pakistan to increase the amount of tax
it collects, arguing that its current tax-to-GDP ratio of 10
percent makes it harder to justify sending aid money from the
U.K., where the ratio is 36 percent.  “You are not raising the resources necessary to pay for
things that a modern state and people require,” he said. “Too
few people pay tax. Too many of your richest people are getting
away without paying much tax at all -- and that’s not fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Islamabad at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 