-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Election Campaign, TMX Group Kloet’s

-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 
2011-04-04T13:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/canada-daybook-election-campaign-tmx-group-kloet-s-speech.html
(Corrects to remove reference to trade report, which is
scheduled for Thursday.)  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and opposition leaders begin the second week of
campaigning for the May 2 election.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*After unveiling his campaign  platform  Sunday, Liberal leader
 Michael Ignatieff  begins Monday in Halifax, Nova Scotia before
traveling to St John’s, Newfoundland. Harper announced a plan to
double the children’s fitness tax credit and extend it to
adults. He will be in southwestern Ontario on Monday. New
Democratic Party leader Jack Layton will be in Toronto and
 London , Ontario on Monday.  ECONOMY:
*The  Bank of Canada  will issue its Business Outlook
Survey and Senior Loan Officers Survey. The quarterly reports
provide a gauge of business sentiment and lending practices, and
are used by the central bank in its interest-rate setting
deliberations. They will be published at 10:30 a.m. New York
time.  EVENTS:
*TMX Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kloet speaks at a
Toronto Board of Trade luncheon at 1 First Canadian Place, 4th
Floor. Event runs from 11:30 a.m. to 12:50 p.m. *Kaminak Gold,
which explores for gold, uranium and nickel in British Columbia
and Nunavut, holds its annual meeting in Vancouver at 11 a.m.
local time.  EQUITIES:
*Lundin Mining Corp. shareholders are raising bets that the
copper producer may get a higher bid after the company rejected
two takeovers last month and adopted a poison pill. * Romarco
Minerals Inc. (R) , developing the Haile gold mine in  South Carolina ,
said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers hasn’t determined if an
environmental impact study is needed for the project.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX rose 0.1 percent to 14,130.15 on April 1,
completing a 0.7 percent weekly gain.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds were little
changed at 1.83 percent on April 1.
*The Canadian dollar gained as much as 0.1 percent to 96.26
cents per  U.S. dollar , the strongest level since Nov. 15, 2007.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 