-- 
Canada Dollar Declines as Crude Oil Slips From 30-Month High

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-04T21:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/canada-dollar-declines-as-crude-oil-slips-from-30-month-high.html
Canada ’s dollar snapped a five-day
rally against its U.S. counterpart as crude oil, the nation’s
largest export, declined, damping demand for higher-yielding
currencies.  The Canadian dollar weakened against 15 of its 16 most-
traded peers as Kuwait Petroleum Chief Executive Officer Farouk Al-Zanki said at a conference in Kuwait City that the country
would prefer to see  oil prices  at $90 to $100 a barrel. The
greenback gained versus most peers.  “The Canadian dollar is in a position where it’s unusually
correlated with oil prices,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a pricing
analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business Payments, a
currency-exchange network. “A muted selloff this morning, plus
a relatively benign calendar allowed investors to pare positions
and set themselves up for the  Reserve Bank  of Australia meeting
tomorrow, and the Bank of Japan and  European Central Bank  later
this week.”  The Canadian currency, also known as the loonie for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4
percent to 96.70 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
from 96.32 cents April 1. It touched 96.16, the strongest level
since November 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0341.  Futures Bets  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
51,245 on March 29, compared with net longs of 45,977 a week
earlier.  “The Canadian dollar is overbought and the  U.S. dollar  is
oversold,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed
income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada.
“There was a period of U.S. dollar strength, which is when the
dollar-Canada traded off its lows.”  Crude oil futures fell as much as 0.3 percent in New York
before ending the day at $108.33 a barrel. It touched $108.78 a
barrel, the highest since September 2008.  Mining Deal  The loonie pared earlier gains as Minmetals Resources Ltd.,
a unit of  China ’s biggest metals trader, announced a $6.5
billion unsolicited cash offer for Equinox Minerals Ltd., a
Perth-Australia-based mining company that controls the Luwana
copper mine in Zambia. Lundin Mining Corp., a Toronto-based
copper and zinc miner, rejected Equinox’s offer on March 20 and
terminated an agreement with Inmet Mining Corp. last week.  “There’s more influence on the Canadian dollar coming from
news of the Minmentals’ hostile bid,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National  Bank of Canada  in
Toronto. “Whenever there’s an announcement of a merger or
acquisition funded by cash, it’s likely to weigh on the Canadian
dollar.”  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange gained as
much as 1.2 percent to $9,475 a metric ton before falling 0.3
percent to $9,330 a metric ton.  The Bank of Canada’s quarterly survey of executives found
the lowest gauge of future sales growth in two years, and more
expected faster inflation.  Survey Says  Some 51 percent of companies said they expect faster sales
growth during the next 12 months while 38 percent predicted
slower growth, leaving a so-called balance of opinion of 13
percentage points, the Bank of Canada said today in its
Quarterly Business Outlook  Survey  from Ottawa. The balance was
the lowest since a reading of negative 22 in the first quarter
of 2009.  The Bank of Canada, which meets April 12, has kept its
benchmark at 1 percent since September after raising it three
times last year. Policy makers reiterated on March 1 that
“considerable slack” remains in the economy. Exporters face
“considerable challenges” from a  currency trading  near a
three-year high, they said.  The loonie fell 0.2 percent against the Australian dollar
as central bank Governor Glenn Stevens will tomorrow keep the
cash rate target unchanged at 4.75 percent for a fourth meeting,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Canada’s
currency depreciated 0.3 percent against the euro to C$1.3750 as
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that
policy makers may raise  interest rates  from a record low 1
percent at their April 7 meeting.  The Canadian currency fell 1.5 percent during the past
three months in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a measure of the 10 developed-nation currencies. The
euro rose 4 percent, while the greenback lost 4.7 percent.  Government bonds  rose today, with the yield on the benchmark
10-year note falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 3.35 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing
in June 2020 rose 11 cents to C$101.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  