-- 
Capmark Approved to Sell Management Right of $1 Billion Fund

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-04T21:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/capmark-wins-approval-to-sell-right-to-manage-1-billion-fund.html
Capmark Financial Group Inc., the
bankrupt commercial lender, won court permission to auction the
right to manage a $1 billion fund that invests in real estate
debt after some fund investors dropped their opposition.  Fund investors, including the California Public Employees
Retirement System and similar pensions in Texas and  Ohio ,
believe they have a right to approve the winner of any auction,
Robert Bodansky, a lawyer for Calpers and other investors, said
in court today. The investors agreed not to fight the auction
proposal in return for the right to observe the bidding,
scheduled for April 29.  “These are major investors and they wanted to make sure
they have a role in the process,” Bodansky told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Christopher Sontchi today in Wilmington, Delaware.  Capmark, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , filed bankruptcy
in 2009, blaming falling property values and a drop in lending.  The company has an initial bid of $7.55 million from PCCP
Pool I, LLC.  KKR, Goldman Sachs, Dune Capital Management LP and Five
Mile Capital Partners LLC bought 78 percent of Capmark, then
called GMAC Commercial Mortgage, in 2006 for $1.5 billion in
cash and the repayment of $7.3 billion of debt, before General
Motors Corp. sold a 51 percent stake in the rest of its finance
business, GMAC LLC.  While in bankruptcy, the company sold its loan-servicing
unit to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  in a deal valued at $468 million.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  