-- 
Charter Hall Said to Seek Bids for $1.7 Billion U.S. Assets

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-04-05T07:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/charter-hall-said-to-seek-bids-for-1-7-billion-u-s-portfolio.html
Charter Hall Office REIT (CQO) , the
Australian property company, is seeking offers for a U.S.
portfolio that may fetch more than its $1.7 billion book value,
according to four people with knowledge of the sale.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  and
 Highwoods Properties Inc. (HIW)  are among the firms that have
expressed interest in some or all of the 14 U.S. assets, which
include offices in Boston and  Washington , said the people, who
asked not to be named because the process is private.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , hired by Sydney-based Charter Hall to evaluate
offers, plans to send out materials on the properties this week,
the people said.  Charter Hall investors have pressured the company to change
its strategy of pursuing a U.S. joint venture, saying an
outright sale would provide more value. Hedge fund Orange
Capital LLC, the second-biggest shareholder based on data
compiled by Bloomberg, urged the REIT to consider alternatives
including a sale of the assets.  “The stated book value here of about $1.7 billion is way
off and these assets could trade at a significant premium to
book value,” Orange Capital managing partner Daniel Lewis said
in an interview. “We are adamantly opposed to the proposed
joint venture and have made our view clear to the board.”  Charter Hall’s shares added 1.5 percent to A$3.49 at the
4:10 p.m. close of trade in Sydney, a fifth day of gains.  Range of Options  The shares have risen 17 percent since Jan. 12, the day
before New York-based Orange Capital disclosed a stake in the
company and said it hired its own advisers to review
alternatives to a joint venture. Bank of America was hired to
evaluate interest in the U.S. portfolio “in light of improving
market conditions,” the company said on Feb. 23.  “We’re exploring interest from a broad range of interested
parties and any decision we make as always will be in the best
interest of unit holders,” said Rachel Mornington-West, a
Sydney-based spokeswoman for Charter Hall.  Charter Hall said in February that it was considering
alternatives to a joint venture and received “a number” of
approaches from parties that wanted to buy its U.S. assets.  Spokesmen from Bank of America, Blackstone, Brookfield and
Highwoods declined to comment.  Charter Hall, which has an occupancy rate of 82 percent in
the U.S., returned to profit in the six months to Dec. 31, as
improving economic conditions in the U.S. drove leasing activity
higher, and upgraded its full-year operating earnings forecast.
The trust announced in January it had sold its assets in  Japan 
and has exited all but one of its investments in  Europe , as part
of its strategy to focus on its Australian business.  Orange may push Charter Hall to sell off its Australian
assets as well, one of the people said. Luxor Capital Group LP,
another New York-based hedge fund, also owns more than 5 percent
of the shares. Orange Capital held about 7.1 percent as of March
1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  