-- 
Chavez Ally Cements Lead in Peru Polls One Week Before Elections

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-04T06:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/chavez-ally-cements-lead-in-peru-polls-one-week-before-elections.html
Peruvian presidential candidate
 Ollanta Humala , an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
cemented his lead in opinion polls a week before national
elections that will probably trigger a runoff vote.  Humala, chief of the Andean country’s Nationalist Party,
had 26 percent support in a poll published yesterday by Lima-
based researcher  Ipsos Apoyo , up from 21 percent a week earlier.
He also consolidated his lead in a poll published yesterday by
researcher CPI.  Humala has pledged to increase state control over South
America’s sixth-largest economy and renegotiate contracts with
foreign investors in the mining and natural gas industries. The
surge in support for Humala, who was in fourth place in Ipsos
Apoyo’s March 13 poll, led Peruvian bonds to post their biggest
quarterly fall since 2008 in the first quarter. The Peruvian sol
is the worst performer in the last month among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There’s no doubt that Humala is going to make it to the
second round,” Julio Carrion, professor of Latin American
politics at the  University of Delaware , said in a phone
interview from  Newark . “Who he faces in the second round will
determine whether or not he wins the presidency.”  A runoff between the two leading candidates will be held if
no one wins more than 50 percent in the first round of balloting
on April 10.  Virtual Tie  According to the Ipsos Apoyo poll, three other candidates
were in a virtual tie for second place. Keiko Fujimori, a
Peruvian congresswoman and daughter of jailed former President
 Alberto Fujimori , had 18 percent in the poll, down from 19
percent a week earlier. Former Peruvian President  Alejandro Toledo  had 17 percent support, down from 20 percent, and former
Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski had 16 percent, up from
15 percent.  Support for former  Lima  Mayor Luis Castaneda fell to 11
percent support from 14 percent.  Humala would be virtually tied in a runoff against either
Fujimori, Kuczynski or Castaneda, and would lose by four
percentage points to Toledo, the poll shows.  The survey of 2,000 people in 24 of Peru’s 25 regions was
taken from March 26 to April 1 and published in  El Comercio 
newspaper. The poll had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  Humala, a former army lieutenant colonel, said yesterday
during a televised debate between the five leading candidates he
supports an “open and market economy” and backs foreign
investment that creates jobs.  According to the CPI poll published yesterday in the Correo
newspaper, Humala had 29 percent support, Toledo had 20 percent,
Fujimori had 19 percent, Kuczynski had 18 percent and Castaneda
had 14 percent.  Researchers are barred from publishing presidential polls
in  Peru  in the week before the vote, according to the country’s
electoral board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 