-- 
China Stops Orders for Japan Scrap Steel on Radiation Concern, Umetal Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-04T04:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/china-stops-ordering-japanese-scrap-steel-on-radiation-risk-umetal-says.html
Chinese buyers stopped new orders of
scrap steel from  Japan  and blocked some existing cargoes because
of concern over radiation from a crippled nuclear plant,
researcher Umetal.com said.  China , the second-biggest buyer of scrap metal from Japan,
“stopped taking new orders shortly after the radiation problem
was detected and almost all cargoes from Japan were prohibited
unless provided with a third-party guarantee,” Zhao Ziyi, an
analyst at Umetal.com, said from Beijing. Umetal controls H&C S
Holdings Pte Ltd., a Singapore-based scrap metal trader.  Scrap prices are falling after the March 11 earthquake
increased supply in Japan, the world’s biggest exporter of scrap
steel after the U.S. Concern over radiation leaking from Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant has also disrupted
exports of  milk products  and vegetables.  “Unless the situation at the plant changes, Japan will
face difficulty exporting scrap, further loosening the supply-
demand balance,” said  Shinya Yamada , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Credit Suisse AG. “China is also likely to shift purchases to
the U.S. and  Russia .”  Scrap from collapsed buildings to junked cars is recycled
into new steel by melting in electric arc furnaces. Japan
exported 6.47 million metric tons of scrap iron in 2010, of
which China accounted for 42 percent, according to data from the
 Japan Iron and Steel Recycling Institute .  The  price  of scrap iron Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co. pays
at its Okayama plant has fallen 11 percent to 37,000 yen a ton
since March 11.  Rumors and Fears  Japanese companies have been damaged by radiation rumors
and excess concern about steel and manufactured products, Japan
Iron and Steel Federation Chairman  Eiji Hayashida  said last
week, citing cases of overseas ports rejecting Japanese cargoes
and vessels avoiding Japan.  “We want authorities to offer the appropriate information
based on facts,” said Hayashida, also the president of JFE
Holdings Inc.’s steelmaking unit.  The MOL Presence was turned away from the Chinese port of
Xiamen after passing more than 120 kilometers (75 miles) off the
coast of Fukushima on March 16 as the vessel showed “abnormal”
radiation levels, according to a March 25 notice on the website
of the Xiamen Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau.
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the operator of the vessel, said April
1 tests in Japan showed radiation levels on the vessel were
“significantly lower” than results of similar checks in China.  “There’s only a limited number of countries like China
that react too much about radiation at this moment,” said
Yasuhiro Matsumoto, an analyst at Shinsei Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “If such moves spread worldwide, Japan-made products
would be blocked overseas.”  Background Radiation  In 1992, residents at an apartment in Taipei were found to
have been exposed to excessive radiation for years without
knowing, as the building was constructed with rebar made of
scrap metal that contained radioactive cobalt-60, according to
the Atomic Energy Council.  China set its radiation safety standards at 0.3
microsieverts. The nuclear accident in Fukushima, 220 kilometers
north of Tokyo, elevated radiation levels as high as 0.809
microsieverts an hour in Tokyo’s Shinjuku ward on March 15,
according to data from the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of
 Public Health . It recorded a high of 0.093 microsieverts today.  The  International Maritime Organization , a United Nations
agency, says shipping operations in and out of Japan can
continue as normal, with levels of radiation presenting no
medical basis for imposing restrictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  