-- 
Mullin, Rodman, Gilmore, Sabonis Among 10 Named to Basketball Hall of Fame

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T09:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/chris-mullin-dennis-rodman-gilmore-head-basketball-hall-of-fame-class.html
Five-time National Basketball
Association champion Dennis Rodman, two-time Olympic champion
Chris Mullin and 11-time All-Star Artis Gilmore were among 10
people named to the  Basketball Hall of Fame .  Former NBA players Arvydas Sabonis and Tom “Satch”
Sanders, longtime coach Tex Winter, college coaches Herb Magee
and Tara VanDerveer, Women’s NBA player Teresa Edwards and
Harlem Globetrotter Reece “Goose” Tatum also were elected, the
museum announced at a televised news conference in Houston
yesterday before the college basketball men’s championship game.  They will be enshrined in the Springfield, Massachusetts-
based Hall on Aug. 12.  Rodman won three NBA titles with the  Chicago Bulls  and two
with the  Detroit Pistons . He twice was named the NBA’s Defensive
Player of the Year and seven times made the NBA’s All-Defensive
first team.  “I feel kind of out of place because of some of the things
I’ve done,” Rodman said at the news conference, citing his
behavior. “They could have went the other direction, saying
‘You know, Dennis, some of the things you’ve done off the court
is not conducive to the Hall of Fame.’”  Rodman, who was arrested numerous times during his 14-year
NBA career, gained notoriety for numerous tattoos, multicolored
hair and behavior such as wearing a wedding gown to promote his
book and kicking a courtside cameraman.  “They saw a little bit about Dennis Rodman, as far as
(being) a character person,” Rodman said.  Two Golds  Mullin was also a finalist last year. The two-time Olympic
gold medalist had 17,911 points, 4,034 rebounds and 3,450
assists during a 17-year career for the  Golden State Warriors ’
franchise and the  Indiana Pacers  before retiring in 2001.  Mullin said he learned of his election in the morning while
on the West Coast.  “I actually went back to sleep, but I slept with a big
smile on my face,” he said.  Winter coached in college and the pros from 1947 to 2006,
winning nine NBA championships as an assistant. He is considered
an innovator of the triangle offense, which both the Chicago
Bulls and  Los Angeles Lakers  used under Winter and  Phil Jackson 
to claim league titles.  Magee, the coach at Division II Philadelphia University, is
the career leader for wins at the same institution for any level
of college basketball. He has won 922 games in 44 seasons at the
school.  Sabonis, a center from  Lithuania , was among the top
international players in the world. He played for the  Portland
Trail Blazers  from 1995-96 to 2002-03.  Points, Rebounds  Gilmore played in both the NBA and American Basketball
Association, and was named to 11 All-Star Games. His 24,941
points ranks 20th all-time, while his 16,330 rebounds ranks
fifth. He averaged a double-double in both pro leagues.  He was named to the ABA 30-man All-Time team after winning
one league championship and named league and playoff most
valuable player.  Sanders, elected as a contributor, played for the  Boston
Celtics  from 1961 to 1969 and later coached the Celtics and
 Harvard University . Sanders helped form several NBA player-
development programs.  Women’s committee selectees were Edwards and VanDerveer.
Edwards was the first U.S. basketball player to participate in
five Olympics, winning four gold medals and a bronze.  VanDerveer, who has led Stanford to two national women’s
championships, was named this season’s collegiate coach of the
year by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association. Over a 32-
year career, VanDerveer has an 826-198 record.  Tatum, who died in 1967, was the original “clown prince”
of the Globetrotters, who mix basketball with comedy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 