-- 
Citigroup Hires Former Bush Lobbyist Candida Wolff to Take Government Role

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-04T16:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/citigroup-hires-ex-bush-lobbyist-candida-wolff-for-government-affairs-role.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the biggest
recipient of U.S. taxpayer bailout support, hired former  Bush
administration  lobbyist Candida “Candi” Wolff as executive
vice president for global government affairs.  Wolff, 46, who was former President George W. Bush’s chief
lobbyist from 2005 through 2007, will oversee international,
federal, state and local government relations for Citigroup, the
New York-based bank said today in a statement. Wolff is a
partner at Hogan Lovells, a law firm based in Washington D.C.
She will resign that position and begin with Citigroup on May 2,
she said in an interview.  Wolff is at least the third former White House official
tapped by Citigroup as the bank, the third-largest in the U.S.,
recovers from a $45 billion rescue in 2008. In December, the
investment-banking unit hired  Peter Orszag , the White House
budget director under President  Barack Obama , and Carlos Gutierrez, Bush’s former Commerce secretary.  “From the White House to  Capitol Hill , Candi Wolff has
developed a record as a superb advocate who acts with integrity
and offers sound counsel,” Citigroup Chief Executive Officer
Vikram Pandit said in the statement. “Her work ethic and
ability to master complex issues will serve Citi well as she
oversees our relationships with governments in more than 100
countries.”  Wolff will report to Ed Skyler, the bank’s head of public
affairs who assumed oversight of government affairs in January.
Prior to the Bush administration, Wolff worked in the  U.S.
Senate  for eight years, including as deputy staff director to
the Senate Republican Policy Committee, the bank said.  “Citi is such a global institution and I welcome the
challenges and the opportunities,” Wolff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 