-- 
Citigroup Hires UBS’s Emmanuel for Asia Financials Group

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-04T07:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/citigroup-hires-ubs-s-emmanuel-for-asia-financials-group-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired Jeff Emmanuel
from  UBS AG (UBSN)  as a managing director in its financial institutions
group for the Asia-Pacific region, according to an internal
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Emmanuel will be responsible for Citigroup’s financial
institutions banking operations in Australia and  New Zealand ,
the memo showed. He will be based in  Hong Kong  and will also be
vice chairman of global banking for the two countries.  He is the second senior banker hired for the group in a
month as it seeks to bolster advisory business from banks and
insurance companies in  Asia . The New York-based bank last month
hired Brian McCullough as a managing director to lead capital
advisory services for the Asia-Pacific financial institutions
group.  Citigroup was ranked eighth in advising on mergers and
acquisitions by financial companies in the region last year,
slipping from second in 2009. It was ranked seventh in advice on
share sales in the region, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The U.S. bank also hired Steve Lam and Harish Raman from
UBS for its equity syndicates team in the Asia-Pacific region,
according to a separate company memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Before joining Citigroup, Emmanuel was a managing director
in UBS’s financial institutions group for the Asia-Pacific
region, where he had a nine-year stint. He will report to Chris Knoblanche and Tony Osmond, heads of global and investment
banking for  Australia  and New Zealand, and Simon Yoo and Jing Zhao, financial institutions group heads for Asia Pacific.  Emmanuel has a bachelor’s degree in economics from Monash
University and a master’s in business administration from the
University of Melbourne, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  