-- 
Citigroup May Invest $2 Billion in Asia Consumer Banking

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-04-04T07:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/citigroup-may-invest-2-billion-in-asia-consumer-banking-unit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  may invest as much as
$2 billion in its Asian consumer banking unit in the next three
years as the U.S. lender overhauls branches and boosts service
offerings to the region’s growing middle class.  Citigroup plans to invest $3 billion to $4 billion in its
consumer operations, mainly in emerging markets, over the next
two to three years, Manuel Medina-Mora, head of consumer banking
for the Americas, said on March 24. About half of that amount
will probably go to Asia, a person with knowledge of the matter
said, declining to be identified as the breakdown isn’t public.  Citigroup,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are
among global banks expanding in  Asia , where economic growth and
wealth creation are outpacing the U.S. and  Europe . The Asian
consumer banking unit boosted income 52 percent to $2.17 billion
last year, making it Citigroup’s second-biggest earner.  “The opportunity is very significant,” Jonathan Larsen,
Citigroup’s head of consumer banking for the Asia-Pacific region,
said in an April 1 interview. “I think the broad trend will
continue, i.e. the growth of the middle class, the increase in
concentration of affluent, the increase in growth of
consumption.”  Larsen said Asia will get a “significant” portion of the
planned consumer-banking investment worldwide. He declined to
provide a specific amount. Asia accounted for 46 percent of
Citigroup’s consumer-banking income last year.  Smart Branches  The New York-based bank today announced measures to target
what it calls Asia’s “emerging affluent” people -- those with
net worth of $10,000 to $100,000. Its Citibank consumer unit
caters to people with up to $150,000 of net worth. Clients with
$150,000 to $1 million of net assets have access to the bank’s
Citigold program.  Asia has about 500 million people with net worth of $10,000
to $100,000, and financial-services revenue from that group is
forecast to grow as much as 15 percent a year in most countries,
Citigroup said in a press release today, citing estimates by
Credit Suisse Group AG and McKinsey & Co.  As part of the plan, Citigroup has expanded opening hours
at branches in markets including Hong Kong, and will introduce
round-the-clock phone banking service and convert more outlets
to what it calls “smart branches” featuring teleconferencing
equipment and staff using  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads to display
Citigroup’s online services.  “What we are trying to do is to re-engineer the customer
experience,” Larsen said. “We’ve tried to make it a much more
interactive experience.”  Airport Outlet  So-called smart branches cost about $1 million each to set
up, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Citigroup plans
to eventually convert all its 720 outlets in the Asia-Pacific
region to smart branches, the person said. It currently operates
about 40 of the outlets, suggesting the overhaul could cost
almost $700 million.  Citigroup’s profit from Asia rose to $4.6 billion last year,
accounting for the largest share of overall earnings, according
to Bloomberg data. HSBC and  Standard Chartered , both based in
 London , also got the biggest part of their profits from Asia in
2010.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is targeting
developing countries like  China , which overtook  Japan  last year
as the second-largest economy after growing almost fourfold over
the past decade.  Consumers in developing Asia may spend $32 trillion in 2030,
compared with $4.3 trillion at the end of 2008, according to the
Asian Development Bank. Lenders are tapping into that growth by
offering credit cards, loans and wealth management services to
the region’s swelling middle class.  Citigroup aims to triple the size of its branch network in
China to about 100 outlets within three years,  Stephen Bird , co-
CEO for the Asia-Pacific region, said Dec. 7. The company on
March 31 said it opened an outlet in the airport of Chongqing, a
city in southern China. It was Citigroup’s first full-service
outlet at an airport, according to a press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  