-- 
Citigroup’s South Korean Bank Sees Trade Finance Leading Asset Expansion

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-04T03:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/citigroup-s-south-korean-bank-sees-trade-finance-leading-asset-expansion.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s South Korean
banking unit will concentrate on lending to exporters this year
as it seeks to increase assets by as much as 9 percent.  “We’ll focus on trade finance as it’s the area with high
growth potential and where Citigroup’s global reach can really
shine,” Ha Yung Ku, chief executive officer of  Citibank Korea
Inc. , said in an interview in Seoul on April 1.  Citibank Korea, the smallest of the country’s seven
nationwide banks, aims for asset growth of 8 percent to 9
percent this year, Ha said, without specifying which segment
will lead the expansion. The CEO sees profit increasing from
last year’s 315.6 billion won ($290 million).  Demand for Samsung Electronics Co. televisions and Hyundai
Motor Co. cars fueled a 29 percent jump in Korean exports last
year, helping the economy expand 6.2 percent. Shipments abroad,
which account for about half of gross domestic product, may grow
9.8 percent in 2011, the Knowledge Economy Ministry forecasts.  Cross-border trade finance made up about 8 percent of
Citibank  Korea ’s 53.5 trillion won of assets as of December,
according to company data.  Ha also said Citibank Korea is likely to benefit from an
ability to comply with stricter capital and liquidity
requirements set by global banking regulators. The lender has
already met the so-called Basel III rules that will begin to
take effect from as early as 2015, according to the CEO.  Opportunity From Rules  “Our strong capital-adequacy ratio and higher liquidity
than our rivals will provide opportunities to engage with more
clients’ assets,” Ha said. “The tightened regulatory environment
could give us a chance to catch up with rivals.”  Citibank Korea’s capital adequacy ratio, a measure of
capital reserves against assets, was 17.16 percent at the end of
December, the highest among the country’s commercial lenders
under the current Basel II standard. That compares with the 14.6
percent average for all 18 lenders in  South Korea , the Financial
Supervisory Service said on March 9.  The bank plans to increase branches in South Korea to about
300 by the end of 2014 from the current 220, Ha said, adding
that about 15 branches will open this year.  Citigroup may invest as much as $2 billion in Asian
 consumer banking  in the next three years, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. The third-largest U.S. lender by
assets is overhauling branches and boosting service offerings
across the region to appeal to its burgeoning middle class.  Citigroup Korea’s profit climbed 1.4 percent to 315.6
billion won last year as its net interest margin widened, the
lender said in a statement on March 31.  Citigroup formed Citibank Korea in 2004 by combining its
 Seoul  branch with KorAm Bank. The lender was brought under a
holding company, Citigroup Korea Inc., which was formed last
year after the government revised laws to let foreign financial
firms adopt the structure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  