-- 
Cocoa Rises as Abidjan Fighting Enters Fifth Day; Sugar Climbs

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-04T12:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cocoa-rises-as-abidjan-fighting-enters-fifth-day-sugar-climbs.html
Cocoa rose for a second day in New
York, climbing to the highest level in almost a week, as the
fight persisted for control of the commercial capital of  Ivory
Coast , the world’s largest producer of the beans. Coffee fell.  The fight for Abidjan entered a fifth day today, with
forces loyal to President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  having
captured much of the city since the start of their attack on
March 31. Fighting continues around the presidential palace and
at some army bases, residents said. The whereabouts of incumbent
leader  Laurent Gbagbo  are unknown.  “The battle to take Abidjan, a Gbagbo stronghold, is
proving difficult,” Gary Mead, an analyst at VM Group in London
said in an e-mail today. “It’s no longer inevitable that
Ouattara’s forces will eventually succeed,” he said.  Cocoa for May delivery rose $36, or 1.2 percent, to $3,047
a metric ton by 8:03 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
Earlier the price climbed to $3,099, the highest since March 29.
Cocoa for July delivery advanced 18 pounds, or 0.9 percent, to
1,968 pounds ($3,176) a ton on NYSE Liffe in London.  Ivory Coast’s army chief General Philippe Mangou has left
the South African embassy in Abidjan, where he was sheltered,
DPA news agency reported, citing Clayson Monyela, spokesman for
 South Africa ’s foreign ministry. He was unable to confirm talk
that the general had rejoined Gbagbo’s forces, DPA said.  “It’s interesting too that the chief of staff, General
Philippe Mangou, has apparently re-joined Gbagbo,” Mead said.
“In this context it’s not at all surprising that cocoa prices
have risen slightly.”  Cocoa supplies from the West African nation have been
disrupted since Jan. 24, when Ouattara ordered an export ban in
a bid to cut off funds to Gbagbo, who refused to step down after
the disputed Nov. 28 election.  Coffee Falls  Arabica coffee for May delivery declined 0.7 percent, to
$2.5815 a pound in New York. Robusta coffee for July delivery
fell $36, or 1.5 percent, to $2,306 a ton in  London .  Export demand from  Brazil , the world’s largest producer of
coffee, has slowed down,  Rodrigo Costa , vice president of
institutional sales at Newedge USA LLC, said in an e-mailed
report April 3. “The short term is vulnerable, indicating that
new lows could happen,” he wrote in the report for Brazil’s
Archer Consulting.  Hedge fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in New York coffee futures in the week
ended March 29, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will
rise, outnumbered short positions by 23,936 contracts on ICE
Futures U.S., the Washington-based commission said.  Raw sugar futures for May delivery advanced 0.8 percent to
27.67 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. White, or refined-sugar
futures for May delivery rose 0.4 percent to $715.80 a ton on
NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  