-- 
Cocoa Seen Dropping 12% Once Fight for Ivory Coast Power Ends

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-04T07:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cocoa-seen-dropping-12-once-fight-for-ivory-coast-power-ends.html
Cocoa may slump 12 percent once an
end to fighting between two rivals for the presidency of Ivory
Coast means exports from the biggest producer can resume.  The shipments account for 34 percent of global supply and
the mid-crop, the smaller of two annual harvests, starts this
month.  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner
of a disputed Nov. 28 presidential election, banned exports in
January to cut off funds to incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo . Prices
surged to a 32-year high of $3,775 a metric ton on March 4.
Should Outtara prevail, prices may fall as low as $2,638,
according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  Prices already declined 20 percent from last month’s high
as investors judged that Ouattara is winning the conflict. The
fight for Abidjan, the country’s commercial capital, is now in
its fifth day, with Ouattara’s fighters holding most of the
city. His forces swept down from bases in the north about a
month ago and took much of the country in the last 10 days.  “The end seems to be in sight, and we could see prices
tumbling,” said Spencer Patton, the chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Steel Vine Investments LLC. “The market will be
flooded with cocoa from  Ivory Coast  once the ban is lifted,”
said Patton, the most accurate forecaster in a Bloomberg survey
in January that predicted prices would rise.  Beans registered for export at Ivory Coast’s ports dropped
94 percent to 1,610 tons in the 14 days to March 17 compared
with a year earlier, according to an industry official with
access to the data. Ouattara announced an indefinite ban last
week, adding to concern that the disruptions would extend into
the mid-crop. Investors are also concerned that beans already in
warehouses in the country are deteriorating.  State Oil Company  The European Union in January announced a freeze on the
assets of Ivory Coast ports and the state oil company. Cocoa,
oil and coffee are the country’s biggest  revenue  earners, with
about 68 percent of the population dependent on agriculture,
according to the CIA World Factbook.  “Finally, it looks like the palace and the country will be
taken over by Ouattara,” said Roland Jansen, the chief
executive officer of Altendorf, Switzerland-based Mother Earth
Investments AG, which manages more than $40 million in cash and
futures. “This could happen in the next few days and then very
soon we will have stabilization of cocoa supplies.”  It may take some time for shipments to resume, said
Matthieu Dibaji, a Paris-based broker at Market Securities, a
unit of Kyte Group Ltd.  Cocoa-Tax System  “It will take at least one or two months before any cocoa
starts being shipped,” he said. “The European Union will have
to bring down their sanctions. Then it will take at least a week
for the Ouattara government to set up the cocoa-tax system.”  Global cocoa output will exceed demand by 119,000 tons in
the year that began on Oct. 1, the International Cocoa
Organization said last month. Production in Ivory Coast may rise
6.7 percent to 1.325 million tons this season, the London-based
ICCO estimates.  “There is still sufficient cocoa available on the market
to meet demand,” Laurent Pipitone, a senior statistician at the
ICO, said March 30 in an e-mailed response to questions.  Olam International Ltd., a commodities trader, has been
offering customers cocoa from other countries, Gerry Manley,
director and global head for cocoa of the Singapore-based
company, said in an e-mail last month.  Hedge funds  have reduced their bets on higher prices for
three consecutive weeks. Their net-long position shrank 20
percent to 13,514 contracts, according to data from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “The only real premium on prices right now are derived
from concerns regarding political stalemate,” said Erica Rannestad, a commodity analyst at CPM Group in  New York . Should
that be resolved, “the only other bullish factors would have to
be from supply constraints, but that doesn’t seem to be expected
in the next year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 