-- 
Commodity Weather Says U.S. East to Be Warmer or Near Normal

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-04T13:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/commodity-weather-says-u-s-east-to-be-warmer-or-near-normal.html
Temperatures in the eastern U.S.
probably will be warmer or near normal for at least the next two
weeks, according to forecasters.  Commodity Weather Group LLC ’s 6- to 10-day and 11- to 15-
day outlooks show most of the U.S. experiencing near-normal
temperatures and some areas, including  Texas  and the mid-
Atlantic states, with the potential for warmer-than-normal
weather. MDA EarthSat Weather’s predictions were similar.  “The overall forecast is still generally a warm-dominated
one as the above-normal temperature events outweigh the cooler
interludes,” CWG President  Matt Rogers  wrote today in a note to
clients from Bethesda, Maryland.  Rogers also said that cooler weather may prevail in
California on April 9 to April 13 and from the Pacific Northwest
east to  North Dakota  on April 14 to April 18.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York ’s average temperature is about 50 degrees
Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) in mid-April,  according to MDA 
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  St. Louis  it is about 55; in
Boston, 46; in Philadelphia, 51; in Atlanta, 60; and in Dallas,
63, according to MDA.  Yesterday, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center predicted the
eastern U.S., except for upstate New York and New England,
probably will be warmer than normal next week.  The  center’s  6- to 10-day outlook called for above-average
warming to stretch from New York City west to Montana and south
to the Gulf Coast, according to the center, based in Camp
Springs, Maryland. There may be above-average rainfall in the
Pacific Northwest, the Ohio Valley and the U.S. Northeast during
the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  