-- 
Connecticut's NCAA Run Ends With Women's Final Four Defeat to Notre Dame

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-04T05:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/connecticut-run-ends-with-women-s-final-four-loss-to-notre-dame.html
The University of  Connecticut ’s
pursuit of a third straight women’s college basketball
championship ended with a 72-63 loss against  Notre Dame  in the
semifinals of the national tournament.  Skylar Diggins scored 28 points as Notre Dame (31-7)
advanced to tomorrow’s national title game against Texas A&M in
Indianapolis. Texas A&M (32-5) upset Stanford University 63-62
in yesterday’s other Final Four matchup.  Top-ranked Connecticut, which won its three previous
meetings with Notre Dame this season, lost for just the second
time in the past three years.  “They were the much more aggressive team in taking the
ball to the basket and we settled for jump shots at times,”
Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said in a televised interview.
“They’ve been a great team all year and it’s their time.”  Natalie Novosel added 22 points for Notre Dame, which hit
52 percent of its shots and withstood a late rally by UConn. The
Fighting Irish advance to the title game of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association women’s tournament for the first
time since winning the 2001 championship.  Maya Moore scored 36 points to lead Connecticut, including
12 straight during a stretch in which the Huskies cut a 12-point
deficit to 3. Notre Dame then closed the game with a 9-3 scoring
run, with its final 5 points coming from the free throw line.  “This team played with a lot of confidence down the
stretch,” said Diggins, who hit 10 of 14 shots. “We showed a
lot more poise than in the past three games against
Connecticut.”  Texas A&M  rallied from a 10-point deficit in the final 6
minutes to knock off Stanford. Tyra White hit a layup with 3.3
seconds left to give the Aggies the win and a trip to their
first championship game.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  