-- 
Connecticut Men Favored to Redeem Big East by Taking NCAA Basketball Title

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/connecticut-is-favored-to-redeem-big-east-with-ncaa-basketball-title.html
The University of  Connecticut  has
yet to lose in three tournaments this season and is a four-point
favorite against Butler University in college basketball’s
championship game, according to oddsmakers.  Connecticut (31-9) meets Butler (28-9) tonight at 9:23 p.m.
eastern time at Reliant Stadium in Houston.  Connecticut  started the season with a title at the Maui
Classic that included wins over Michigan State and  Kentucky . The
Huskies ended the regular season by winning five games in as
many days to capture the Big East Conference tournament title.
They haven’t lost since, adding five more wins in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  “As we won games, we got a lot more confident,”
Connecticut All-American guard Kemba Walker said yesterday
during a news conference in Houston. “We kind of felt
unstoppable. Things just clicked at the right time.”  Connecticut was the last school from the Big East to win
the NCAA tournament, in 2004. While the conference set an NCAA
tournament record with 11 schools in the field this year,
Marquette was the only one other than UConn to win more than one
game.  Outside of Connecticut, Big East schools had a combined
 7-10 record , with Villanova, Georgetown, Louisville and St.
John’s all losing their opening games. Pittsburgh, one of the
tournament’s four No. 1 regional seeds, was beaten by Butler
71-70 in its second game.  “I’m incredibly excited for our program, for the Big East,
to be in the final game,” said Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun,
who led the Huskies to their national titles in 1999 and 2004.  Back-to-Back Title Games  Indianapolis-based  Butler  is in the championship game for
the second straight year, an achievement Calhoun called
“remarkable.” Last season, the Bulldogs lost to Duke
University 61-59 when Gordon Hayward’s 3-pointer bounced off the
rim as time expired.  “If (our team) plays as well as it can, we’ll have a
shot,” Butler coach Brad Stevens said. “And I think that’s
what we had against Duke.”  Butler is seeking to become the first school from outside
one of college sports’ six major conferences to win the NCAA
tournament since the University of Nevada-Las Vegas in 1990.  “We don’t think about what conference somebody’s in,”
said Butler senior forward Matt Howard, the team’s leading
scorer. “It’s about their players, their system, what they do.
There are a lot of teams that are really good that are not from
a power conference.”  Matching Villanova  The Bulldogs, from the Horizon League, reached the
championship game as the No. 8 seed in the Southeast Regional
and could match the 1985 Villanova Wildcats as the lowest seed
to capture the national title.  The last NCAA champion seeded worse than fourth in its
regional was Kansas 23 years ago.  This is the first time the championship game doesn’t
feature a No. 1 or No. 2 regional seed since the tournament
started ranking teams in 1979.  Connecticut was the No. 3 seed in its regional and is
favored tonight by Las Vegas oddsmakers.  In this year’s tournament, however, teams favored by nine
points or less have won only 23 of 46 games, according to Las
Vegas-based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  Underdog Bulldogs  Butler was an underdog in four of its first five tournament
games.  “They have an unusual brand of kids,” Calhoun said. “The
biggest thing we’ve found coming off of national championships
was our kids weren’t quite as hungry because they had been
there. Maybe the fact they didn’t win it and came close to
winning it made them hungry.”  UConn forward Alex Oriakhi said winning the Big East
tournament fueled the Huskies’ desire for more. Connecticut had
a 9-9 record against Big East teams during the regular season
and is undefeated against non-league opponents.  “After we won those five games in five days, I think
something just clicked,” said Oriakhi, a sophomore and the
Huskies’ leading rebounder. “We knew how special we could be,
how good we could be.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  