-- 
Copper Seen Rising 18% on Biggest Mine Shortages Since 2004

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-04T19:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/copper-seen-rising-18-to-record-as-shortages-overcome-weaker-china-demand.html
Copper’s worst start in a decade may
extend into this quarter as stockpiles expand, Chinese imports
plunge and Japan reels from its nuclear disaster, before
rebounding to a record when shortages take hold.  The metal may drop as low as $8,500 a metric ton, or 8.9
percent from today’s $9,330 close, before rebounding to $11,000
by Dec. 31, 18 percent more than now, according to the median
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts and traders. The
shortages will be the biggest since 2004, when prices jumped 37
percent, the survey showed.  Stockpiles tracked by the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange rose 85
percent since the end of September, deterring imports. Analysts
expect a drop in purchases by Japan after the earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 closed factories and caused the worst
nuclear accident in a quarter century. That trend should reverse
because the country, the fourth-biggest copper user, will need
to rebuild, draining inventories as growth in mine output slows.  “We see renewed strength in the second half and you’ve got
to be bullish copper for the next few years,” said Christin Tuxen, the analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen ranked by
Bloomberg as the most accurate industrial-metal forecaster over
two years. “The global recovery is becoming more broad-based
and you’re not going to see any new mines coming on stream for
at least this year.”  Prices fell 1.8 percent in the first quarter, the worst for
the period since 2001, and futures traded on the  London  Metal
Exchange anticipate little change through the end of the year,
with the December contract at $9,376. Inventories monitored by
exchanges in London,  New York  and Shanghai climbed 19 percent to
about 677,700 tons this year, close to the highest since June.  Dollar Index  While commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar in the
first quarter, copper and zinc were among the worst performers
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials. Sugar,
wheat and cocoa were also among the losers. Cotton, gasoline and
crude led the gains.  The S&P GSCI index rose 15 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a 4.3 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
equities. Treasuries lost 0.1 percent, a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index shows.  Hedge funds  cut their net-long positions, or bets on higher
prices, by 35 percent to 25,574 contracts since the end of 2010,
according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Their position jumped 33 percent in the week ended
March 29.  Lunar New Year  China , which uses 39 percent of global copper, imported
158,185 tons of refined metal in February, the least since
November 2008, customs data show. Demand may have dropped
because of the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday. Investors have
become concerned that growth is slowing after the central bank
boosted  interest rates  three times and raised banks’ reserve
requirements six times since mid-October to cool inflation.  China, the second-largest economy, will expand 9.5 percent
this year, from 10.3 percent in 2010, still more than five times
the pace of the euro region, according to the median estimates
in Bloomberg surveys of as many as 19 economists.  “Seasonally speaking, April is a strong month for copper
demand,” said  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “If April fails to live up to its reputation as a
strong month in terms of demand, then the metal’s immediate
outlook is looking rather bleak.”  Copper also fell as protests across northern Africa and the
Middle East boosted crude prices to their highest in more than
two years. A $50-a-barrel gain in oil to a record would cut
copper demand by about 640,000 tons this year, Deutsche Bank AG
said in a report March 30.  Goldman Sachs  The events in  Japan  and the Middle East mean that metals
prices may stall in the next several months before rebounding, a
team of analysts led by London-based  Jeffrey Currie  at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report March 29. They expect copper
to be at $8,800 in 6 months before rallying to $11,000 in 12
months and advise buying the LME’s December copper contract.  At the same time, the world economy is still expanding.
Gross domestic product growth will accelerate to 4.4 percent in
the third quarter and 4.5 percent in the following three months,
compared with 3.8 percent this quarter,  Barclays Capital 
estimates.  The  U.S. economy  is “getting better month by month,”
 Warren Buffett  told reporters in Bangalore on March 22,
signaling that the 25 percent jump in  oil prices  in the past
year won’t be enough to halt the recovery.  Purchasing Managers  Business activity expanded in March at almost the fastest
pace in two decades, a report from a Chicago purchasing managers
group showed March 31.  Consumer confidence  rose for the first
time in five weeks, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed
the same day. The economy will expand 3.1 percent this year,
compared with 2.9 percent last year, according to the median of
68 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Producers say they aren’t supplying enough to meet global
demand. More than 500 delegates from the mining industry meet
today for the three-day World Copper Conference in Santiago, the
capital of the world’s biggest copper producing nation.  “There are still reasons to be bullish on copper into next
year,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in
London and last year’s most-accurate copper forecaster tracked
by Bloomberg. “The market is still going to be tight.”  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the largest publicly
traded copper producer, said in January that it would produce
less metal than forecast this year. The Phoenix-based company is
mining layers of ore with less metal content at its Grasberg
mine in Indonesia, which it says has the biggest recoverable
copper reserves in the world.  U.S. Homes  Supply will fall 400,000 tons short of demand, enough to
build 2 million U.S. homes, according to the Bloomberg survey.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining company, said in
January that output from the Escondida mine in  Chile , the
world’s biggest, would drop by as much as 10 percent in the year
ending in June because of lower ore grades. Codelco, based in
Santiago and the largest copper producer, said on March 25 that
supply from its mines fell for the fifth time in six years.  London-based Anglo American Plc and Kazakhmys Plc reported
lower output this year. Tom Albanese, chief executive officer of
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest mining company, told
investors in a conference call in February that the industry has
“struggled” to maintain supply because of declining ore
grades, delays to mine expansions and disruption from strikes.  Ore grades averaged 0.76 percent copper content in 2009,
compared with 0.9 percent in 2002, according to CRU, a London-
based research company. That means one ton of rock contains 7.6
kilograms (16.8 pounds) of metal.  Statistics Institute  Chile mined 6.6 percent less of the metal in February than
a year earlier, the fifth decline in the last six months, the
National Statistics Institute in Santiago said March 30.  For mining companies’ revenue, the drop in production will
be more than offset by higher prices. Copper averaged $9,620
since Jan. 1, more than any year on record.  Producers are competing to secure assets after a dearth of
new projects.  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , the Hong Kong unit of
China’s biggest metals trader, made an unsolicited offer of
about C$6.3 billion ($6.5 billion) in cash for Equinox Minerals
Ltd., it said today, a move that would give it control of
Africa’s largest copper mine.  A measure of combined earnings per share across the 126-
member Bloomberg World Mining Index is forecast to rise 42
percent this year, compared with anticipated growth of 14
percent across the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg using analysts’ forecasts.  The mining gauge, led by London-based Rio and Melbourne-
based BHP, climbed 0.8 percent this year.  While copper demand growth will slow to 4.1 percent this
year, from 9.6 percent in 2010, that will be to a record and
still more than twice the anticipated 1.7 percent expansion in
supply, Barclays Capital estimates. The bank forecasts an
889,000-ton shortfall.  “We’re still seeing an incredibly tight market,” said
 Kevin Norrish , a managing director at Barclays in London.
“China has to buy copper. They can’t find substitutes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  