-- 
Cricket's World Cup to Feature Four Fewer Teams in 2015, ICC Chief Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-04-04T14:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cricket-s-world-cup-to-feature-four-fewer-teams-in-2015-icc-chief-says.html
The 2015 edition of cricket’s  World
Cup  will feature 10 teams after tournament organizers decided to
trim four nations from the event.  “The International Cricket Council hasn’t quite decided on
the format but it will be a 10-nation event,” the council’s
chief executive, Haroon Lorgat, told reporters in Mumbai today.
Work on completing rules for the 2015 event, to be hosted by
Australia and  New Zealand , will begin soon, he said.  The 2011 tournament, won by co-host  India  two days ago,
featured 14 teams and lasted six weeks, prompting criticism from
media and fans that it was too long. In 2015, only Test-playing
nations will feature in the World Cup, which is played every
four years.  Michael Clarke , who replaced Ricky Ponting as Australia
captain last week, said that a streamlined tournament shouldn’t
necessarily be at the expense of so-called associate nations,
such as Ireland.  “I really enjoy seeing the minnow teams getting an
opportunity,” Clarke told reporters in Sydney today. “We’ve
seen throughout this World Cup there were a few upsets where
there was some great cricket played.”  Ireland was the best-performing associate nation at the
past two tournaments, scoring one of the biggest upsets in the
World Cup’s 36-year history by beating  England  last month. The
Irish reached the second stage in 2007 after beating Pakistan.  “To some extent, we may say that we are disappointed with
the way Kenya and  Canada  have played. In some sense, they have
gone backwards in their performance,” Lorgat said.  For the tournament to be played in 2019, the council will
select teams through a system of qualifiers and after that use a
method of “promotion and relegation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  