-- 
Cubist Settles Teva Patent Litigation on Antibiotic Cubicin

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-05T08:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/cubist-licenses-cubicin-antibiotic-to-teva-in-patent-suit-settlement.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  rose the
most in two years in late Nasdaq trading after the company
agreed to license its antibiotic Cubicin to  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , resolving a patent dispute.  Cubist shares increased as much as 14 percent to $28.90 at
6:31 p.m. New York time in extended Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The stock gained 10 percent in the past 12 months.  Teva can start selling its generic version in June 2018 if
Cubist is granted a six-month extension of marketing protection
for pediatric use, Lexington, Massachusetts-based Cubist said
today in a statement. The patent is due to expire in September
2019. Without pediatric clearance, Teva may sell Cubicin
starting in December 2017.  “We believe shares will reflect the removal of a major
overhang and could trade higher over time, especially as Cubicin
sales begin growing again and the Street begins credit to its
pipeline,” said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with RBC Capitol
Markets in  San Francisco , in a note to clients.  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , declined 3.90 shekels,
or 2.2 percent, to 173.70 shekels at 11:01 a.m. in Tel Aviv
trading. It was the biggest intraday drop in three weeks.  Cubicin is Cubist’s only approved product, with $600
million in U.S. sales last year. Chief Executive Officer Mike Bonney anticipates the medicine will generate $1 billion in U.S.
revenue before Teva’s version goes on sale, he said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Skin Infections  Bonney said in a conference call following the announcement
that the settlement would better allow the company to work with
others to develop its business.  “We’ve eliminated for them the uncertainty about what sort
of runway Cubist has,” Bonney said.  Cubist’s intravenous antibiotic is used to treat skin
infections caused by drug-resistant microorganisms. Under the
agreement, Teva will buy its U.S. requirements of active
ingredient daptomycin from Cubist for the period of the license.  “As Teva’s exclusive supplier, we expect we will enhance
our participation in the market for daptomycin through our
latest-to-expire patent,” Bonney said.  Cubist will also get a percentage of Teva’s gross profits
from sales of the drug under the agreement. Bonney, in a
conference call, wouldn’t disclose the details of either the
gross sales or materials supply agreements.  Another generic maker successfully suing Cubist and
entering the market would let Teva start selling the drug as
soon as the other generic maker did, according to the agreement
between Cubist and Teva, Bonney said.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 