-- 
Decadent Victorians Obsess Over Shopping, Celebs at V&A: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-04-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/decadent-victorians-obsess-on-shopping-celebs-in-v-a-show-martin-gayford.html
The Aesthetic Movement believed in
“art for art’s sake.” Strangely, it ended up being obsessed
with interior design.  Indeed, the designer house started in Victorian  England , as
is shown by a new exhibition at the  Victoria and Albert Museum ,
“The Cult of Beauty: The Aesthetic Movement 1860-1900.”  It’s a splendid show, full of magnificent objects, richly
decorated and sometimes odd. There are artistic teapots designed
by Christopher Dresser that look like small artifacts from Mars,
a recreation of Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s sitting room, and a
velvet Knickerbocker suit such as Oscar Wilde might have worn.  The Aesthetic movement sounds extremely highbrow, though a
lot of it came down to what these days is called “lifestyle,”
by which we generally mean shopping, drugs and sex. The aesthetes
of late 19th-century Britain were interested in all three of
those, but especially in the first.  The only top-drawer painter involved -- on this showing --
was James McNeill Whistler. Some might put in a claim for Burne-
Jones and Rossetti. I find their brand of late Pre-Raphaelitism
cloying although this may, I admit, be a blind spot.  There are some wonderful black-and-white illustrations by
Aubrey Beardsley and, in the last section of the exhibition
dealing with the “decadence” of the 1890s, sculptures by the
brilliant Alfred Gilbert (including a cast of Eros from
Piccadilly Circus). But fundamentally “The Cult of Beauty” is
about decor.  White Symphonies  Whistler is represented by remarkable paintings, such as
his “Symphonies in White,” numbers 1 to 3, all pictures of
young women. This follows the critic Walter Pater’s suggestion
that “all art aspires to the condition of music,” the painter
liked to give his works musical titles. Whistler also appears --
more unexpectedly -- as a painter of furniture and entire rooms.  His masterpiece of interior design, “The Peacock Room”
(1876-77), is illustrated by a film (the original is in the Freer
Gallery,  Washington ). There’s also a recreation of one of
Whistler’s exhibitions. This consisted of etchings of  Venice  and
elsewhere; but the whole gallery, including the brown and red
wall colors, was conceived as a utility by the artist. It was
what we would nowadays call an installation.  The funny thing about this exhibition is that the
furnishings are more cutting-edge than the pictures. A Whistler
cupboard, “Harmony in Yellow and Gold: The Butterfly Cabinet”
is on display, designed by the architect Edward William Godwin
and decorated by the painter in an almost abstract idiom.
Godwin’s sideboard (1865-75), is black, stark, angular and
extraordinarily avant-garde for the mid-Victorian age.  Exhuming Poems  Sex and drugs featured in the aesthetic movement, as well
as interiors. Rossetti, with his addictions to booze and
chloral, lived a life as lurid as that of any rock star. After
his wife Elizabeth Siddal died of a drug overdose, he had her
exhumed to retrieve some poems he had buried in the coffin.
 Oscar Wilde  climbed to fame, like a contemporary celeb, through
flamboyance and attention-grabbing talk (and paid for outraging
convention with a savage prison sentence).  More widely influential than the ostentatious behavior,
though, were the teapots, furniture, wallpaper and bric-a-brac.
Walter Crane’s frontispiece to “The House Beautiful” (1878),
an early design guide, shows a lady in an aesthetic dress
pouring a cup from her artistic teapot surrounded by Japanese
fans, oriental porcelain and modish objects of all kinds. This
wasn’t just a beautiful house, was the suggestion, but a
beautiful life -- and one that could be bought.  “The Cult of Beauty: The Aesthetic Movement 1860-1900” is
at the Victoria and Albert Museum,  London , from April 2 through
July 17. The show is sponsored by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 