-- 
German Stocks Are Little Changed; Bayer Falls as Infineon Rises

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-05T16:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/deutsche-bank-merck-kgaa-siemens-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks closed almost
unchanged as China raised  interest rates  for the fourth time
since the global financial crisis and a measure of U.S. service
industries fell.  Bayer AG sank the most in nine months as a study showed its
experimental pill Xarelto led to a higher risk of bleeding.
 Siemens AG (SIE)  dropped as Europe’s largest engineering company said
growth may slow in the second half.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) 
jumped after Texas Instruments Inc. agreed to buy National
Semiconductor Corp.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  fell as Commerzbank AG
downgraded the stock.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.02 points, or less than
0.1 percent, to 7,175.31 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt.
The gauge has climbed 10 percent from this year’s low on March
16 amid speculation the global economic recovery will withstand
 Japan ’s worst earthquake on record and popular revolts in the
Middle East and northern  Africa . The broader HDAX Index also
fell less than 0.1 percent today.  “There is still no end in sight in regard to how many more
times rates will be raised in  China ,” said Markus Huber, head
of German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London . “With
commodity prices continuing to go up, China is forced to act as
inflation will go up too.”  In China, the benchmark one-year lending rate will increase
to 6.31 percent from 6.06 percent, effective tomorrow, the
People’s Bank of China said today. The one-year deposit rate
will rise to 3.25 percent from 3 percent.  U.S. Service Industries  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing businesses decreased to 57.3 in March from
59.7 a month earlier. The median forecast of 69 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected the measure would be little
changed at 59.5. A reading above 50 signals growth.  The  Federal Reserve  will publish the minutes from its March
15 meeting at 2 p.m. Washington time, after the close of trading
in  Europe .  European retail sales unexpectedly declined in February.
Sales in the 17-nation euro region slipped 0.1 percent from
January, when they advanced 0.2 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists forecast
a 0.1 percent gain, the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Sales rose 0.1 percent on the year.  Portugal’s Credit Rating  Portugal’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said the government will probably seek a European
bailout. Moody’s downgraded Portugal’s long-term government bond
ratings by one notch to Baa1 from A3, and said the rating
remains under review for another possible downgrade.  Bayer,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, plummeted 3.6 percent
to 54.65 euros, the biggest decline since June. An analysis
found giving Xarelto for more than 10 days cut clots in the legs
and lungs by 23 percent, according to the study. Longer use more
than doubled the risk of major bleeding compared with patients
given a placebo after the standard 10 days of treatment with
Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Lovenox.  Siemens lost 1.3 percent to 96.87 euros. “We expect the
growth rate to ease,” Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said
on a call with analysts today. The company said earnings in the
quarter that just ended were burdened by a “disappointing”
renewable energy division.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker, gained 3.9
percent to 7.75 euros, the highest close in four weeks. Texas
Instruments agreed to buy National Semiconductor for about $6.5
billion, its biggest acquisition, to expand its analog
semiconductors business.  Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  soared 4.6
percent to 15.60 euros.  Wacker Chemie  Wacker Chemie slid 1.6 percent to 165.30 euros, the first
decline this month, as the chemicals maker was downgraded to
“add” from “buy” at Commerzbank.  Vossloh AG dropped 1.3 percent to 98.33 euros after the
company said Blackrock Inc.’s voting rights fell below the 3
percent threshold and amounted to 2.99 percent as of March 29.  TUI AG (TUI1)  surged 3 percent to 8.78 euros, the biggest advance
since December. The owner of Europe’s largest tour operator is
in advanced talks to sell stakes in container line Hapag-Lloyd
to a state fund in Oman and Chinese logistics firm HNA Group, a
person with knowledge of the matter said. TUI may sell as much
as 30 percent of Hapag to the investors, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
talks were reported earlier by  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung .  To contact the reporter on this story: Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt 
at   jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Rummer
at   arummer@bloomberg.net  