-- 
Dollar Fluctuates as Fed's Lockhart Cites Headwinds; Brazilian Real Drops

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-04T21:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/dollar-falls-versus-yen-on-speculation-fed-will-keep-borrowing-costs-low.html
The dollar fluctuated against the
yen as Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said the economic recovery still faces challenges, encouraging
speculation interest rates will hold steady this year.  Brazil ’s real fell from its highest level against the
dollar in more than two years as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said he’s considering steps to reduce “excessive” dollar
inflows after taxes on foreign investment in local markets
failed to stop the currency’s rally. The dollar slid earlier
versus the yen on bets policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  won’t raise borrowing costs until 2012.  “At this point it’s Bernanke’s decision, and he’s shown
very little indication that he’s willing to give up any
ground,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
 New York  at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration. “He’s likely to maintain this ultra-
accommodative monetary policy. That would further put downward
pressure on the dollar.”  The dollar traded unchanged at 84.06 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York. The greenback appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.4221 versus
the euro, from $1.4237. The euro slid 0.1 percent to 119.54 yen,
from 119.66, after touching 120.06 yen, the highest level since
May 10.  The Brazilian real depreciated was little changed at 1.6073
against the dollar after touching 1.6040, the strongest level
since Aug. 11, 2008.  Brazilian Inflows  The nation received net inflows of $10.5 billion from trade
and financial investments from March 1 to March 25, compared
with $7.4 billion for all of February, according to the central
bank. This year, inflows have totaled $33.45 billion, compared
with $24.35 billion for the whole of 2010.  “The more solid the Brazilian economy becomes, the more it
tends to attract foreign investment and dollars, which at the
moment is kind of a problem,” Mantega said. “The government
will continue to take measures to contain the excess of
dollars.”  Fitch Ratings  boosted Brazil’s credit rating today to BBB,
the second-lowest investment grade and in line with Mexico,
Russia and Thailand. Brazil’s 11.75 percent target rate compares
with 8 percent in Russia.  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0365 after
touching the record high of $1.0417 before the central bank’s
rate decision. Policy makers will leave the benchmark cash
target at 4.75 percent at 12:30 a.m. New York time, according to
all 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank
last raised rates in November.  Dudley’s View  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, fell 0.5 percent last week
after New York Fed President  William Dudley  said the economic
recovery is “still far from the mark” of the central bank’s
goals of  price stability  and full employment. Dudley told
reporters he would be surprised if the Fed didn’t finish the
second round of debt purchases known as quantitative easing.  Lockhart said today in  West Palm Beach , Florida that while
the U.S. recovery will probably persist, it will be buffeted by
government spending cuts and reductions in  consumer debt .  The Fed regional presidents  Thomas Hoenig , Jeffrey Lacker,
 Charles Plosser  and   James Bullard  indicated optimism on U.S.
growth in speeches last week. The central bank may be able to
cut about $100 billion from its plan to buy $600 billion in
 Treasury securities  through June, according to Bullard, the St.
Louis Fed president. Bernanke, who speaks today at a conference
hosted by the Atlanta Fed, has given no indication he wants to
tighten credit.  ‘Hawks’ on Inflation  “The hawks have tried to at least stoke some type of
understanding of what inflation expectations are in the U.S.,”
said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “Our view is that QE2 is done in
June, but that doesn’t mean the Fed’s going to start to reduce
their balance sheet, and that doesn’t imply at all that the Fed
will raise  interest rates .”  The core personal consumption expenditures index, a gauge
of inflation excluding food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent from a
year earlier in February, the Commerce Department reported March
28. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.6
percent to 2 percent.  The Fed won’t raise its target lending rate until the first
three months of 2012, according to the median forecast of 59
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The benchmark has stayed
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Euro’s Gain  The euro appreciated 3.5 percent in the first quarter,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation peers. It was the best three-month
performance since the shared currency began trading in 1999.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  surprised investors on
March 3, when he signaled that policy makers may raise interest
rates at their next meeting to curb consumer-price inflation,
which reached a two-year high of 2.6 percent in March.  Policy makers will increase the main refinancing rate from
a record low 1 percent by a quarter-percentage point at its
April 7 meeting, according to all of the 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  