-- 
Tea Party’s Power Tested With Lawmakers Divided Over Budget Cuts

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-04T14:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/tea-party-s-power-is-tested-with-lawmakers-divided-over-u-s-budget-cuts.html
U.S. budget talks are testing the
Tea Party’s power as Republican freshmen in Congress must decide
whether to accept a bipartisan compromise or side with the anti-
spending activists who helped get them elected.  Democratic and Republican leaders are negotiating a
proposal to slash $33 billion in 2011 spending and keep the
government operating through September. Tea Party groups and
some fiscal hawks in Congress say they’ll accept nothing less
than the $61 billion cut passed by  House Republicans  in
February.  Still, some first-term Republicans are starting to suggest
that a compromise wouldn’t be selling out.  “There are people who will say if we get $60.9 billion it
will be a failure,” Representative Bill Huizenga of Michigan
said in an interview. “We need to start moving beyond that.”  Huizenga and other Republican lawmakers are eager to finish
this year’s budget and begin the debate over next year.
Tomorrow,  House Budget Committee  Chairman  Paul Ryan  plans to
release his 2012 proposal to cut more than $4 trillion over the
next decade, in part by paring Medicare and Medicaid.  “We’re going to go after the source of the problem and
that is spending,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, said yesterday
on “Fox News Sunday.”  Government Shutdown  Ryan’s plan would overhaul the  tax code , create new caps on
 government spending  and contain no tax increases. It would
convert Medicaid, which provides health care to the poor, into a
block-grant program that would give governors more discretion
over how to run the federal-state program.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top Budget
Committee Democrat, called Ryan’s plan the “same old
ideological agenda” that would keep tax breaks for the rich and
cut programs for children and senior citizens.  Before tackling the 2012 budget, Congress must agree on
spending for this year or risk a government shutdown when
current spending authority ends April 8.  The division among first-term Republicans over whether to
accept a compromise illustrates the diversity among the 87 new
party members who came to the House on an anti-spending agenda.
Freshmen make up more than one-third of the 241-member House
Republican caucus.  ‘We’re Not a Bloc’  “Everyone thinks the freshman class is a bloc; we’re not a
bloc,” said Representative Joe Walsh of  Illinois , who said he
won’t accept a spending cut of less than $61 billion.  Top Republicans continued to push for deeper cuts over the
weekend and said little progress had been made toward an
agreement.  “I really believe we should do 61 total,” Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama  said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  told President  Barack Obama 
during an April 2 phone call there was “no deal or agreement on
a final number,” according to the Ohio Republican’s spokesman,
 Michael Steel .  Still, Boehner has begun campaigning to sell his members on
a compromise.  Debt Ceiling  Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois said Boehner
urged members to look at the big picture during meetings last
week, saying they will get more chances to cut spending in the
2012 budget and with a vote on raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling, as early as May.  “We’ve got a few months left in this fiscal year. Let’s
reduce the size of government, and let’s focus on 2012,” said
Kinzinger, who ousted a Democratic congresswoman in November.
“The moment the new budget comes out, that becomes the focus.”  Boehner is under pressure from spending-cut advocates to
stand firm. He had to rely on Democratic support to help pass
the current short-term funding measure last month because 54
Republicans refused to support it.  Tea Party Nation founder Judson Phillips, writing on the
 group’s website , urged an effort to defeat Boehner and House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, in next
year’s election.  “ There are currently some very specific plans by some
very serious people to make sure that both Boehner and Cantor
not only have primary opposition in the next election but to
also make certain they lose their next primary,” Phillips
wrote today.  Some Republican lawmakers who ran on promises to buck the
party establishment are showing signs of deference to
leadership.  ‘Very United’  “I trust our conference to push for the best agreement
that we can get,” said Representative Nan Hayworth of  New York .
“We have to move expeditiously here to solve the problems we
are facing, and all of us are very united in that.”  At a Tea Party rally outside the Capitol last week,
activists warned that members who don’t fulfill their promises
to cut spending will pay in the next election.  “If they are not making the spending cuts that the
American people want, there will probably be primaries come next
year,” said Jenny Beth Martin, national coordinator of the  Tea
Party Patriots , an organizer of the rally. “We’re not going
away.”  Dozens of protesters attended the rally -- a smaller
turnout than for Tea Party events last year to protest health-
care overhaul. Though organizers blamed the small crowd on rainy
weather, the attendance showed the challenge of keeping members
engaged as lawmakers undertake the difficult task of governing.  “The Tea Party movement is young,” said Brian Darling,
director of government relations for the  Heritage Foundation , a
 Washington  group that advocates limited government. “It’s still
experiencing growing pains and realizing that many times when
politicians tell them they believe in something it isn’t
necessarily true.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  