-- 
Heating Oil Reaches 31-Month High on Libya Conflict, Job Gains

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-04-04T19:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/heating-oil-gains-on-libya-conflict-higher-u-s-diesel-demand.html
Heating oil surged to the highest
price since August 2008 on speculation that conflict in  Libya 
and Middle East unrest will curtail fuel supplies and that a
strengthening U.S. economy indicates greater diesel demand.  Futures rose a third straight day as  Italy , following
France’s lead, rejected a reported cease-fire proposal by
Muammar Qaddafi and said it is recognizing Libya’s opposition as
the legitimate government. A Labor Department report on April 1
showed U.S. payrolls swelled more than forecast and the jobless
rate fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent.  “There’s increased demand for diesel due to better
economic news out of the U.S. and also  China ,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil for May delivery rose 3.69 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $3.1714 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . That’s the highest settlement for the
front-month contract since Aug. 29, 2008.  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest of uprisings in the
Middle East and North Africa that have ousted longtime rulers in
Egypt and Tunisia and sparked protests in Bahrain, Yemen and
Syria.  “There’s unease about the events in Libya and the
region,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago .  In the U.S., the Department of Agriculture said on March 31
that farmers will expand corn sowing to 92.178 million acres
this year, the second-largest area since 1944.  “There’s the perception of continued global demand on
distillates and the expectation of strong demand out of the”
agricultural sector, said Tom Knight, vice president of trading
and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Economic Recovery  Futures widened gains after Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the recovery from the deepest
recession since the 1930s is increasingly well established and
will probably persist, while buffeted by government spending
cuts and reductions in consumer debt.  “Heating oil is just stronger overall,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York 
and a trader at the Nymex. “You’ve got good manufacturing, a
good jobs number, Libya refining is still offline and Brent is
very strong.”  Manufacturing  U.S. manufacturing expanded in March at close to the
fastest pace in almost seven years, according to a report April
1 by the Institute for Supply Management. The factory index was
little changed at 61.2, after February’s 61.4 reading that was
the highest since May 2004.  Brent crude for May settlement rose $2.36 to $121.06 a
barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Product futures
are vulnerable to changes in Brent because refineries supplying
fuel to New York Harbor, the delivery point for heating oil and
gasoline futures, process crude grades priced relative to the
European benchmark.  Nymex May-delivery crude increased 53 cents to $108.47 a
barrel.  Heating oil traded 0.26 cent higher than the front-month
gasoline contract, the first time heating oil has been at a
premium to gasoline since March 25.  “Heating oil will stay strong relative to gasoline through
the second quarter based on the market disruptions in Japan and
Libya,” said Andrew Reed, a diesel analyst and a principal with
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Heating oil also outperformed gasoline as Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Sunoco Inc. restarted fluid catalytic crackers at plants in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Philadelphia after repairs.  “There were a little more reservations about gasoline with
the news of the restarts,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of
trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  Gasoline for May delivery added 1.75 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to settle at $3.1688 a gallon on the exchange. It was the
highest settlement since July 21, 2008.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.7 cents to $3.662 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its website. That’s the highest price since Sept. 27, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  