-- 
Hedge Fund Guru Dimenna, Wife Fund Orchestra’s Space

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-04-11T20:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/hedge-fund-guru-joe-dimenna-wife-fund-rehearsal-space-jazz-robin-hood.html
When hedge-fund manager Joe DiMenna
was looking for a symphony to support more than a decade ago,
the  Orchestra of St. Luke’s  in  New York  caught his ear.  Founded in 1974 at Manhattan’s Church of St. Luke in the
Fields, and made up of freelancers and  Juilliard School  alumni,
it performed at Carnegie Hall with stars such as  Yo-Yo Ma  and
 Renee Fleming . Yet it had no venue to call home and was forced
to practice in basements and borrowed spaces.  After the orchestra decided to launch a capital campaign of
$50 million, including $37 million for its own rehearsal hall,
DiMenna and his wife, Diana, made a lead gift of $5 million in
2007. Last month, St. Luke’s musicians rehearsed in their new
home, the  DiMenna Center for Classical Music .  “It was just a great idea proposed to us by a really sound
organization that had done its work and had a plan that made
sense,” said Diana DiMenna as she stood next to her husband at
the center. “It was about creating something that’s really
needed.”  The orchestra acquired and renovated space in a building
that is also home to the  Baryshnikov Arts Center  on  Manhattan ’s
West 37th Street. It includes the 3,395-square-foot Mary Flagler
Cary Hall, big enough to host recording sessions and special
events, and the 1,600-square-foot Norman S. Benzaquen Hall,
named after the orchestra’s board chairman. There are also two
practice rooms and a learning and media studio.  “We often say about the DiMennas’ gift that it was
catalytic,” Katy Clark, the orchestra’s president and executive
director, said in an interview. “Not only was it a gift of
enormous generosity, but they are incredibly intelligent
philanthropists.”  A championship  chess  player in his teens, DiMenna made his
fortune as a portfolio manager specializing in long/short
investing strategies. He ranked 13th on Alpha Magazine’s list of
top-paid hedge-fund managers in 2007, with an estimated $450
million in annual compensation.  The center gives the DiMennas, who also support  Jazz at
Lincoln Center , the New York Historical Society and the  Robin
Hood Foundation , an even larger profile on New York’s cultural
scene. Their name appears on the marquee outside the Baryshnikov
Center.  “We split our board commitments so that one of us isn’t
too overcommitted,” said Diana DiMenna. “We’re a package
deal.”  Born in Bridgeport and raised in Trumbull,  Connecticut ,
DiMenna said, “Music was always playing in my household, and I
started taking music lessons in the first grade.”  At Fairfield University, in Connecticut, where he studied
finance, he shared his investment ideas by writing letters to
his idol Martin Zweig, founder of Zweig Investors. DiMenna then
worked for Zweig as an intern, and in 1984 the two started a
hedge fund with $2.5 million. DiMenna is now managing director
of the New York hedge fund Zweig-DiMenna Associates Inc.  Around 1998, Benzaquen, a partner at Gilder Gagnon Howe &
Co., introduced the DiMennas to St. Luke’s.  “It was the passion of the musicians, and they appeared to
be having a great time,” DiMenna said. “They were making eye
contact and really having fun doing it, and that made a big
impression.”  Orchestra of St. Luke’s performs the works of Prokofiev,
Tchaikovsky and Dvorak at  Carnegie Hall , 57th Street and Seventh
Avenue in Manhattan, on April 6 at 7:30 p.m. Information:
 http://www.oslmusic.org/concerts-a-tickets/calendar  or +1-212-
247-7800).  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 