-- 
Edwards Valve Study May Spur Patient Demand Doctors Aren't Ready to Meet

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-04T20:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/edwards-valve-study-may-spur-patient-demand-doctors-aren-t-ready-to-meet.html
A revolutionary  approach  to repair
damaged  heart valves  without requiring people to undergo chest-
cracking surgery should be limited to the highest-risk patients
until more is known about the technique, doctors said.  Edwards Lifescience Corp.’s aortic valve is threaded into
the cardiac chamber, rather than inserted in an open heart
operation. Patients given the device, called Sapien, were just
as likely to be alive a year later as those who underwent
surgery, according to data reported yesterday at the  American
College of Cardiology  meeting. They also had higher stroke rates
and lower bleeding risks, the study found.  The research included only the highest-risk, oldest
patients and shouldn’t be applied to healthier people, said
Michael Crawford, chief of clinical cardiology at the University
of  California ,  San Francisco . Cardiologists are anticipating a
wave of demand from healthier patients who don’t want to undergo
the pain of surgery or a longer recovery time, he said.  “It’s definitely going to change practice in treating this
disease,” Crawford said at the meeting in  New Orleans , after
the results were presented. “Patients don’t want surgery. As
good as surgery is, they just don’t want it. If there is an
alternative, they are going to go for that as long as the risks
and costs are reasonable.”  Edwards fell 59 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $85.48 at
4:04 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have risen 70 percent in the past 12 months.  $2.4 Billion in Sales  If Sapien and Medtronic’s CoreValve are cleared for use in
the U.S., they could generate sales of $2.4 billion and account
for more than one in three aortic valve repairs by 2015,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities analyst in New York, said in
a note to investors today, increasing his estimates. The study
results may lead to Sapien’s approval next year for high-risk
surgery patients. Approval for sicker patients who can’t
withstand surgery is expected in October.  The results should improve with time because the study used
Edwards’s first-generation device and 19 of the 26 centers had
no prior experience with it, “whereas the surgeons in the trial
were probably the best and most experienced in the US and
 Canada ,” Biegelsen said.  About 200,000 Americans suffer from  aortic stenosis , when
the valve that serves as the gateway between the heart’s main
pumping chamber and the aorta becomes stiff and stifles oxygen-
rich blood flow to the body. Open-heart surgery, the approach
used for  half a century  to sew a new valve into place, is
remarkably effective, studies show. Death rates are less than 1
percent and the valves last for a quarter century.  Surgery Survival Fears  Many patients eschew the operation even though they qualify
for it, fearing they may not survive it or recover well, said
Ralph Brindis, president of the  American College of Cardiology 
and an interventional  cardiologist  at  Kaiser Permanente  in
Oakland, California. Overall, as many as 100,000 people aren’t
getting the treatment they need, he said.  Brindis said he plans to stick with surgery for lower-risk
patients until more information, and newer valves that reduce
stroke risks, are available.  “It’s going to take awhile to ramp up expertise in
centers,” outside of the universities conducting studies of the
new valves, Brindis said. “There are a lot of things that need
to be put in place to ensure that as this genie gets out of the
bottle we can reproduce the safety and efficacy as it gets
delivered into the community.”  Risk of Stroke  Physicians highlighted the increased risk of stroke and
neurological complications, questions about durability, and
concerns about leakage from valves inserted through a catheter.  “People obviously want to go with the simpler device, but
you have to balance it with the stroke risk,” said Robert Bonow, professor of cardiology at  Northwestern University  and
director of the Center for Cardiovascular Innovation at
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in  Chicago . “It’s troublesome
that the stroke risk grows over time.”  Some people already are going to Europe where Sapien and a
rival device from Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  are approved
for sale, UCSF’s Crawford said.  Doctors and patients should carefully weigh the differing
risks of the two treatment approaches, said Patrick Serruys,
professor of cardiology at the Thoraxcenter of Erasmus Medical
Center Hospital in Rotterdam.  A stroke at the age of 84, the average of those in the
study, is a major catastrophe, he said. Other patients are able
to function a few days after a less-invasive procedure.  Open the Door  “It’s good news for the elderly,” Serruys said. “And
it’s going to open the door for the less risky patients.”  Already researchers are talking to officials at the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  and other regulatory agencies
worldwide about including less risky patients in future studies,
he said. The procedure is now used in people who have about a 10
percent risk of dying in the hospital, he said. The plan is to
lower that to a 4 percent risk in the U.S. and 3 percent in
 Europe , he said.  Edwards is studying its next-generation transcatheter
valve, which is smaller and may be more durable, said Larry Wood, Edwards’s vice president of transcatheter valve
replacement. The device, called the Sapien XT, accounts for
nearly all of the company’s sales in Europe, he said in a
telephone interview.  Between 60,000 and 70,000 patients in the U.S. get open-
heart aortic valve replacement each year, Wood said. Thousands
of others forgo surgery, he said. An open-heart operation in
which the ribs must be separated can take weeks or months to
fully recover from, versus just days for catheter valves.  Less Invasive  “We think a less invasive approach could get these
patients off the sidelines and make it a larger market,” he
said in a telephone interview.  The first look at the data is impressive and the success
rates are likely to get better as doctors and the valve design
improve, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the  Cleveland
Clinic  in  Ohio . Until additional, long-term data are available,
doctors must ensure the right patients are treated, he said.  “This is a very solid result and will provide high-risk
patients with options,” he said in an interview. “I would not
offer patients at lower risk this procedure without more
evidence of its benefit. When the practice of medicine gets
ahead of the science, we make mistakes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  