-- 
Egypt’s Foreign Reserves Fall to Lowest Level Since 2007 After Uprising

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-04-04T15:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/egypt-s-foreign-reserves-fall-to-lowest-level-since-2007-after-uprising.html
Egypt’s net international reserves
fell for a third month in March to the lowest level in more than
three years as the economy suffers from the unrest that toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak .  Reserves fell to $30.1 billion, the lowest since September
2007, from $33.3 billion in the previous month, according to
provisional data on the central bank’s  website .  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11, bowing to mass protests that
demanded the end of his rule. The country’s worst political
crisis in three decades caused tourists to flee and companies to
cut output. Concern over a possible run on the currency prompted
the central bank to buy pounds Feb. 8, though the bank hasn’t
said whether it repeated the action since then.  The drop “is not alarming, nor is it necessarily good,”
said John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist at
Banque Saudi Fransi. “It would be good to have transparency in
the operations of the Central Bank of  Egypt , so we should know
how much money they used during their announced intervention and
also find out why reserves have declined.”  Deputy Central Bank Hisham Ramez declined to say how much
the regulator bought on Feb. 8. During the past two months he
repeatedly said that the central bank uses its reserves in the
 currency market  only to curb speculation, not to prop up the
pound.  Currency Decline  The Egyptian currency has lost 2.3 percent against the
dollar since the start of the anti-Mubarak protests on Jan. 25.
It traded at 5.955 per dollar yesterday.  Depletion of the reserves may weaken the pound further, and
it will probably trade at above 6 per dollar in the current
quarter, Cairo-based Pharos Holding for Financial Investments
said in a research note.  The crisis will turn Egypt’s balance of payments from a
surplus of $571.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 to a
deficit of more than $3 billion in the three months through
March, the central bank said on March 5.  Economic growth is unlikely to exceed 3.5 percent in the
current fiscal year, which ends in June, compared with 5.1
percent in the previous 12 months, Finance Minister Samir Radwan
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  