-- 
Hellenic Telecom Returns to Euro Bond Market in First Issue in Three Years

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-04T15:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/hellenic-telecom-returns-to-euro-bond-market-in-first-issue-in-three-years.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  is selling 500 million euros ($712 million) of
bonds in its first offering since 2008 and the second by a Greek
non-financial company in more than a year.  Greece ’s largest phone company is issuing the notes through
its special purpose company OTE Plc, according to Dimitris Tzelepis, head of  investor relations . Coca-Cola Hellenic
Bottling Co. is the only other Greece-based non-financial
company to sell debt this year.  Sales of Greek corporate securities stalled and borrowing
costs rose after the country was forced to accept a bailout last
year to cover the European Union’s biggest budget deficit.
Greece’s economy probably will shrink for a third year in 2011
amid cost-cutting measures that followed its rescue, according
to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Hellenic Telecom will be viewed as the first real non-
financial Greek issuer this year,” said  Suki Mann , senior
credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “The Coca-
Cola Hellenic Bottling tap wasn’t viewed by the market as being
exposed to Greece risk and the notes weren’t priced that way.”  Three-Year Bonds  Athens-based Hellenic Telecom’s new bonds will mature in
three years and yield 7.375 percent, according to a banker with
knowledge of the transaction who declined to be identified
because the deal is private.  The phone company sold 2.1 billion euros of three- and
seven-year bonds in February 2008 to help finance its purchase
of a stake in Cosmote Mobile Telecommunications SA. The yield on
the notes due 2015 has fallen to 7.56 percent from 8.17 percent
at the start of the year, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Alpha Bank SA,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, EFG Eurobank Ergasias, HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are managing the sale of new
Hellenic Telecom notes, Tzelepis said.  Hellenic Telecom, which is 30 percent owned by  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , posted a fourth-quarter net loss of 91.7 million
euros and said it expects sales to be hurt by unfavorable
economic conditions in all the countries it operates.  The phone company is rated Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service, the lowest investment-grade rating, and two levels
lower at BB by Standard Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 