-- 
Helmut Kohl Receives Kissinger Prize for Reuniting Germany

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-16T20:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/helmut-kohl-to-receive-kissinger-prize-for-reuniting-germany.html
Former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
was awarded the Henry A. Kissinger Prize by the American Academy
in Berlin for his role in  Germany ’s reunification.  Kohl, 81, received the honor at a ceremony today with
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel lauding his achievements at the  American Academy in
Berlin .  “The 21st century in Europe really began on his watch,”
said Clinton in a speech in which he described Kohl as an
inspiration. “I can’t tell you how many times I knew what the
right thing was because of what he had already done.”  Kohl was chancellor between 1982 and 1998, first in West
Germany, then of the unified country after East and West Germany
merged in 1990 at the end of the  Cold War . Germans voted out his
Christian Democrats in 1998, handing the chancellor’s post to
Social Democrat  Gerhard Schroeder .  Kohl, who said he first visited Berlin in 1945 as a 15-
year-old boy after Nazi leader Adolf Hitler’s suicide, urged
Germans to look beyond Europe’s current problems.  “We have reached our big goal,” he said, referring to
German and European unification.  The prize has been given annually since 2007 to a European
or U.S. citizen for outstanding contributions to the trans-
Atlantic relationship. Previous recipients are former German
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, former U.S. President  George H.W. Bush , former German President Richard von Weizsaecker and New
York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.  Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, parent of Bloomberg News. Norman Pearlstine, chairman of
Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg chief content officer, is
president of the  American Academy  in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  