-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Rise as U.S. Jobs Signal Global Economic Recovery

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-04-04T21:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/emerging-market-stocks-rise-as-u-s-jobs-signal-global-economic-recovery.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fifth day, with the benchmark index extending a 34-month high,
on signs the global economy is recovering.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,193.13. Equity gauges for  India , the  Philippines  and Chinese
shares in Hong Kong rallied at least 1.4 percent. The yield on
 Turkey ’s two-year bond fell the most in three weeks as inflation
eased to the slowest pace in 40 years. The Bovespa stock index
capped the longest winning streak in three months after  Brazil ’s
credit rating was lifted by Fitch Ratings.  Stocks for companies from 21 developing nations climbed to
the highest since June 2008 after the Labor Department said
April 1 that U.S. payrolls grew by 216,000 workers last month,
more than analysts estimated. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
fell, dropping to a two-year low, the data showed.  “Stronger-than-expected U.S. payrolls data has continued
to support risk appetite,” wrote analysts at  RBC Capital
Markets  including  Nigel Rendell  in  London  in a report.  Bonds rose, sending the difference in yield between the
return investors demand from emerging-market debt and U.S.
Treasuries 3 basis points lower to 255, according to the
JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index. The cost of insuring debt fell, with
the iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European, Middle East
and Africa credit-default swaps losing 4 basis points to 166.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 0.5 percent as oil, the
nation’s biggest export earner, advanced to a 30-month high,
rising as much as 0.8 percent to $108.78 a barrel in  New York .  Brazil, Turkey  Brazilian stocks rose 0.6 percent, climbing for a fifth day
after the nation’s credit rating was raised one level to BBB by
 Fitch Ratings , which cited the economy’s growth prospects and
budget cuts under President  Dilma Rousseff .  The yield on Turkey’s two-year debt slid 24 basis points to
8.77 percent, the biggest decrease since Jan. 4, according to
the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index. The ISE National 100
Index of equities rose 2.8 percent, helped by a 5.2 percent
rally by Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, the country’s biggest
lender by market value.  Inflation in Turkey slowed to 4 percent in March from 4.2
percent the previous month, less than the 4.4 percent median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. None
forecast a slowdown.  Ivory Coast  Ivory Coast’s defaulted 2032 Eurobonds fell for the first
time in 10 days, pushing the yield up 2 basis points to 6.95
percent, as the fight for the country’s commercial capital,
Abidjan, entered a fifth day.  Forces loyal to President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  have
captured much of the city since the start of their attack on
March 31, while fighting continues around the presidential
palace and at some army bases, residents said. The whereabouts
of incumbent leader Laurent Gbagbo are unknown.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
jumped 1.5 percent on speculation corporate earnings will
withstand higher  oil prices . The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
increased 1.9 percent as banks advanced on expectations that
their lending margins will benefit from a possible increase in
 interest rates .  The MSCI China Index rose 1.4 percent in  Hong Kong .
Mainland China’s markets are closed for the tomb-sweeping
holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  