-- 
Enea Slumps, Zloty Drops as Poland's Ends Utility Sale Talks With EDF

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-04T14:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/enea-slumps-zloty-drops-as-poland-s-ends-utility-sale-talks-with-edf.html
Enea SA (ENA) ,  Poland ’s third-largest
power utility, fell to a seven-month low and the zloty weakened
after the Treasury Ministry ended talks with Electricite de
France SA over the sale of a majority stake.  Enea sank as much as 7.1 percent to 19.61 zloty, the lowest
intraday level since Aug. 25, and traded down 6.2 percent at
19.7 zloty at 3:50 p.m. in Warsaw. The zloty depreciated 0.4
percent against the euro to 4.0332.  “We had some fairly negative news that EDF won’t be buying
Enea, which means lack of flow that was already priced in,”
said  Manik Narain , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London .  The market value of the government’s 51 percent stake put
up for sale stood at 4.75 billion zloty ($1.7 billion) at the
close of trading on April 1. The offering would have been the
biggest sale of a state asset to a single investor this year.  The ministry wouldn’t finalize exclusive talks with EDF,
 Europe ’s largest power producer, because of differences over
investment commitments to build a coal-fired generating unit at
Enea’s Kozienice power plant, according to a statement published
on the ministry’s  website  late on April 1.  Poland seeks to raise 15 billion zloty from asset sales
this year, after earning 22 billion zloty in 2010, as the
government needs cash to help finance the  budget deficit  and
limit debt.  PKO, Jastrzebska  The Treasury this year plans sales of stakes in PKO Bank
Polski SA, the country’s largest lender, coal producer
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA and agriculture lender Bank
Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA.  The government has no need to sell its power companies at
the moment and should rethink its strategy for the industry,
Economy Minister Waldemar Pawlak said on April 1. Poland holds
general elections later this year.  “It sounds like a typical election play and it could
undermine the still, good prospects of privatization flows,”
 Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a note to clients. “This shortage would have
to be covered by bigger debt sales. We continue to see
prospects of zloty underperformance versus central European
peers.”  The zloty has lost 1.6 percent this year versus the euro,
underperforming counterparts in the region. The  Hungarian forint 
has appreciated 5.1 percent against Europe’s single currency,
while  Romania ’s leu strengthened 3.7 percent and the Czech
koruna gained 2.2 percent. Russia’s ruble climbed 8 percent
versus the dollar and is up 1.1 percent per euro in the period.  The yield on Poland’s benchmark five-year bond was little
change today at 5.79 percent and has risen 28 basis points this
year after the central bank raised rates for the first time
since 2008 in January. Policy makers are expected to increase
their key rate by a quarter point tomorrow when their two-day
rate meeting ends, according to the median estimate of 31
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  