-- 
Estonian Carbon Credit Sale Success Reignites Moribund Building Industry

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-05T07:56:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/estonian-carbon-credit-sale-success-reignites-building-industry.html
The map of  Estonia  spread across
Elari Udam’s table at the state property agency’s office is a
flow chart of renovation projects representing the government’s
most-ambitious building spending program ever.  The first tenders to refit about  480 buildings , mainly
schools and kindergartens, with energy-saving technology may go
out as early as this week, said Udam, a management board member
at the Riigi Kinnisvara AS state property agency in the capital
Tallinn.  Estonia has about 200 million euros ($283 million) to make
Soviet-era offices, nursing homes and schools more energy-
efficient after selling more carbon credits last year than any
other country in the world. The money must be spent by the end
of next year, promising a boon for companies including AS
Nordecon, the second-biggest listed Baltic builder, and the
local unit of  Sweden ’s  Skanska AB. (SKAB)   “There isn’t even enough scaffolding in Estonia when all
the work on the facades begins,” said Udam.  Estonia’s transition to a market economy reduced its
Soviet-built heavy industry, slashing annual emissions by half
last year from 43.5 million tons in 1990. More than half of the
resulting pool of about 85 million spare carbon quotas, called
Assigned Amount Units, have been sold to companies including
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and  Marubeni Corp. (8002) , according to
the government.  Estonia made 11 out of 21 AAU transactions globally last
year,  Point Carbon News  reported on Jan. 12. Overall, the  Czech
Republic  has been the biggest seller of credits since 2008, it
said.  Estonia’s ability to use the proceeds of emission credits
sales will be “very seriously” tested as there is little time
to prepare the tenders and conduct the construction works, the
new Environment Minister Keit Pentus said in an interview with
 Postimees  newspaper today. She urged residential apartment
associations to more actively apply for financing insulation
works on their homes, also funded through AAU sales.  Growth Forecasts  Tallinn-based Nordecon forecasts industry growth of as much
as 10 percent this year with the help of the carbon-credit
windfall. Stockholm-based Skanska says an expansion of volumes
of as much as 20 percent is possible.  Industry volumes shrunk by two-thirds through last year
from a peak in 2007, making a third of the construction
workforce unemployed in 2009 as Estonia suffered through the
European Union’s second-deepest recession. The building industry
was the worst-performing in the Baltic country last year,
reducing the country’s 3.1 percent growth rate by 0.6 percentage
points, according to statistics office figures.  The $19 billion economy may expand 5 percent this year,
compared with 4 percent in neighboring Latvia and  Lithuania , and
4.5 percent growth in  Poland , SEB AB, the second-biggest Baltic
lender, forecast on March 23.  “The addition of such volumes to the construction market
will have an impact,” said Nordecon Chief Executive Officer
Jaano Vink. Nordecon may bid for some of the bigger projects, he
said. Its bigger rival Merko Ehitus did not reply to Bloomberg
e-mails seeking comment.  Share Slump  Nordecon’s shares have declined 80 percent from a peak of
7.05 euros in February 2007 and are 1.4 percent lower this year,
compared with a 1.4 percent gain for its Eastern European
Construction and Materials’ peers, according to Bloomberg data.
The company posted a fourth-quarter loss of 5.9 million euros,
after a loss of 7.1 million euros a year earlier.  “We expect Nordecon will be profitable next year, thanks
partly to these projects,” said Risto Hunt, a Tallinn-based
analyst with Swedbank AB, the biggest Baltic lender. He has a
“buy” rating on the stock.  More than 90 percent of all housing in Estonia was built
more than 20 years ago, Hunt said. Energy windfall revenue will
mainly help medium-sized and small builders and building-supply
makers, Udam said, as the terms of emission sales contracts
won’t allow merging many single projects into bigger tenders.  Project Funding  Of the more than 300 million euros collected through carbon
credit sales, 63 percent must be steered to building projects,
according to Keit Kasemets, a strategy director at State
Chancellery. The rest is earmarked for reducing emissions in
transport, such as procuring electric vehicles from  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)   The work scheduled for completion include adding insulation
and new paint to facades, replacing thousands of windows and
doors, making heating systems more efficient and upgrading
piping and electrical systems to existing buildings.  At the Estplast Tootmine OU factory near Tallinn, a worker
operates a machine that uses super-heated wires to cut
polystyrene blocks into insulation sheets. Others put finished
products into stacks several meters high, ready for shipping.  “We could operate in three shifts instead of two,” Chief
Executive Officer Ferenc Traksler said. “We’re certainly more
optimistic than last year when the mood among construction
materials’ executives was very depressed.”  At the property agency’s office, Udam is coordinating the
start of the projects to avoid temporary shortages of materials,
builders and workers.  “The issue is whether suppliers will have all the
materials available, because the production capacity of local
plants may not be enough,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  