-- 
ArcelorMittal’s EU Cartel Fine Cut by 80% to $65 Million

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-04-05T14:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/eu-cuts-antitrust-fines-for-arcelormittal-to-45-7-million-euros.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  won an 80 percent
reduction in European Union antitrust fines after a regulator
said it couldn’t force the company to pay the share of the
overall penalty earmarked for three units.  While the EU normally takes into account the global sales
of parent companies when deciding fine levels, in this case
“the subsidiaries could not pay this fine and the parent
company would not pay it either,” Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman
for the European Commission, told reporters in Brussels today.  “There are extreme cases where the established practice
may have disproportionate results and this is the conclusion we
have come to after seeing the practical effect of the
decision,” Torres said. The fines were cut to 45.7 million
euros ($65 million) from 230.4 million euros.  EU regulators have recently raised their penalties against
parent companies, saying they are liable for competition-law
violations by their units.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s largest
maker of paints and coatings, lost an appeal in 2009 over its
financial liability for a unit’s violations.  Yesterday’s decision “might be the first to acknowledge
clearly an awareness that companies can’t be ruined in the name
of competition law,” especially when they’re viable, Eric Morgan de Rivery, a partner specializing in competition law at
 Jones Day , said in a telephone interview. “Punishment shouldn’t
be worse than the infringement.”  Three Units  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, and the
three units based in  Italy ,  Belgium  and  France , were among steel
producers fined on June 30 for fixing the prices of steel used
to reinforce concrete for 18 years until 2002.  It’s the second time the commission has cut the fines for
ArcelorMittal and its units. In a Sept. 30  decision , it cited
errors in the June penalty. The ArcelorMittal units concerned
have  appeals  against the fines pending at the EU court in
Luxembourg.  The commission yesterday opted to “reduce the fine for the
first 15 years of the cartel when the subsidiaries were solely
responsible for their behavior,” Torres said.  The punishments concern “anticompetitive practices that
took place back more than 25 years ago,” said Giles Read, a
London-based spokesman for ArcelorMittal.  The case is a “particular situation where the parent
company had been involved in the violation for a much shorter
period of time than its subsidiaries,” de Rivery said.  Undermined ‘Credibility’  Yesterday’s move is “exceptional,” Simon Hirsbrunner, a
lawyer with Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek in Brussels, said. “Fine
reductions of such extreme proportions will undoubtedly
undermine the credibility of the commission’s fining policy.”  Lowering the fines again is “odd,”, Mark Tricker, a
competition lawyer in Brussels with Norton Rose LLP, said in an
e-mail.  The commission “must have received compelling evidence
that ArcelorMittal would not step in to save its subsidiaries,”
Tricker said. “One would usually expect such claims to be
examined before a decision is issued.”  The Brussels-based commission said yesterday it also cut a
fine against Ori Martin Acciaieria E Ferriera Di Brescia SpA and
its subsidiary Siderurgica Latina Martin to about 15.9 million
euros from 19.8 million euros.  Aalberts Industries NV (AALB) ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of fittings
used in faucets and heaters, on March 24 won an EU court ruling
overturning a 100.8 million-euro antitrust fine. The court said
Aalberts subsidiaries didn’t participate in a copper cartel
during the period they were owned by Aalberts.  ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg, reported in February a
fourth-quarter loss of $780 million, compared with net income of
$1.1 billion a year earlier, as prices fell and raw-material
costs grew. Steel producers have struggled to pass on rising
raw-material costs after prices for the alloy fell and
consumption dwindled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 