-- 
Euro Has Best First Quarter as Trichet Transforms Into Hawk

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-04T09:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/euro-posts-best-first-quarter-on-record-as-germany-turns-trichet-into-hawk.html
The euro, seen as a potential
failure 10 months ago, had its strongest start to a year on
record as German growth accelerates and policy makers prepare to
boost interest rates.  The currency appreciated 3.5 percent through March, the
most since the final three months of 2008 and the best first-
quarter performance since the region’s single currency began
trading in 1999, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Index data. It rose from its lowest level since 2002 in January
as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said they would do whatever is needed to support the 17-
nation monetary union.  While Portuguese bonds show increasing speculation for a
default and regulators said four Irish banks need to raise 24
billion euros ($34.1 billion) in capital, currency concerns have
faded since last year, when former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  and billionaire investor  George Soros  said the union may
dissolve. No countries have restructured debt yet and economic
growth led by Germany has caused the  European Central Bank  to
signal it may raise rates as soon as this week.  “The euro is extraordinarily strong under the
circumstances,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“Does it look more capable of stumbling along than it did a
year ago? Yes, to the extent that the core does seem to have
made a commitment to fund bailouts.”  ‘Tearing Itself Up’  Last year, as head of international currency strategy in
 North America  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Ruskin said
the euro was “tearing itself up from within” and estimated a
yearend rate of $1.28. Instead, it finished the year at $1.3384.
Ruskin still estimates the euro will weaken, to $1.30 by year-
end from $1.4237 on April 1. The euro was at $1.4203 as of
10:28 a.m. in  London .  Greece, whose overwhelming debt helped trigger the crisis,
faced a potential “death spiral” because the cost of borrowing
from a region-wide rescue program was too expensive, Soros said
on April 13. Volcker said four weeks later that Greece’s fiscal
crisis and subsequent bailout may break up the euro zone. At
$330 billion, the Greek economy is less than 25 percent the size
of  Spain ’s, the fourth biggest in the common currency area.  Now, bears are citing  Portugal , Ireland and higher  interest
rates  as reasons to be concerned about the currency.  Widening Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
securities instead of German bunds widened to 5 percentage
points last week for the first time since at least February
1997, when Bloomberg began collecting the data. The country’s
prime minister resigned March 23 after opposition parties
rejected his deficit-cutting plan.  Last week, officials instructed four of Ireland’s biggest
banks to raise 24 billion euros and announced plans to merge two
of them. The government already injected 46.3 billion euros into
the financial services industry and set up an agency that paid
more than 30 billion euros for banks’ risky property loans in
the past year. The total equates to about two-thirds the size of
the Irish economy.  The ECB boosted its forecast for inflation this year,
predicting that price increases will exceed its target through
2011 as the economy strengthens. Consumer-price increases will
average 2.3 percent, up from a December forecast of 1.8 percent,
the central bank said on March 3, the day of its last policy
meeting. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on the same day
that “strong vigilance” is required on prices.  Refinancing Rate  The ECB’s refinancing rate will probably end the year 1.5
percentage points higher than the Fed’s main rate, according to
Bloomberg News surveys of economists. The ECB rate will rise 75
basis points to 1.75 percent while the Fed’s will stay at a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, the surveys show.  While removing stimulus may make assets denominated in the
common currency more attractive to investors searching for
higher yields, they may come too early for some of the so-called
peripheral countries and endanger the economic recovery.  “For some countries a rate hike doesn’t fit, especially
for Portugal and  Greece , but also partly for Spain, where there
is a problem with mortgages,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of
foreign-exchange strategy in at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who
expects the euro to end 2011 at $1.32 as the Fed begins to
reduce its aid to the economy. “We’ll have a rate hike, and
this will obviously create problems.”  ‘Pretty Stupid’  John Taylor , chairman of New York-based FX Concepts LLC,
the world’s largest foreign-exchange hedge fund, predicted in
January that the euro may fall below parity with the dollar this
year. Now he says the current rally may not last. Taylor, whose
firm oversees about $8.5 billion, profited in the first half of
2010 betting on a slide in the currency.  “I’m sounding pretty stupid; but on the other hand, I’m
not ashamed and I’m sticking with it,” Taylor said last week in
a telephone interview. “ Europe , with all the tightening that’s
being forced on these countries, will be in a recession by the
end of the year. There’s going to be a restructuring and default
of the European debt.”  The euro hit a four-year low against the dollar on June 7
as debt turmoil drove it to $1.1877. It has since appreciated 19
percent, reaching a four-month high of $1.4269 today. The euro
strengthened 1.1 percent last week.  The Bloomberg euro index measures the currency against
those from the Group of 10 nations proportioned by how they
trade against each other. It has a base value of 100 and rallied
to 101.839 after dropping to a more than eight-year low of
96.4715 on Jan. 11. The index for the dollar has fallen to
92.8668 from 97.9994 in the same period.  ‘Whatever is Needed’  Merkel, who has said she will do “whatever is needed to
support the euro,” last month helped hammer out a framework for
an emergency euro-region aid mechanism that would come into
force in 2013. Sarkozy said the monetary union is so important
“that we will be there whenever it needs to be defended.”  The euro zone’s economy expanded 1.7 percent in 2010, and
may grow by the same amount in 2011, according to the median
estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Core countries
led by  Germany , which makes up 30 percent of the region’s gross
domestic product, are leading the growth.  Germany’s economy expanded 3.6 percent in 2010, the most in
two decades, even as Greece and Ireland contracted and
governments across the region cut spending. German’s benchmark
DAX Index of stocks has climbed 3 percent in 2011, after rising
16 percent in 2010 as sales outside of Europe fueled company
earnings. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index is up 8.8 percent since
December.  New Mechanism  Europe’s parliament approved the formation of a permanent
European Stability Mechanism last month to succeed last year’s
440 billion-euro,  three year- European Financial Stability
Facility created to assist highly indebted countries.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied on speculation the
crisis will be contained as they reduce deficits. While Spanish
10-year bond yields, at 5.31 percent, are about 100 basis points
above the average of the past five years, the nation’s debt
returned 2.3 percent this year, after posting the biggest loss
since 1994, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Italian
bonds have returned 0.78 percent.  “The market can whip you up into a frenzy where you become
irrational,” said  David Bloom , the global head of currency
strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, who said in June the
euro would end 2010 at $1.35. “The difference this time around
is that there is a mechanism in place. The break-up premium has
come out of the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 