-- 
Steel Industry to Sue EU Over Post-2012 Carbon Permits Plan

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-04T15:54:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/eurofer-takes-legal-action-against-eu-over-ets-steel-benchmarks.html
The association of European steel
producers Eurofer said it will sue the European Union over the
design of a method to allocate free carbon-dioxide permits in
the 27-nation bloc’s emissions trading system after 2012.  The carbon-efficiency benchmarks for distributing a
dwindling supply of free allowances to the  steel industry  in the
next phase of the EU emissions program infringe the law and will
result in additional costs to producers of around 5 billion
euros ($7.1 billion), according to Eurofer, whose members
include the world’s largest steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and
 Germany ’s largest steel producer  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   “As a consequence the European steel industry, through
Eurofer, has instructed its lawyers to initiate a request for
annulment” of the decision on steel benchmarks drafted by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, the group said.  The draft regulation on allocating free permits in the next
eight-year phase of the region’s cap-and-trade program through
2020 is on track for final approval in the coming weeks. The EU,
which has given away the majority of emissions permits since it
started the program, will sell the majority of them in the next
phase from 2013.  Europe  should consider measures such as taxes on some
imports to reflect the costs of emissions and improve the
competitiveness of companies within its borders, according to
Omar Abbosh, managing director at  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s
second-largest technology-consulting company.  ‘Border-Leveling Techniques’  “If we really want emissions reduction without skewing the
competitive playing field against the EU-based carbon-intensive
manufacturers, then we need to look seriously at border-leveling
techniques for carbon,” he said today by e-mail.  The benchmarks are based on the average performance of the
top 10 percent of installations in 2007 to 2008. The most
efficient installations in a given industry won’t need to
purchase more allowances, while those that emit more than the
benchmarks will need to buy permits.  The EU emissions trading system is the world’s biggest.
Started in 2005, it imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
utilities and manufacturers, allowing those that emit less than
their quota to sell surplus permits. One permit gives the right
to discharge one metric ton of CO2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  