-- 
European Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates to 6.6% on Oil

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-04T09:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/european-producer-price-inflation-quickens-to-6-6-on-oil-1-.html
European producer-price inflation
accelerated to the fastest in more than two years in February,
led by increasing energy costs, adding to pressure on the
 European Central Bank  to raise key  interest rates .  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region jumped 6.6 percent
from a year earlier, the fastest since September 2008, after
increasing a revised 5.9 percent in January, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
forecast an increase of 6.7 percent, the median of 18 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey showed. In the month, prices advanced 0.8
percent.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 21 percent over the past three
months, adding pressure on companies to pass on higher costs
just as the recovery falters. European economic confidence
weakened in March and manufacturing growth slowed. Still, ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has signaled that policy makers
are more concerned about rising price pressures than slowing
growth, calling for “strong vigilance” last month.  “The ECB won’t be able to influence prices over the short
term,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “Of course, there are large pressures in the
pipeline and companies are planning to pass on costs to
customers. We’ll see at least three rate increases this year. A
lot will depend on future oil-price development.”  Energy Prices  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.4196 at 11:21 a.m. in Frankfurt, down from $1.4237 on April
1. It has gained 6.1 percent this year, helping counter price
pressures by making imports more affordable.  Energy prices jumped 13 percent in February from a year
earlier and the cost of intermediate goods rose 8.1 percent, the
statistics office said in today’s report. Excluding construction
and energy, producer prices advanced 4.5 percent in the year. In
the 27-nation EU, producer-price inflation accelerated to 7.1
percent in February from 6.4 percent in the previous month.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will probably raise its key rate by
25 basis points to 1.25 percent when policy makers meet on April
7, according to a Bloomberg survey. The central bank last month
forecast consumer-price inflation to average about 2.3 percent
this year, above the bank’s limit of 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  