-- 
Euro Snaps Four-Day Rally Versus Dollar on Concern Over Interest Rate Rise

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-04-04T12:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/euro-snaps-four-day-rally-versus-dollar-on-concern-over-interest-rate-rise.html
The euro snapped a four-day advance
against the dollar on concern a likely interest-rate increase by
the  European Central Bank  this week will hurt the economies of
the most-indebted nations in the 17-member bloc.  The shared currency slid versus 12 of its 16 major
counterparts before the ECB’s April 7 policy meeting, at which
all 57 economists polled by Bloomberg predict the benchmark rate
will be raised by 25 basis points from a record low 1 percent. A
report today showed producer-price inflation in the euro-region
accelerated at the fastest pace since September 2008. The yen
erased a decline against the dollar while Sweden’s krona fell
for the first day in five.  “It’s clear that a rate increase is going to inflict
damage on peripheral Europe and the greater the realization of
that in the market, the greater the chances of downside
adjustment in the euro,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency
strategist at Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. in  London . “A lot
of these peripheral nations are hanging on to their recoveries
by their fingertips and the last thing they need is another rate
increase.”  The euro declined as much as 0.3 percent to $1.4291 and
traded little changed at $1.4230 as of 8:08 a.m. in New York.
The Japanese currency was little changed at 84.0 per dollar and
strengthened 0.1 percent to 119.53 per euro.  The ECB will make a mistake and jeopardize the region’s
economic recovery should it raise  interest rates  this week to
curb inflation, Ernst & Young said in a report. The accountancy
firm forecast the euro-region economy will grow 1.5 percent this
year and 1.7 percent in 2012, boosted by exports to a recovering
U.S. economy and emerging markets.  ‘Hit Harder’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  surprised investors on
March 3 when he signaled that policy makers may raise interest
rates at their next meeting to curb consumer-price inflation,
which reached a two-year high of 2.6 percent in March.  The euro appreciated 3.5 percent through March against a
basket of nine developed-nation peers, the best first-quarter
performance since the shared currency began trading in 1999, as
stronger economic growth in  Germany  and faster inflation boosted
expectations for higher interest rates.  “The ECB is more than likely going to raise interest rates
and it’s going to hit the peripheral nations much harder,” said
 Simon Smith , the London-based chief economist at FXPro Financial
Services Ltd. “Countries like Portugal and Ireland have much
shorter debt-duration profiles, so when rates go up it costs
them a lot more to roll over their debt.”  Producer Prices  Investors expect the ECB to raise its main refinancing rate
by 132 basis points over the next 12 months, compared with a
prediction for 44 basis points of increases at the end of last
year, a Credit Suisse Group AG index showed. Producer prices in
the euro area jumped 6.6 percent in February from a year
earlier, up from a revised 5.9 percent the previous month, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.5 percent to
the highest level since before  Japan ’s largest recorded
earthquake on March 11, while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained
0.3 percent.  A report tomorrow is forecast to show U.S. services
industries grew in March. The U.S. Institute for Supply
Management’s index of non-manufacturing businesses will give a
reading of 59.5 for March, compared with 59.7 the previous month
which was the highest since August 2005, based on a Bloomberg
survey of economists. A reading above 50 signals growth for the
Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s measure.  Won Rises  The won climbed to a 30-month high versus the dollar on
optimism an improving U.S. economy will spur demand for the
assets of the export-driven Asian economy. Overseas investors
increased holdings of Korean shares for a 13th day after U.S.
reports last week showed employers added 216,000 workers in
March and the  unemployment rate  declined to 8.8 percent.  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,086.70 per dollar after
climbing to 1,083.85, the strongest since September 2008.  “The U.S. jobs report is prompting investors to buy more
stocks around the world and also spurring foreign investors to
buy Korean stocks, supporting the won,” said Ko Yun Jin,
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in  Seoul .  The dollar may strengthen beyond 90 yen in the coming
months as the crisis at a nuclear plant damaged in the March 11
earthquake hurts the Japanese currency, according to Eisuke Sakakibara, who was in charge of Japan’s currency policy as vice
finance minister for international affairs in the late-1990s.  Atomic Energy  “This atomic energy issue is an incident which would
probably force money to leave Japan,” Sakakibara, who is now a
professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University , said in  Tokyo .  The krona declined after Riksbank Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said the central bank can’t ignore exchange -rate
fluctuations when setting interest rates.  Sweden ’s currency
weakened 0.2 percent to 6.30963 per dollar 8.9814 per euro.  “She’s reiterating her softer approach which favors slower
interest-rate increases,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior
currency strategist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The
Norwegian krone is also down so that points to a bit of profit
taking on the Scandinavian currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  