-- 
Hevesi to Be Sentenced by N.Y. Judge Obus in State-Fund Case

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-04-04T14:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/hevesi-to-be-sentenced-by-n-y-judge-obus-in-state-fund-case-1-.html
Ex- New York  State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi will be sentenced by state Supreme Court Justice
Michael J. Obus for his role in corruption at the state pension
fund, possibly on April 8, the judge said.  Hevesi pleaded guilty in October to approving $250 million
in pension fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in
gifts. The judge who accepted the plea, Justice Lewis Bart Stone, transferred the case last week citing publicity over his
relationship with the parents of Hevesi’s lawyer.  Obus set sentencing for April 8 if Hevesi’s lawyer, Bradley Simon, can be available. Simon said in an interview after the
appearance that he is flying to Zurich on another matter and may
not be back in the country in time. Obus said a decision on the
date will be made by April 6.  “I will be handling the matter myself,” Obus said today
at a court hearing. As administrative judge, he could have
reassigned the case.  Hevesi is the highest-ranking official to plead guilty in a
probe of corruption at the New York state Common Retirement Fund
conducted by former state Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the
governor.  Hevesi from 2003 through 2006 was comptroller and trustee
of the retirement fund, recently valued at $140.2 billion. He
may be sentenced to as little as no time in prison or to a range
of one year and four months to four years.  Favored Treatment  Hevesi admitted giving preferential treatment to Markstone
Capital Partners, approving $250 million in pension fund
investments in exchange for $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000
in sham consulting fees for a lobbyist and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  The ex-official, who was hospitalized last week when he was
scheduled for sentencing, appeared in court today. He declined
to comment on his health after the hearing.  The case is People v. Hevesi, 4632/2010, New York Supreme
Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 