-- 
Texas Instruments Bets It Can Stoke National Semi’s Growth

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T14:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/texas-instruments-to-buy-national-semiconductor-for-25-a-share.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  is paying $6.5 billion for
 National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  in a wager that he can reverse its
sales slump while profiting from the company’s higher margins.  National shareholders will get $25 a share in the all-cash
transaction, Texas Instruments said yesterday. That’s 78 percent
higher than National’s closing price of $14.07 yesterday,
representing a premium four times bigger than the chip
industry’s average over the past year.  To ensure a payback, Texas Instruments aims to use its army
of salespeople to stoke demand for National’s products. The
Dallas-based company has a bigger sales force than any other
chipmaker, Templeton says, with more representatives in  China 
alone than National has in total. He has vowed to increase
revenue at more than twice the industry rate, a feat National
hasn’t pulled off in years.  “They think they can take National Semiconductor’s business
and execute better,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , a New York-based
analyst at Auriga USA who recommends selling Texas Instruments’
stock. “They are buying customers.”  Texas Instruments gained 53 cents, or 1.6 percent, to
$34.64 at 10:11 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Shares of National Semiconductor, based in  Santa Clara ,
 California , rose $9.96, or 71 percent, to $24.03. The last time
the stock traded at $25 was in November 2007.  Revamp  National Semiconductor has been shedding less profitable
businesses, sacrificing revenue, in the name of wider margins.
Its gross margin, the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the cost of production, was 66.5 percent at the end of
its most recent quarter. That compares with 53 percent at Texas
Instruments.  The deal reaffirms Templeton’s commitment to analog chips
-- National’s specialty. Analog semiconductors, which go into
everything from military hardware to washing machines, perform
functions such as power regulation and the conversion of real-
world inputs, such as touch or sound, into electronic signals.  Texas Instruments is the biggest maker of analog chips, and
they account for 43 percent of its revenue -- up from 35 percent
five years ago. Meanwhile, the company is exiting the market for
mobile-phone radio semiconductors, an area it once dominated.
With National, Texas Instruments can add new analog products
faster than it could on its own, Templeton said.  Analog Bet  “We’ve got a sales force that’s simply never been better at
selling analog,” Templeton said on a call with analysts and
investors yesterday. “It’s an opportunity to grow faster.”  National provides Texas Instruments with more of the market
for industrial-use chips, he said. While both companies make
chips that control power in electronic devices, National
specializes in higher voltages used in industrial machinery,
while Texas Instruments’ products are more suited to mobile
devices.  The challenge will be ramping up National’s sales, which
declined each of the past four fiscal years.  Given the pitfalls, the price is too high, said Romit Shah
an analyst at Nomura Securities International in  New York . The
deal’s premium dwarfs the average paid in 196 semiconductor
acquisitions in the past year, according to Bloomberg data. The
average disclosed size of those transactions was $129.8 million.  “They are paying way too much,” said Shah, who recommends
selling Texas Instruments stock. “We’re not very excited about
the deal.”  Cash and Debt  The purchase will be funded with a combination of existing
cash balances and debt, Texas Instruments said. The company had
$3.07 billion in cash and short-term investments in the fourth
quarter.  If National pulls out of the deal to accept a superior
proposal, it will pay a termination fee of $200 million to Texas
Instruments, according to a regulatory filing. If the agreement
fails to win antitrust approval, Texas Instruments will pay
National Semiconductor a breakup fee of $350 million.  Morgan Stanley, the financial adviser for Texas Instruments
on the deal, is providing $2.5 billion in a bridge loan to the
company, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
 Jones Day  provided legal advice to Texas Instruments. Qatalyst
Partners and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were National
Semiconductor’s financial advisers. Latham & Watkins LLP acted
as legal counsel.  “It’s a great opportunity to put $6.5 billion dollars to
work earning a pretty good rate of return,” Templeton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  