-- 
Extract Expects to Fund $1.7 Billion Namibian Uranium Project Amid Crisis

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-05T08:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/extract-resources-says-husab-uranium-mine-in-namibia-to-cost-1-66-billion.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , an explorer
proposing a $1.7 billion uranium venture in  Namibia , expects to
overcome difficulties confronting the industry after Japan’s
nuclear crisis and successfully fund the mine.  Extract’s Husab uranium deposit will be developed because
of its “strategic importance,” Chief Executive Officer
Jonathan Leslie said today on a conference call with reporters.  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. last month offered
756 million pounds ($1.2 billion) for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) ,
which owns about 43 percent of Extract, seeking access to the
Namibian deposit. Smaller explorers may experience delays and
struggle to raise money in the aftermath of the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant in Japan, Leslie said.  “It would be unrealistic to say there will be no effect on
financing,” Leslie said from Sydney. “For all uranium projects,
it’s going to be more difficult than it was before.”  Shares of uranium explorers and producers have tumbled amid
concerns the emergency at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken
reactors will prompt countries to suspend plans to build nuclear
 power plants . Extract fell 25 percent in the three weeks
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, compared with a
2.9 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200.  Extract rose 3.1 percent to A$8.23 in Sydney today -- the
most in two weeks -- while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
increased 0.3 percent.  Debt Funds  Extract, about 14 percent-owned by Rio Tinto Group, said
some 60 percent of Husab project costs may be funded with debt
if it develops the mine on its own and that it would aim to
approve the venture by the end of June. Husab is about 7
kilometers (4.4 miles) from London-based Rio’s Rossing mine and
about 30 kilometers from Perth-based  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) ’s
Langer Heinrich project.  While Extract is considering a “standalone” project, it
said in February it was in talks with Rio about a potential
combination of Husab and Rossing.  “If one option gives us better economic value, we would go
down that route,” Leslie said today after the company released
its development plan and cost estimates.  A successful bid by China Guangdong Nuclear Power, that
country’s second-largest reactor builder, would give it access
to Husab, which Extract expects to become the third-largest
producing mine, behind  Cameco Corp. (CCO) ’s McArthur River and the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan based-company’s unfinished Cigar Lake
mine.  Russian Takeover  Mantra Resources Ltd. (MRU) , a uranium company with projects in
 Africa , agreed in March to a lower takeover offer from Rosatom
Corp., the Russian state-owned nuclear company. Rosatom’s ARMZ
Uranium Holding Co. cut its offer for Mantra by 12 percent to
A$1.02 billion ($1.06 billion) because of the  Japan  disaster.  Extract is talking with potential customers and has
“identified several possible strategic contracting
opportunities,” the company said today.  The Husab study shows the “economic viability of the
project,” Leslie said in the statement. “Extract is committed
to developing this strategically important project, working with
key stakeholders to determine the optimum funding and
development framework to bring the project into production.”  Husab is expected to produce 15 million pounds of uranium
oxide a year and begin in 2014, Extract said today. The company
is confident Husab, the world’s fifth-largest uranium deposit,
will climb in the rankings, Leslie said on the call.  Capital costs are projected at $1.48 billion, and
production costs are estimated at $28.50 a pound, excluding
royalties, marketing and transportation, Extract said. Cash of
$86.5 million at the end of March is expected to be enough to
fund drilling and initial development, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 