-- 
Five New Alzheimer’s Genes Double Total as Doctors Unravel Disease Cause

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-04T05:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/five-new-alzheimer-s-genes-double-total-in-new-push-for-cure.html
Five new genes have been
definitively linked to  Alzheimer’s disease , doubling the total
confirmed by scientists and opening new areas for research into
an illness that affects 35  million  people globally.  The genetic pathways were reported in two studies involving
more than 50,000 people worldwide. Some of the connections found
involve systems that control inflammation and cholesterol in the
brain, while others affect how brain cells remove toxic proteins,
the researchers wrote in reports published yesterday in the
journal  Nature Genetics .  The newest confirmed genes raise risks for  Alzheimer ’s by
15 percent or less, not strong enough to be used as a marker for
the disease, researchers said. Their worth is in suggesting new
areas of study that may one day help speed creation of therapies
for a malady that progressively destroys brain cells and makes
it difficult for people to think, remember and function.  “We are beginning to piece together the jigsaw and gain
new understanding,” said lead researcher Julie Williams, a
professor from Cardiff University’s Centre for Neuropsychiatric
Genetics and Genomics in Wales. “We still have a long way to go,
but the jigsaw is beginning to come together.”  Inflammation, cholesterol and the build-up of beta amyloid
protein have long been thought to play a critical role in the
degradation of nerve cells in the brain, the researchers said.
If treatments can prevent the detrimental effects of the genes,
doctors may be able to one day reduce the number of people with
Alzheimer’s disease, Williams said.  Important Combinations  Researchers are trying to determine which gene variations,
and which combinations, are most important. Identifying how
genes work together may speed studies of experimental drugs,
said David Bennett, director of the Alzheimer’s Disease Center
at Rush University Medical Center in  Chicago , in a statement.  “These findings add key information needed to understand
the causes of Alzheimer’s disease and should help in discovering
approaches to its treatment and prevention,” Bennett said.  The U.S.  National Institute on Aging  helped fund the
studies, which used information gleaned from five different
groups, including the Rush Religious Orders Study, to analyze
the genetic makeup of more than 54,000 people.  Alzheimer’s is characterized by the formation of plaque in
the brain from amyloid and tau proteins. Scientists don’t know
why the proteins accumulate or become twisted, whether they
cause the illness or if they are an end-product resulting from a
different process altogether.  “We know from our studies there are going to be dozens of
these genes that will be significant when the collective data is
analyzed,” said Rudolph Tanzi, professor of neurology at
 Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , and an author of one paper.  Most Exciting  While the combined genes point at several pathways that may
play a role in Alzheimer’s disease, Tanzi says he is most
excited about CD33, a gene he discovered that is tied to the
brain’s primitive innate immune system. In some cases, it might
not be eliminating as much beta amyloid as it should. In others,
it may be too active and trigger inflammation, he said in a
telephone interview.  “Once we figure out what’s going on, CD33 will be a good
target because it sits on the cell surface,” he said. “But it
will be at least 10 years before we could turn these targets
into drugs,” said Tanzi, who is also director of the genetics
and aging research unit at Massachusetts General Hospital’s
Institute for Neurodegenerative disease.  The number of Alzheimer’s sufferers is predicted to reach
115.4 million by 2050, according to a 2009  report  from
 Alzheimer’s Disease International .  Inevitable Deterioration  No treatment is yet available to slow or stop deterioration
of the brain in patients with Alzheimer’s. Drugs aiming to slow
the symptoms include Namenda from New York-based  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , and Aricept from New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and Tokyo-based Eisai Co.  As much as 80 percent of a person’s chance of developing
Alzheimer’s is inherited, doctors say. About 400 genes have been
identified that scientists believe may play a role in the
condition, named for the German doctor Alois Alzheimer who
described it in 1906.  The greatest inherited risk comes from the APOE gene,
discovered in 1993 by a team led by Allen Roses, now director of
the Deane Drug Discovery Institute at Duke University Medical
Center in Durham,  North Carolina . A person who inherits that
gene from one parent has a 400 percent increased risk of getting
the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 