-- 
Ford Boosts Prices $117 Per Vehicle as Materials Costs Rise

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-04T20:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/ford-says-it-raised-prices-by-177-per-model.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, raised prices by $117, or 0.4 percent, per
vehicle because of higher costs for raw materials such as steel.  The increase isn’t related to supply disruptions from the
March 11 Japanese earthquake and tsunami, said Todd Nissen, a
company spokesman.  "This was in the works for months," Nissen said in an
interview. "We’re responding to higher commodity prices, and
this is in keeping with what we’re seeing from our competitors."  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, said
last week it was raising prices on most models by an average of
1.7 percent. Higher commodities prices may add more than $1
billion to Ford’s costs this year, the company has said.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , is shutting factories in
Kentucky and  Belgium  this week because of parts shortages
related to the crisis in Japan. Production disruptions in Japan
may lead to a tight supply of vehicles from automakers such as
Toyota and Honda Motor Co.,  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based
analyst with  Barclays Capital , wrote today.  “In the face of potential supply disruptions, we expect
price discipline to improve further through the spring time,
when typically incentives increase seasonally,” Johnson wrote
in a research note.  Auto-incentive spending throughout the U.S. industry in
March fell 3.6 percent from February and 11 percent from a year
earlier to $2,484 per vehicle, according to Autodata Corp. in
 Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  Higher prices and automakers limiting sales to fleet
customers may reduce U.S. sales in April and May, Johnson wrote.  Ford Sales  Ford last raised prices by $130 per model, or 0.5 percent,
in January, Nissen said. Ford, which posted a 16 percent
increase in U.S. sales last month, can command higher prices
even in a fragile economic recovery, he said.  “There are signs of economic recovery such as job
growth,” Nissen said. “There are price increases in other
sectors, such as gasoline.”  U.S. unleaded gasoline prices averaged $3.66 a gallon
yesterday, up from $2.83 a year ago, according to AAA. The
average price in the U.S. peaked at $4.11 in July 2008.  Ford rose 39 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $15.55 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, its highest
closing price since Feb. 18. The shares have fallen 7.4 percent
this year after rising 68 percent last year.  Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker operated by Fiat
SpA, said its minivan assembly plant in Windsor, Ontario, will
be closed this week because of a parts shortage.  The supply shortages aren’t the related to the disaster in
 Japan , Katie Hepler, a Chrysler spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  