-- 
Former Somali Defense Minister Named President of Semi-Autonomous Region

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-04T11:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/former-somali-defense-minister-named-president-of-semi-autonomous-region.html
Former Somali Defense Minister
Mohamed Abdi Mohamed said he has been named president of
Jubaland, a proposed semi-autonomous region in the southwest of
the country currently controlled by an al-Qaeda-linked militia.  “I have been elected as the president for Jubaland,”
Mohamed said by phone today from Nairobi, the capital of
neighboring  Kenya . Mohamed said he couldn’t immediately comment
further as he was in transit.  The so-called Jubaland Initiative seeks to partition the
regions of Gedo, Lower Juba and Middle Juba and their 1.3
million people from Somalia. The process, first proposed by
Kenya, aims to create a neutral area along the two nations’
border to stop the effects of conflict in Somalia from spreading
to Kenya, said Barako Elema, a researcher at the  Institute for
Security Studies , a Cape Town-based research group.  “The plan is to create a buffer zone to stop the current
refugee crisis, piracy money and arms flow into Kenya; to
contain it in Somalia,” Elema said in a phone interview from
Nairobi.  Kenyan security forces were involved in at least two
clashes with members of Somalia’s al-Shabaab militia last month,
the Standard newspaper reported on March 31. In one incident, a
police station at Liboi, about 500 kilometers (342 miles)
northeast of Nairobi, was attacked by militants using a rocket-
propelled grenade. In the second, 12 al-Shabaab militants were
killed in a cross-border raid, it said.  Insurgency  Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of having links to al-
Qaeda, has taken control of most of southern and central Somalia
after it began an insurgency against the nation’s Western-backed
government in 2007. The country hasn’t had a functioning central
government since the ouster of Mohamed Said Barre, the former
dictator, in 1991.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki said last week the Somali
conflict is increasing the threat of regional instability and
appealed for aid from the international community to head off a
humanitarian catastrophe. The East African nation hosts more
than 500,000 Somali refugees, he said.  Mohamed was chosen as Jubaland’s leader at a meeting held
last week in Nairobi involving members of the six-nation  Inter-
Governmental Authority on Development , Somali lawmakers, African
Union officials and Western diplomats, Elema said. Jubaland will
model Somaliland and Puntland; the two breakaway regions in
northern Somalia that declared autonomy after the fall of Barre.  Ethiopian Resistance  The Jubaland Initiative has been resisted by the Ethiopian
authorities, Elema said. They are concerned that the move may
stoke secessionist sentiments among rebels in  Ethiopia ’s
southeastern Ogaden region who are clansmen of residents of
Jubaland, he said.  “Ethiopia has opposed the resolution to establish a semi-
autonomous state,” he said. “The Ogaden are already fighting for
secession from Ethiopia so that is a very precarious situation.”  The proposal to form Jubaland would first require resuming
control of the territory from al-Shabaab, Elema said. Somalia’s
interim government troops are supported by an  African Union
peacekeeping mission , known as Amisom, which is made up of
soldiers mainly from Uganda and Ethiopia.  Under the 2008-09  Djibouti Peace Process , which established
Somalia’s government, neighboring countries including Kenya and
Ethiopia cannot contribute troops to the mission, even though
the two nations help train Somali government forces, Elema said.  “Kenya can’t directly intervene with its military,” he
said. The proposal to form Jubaland “is to protect its own
territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Hamsa Omar in Nairobi via Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 