-- 
Fukushima Nuclear Crisis Worse for Atomic Power Than Chernobyl, UBS Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-04T04:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/fukushima-crisis-worse-for-nuclear-power-industry-than-chernobyl-ubs-says.html
The crisis unfolding at the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of  Tokyo  is likely to hurt the
nuclear power industry’s credibility more than the Chernobyl
disaster in 1986, UBS AG said.  The accident in the former  Soviet Union  25 years ago
“affected one reactor in a totalitarian state with no safety
culture,” UBS analysts including Per Lekander and Stephen Oldfield wrote in a report today. “At Fukushima, four reactors
have been out of control for weeks -- casting doubt on whether
even an advanced economy can master nuclear safety.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. has been working to stop radiation
leaks since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out the
plant’s cooling systems, resulting in a partial meltdown of some
reactors. Natural gas producers OAO Gazprom and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  are among companies set to benefit as countries
shift away from nuclear power, UBS said.  “We believe gas will be the main winner from any nuclear
power plant closures and scaled back new-build plans,” the
analysts, including Jim von Riesemann and Pankaj Srivastav,
wrote.  Woodside, Gazprom,  EDF SA (EDF) ,  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  Korea Electric Power
Corp. (KEP) ,  TECO Energy Inc. (TE) ,  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) ,
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Shanghai Electric Group Co.
are expected to gain after the crisis in  Japan  because of a
reduced reliance on nuclear power, higher fuel or power prices
or an overreaction by investors, according to the report.  “We believe the Fukushima accident was the most serious
ever for the credibility of nuclear power,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 