-- 
Fukushima Forces Nuclear Regulators Into ‘Unprecedented’ Industry Review

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-04-04T09:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/fukushima-forces-nuclear-regulators-into-unprecedented-review.html
Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
meltdown is forcing regulators into a broad review of the
industry aimed at shoring up public confidence in atomic power.  The Convention on Nuclear Safety, drafted after the 1986
Chernobyl meltdown in Ukraine, is meeting today in Vienna.
Regulators and industry representatives from the 72 countries
that have signed the treaty will go over nuclear-safety measures
in 10 days of closed-door meetings.  “The worries of millions of people throughout the world
about whether nuclear energy is safe must be taken seriously,”
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano
said, according to a transcript of his speech. “Rigorous
adherence to the most robust international safety standards and
full transparency, in good times and bad, are vital for
restoring and maintaining public confidence in nuclear power.”  The partial meltdown at Fukushima, where greater public
scrutiny may have uncovered decades of falsified safety reports,
has changed the way people view international nuclear incidents.
Measurement networks showing how radiation plumes move globally,
along with commercial satellite imagery and Internet
communication, mean the public has more information than ever
before about the consequences of nuclear breakdowns.  “Fukushima is unprecedented in the history of the
international nuclear industry,” Nuclear Energy Agency Director
General Luis Echavarri said today in Vienna. The unfolding
crisis at the stricken plant north of  Tokyo  will probably hurt
the nuclear-power industry’s credibility more than the Chernobyl
disaster in 1986, UBS AG said.  ‘Very Serious’  The situation at the reactors remains “very serious,”
Amano said, adding that “the immediate priority is to overcome
the crisis and stabilize the reactors.”  Nuclear-industry representatives are joining the meeting as
part of their national delegations, according to a preliminary
list of people registered for the conference. Groups of
countries will meet over four days and then present written
confidential reports during three more days of private sessions.  “Nuclear safety will become a global focus,” said  China ’s
Li Ganjie, the president of this week’s treaty meeting.’’
International cooperation will definitely be deepened. This
review meeting and the peer reviews will play a critical role.’’  The  IAEA , which is hosting the meeting, said in a statement
by Amano that Fukushima shows that “putting international
nuclear experts in touch with each other quickly during a crisis
needs to be improved.”  The IAEA dispatched two reactor engineers to the Fukushima
on April 1, three weeks after the earthquake and tsunami
disabled the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  