-- 
Japan Radiation Evacuees Left in Dark About Life After Shelters

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-05T03:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/fukushima-radiation-evacuees-left-guessing-from-shelters-about-future-life.html
When nuclear reactors damaged by
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami last month sent radiation levels
surging near his home 16 miles away, Nobuaki Fujioka and his
wife took a seven-hour bus ride to an evacuation center. After
two weeks of sleeping on a gymnasium floor next to 236 others,
he still has no idea when or if he can return.  “Going home is all I think about,” Fujioka, 65, said,
resting on a futon in Nagaoka city’s Nanbu Gymnasium, in
neighboring  Niigata prefecture . “We are left completely in the
dark about the future.”  Fujioka, who is from Minamisoma city, is one of about 9,000
evacuees from Fukushima prefecture living in 84 shelters in
Niigata and part of the 159,828 who remain homeless across Japan
following the 9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11.
While Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has promised to submit a spending
package this month to parliament to pay for reconstruction, few
details on the ground are deepening a sense of uncertainty and
hampering local planning efforts.  “More information is needed for decision-making,” Haruo
Kawakami, head of Nagaoka’s risk and disaster management
division, said in an interview. Without more guidance from
Fukushima or the central government, the city can’t go ahead
with long-term plans such as building temporary housing, he
said, prolonging the time families live on floors and rely on
volunteer assistance.  Destroyed Homes  Almost 55,000 homes were destroyed or damaged beyond repair
by the disaster, according to the  National Police Agency , and
27,688 are dead or missing as of 10 a.m. today. So far  the
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation  has
requested the construction of 30,000 temporary homes by the end
of May.  Under existing  law , victims whose homes are destroyed by
natural disasters are entitled to 1 million yen ($11,886) for
damages and another 2 million yen for rebuilding. Half the
payments are issued by the central government with the rest
coming from the prefectures.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today Tokyo
Electric Power Co., which owns the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant, is considering providing compensation for those
forced from their homes.  “Regardless of the total amount of compensation, evacuees
are very much in need of immediate financial relief,” Edano
said. “At this moment, plans haven’t been finalized.”  The government has also set up a special team to assist
residents near the reactor and intends to remove contamination
and monitor the environment.  Contamination Level  Radiation in the air above contaminated seawater near the
Dai-Ichi plant has been measured at more than 1,000
millisieverts an hour, Tepco said April 2. Exposure to that
level for an hour would trigger nausea, and four hours might
lead to death within two months, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  “At my age, radiation doesn’t worry me one bit,” said
Katsumitsu Shibata, a 79-year-old retired electric wiring
engineer whose house survived the earthquake and tsunami. He
said he only agreed to leave Minamisoma because stores ran out
of food. With two small bags and a backpack, he boarded one of
eight buses organized by the city that left at 10:30 a.m. on
March 19, arriving in  Nagaoka  seven hours later, Shibata said.  While the shelter offers ginger-infused foot baths and
trips to a local hot springs to soothe occupants, some say they
hunger most for information. Only 40 copies of the  Fukushima
Minpo  and Fukushima Minyu newspapers are delivered to the
shelter each day at the Nanbu Gymnasium, and they are often
hoarded, said Michio Sanpei.  ‘Completely Disappeared’  “Our mayor instructed us to evacuate, but since then, he’s
completely disappeared,” Sanpei, 65, complained next to his
wife Michiko, adding that no one knows how long their stay will
be. “I don’t care what the message is. Some kind of message
should be sent our way.”  As the start of the new school year approaches, Yurie Abe
said she’s enrolled her 16-year-old daughter in the local
Nagaoka Koryou High School.  “I have no idea when our school in Fukushima will re-
open,” Abe said. Given the commute time, she and her daughter
will move later this week to an apartment closer to the school,
provided by the city for free, she said.  Niigata itself received assistance from other prefectures
after a 6.6-magnitude earthquake in October 2004 killed more
than 40 people and destroyed 6,000 buildings.  “We are definitely happy to give back,” Kawakami, of
Nagaoka city hall said. “We just need more direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  