-- 
World Cup Win to Enrich Indian Cricketers as BP, Canon Seek Endorsements

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-04-04T18:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/gambhir-yuvraj-earnings-to-climb-30-percent-after-india-s-world-cup-win.html
After smashing  India  to cricket
World Cup victory, batsmen Yuvraj Singh and Gautam Gambhir may
see a 30 percent jump in earnings as companies including  BP Plc (BP/) 
and  Canon Inc. (7751)  vie for their endorsements.  India’s vanquishing of neighbor  Sri Lanka  in the
competition’s April 2 final came 28 years after it last lifted
the trophy and prompted Sonia Gandhi, leader of the ruling
Congress party, to join flag-waving crowds celebrating in  New
Delhi . Witnessed by billionaire Mukesh Ambani and the presidents
of both nations in a Mumbai stadium, the victory may spur more
companies to use team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his men
to sell everything from insurance to herbal drugs in  Asia ’s
fastest growing major economy after  China .  The players’ surge in income “will be significant if they
stay involved and consistent,” said Harish Krishnamachar, vice-
president at World Sports Group that manages the portfolio of
Sachin Tendulkar, the world’s most prolific batsman. “The
valuations of some of the players may go up by 30 percent.”  Yuvraj Singh , named player of the tournament, endorses
 Reebok  and Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. His annual fee just
jumped to 60 million rupees ($1.3 million) from 45 million
rupees before the event, said Bunty Sajdeh, chief executive
officer of Cornerstone Sports and Entertainment, which manages
his portfolio.  A record 67.6 million of India’s 1.2 billion people watched
the final between India and Sri Lanka, according to Audience
Measurement & Analytics Pvt. India became the first host nation
to win the event after Dhoni hit the winning runs with a six,
sending fans into a frenzy.  Beer, Pepsi  Dhoni last year signed at least 550 million rupees of
three-year deals with  United Breweries Ltd. (UBBL) , the maker of
Kingfisher beer, and cell-phone maker Maxx Mobile Communications
Ltd., according to  Rhiti Sports , which manages his portfolio.
Dhoni also backs PepsiCo Inc.’s cola and food products as well
as  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s televisions.  “The viewership reached a level where it can be compared
to the biggest television events across the world,” Jiniti Shah,
vice-president at Audience Measurement & Analytics Pvt. said.
The fact that cricket’s following in the sub-continent is rising
“is going to benefit the sporting fraternity.”  U.S. football’s Super Bowl tournament averaged 111 million
viewers,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox said in a statement on Feb. 7.  The match in Mumbai swung from one team to the other as Sri
Lanka’s batsmen recovered from their worst start in the
tournament to finish strongly before India, which lost Virender Sehwag to the second ball and national hero Tendulkar for 18,
came back to win under floodlights. They were just the third
team in nine finals to win batting second.  Victory Lap  Fans hit the streets bursting firecrackers, playing dholaks,
which are double-sided drums used during celebrations in north
India, and honked car horns well past midnight. Team members
carried Tendulkar, who appeared in his sixth  World Cup 
tournament, for a victory lap around the ground.  All the team members were photographed with the trophy in
front of the iconic Gateway of India the following day after
meeting Indian President Pratibha Patil.  Gambhir’s 97 runs in the final helped him rise four places
to 10th in the Reliance ICC Player Rankings for batsman in the
one-day version of the sport, according to an International
Cricket Council statement. Yuvraj Singh rose to the 4th rank for
all-rounders, according to the statement.  “In the short term cricket will be able to have a
significant impact and we will leverage on that with our
association,” Giriraj Bagri, chief marketing officer,  Castrol
India Ltd. (CSTRL) , BP’s unit, said in an interview today. “We will
consider getting young cricketers on board.”  Four years ago after India’s exit in the first round of the
tournament, companies including Videocon Industries Ltd.
replaced Dhoni with Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan to help sell
its appliances.  ‘Sunrise Industries’  Tendulkar, 37, endorses Castrol’s products, which are also
backed by soccer players including David Beckham and Cristiano Ronaldo. He is also the brand representative for Tokyo-based
Canon, the world’s largest maker of cameras.  The Japanese company is counting on Tendulkar and cricket
to triple the number of its stores to 300 by the end of 2012 in
the South Asian country, said Alok Bharadwaj, a vice president
at its India unit. “Our association is going to help us reach
our target customers faster,” he said.  Most of the new requests for endorsements will come from
“sunrise industries and the real estate sectors” said V.P.
Sathyamurthy, president and chief operating officer of Lintas
Media Group.  About 67.3 million people in India watched the semi final
duel between India and  Pakistan  on March 30, according to
Audience Measurement & Analytics.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI) ,
controlled by billionaire Anil Ambani, declared a holiday for
its staff that day, while his brother Mukesh’s  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  awarded employees a half-day off to “cheer the
Indian team to victory,” according to a company e-mail.  Cricket Power  The increase in popularity for players is a concern for
 Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , India’s second-largest motorcycle maker, which
doesn’t use cricketers to advertise its vehicles.  Players “endorse all my competitors,” Bajaj Auto’s
Managing Director Rajiv Bajaj told reporters in Mumbai after
India’s semifinal match with Pakistan on March 30. “It will
make competition very tough for us because it seems that people
buy whatever cricketers tell them to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  