-- 
German Bund Yield Near 15-Month High on Rates Bets; Irish Securities Rise

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-04-04T16:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/german-10-year-bund-yields-approach-the-highest-in-15-months-on-rate-bets.html
German 10-year government bond
yields stayed within four basis points of a 15-month high as
speculation mounted that the  European Central Bank  will increase
 interest rates  this week to stem rising consumer prices.  German inflation expectations, as measured by the so-called
breakeven rate, rose to the most on record after a report showed
producer-price inflation quickened to the fastest pace in more
than two years in February. Bonds from Ireland rose for a second
day after Morgan Stanley said investors should buy Irish
sovereign risk, especially longer-dated securities.  “The economy is still improving and inflation risks are
rising,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at
Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “For the near term,
all indicators are pointing in the direction of higher yields,
and the only thing that can prevent it is more sovereign-risk
turmoil.”  The 10-year bund yield was little changed at 3.37 percent
as of 4:35 p.m. in  London , after reaching 3.40 percent, one
basis point from the most since Jan. 8, 2010. The 2.5 percent
security due January 2021 traded at 92.865. Yields on two-year
notes were little changed at 1.81 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that
policy makers may raise the key rate from a record low of 1
percent as soon as their April 7 meeting. Factory-gate prices in
the euro region jumped 6.6 percent from a year earlier, the
fastest since September 2008, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today.  Inflation Pace  Consumer-price inflation in the region accelerated to 2.6
percent last month, the fastest pace in more than two years, the
statistics office said on March 31. Oil climbed to the highest
level in 30 months in  New York  today, with crude for May
delivery gaining as much as 84 cents to $108.78 a barrel.  The 10-year French breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between index-
linked bonds and their nominal peers, rose for a 14th straight
day, climbing to an all-time high.  The difference in yield between 10-year index-linked bonds
and similar-maturity conventional securities increased as much
as seven basis points to 252 basis points. The equivalent rate
in  Germany  also reached the highest on record, advancing to 240
basis points.  Investors should buy Irish sovereign risk after bank stress
tests last week proved “credible,” moving the focus to the
country’s economy, according to Morgan Stanley.  Irish Yields  The bank’s “preferred trade” is to buy longer-dated Irish
 government bonds , specifically the 5.4 percent securities due in
2025, which closed on April 1 at 70 cents on the euro to yield
9.4 percent, London-based strategists led by chief European
economist  Elga Bartsch  said in a report today.  Irish 10-year yields fell 20 basis points to 9.78 percent.
The yield on  Italy ’s benchmark 10-year security dropped five
basis points to 4.76 percent and the yield on similar-maturity
Spanish debt slipped three basis points to 5.28 percent.  Portugal’s bonds fell amid speculation that the nation may
become the EU’s third to seek external aid. The country’s debt
was reduced on April 1 to BBB-, Fitch’s lowest investment grade,
and the ratings company said more cuts may follow.  Portugal will auction bills maturing October 2011 and March
2012 this week.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Portugal’s ranking twice
within a week, to BBB-, also its lowest investment grade.  ‘Hat-trick’ of downgrades  “We had a hat-trick in terms of downgrades last week,”
said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London. “The upcoming bills supply may also trigger some
cheapening, keeping Portuguese government bonds in a negative
feedback loop.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield rose nine basis points to 8.60
percent.  Greek bonds were removed from indexes managed by Citigroup
Inc. and Barclays Plc last year after they were downgraded to
so-called junk, stoking a selloff as fund managers with a
mandate to track the measures dumped the securities.  For Portuguese debt to be taken out of Citigroup’s World
Government Bond Index, the nation would need to be downgraded to
sub-investment grade by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service, according to Nishay Patel, a London-based
interest-rate strategist for the bank.  “Investors are paying close attention to Moody’s credit
rating for  Portugal ,” because its rating of A3 is four steps
above a junk rating, he said.  German government bonds handed investors a 2.4 percent loss
this year, while U.S. Treasuries were little changed, according
to indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Portuguese debt is the worst
performer among the euro-region nations, dropping 9.6 percent
this year, while Irish securities have lost 4.8 percent. Spanish
debt gained 2.2 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  