-- 
German Power, Carbon Prices Rise to Highest in 19 Months

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-04T18:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/german-power-carbon-prices-rise-to-highest-in-19-months.html
German power and European Union
carbon permits rose to their highest prices in more than 19
months as utilities prepare to hedge forward sales of
electricity generated from fossil fuels.  German power for 2012 rose 0.8 percent to 60.55 euros ($86)
a megawatt hour, the highest level since August 2009, according
to prices from brokers compiled by Bloomberg. EU emission
allowances for December rose 0.5 percent to close at 17.31 euros
a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London, the
highest price since May 2009.  German utilities will probably be buying back their presold
nuclear power for the next two or three months, said Tschach
Solutions GmbH, a supplier of data on carbon markets. Utilities
likely will be seek board approval this week to buy back the
power as regulators push for permanent closure of seven or eight
German plants, said Ingo Tschach, managing director.  Traders are speculating that atomic energy will play a
smaller role in Europe as utilities switch to coal and natural
gas to generate electricity after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami triggered radiation leaks from the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant.  As the utilities buy back the nuclear power, they will sell
fossil-fuel electricity, pushing up forward prices for coal,
natural gas and carbon permits, Tschach said today by phone and
e-mail. The “total price effect of rebalancing power hedges to
adopt to upcoming regulation will be in the order of 2 to 3
euros a ton” for carbon permits over the next three months.  The closed reactors will boost emissions by 35 million tons
a year, and carbon prices probably will rise to 20 euros by
June, Tschach said. The forecast assumes supply of 20 million
tons of United Nations offsets a month in April, May and June,
he said. Once they have board approval, the utilities will
probably start hedging during the next few weeks, even before
the permanent reactor closures are announced, he said. “To wait
would be very costly.” German power rose 13 percent last April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  