-- 
Glencore Said to Study Starting IPO Next Week; Investments Jump

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-04T12:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/glencore-said-to-consider-starting-ipo-next-week-investment-values-surge.html
Glencore International AG, the
world’s largest commodities trader, is considering filing its
intention to sell shares in  London  as early as next week,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale.  The stock may begin trading in London and  Hong Kong  at the
same time in May, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential. Glencore won approval
from the Hong Kong exchange on April 1 to sell shares in the
city, two people said last week.  The value of Glencore’s 10 largest holdings, including a 34
percent stake in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , climbed to $32 billion as of 12:50
p.m. in London, the highest level since April 2010. The value
dropped as low as $28 billion last month after  Japan ’s worst
earthquake on record prompted a global stocks selloff.  Simon Buerk, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, today declined to comment on the IPO timing.  Commodities rose to a two-year high today, while more than
$20 billion of takeovers spurred gains in stocks. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI spot index of 24 raw materials increased 0.5 percent
at 12:51 p.m. in London, advancing 9.9 percent from its lowest
intraday point last month. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index added 0.3
percent, extending gains since its March low to 7.5 percent.  $10 Billion Sale  An initial public offering by Glencore, which changed its
name from Marc Rich & Co. after management bought out former
fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich in 1994, would end more than
three decades of being a closely held partnership. The sale may
raise a total of $10 billion in London and Hong Kong, people
with knowledge of the matter said Jan. 26.  After its Xstrata holding, Glencore’s next largest stake is
an 8.8 percent interest in United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer. Glencore also owns 74 percent of  Katanga
Mining Ltd. (KAT)  and 71 percent of Australian nickel producer Minara
Resources Ltd. It holds stakes in Century Aluminum Co. and
Nyrstar NV, the biggest zinc producer.  Glencore’s 10 largest mining-company investments are listed
in its published holdings as of Dec. 31, according to its annual
report to bondholders obtained by Bloomberg News.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
will manage Glencore’s IPO as global coordinators, while  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  may be named bookrunners, two people said March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 Zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 