-- 
Lehman Creditors Including Goldman Said to Draft Competing Payment Plan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-05T15:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/goldman-more-than-10-lehman-creditors-said-to-draft-a-rival-payment-plan.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
creditors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have drafted a
payment plan that would compete with the defunct bank’s $61
billion proposal, taking back money that Lehman sought to give
to bondholders, said two people familiar with the matter.  The draft plan by the group, which includes more than 10
banks with derivatives claims on Lehman, has met with
disapproval from Lehman and may be filed in court by next week,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the plan isn’t public.  Bryan Marsal , chief executive officer of
Lehman, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment. Blackstone Group LP has advised the derivatives group
for about a year, the two people said.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone
spokesman, declined to comment.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank AG,
Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Barclays Plc and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  filed derivatives claims ranging from at least
$900 million to almost $3 billion against Lehman’s special
financing unit, based on claim records. A “high percentage” of
the largest derivatives claimholders are in the group with
Goldman, one of the people said.  Rival Plan  The rival plan by Goldman Sachs and other derivatives
creditors would be the second that Marsal has had to contend
with, in trying to get Lehman out of  bankruptcy court  after
collecting $412.7 million in fees in 29 ½ months for his
restructuring firm.  Hedge fund Paulson & Co. and other bondholders filed a plan
in December that said it would take money from derivatives
creditors to give to bondholders. Lehman responded by saying in
its January plan that it would share the money more in line with
bondholders’ proposal.  The Paulson group includes the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , or Calpers, and Pacific Investment Management
Co. Any creditors who wish to have their plan considered along
with Lehman’s should file it with the bankruptcy court judge by
April 29, according to the Paulson group.  In the next few years, Marsal aims to raise $61 billion
from Lehman’s assets to pay $322 billion in claims, or an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar for each creditor, he said
in January. Lehman filed bankruptcy in 2008 listing $613 billion
in debt.  Cram-Down  Bankrupt companies can sometimes impose their own plan on
creditors who oppose it. The Goldman Sachs group believes a so-
called cram-down might be tough for Lehman because its proposal
conflicts with bankruptcy law in taking money from derivatives
creditors, one of the people said.  Goldman Sachs’ two biggest claims filed against the Lehman
Brothers Special Financing unit totaled about $2.5 billion,
according to claim records. The bank filed duplicate claims
based on guarantees by Lehman, filings show. Goldman Sachs,
which trades Lehman IOUs, sold Silver Point Capital LP funds a
$10.5 million LBSF claim earlier this year, according to a March
30 filing.  Because of a so-called “double dip,” derivatives
creditors were originally in line to get 38.3 cents on the
dollar as Lehman liquidated, Paulson and other bondholders
calculated. The bondholders would cut that to 25.7 cents and
raise their payout to 24.5 cents.  Lehman aims to win a judge’s approval of its plan by Nov.
17 after an October vote and is negotiating with creditors on
its details. Approval of the plan will be “contentious,” given
the competing proposal by Paulson and other creditors, Lehman
has said.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 