-- 
Google Product Chief Jonathan Rosenberg Resigns After Page Takes CEO Job

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/google-product-chief-jonathan-rosenberg-to-resign-from-company.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Senior Vice President
Jonathan Rosenberg plans to step down, a move that may give
freer rein to new Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  as he tries
to shake up the company.  Rosenberg announced his resignation today, the  Mountain
View , California-based company said in an e-mailed statement. He
oversaw the design and creation of all of Google’s products,
including consumer and business services.  Page, who took the CEO job from  Eric Schmidt  today, has
pledged to create a more nimble, startup-minded culture at the
company. The departure of a senior leader may help that plan by
making business divisions more autonomous, said Stephen Miles,
vice chairman at executive consulting firm Heidrick & Struggles.  “What they will try and do is embed people in specific
business units in order to speed up those businesses, instead of
having an overarching group of people who pick and choose where
they spend their time,” Miles said.  Rosenberg joined Google in 2002 after working at Excite
AtHome Corp.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other Silicon Valley companies.
Last month, Google awarded him a bonus of $1.7 million and $5
million in stock.  “Jonathan is phenomenal -- hugely energetic, strategic, a
man of real principle who always puts the user first,” Page, 38,
said in a statement. “He’s been crucial to our success over the
last nine years.”  Need for Speed  Page, who co-founded Google with  Sergey Brin  in 1998, faces
the challenge of invigorating a company that now has annual
revenue of almost $30 billion and a market value approaching
$200 billion.  “Every time we increase the size of the company, we need to
keep things going to make sure we keep our speed, pace and
passion,” he said in an interview earlier this year.  Schmidt, 55, had served as CEO for a decade. He will stay
with Google as executive chairman.  Google fell $4.12 to $587.68 today in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have declined 1.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  