-- 
Google Offers $900 Million for Nortel's Wireless Patents as Lead Bidder

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-04T20:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/google-enters-pact-to-buy-nortel-networks-patents-for-900-mln.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  offered $900 million in
cash for the rights to Nortel Networks Corp. patents as the
world’s biggest Internet-search company seeks to stave off
lawsuits by bolstering its portfolio of intellectual property.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in January 2009, selected Google for a
“stalking horse” agreement, a starting point against which
others bid prior to an auction, Toronto-based Nortel said in a
statement today. The planned sale includes about 6,000 patents
and patent applications for wired, wireless and digital
communications technologies.  Google is moving into areas such as mobile and desktop
operating systems to broaden sales, a strategy that has spurred
patent lawsuits from companies including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  The
agreement with Google follows multiple rounds of bidding
involving several interested companies, Nortel said.  “One of a company’s best defenses against this kind of
litigation is (ironically) to have a formidable patent
portfolio, as this helps maintain your freedom to develop new
products and services,” Google General Counsel Kent Walker said
today in a  blog post . “Google is a relatively young company,
and although we have a growing number of patents, many of our
competitors have larger portfolios given their longer
histories.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , fell $4.12 to
$587.68 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have declined 1.1 percent this year.  ‘80-Pound Weakling’  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest
computer-services provider, was issued 5,896 U.S. patents in
2010, followed by 4,551 for Samsung Electronics Co. and 3,094
for Microsoft Corp., according to data from  IFI Claims Patent
Services . Google was issued 276 patents last year, the research
firm said.  Nortel’s patent portfolio would boost Google’s efforts in
mobile software as the industry moves to so-called long-term
evolution networks, which include more video capabilities, said
Peter Conley, a managing director with MDB Capital Group LLC in
Santa Monica, California, an investment bank specializing in
intellectual property. The portfolio also gives Google a bigger
war chest of patents to contend with lawsuits, he said.  ‘80-Pound Weakling’  “It turns them from the 80-pound weakling into an entity
that’s more in line with its industry peers,” Conley said. “If
you don’t buy them, someone else will and it will lead to all
sorts of unintended consequences. You need to look at this with
a 360-degree view.”  A purchase of such a large number of patents could bring
Google both more lawsuits and settlements, said Paul Devinsky, a
partner with  McDermott Will & Emery  in Washington. The purchase
price of $900 million is “breathtaking,” he said.  “If they are all really good patents, that number wouldn’t
be too off the wall,” said Devinsky, who specializes in both
patent licensing and litigation. “It looks like mutually
assured destruction time, assuming they just got armed with the
right missiles.”  Oracle filed a patent and copyright infringement lawsuit
against Google last year over its mobile Android software,
citing technology Oracle gained from its acquisition of Sun
Microsystems Inc.  Android Suits  Often, Google’s partners -- not just Google -- have faced
Android-related legal actions.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a complaint with
the U.S. International Trade Commission last year against  HTC
Corp. (2498)  for alleged patent infringement with its Android-based
phones. That case is scheduled for a trial in Washington
beginning April 18. Microsoft also has sued Android partners,
including Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Barnes & Noble
Inc., saying that any company using Android owes patent
royalties to the Redmond, Washington-based software maker.  Google gives away Android software for free and then makes
money selling mobile-based advertising.  The patent portfolio “touches nearly every aspect of
telecommunications” and others markets, including Internet
search and social networking, Nortel said. The sale, subject to
Canadian and U.S. court approvals, is expected in June, the
company said.  The patent portfolio is the last significant asset the
company has to sell. Since filing bankruptcy in the U.S.,  Canada 
and the U.K., Nortel has sold almost all of its businesses,
raising about $3 billion to distribute to creditors. Creditors
of the company’s main U.S. unit, Nortel Networks, claimed they
were owed $16.3 billion, according to  bankruptcy court  documents
the company filed in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Nortel has said shareholders aren’t expected to get
anything back after creditors have been paid. Nortel hired
 Global IP Law Group  to either sell the patents or create a new
company that would license the telecommunications technologies.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  