-- 
Great American, Tiger Liquidators Said to Join Icahn in Blockbuster Bid

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/great-american-tiger-liquidators-said-to-join-icahn-in-blockbuster-bid.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s offer for
 Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  has attracted a second group of liquidators,
 Great American Group Inc. (GAMR)  and Tiger Capital Group LLC, to join
his auction bid for the bankrupt movie-rental company, two
people familiar with the matter said.  The liquidators face competition from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
and SK Telecom Co., according to another person familiar with
the case. The companies participated in closed-door bidding
yesterday at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . Another group
of liquidators, Gordon Brothers Group LLC and Hilco Merchant
Resources LLC, are also bidding on the company, the person said.  Eight hours of closed-door bidding in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan yesterday was closed to outside parties, and will
resume today with an open auction. The auction was based on a
so-called stalking horse offer of $290 million from lenders to
the Dallas-based company, including  Monarch Alternative Capital
LP , which had to be topped by other qualifying bids.  The presence of liquidators at an auction doesn’t
necessarily mean the company will end up closing, as liquidators
commonly bid for the assets of retailers, said Raniero D’Aversa,
a bankruptcy lawyer at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliff LLP who
isn’t involved in the case.  “They always swarm these cases,” D’Aversa said in an e-
mail, noting that liquidators might have to offer more money or
otherwise make their offer more attractive to be competitive
with offers that would keep the company operating.  Bids Weighed  “Debtors often weigh the bids differently,” D’Aversa
said. “A going concern bid may assume some liabilities and
contracts that a liquidation bid doesn’t.”  Ron Whittington, a spokesman for Great American, declined
to comment. Albert Nassi, a principal at Tiger, and Michael
McGrail, a managing director at Tiger, didn’t return calls or e-
mails seeking comment. Icahn spokeswoman  Susan Gordon  declined
to immediately comment.  Hilco and Gordon Brothers may seek to liquidate the company
or work with Dish or SK Telecom to manage hundreds of
Blockbuster store-closure sales as part of a reorganization,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public.  Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Dish Communications, declined
to comment. SK Telecom Chief Executive Officer Ha Sung-Min
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  2,400 Stores  Michael Freitag, Blockbuster spokesman, declined to comment
on the involvement of liquidators or any other aspect of the
auction, including how many bidders are involved, and who the
bidders are.  Blockbuster has 2,400 U.S. stores as of yesterday, with
plans to close another 700 by mid-April, Freitag said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who is overseeing
Blockbuster’s bankruptcy case, said at a March 10 hearing that
the company appeared to be administratively insolvent, or unable
to pay its priority claims and the cost of its bankruptcy.
Liquidation is an advantage to companies that don’t have enough
to pay creditors because it lets them sell merchandise quickly
in exchange for cash to satisfy their highest priority
creditors.  “A slightly lower going concern bid that will keep
employees working could be favored in the debtor’s business
judgment over a slightly higher bid from a liquidator, although
the secured creditors might fight it,” said Evan Flaschen,
chairman of the restructuring group at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP,
who isn’t involved in the case.  Hudson Capital Partners LLC and SB Capital Group LLC were
also working with Tiger and Great American, one person said. A
message left in the general mailboxes for Hudson Capital
Partner’s Newton, Massachusetts, office and SB Capital’s  New
York  Office weren’t returned.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York
at   llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 