-- 
Toyota Beats Bid by Asia, Europe Plaintiffs to Join Acceleration Lawsuits

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-04-05T00:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/group-from-outside-u-s-can-t-join-toyota-suits-in-california-judge-rules.html
A group of plaintiffs from 13
countries can’t join U.S. litigation against  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) 
over sudden unintended acceleration of its vehicles, said a
judge coordinating hundreds of lawsuits against the automaker.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
 California , granted Toyota’s motions to dismiss lawsuits filed
by 41 plaintiffs from countries in  Asia ,  Europe ,  Australia  and
Central America seeking permission to sue over claims that their
vehicles were devalued because of defects that caused Toyota to
recall millions of cars.  The judge ruled that the foreign plaintiffs hadn’t produced
enough evidence to show that that they should be included in the
U.S. litigation and that he lacks jurisdiction over their
claims. Selna told a lawyer for the plaintiffs that they can try
to change his mind on some of his findings and said he was
“skeptical” they would be able to do so.  U.S. lawsuits against Toyota alleging economic loss,
wrongful death or personal injury from sudden unintended
acceleration were consolidated before Selna last April. The
judge has told lawyers that he wants the first cases to go to
trial in early 2013.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles last year and in 2009, most for defects related to
unintended acceleration. It paid a record $48.8 million in fines
for how some of the recalls were conducted. The carmaker said
last month that it’s recalling another 2.17 million vehicles in
the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws that could jam gas
pedals.  Evidence Gathering  If the judge had denied Toyota’s motion, more plaintiffs
from foreign countries may have sought to join the litigation
and share in pre-trial evidence gathering, including the
questioning of Toyota officials and access to Toyota’s secret
source code for its electronic throttle-control system, said
Monica Kelly, the attorney seeking legal standing for the
foreign plaintiffs.  Selna’s ruling will allow any foreign plaintiffs who owned
cars manufactured in the U.S. to join in the litigation if
plaintiffs’ lawyers for domestic cases allow them, Kelly said
after the hearing. She said two of the current plaintiffs own
cars manufactured in the  United States .  “Now we know that all foreign plaintiffs who own U.S.-made
cars can join the domestic litigation,” she said.  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota, said the
company believes Selna ruled correctly that the foreign
plaintiffs have failed to meet the legal requirements to bring
their claims against the company in a U.S. court.  ‘Fundamental Problem’  “Although the court allowed the foreign plaintiffs an
opportunity to try to amend their complaint, we do not see how
they overcome the fundamental problem that these claims should
be brought in the plaintiffs’ home countries, not in the U.S.,”
she said in an e-mailed statement.  Toyotas are manufactured in at least 26 countries
worldwide, and more than 170 corporate entities market and sell
Toyotas in at least 170 countries, according to the statement.  The cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  