-- 
Middle America Business Conditions Index for March (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-04-04T20:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/middle-america-business-conditions-index-for-march-text-.html
Following is the text from the Mid-
America Business Conditions Survey of supply managers and
business leaders in the region from Creighton University.  Exports leading the way to improving growth
Inflation gauge climbs above 80.0 for the seventh time in the
past year
Leading economic indicator points to healthy growth for next six
months
Business confidence remains high despite economic and political
turmoil
Almost 16 percent of firms expect significant supply disruptions
resulting from the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  For the first time since October of last year, the Business
Conditions Index, a leading economic indicator for the nine-
state Mid-America region, declined but remained in a range
pointing to healthy economic growth for next three to six months.
However, as in prior months, the March survey indicates rising
inflationary pressures at the wholesale level.  Overall index:  The index, a leading economic indicator that ranges between
0 and 100, slipped to 61.4 from 63.2 in February. This is the
16th consecutive month that the index has been above growth
neutral.  An index of 50.0 is considered growth neutral. The
overall index, or Business Conditions Index, is a mathematical
average of indices for new orders, production or sales,
employment, inventories and delivery lead time.  This is the
same methodology used by the national  Institute for Supply
Management   “Very healthy growth stemming from the export of
agricultural and manufacturing goods continues to be an
important source of growth in the region,” Creighton University
Economics Professor Ernie Goss said today.  Employment:  For a 15th straight month, the regional employment index
remained above growth neutral. The March job reading advanced to
a very healthy 60.3 from February’s 58.3. “This month, only 10.7
percent of firms reported reductions in employment. This
compares to 31.3 percent reporting expansions in employment for
the month. As in past months, firms in nonurban areas are
reporting much stronger hiring than their counterparts in urban
areas of the region,” said Goss, director of Creighton’s
Economic Forecasting Group and the Jack A. MacAllister Chair in
Regional Economics.  “From the beginning of the recession in December 2007 until
March of last year the region lost more than 553,000 jobs. Over
the past year, the region has recovered approximately 14 percent
of those jobs. Our surveys over the past several months indicate
that the region will add another 100,000 by the end of 2011
leaving the region down 379,000 jobs, or 3.0 percent, since
beginning of the recession,” said Goss.  Wholesale Prices:  The prices-paid index, which tracks the cost of raw
materials and supplies, dipped to a still inflationary 88.0 from
89.2 in February. “Since the national recession ended in June
2009, we have tracked what I consider to be highly inflationary
increases in our price gauge,” said Goss.  “We continue to record unacceptably high inflationary
pressures at the wholesale level. The upward pressures in prices
will be further exacerbated by disruptions of supplies and
products from Japan, said Goss. “Additionally, the  Federal
Reserve ’s record low short-term interest rate policy and the
Fed’s policy of buying long-term U.S. Treasury debt,
quantitative easing 2 (QE2), will continue to contribute to
higher inflationary pressures. Over the past three months, U.S.
wholesale prices have advanced at an annualized pace of more
than 15 percent. Surveys of supply managers, both in our region
and nationally, indicate that this elevated pace will continue
at least through the summer of this year.  Confidence:  Looking ahead six months, economic optimism, as captured by
the March business confidence index, dipped to a still strong
65.8 from 71.0 in February. “Despite higher commodity prices,
unacceptably elevated unemployment rates, and Japanese supply
disruptions, supply managers remain upbeat in their economic
outlook,” said Goss.  Inventories: For the 13th time in the past 14 months, supply
managers in the nine-state region expanded inventory levels. The
March inventory index slipped to 60.9 from 61.9 in February.
“The extended buildup in inventories of raw materials and
supplies is another indication of the degree of economic
optimism among supply managers as they expect growing sales to
reduce supply inventories in the months ahead,” said Goss.  This month supply managers were asked how they expected the
Japanese tragedy to affect their purchases of supplies and
inputs. Approximately two-thirds of respondents expected little
or no impact on the price of purchases while only 4 percent
anticipated price increases of more than 10 percent resulting
from the earthquake and tsunami. In terms of deliveries,
approximately 15.6 percent expect significant delays in
obtaining supplies while 55.8 percent anticipate little or no
impact on delivery speed stemming from the Japanese disaster.
The remaining supply managers anticipate minor delays.  Trade:  An expanding global economy continues to boost regional
trade numbers. Aided by a cheap dollar making U.S. goods more
competitively priced abroad, March’s new export orders index
stood at a healthy 57.5 compared to February’s 62.4 and
January’s 54.7.  The region’s import reading expanded to 58.1
from 57.7 in February. “Despite all of the international turmoil
and uncertainty, businesses continue to expand both sales and
purchases abroad,” said Goss.  Other components:  Other components of the March Business Conditions Index
were new orders at 65.7, unchanged from February; production or
sales at 63.0, down from 65.6; and delivery lead time at 57.2,
down from 64.7 in February.  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group has conducted the
monthly survey of supply managers in nine states since 1994 to
produce leading economic indicators of the Mid-America economy.
States included in the survey are  Arkansas ,  Iowa ,  Kansas ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri ,  Nebraska ,  North Dakota ,  Oklahoma  and  South
Dakota .  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group uses the same
methodology as a national survey by the Institute for Supply
Management, formerly the Purchasing Management Association,
which has formally surveyed its membership since 1931 to gauge
business conditions. The overall index, referred to as the
Business Conditions Index, ranges between 0 and 100. An index
greater than 50 indicates an expansionary economy over the
course of the next three to six months.  SOURCE: Mid-America Business Conditions Survey,
http:/www.outlook-economic.com  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  