-- 
Idea Cellular Said to Weigh Sale of Stake, Hold Talks With MTN

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-04-05T05:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/idea-cellular-said-to-weigh-stake-sale-hold-talks-with-south-africa-s-mtn.html
Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) ’s controlling
shareholder is weighing a sale of its stake in India’s third-
largest mobile-phone company by value and held talks with
potential bidders including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Discussions between India’s  Aditya Birla Group  and MTN,
based in Johannesburg, are at an early stage and may not result
in a transaction, said the people, who declined to be named
because the information is private. Birla Group is also talking
with telephone companies in the U.S. and  Europe  about a deal for
the stake in Idea, said two of the people.  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s Aditya Birla controls
Idea with a 47 percent stake and Malaysia’s  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) 
owns 19 percent. Idea’s market capitalization is about $5.15
billion and the Birla Group’s stake is valued at about $2.41
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Any deal with
MTN would likely involve a mix of cash and shares, said one of
the people.  MTN had about $5.4 billion cash as of the end of December,
data shows. Axiata, Southeast Asia’s second-largest mobile-phone
provider, in February booked a 1.1 billion-ringgit ($364
million) impairment on its investment in Idea after the market
value declined. The writedown reflects the “intense competition
following the entry of a number of new operators to the Indian
market,” Axiata said in a statement on Feb. 23.  Idea gained 2.6 percent to 69.3 rupees at 10:12 a.m. in
Mumbai, poised for its highest close in two months, after rising
as much as 20 percent.  Tower Surge  MTN, Africa’s largest mobile-phone company, has failed to
reach deals at least four times in the past two years. It ended
talks with Weather Investments SpA to buy as much as $10 billion
in assets from Egypt’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  in June. MTN
and India’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest wireless
operator, failed in 2009 to reach agreement for a second time,
while talks with Mumbai-based  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  over
a deal collapsed in 2008.  Pragnya Ram, a spokeswoman for Aditya Birla Group in
Mumbai, denied that the group was in talks to sell the stake.
MTN spokesman  Rich Mkhondo  declined to comment.  “Axiata does not comment on reports which are speculative
in nature,” the Kuala Lumpur-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. “However, we would like to reiterate our long-
term commitment to Idea which represents an important strategic
stake for Axiata.”  Idea has expanded its number of cell-phone towers from
10,000 in the year ending March 2007 to 70,000 in the last
quarter, said Piyush Choudhary, a Mumbai-based analyst with
 Indiabulls Securities Ltd. (IBSEC)   Dividend Focus  Regulatory concerns triggered by official probes into the
2008 allocation of 2G licenses are “reflected in the current
valuations,” Choudhary said. “We expect re-rating of the stock
led by robust operational performance and as regulatory concerns
recede.”  MTN will increase dividends to shareholders in the absence
of takeover opportunities, and the company will “continue to
evaluate” acquisitions, outgoing Chief Executive Officer
 Phuthuma Nhleko  said on March 9. He was replaced this month by
Sifiso Dabengwa, who had been chief operating officer since
2004.  “I understood MTN is not doing something company
transforming,” said Neville Chester, who helps manage the
equivalent of $33 billion at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in
 Cape Town . “I would be surprised” if the company made a big
acquisition after saying it would focus on dividends, he said.  Proposal Evaluation  Idea on Sept. 20 said in a filing to the stock exchanges
that the company continuously evaluates various proposals. Idea
added 2.5 million customers in January, the last month for which
the Telecom Regulatory Authority of  India  has complete
information, bringing its share of India’s 771 million mobile
subscribers to about 10 percent.  With 84.3 million subscribers, Idea is the fifth-largest
private operator in terms of customers in India’s crowded
telecom market, where as many as 15 operators compete for
customers who pay amongst the lowest rate per minute in the
world.  “Everybody agrees and recognizes that there’s just way too
many companies out there and some amount of M&A needs to take
place,” said Kunal Bajaj, head of telecommunications consulting
firm Analysys Mason India Pvt. in New Delhi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  