-- 
IEA’s Tanaka Says Carbon Cuts Will Be More Costly Without Nuclear Energy

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-04T14:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/iea-s-tanaka-says-carbon-cuts-will-be-more-costly-without-nuclear-energy.html
Increased public fear about nuclear
energy following an accident at a Japanese reactor could make
cutting  carbon emissions  more expensive, according to
International Energy Agency Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka .  “Public fear not only in Japan but in other parts of the
world is rising,” Tanaka said today at a press conference in
Paris. He said the impact of the battle by Japanese nuclear
workers to gain control over the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant
is “worrisome.”  “This may have a negative impact on the further
development of nuclear power,” he said.  The IEA, which advises 28 nations on  energy policy , in
November projected the world will add 360 gigawatts of new
nuclear generating capacity to the existing 390 gigawatts by
2035. Since the accident at Fukushima, the agency has modeled
the possible consequences of a halving of that new build, IEA
chief economist  Fatih Birol  said in a March 30 interview.  “A low nuclear power scenario is much more costly,”
Tanaka said today of reaching a goal agreed by 193 nations at
United Nations climate talks in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun in
2010 to try to contain global warming. “If nuclear power is
available only at lower ends of projections, costs of low-carbon
technology will be higher.”  Since the accident at Fukushima, caused by a March 11
earthquake and tsunami,  China  has cut a target for raising
nuclear power capacity by 2020, Italy has imposed a one-year
moratorium on atomic projects and Germany has temporarily halted
its oldest reactors.  “We want more patience from the public until the cause of
the accident is known,” Tanaka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  