-- 
Ignatieff Frames Choice Between Spending, Harper Tax Cuts in Canadian Vote

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-04T14:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/ignatieff-frames-choice-between-spending-harper-tax-cuts-in-canadian-vote.html
Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff ,
seeking to make up ground in polls, opened week two of Canada’s
election campaign asking voters to choose between more social
spending and Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s tax
breaks for businesses.  Ignatieff proposed programs worth C$8.2 billion ($8.5
billion) over two years yesterday, to be paid for by reversing
corporate tax cuts implemented by Harper, capping  tax deductions 
for  stock options  and ending subsidies for energy companies.  The Liberal platform “belongs to everyone because it’s
about your family,” Ignatieff, 63, said yesterday in Ottawa.
“We can strengthen families, without raising their taxes, if we
stop corporate giveaways.” The 94-page document repeated
commitments to create early child education spaces, boost
benefits for people caring for sick or elderly relatives and
establish grants for postsecondary education. Another C$700
million a year would go to seniors living in poverty.  Ignatieff trails Harper by about 10 percentage points in
the most recent polls, and his emphasis on social programs is an
attempt to win more of the anti-Conservative vote from the other
opposition parties and close that gap ahead of the May 2
elections, said Michael Behiels, a history professor at the
University of Ottawa.  “When you are seeking power you go on the offense,”
Behiels said in a telephone interview.  The  New Democratic Party , which also is calling for higher
corporate income taxes and more social spending, had 36 seats in
the 308-member  House of Commons  before elections were called.
The Liberals held 77 seats, the Conservatives 143 and the Bloc
Quebecois 47.  Majority Unclear  Polls suggest the Conservatives would win the most seats in
the election, although it isn’t clear if they would win a
majority.  The Conservatives were supported by 42.3 percent of decided
voters, followed by 28.4 percent who supported the Liberals,
according to a CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey published today
and taken April 1-April 3. The telephone survey of 1,200 people
has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percent.  Support for the Conservatives has risen from 38.4 percent
in a Nanos poll published March 30, while the Liberals have seen
their popularity little changed from 28.7 percent.  Wasting Money  Ignatieff’s strategy has been to attack Harper for wasting
money on new fighter jets and prisons, and neglecting education
and health care. The Liberal leader, a former professor at
 Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is also seeking
to portray himself as more open and democratic than Harper,
aiming to take advantage of a  parliamentary finding  last month
that held the governing Conservatives in “contempt” of the
House of Commons for withholding information.  Ignatieff has challenged Harper to a one-on-one debate, on
top of the traditional multiparty debates held during Canadian
election campaigns. He has also spoken at town hall meetings and
done interviews with national media.  Ignatieff, who last week regularly took public walks and
entered shops to shake hands, has accused Harper of running a
tour in a bubble because the Conservative leader limits his
press conferences to five questions and relies primarily on
scripted campaign events. At one event in Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Harper kept reporters behind a fence about 40 feet away from the
podium.  ‘Bubble Campaign’  The Conservatives looked at pre-election polls showing they
had a lead and “decided to go into a bubble campaign where they
take no risks whatsoever, none,” Behiels said.  Harper has said his preference was to have only one debate
with Ignatieff alone, without the other leaders, a proposal he
says the Liberals rejected. When asked at a press conference
last week why his campaign was limiting questions, Harper asked
reporters if they had any additional questions to ask.  The central component of the Liberals’  economic platform  is
to boost revenue by returning the corporate income tax rate back
to 18 percent. The country’s corporate tax rate was lowered on
Jan. 1 to 16.5 percent from 18 percent, and will fall to 15
percent in 2012 under Canadian law.  Ignatieff’s platform also says the Liberals will shrink
 Canada ’s deficit to 1 percent of gross domestic product within
two years if elected.  The Conservatives also continue to draw distinctions
between the two leading parties, saying the increase in taxes
threaten to drive the economy back into recession.  ‘Loads of Spending’  “They want loads of new spending and they are prepared to
finance that through tax increases,” Harper said at a press
conference in Ottawa yesterday where he promised to extend tax
breaks that promote fitness. “That’s a very different position
than our party.”  The Canadian dollar has appreciated 1.2 percent against its
U.S. counterpart since the election was called, and the 30-year
government bond yield has increased to 3.77 percent from 3.70
percent. The election probably won’t shake “market confidence”
Toronto-based Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce economists
 Avery Shenfeld  and Warren Lovely wrote in a March 31 report.  Harper spent the first week of the campaign announcing
measures aimed at families and regions reliant on manufacturing,
in a bid to bolster his party’s support in suburban ridings
around Toronto the Conservatives need to gain to win a majority.
Those include a pledge to let families with children under 18
split up to C$50,000 of their income for tax purposes, and plans
to reintroduce measures in Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
budget that provide tax breaks for manufacturers and small
business owners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 