-- 
Improving Economy Warrants Current Fed Stimulus, Evans Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-04T20:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/improving-economy-warrants-current-fed-stimulus-evans-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the strengthening U.S. economy
means $600 billion in asset purchases planned by the central
bank may be the right amount.  “It’s quite likely that $600 billion could be about the
right number,” Evans said today in an interview with CNBC. “I
thought going into the asset-purchase program that we might need
to do more than $600 billion eventually, but $600 billion was a
good start,” he said.  The comments by Evans, a voting member of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, align with the view of Federal
Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley, who said
last week he “didn’t see any reason to pull back” from the
Fed’s plans to buy  Treasury securities  through June.  The Fed will probably need to maintain the stimulus from
low  interest rates  for the remainder of the year, Evans said.
“I wouldn’t be too surprised if it is 2012” before the central
bank begins raising rates, he said.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said last week
that it’s “certainly a possibility” that the Fed will need to
raise rates before the end of this year.  “The economy continues to improve,” Evans said, adding
that he forecasts 4 percent annual growth in gross domestic
product during the next two years.  Inflation is low and doesn’t pose an immediate threat, he
said. The recent increase in commodity prices “definitely hurts
the pocketbook, but for it to be inflation we have to see those
effects work their way through other prices,” he said.  ‘Take Hold’  “In an environment with as much resource slack as we have
I’m not looking for that to take hold,” Evans said.  The Commerce Department reported last week that the Fed’s
preferred price gauge, the personal consumption expenditures
index, excluding food and energy, increased 0.9 percent in
February from a year earlier. Including all items, prices rose
1.6 percent.  Evans, 53, has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and
has been among the FOMC’s strongest supporters of monetary
stimulus since last year.  “It’s most likely that $600 billion is an adequate amount
for our accommodation. Remember, when we finally decide to stop
the asset purchases we will still have in place all the
liquidity,” Evans said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  