-- 
Minmetals May Need to Raise C$6.3 Billion Equinox Bid by 29%

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-04-04T08:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/minmetals-offers-to-acquire-equinox-for-6-5-billion.html
Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , a unit of
 China ’s biggest metals trader, may need to raise its C$6.3 
billion ($6.5 billion) unsolicited cash offer for Equinox 
Minerals Ltd. about 29 percent to win over investors in the 
copper producer.  “If you’re long-term shareholders and willing to own this
for the next two to three years, this offer, C$7 a share, is
nothing,” said Huy Hoang, a  fund manager  at Singapore-based HDH
Capital Management Pte, which owns about 1 million shares in
Equinox. He said C$9 a share is just the “starting point.”  Minmetals’ bid is 23 percent more than Perth-based
Equinox’s closing price in Toronto on April 1, the Hong Kong-
based company said today in a statement. The Chinese-funded bid
depends on Equinox, whose shares rose 29 percent to close at
A$7.35 (C$7.35) in Sydney trading today, dropping its C$4.4
billion offer for Canada’s  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)   “Some investors could be waiting out for a potentially
higher bid to emerge,” Anna Kassianos, an analyst at Austock
Securities Ltd., said in an e-mailed note, citing a possible
“ceiling price” of C$8 a share.  The deal, China’s biggest minerals takeover, would give
Hong Kong-based Minmetals Chief Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore control of the Lumwana copper mine in  Zambia  and
 Saudi Arabia ’s biggest copper deposit. Mining companies are
competing to secure assets after a dearth of new global projects
and demand from China drove copper prices to a record this year.  Global Outlook  “An improving global economic outlook is giving buyers the
confidence that prices should remain firm for some time,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at Sydney-based
White Funds Management Pty. “Equinox could actively liaise with
an alternate bidder.”  Minmetals, or MMG, a unit of state-owned China Minmetals
Group, rose 2.4 percent to HK$6.72 at 4:00 p.m. close in Hong
Kong trading, giving it a market value of HK$19.9 billion ($2.6
billion). Equinox gained A$1.64 to close at its highest since
June 22, 2004. Lundin increased 3.5 percent to C$8.33 at the
April 1 close of trading on the Toronto stock Exchange. Lundin’s
shares traded in  Sweden  today fell 3.5 percent.  Equinox’s board will meet to consider the offer, the
company said in a separate statement. Minmetals is being advised
by Deutsche Bank AG and Macquarie Capital Advisors.  Chinese companies spent more than $30 billion last year
buying mining assets and oil deposits to help secure raw
material supplies to feed the nation’s growing economy.
Minmetals owns the world’s second-biggest zinc mine and other
assets in  Australia ,  Laos  and  Canada . Michelmore said in January
he was targeting copper, lead and zinc mines.  “Prospective bidders for Equinox Minerals may be reticent
to become involved in a bidding war with Chinese interests,”
said  Tim Schroeders , a Melbourne-based money manager at Pengana
Capital Ltd., which manages about $1 billion.  Bid Premium  The offer premium of 33 percent to the volume weighted
average Equinox share price of the past 20 days compares with an
average premium of 24 percent for resources deals of at least
$500 million during last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It fits perfectly into the key areas we want to grow in,
extending our mine life, expanding our portfolio of regions,
leveraging on our management and technical expertise to extract
value and most importantly it’s supported by our majority
shareholder,” Michelmore said during a media conference call.
Minmetals has been studying Equinox for “well over a year” and
built a 4.2 percent stake in the company during 2010.  The Hong Kong-based company is offering 11.3 times earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization compared
with the average of 7.2 times EBITDA in 10 comparable deals from
2007 to 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Curtail Supply  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a metric ton on Feb. 15 and
is expected to rise as mine shortages curtail supply. Copper
would account for 60 percent of Minmetals’ total production in
fiscal 2015, compared with 25 percent, should the takeover
succeed, the company said in a presentation.  “The global recovery is becoming more broad-based and
you’re not going to see any new mines coming on stream for at
least this year,” said Christin Tuxen, a Bloomberg top-ranked
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “You’ve got to be
bullish copper for the next few years.”  For miners, mergers and acquisitions are a faster, cheaper
route to production than constructing projects from scratch,
Standard Chartered Plc said last year in a report. The cost of
building a  copper mine  has more than doubled in the past five
years, according to the report.  Buy, Build?  “The costs of acquiring mining leases and building mine
infrastructure have escalated materially over recent years, and
in many cases it is now cheaper to buy an existing business than
develop capacity internally,” said Sydney-based White Funds’
Gluskie.  Producers haven’t kept pace with demand because reserves
are becoming harder to find and ore quality is declining,
meaning less copper is extracted from each ton of rock.  The offer requires approval from Chinese and Australian
regulators. Minmetals lodged an application with Australia’s
Foreign Investment Review Board on March 11, Michelmore said.  Minmetals is seeking to acquire a minimum of two-thirds of
its target’s outstanding shares. Minmetals completed the $1.85
billion cash and share acquisition in December of parent company
 China Minmetals ’s Australian unit.  All financing for the proposed deal will be arranged with
Chinese banks through a combination of existing cash reserves,
long-term credit facilities and equity, including investments in
Minmetals by Chinese institutions, the company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story: Elisabeth Behrmann in
Sydney at   ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Hobbs
at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 