-- 
Islam Blamers Ignore Real Mideast Trouble Source: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/islam-blamers-ignore-mideast-s-trouble-source-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Why is  Libya  exploding? Why are Iraq
and Egypt always, even after many millennia, undemocratic? Why
was there scarcely any looting or rioting in Japan even after
the triple calamity of tsunami, earthquake and nuclear accident?  Blame the rain. Or rather, the lack of it. Egypt and Libya
boil over because precipitation levels there are among the
lowest in the world. Japan has received enough rain over the
centuries to learn how to govern itself.  The idea that rainfall amounts might start wars or foster
democracy is consistent with new research by  Stephen Haber , a
professor at  Stanford University , and  Victor Menaldo , a
professor at the  University of Washington . In their  paper , Haber
and Menaldo sort nations into three categories: those that are
persistently authoritarian ( Egypt ) or democratic (the U.K.) and
ones that cycle between the two. Next, the authors ranked
nations by annual precipitation. The authors are talking about
rainfall, not water from, say, a river.  Haber and Menaldo found that countries where rainfall
averages between 50 and 100 centimeters (39.4 inches) a year are
more likely to be democratic. In places with less than 50
centimeters annually, dictatorship predominates.  What does rain do that rivers don’t? For one thing,
politicians can’t control the rain. Their efforts to turn the
skies on and off like a faucet -- using cloud seeding or other
measures -- were humiliating failures.  Middle-Class Values  In short, rain meant independence. Countries in the rainy
midrange are ones whose inhabitants could grow and store grains,
legumes and other crops. This meant farmers in temperate regions
experienced less starvation than those in other places. They
could accumulate enough to invest in more property or education.  Farmers working in  Japan  after World War II, in  New England 
during the 18th century or in the Netherlands several centuries
ago all fostered what we today consider middle-class values.
Long after they abandoned agriculture and moved to the city, the
farm-borne respect for the rule of law and property rights
sustains a society stable.  Of course, crops thrive in high rainfall areas. The sugar
of the moist Caribbean is one example. However, what’s grown in
tropical climates often can’t be stored long. This was
especially true in the days before refrigeration.  Ruling a Swamp  Big institutional farmers -- whether colonial governments
or wealthy foreign companies -- were the only ones with the
resources to make cultivation in such places profitable.
Individuals in these regions tended to be laborers, not owners.
No middle class arose, and citizens, with less to lose, were
more willing to back regime change. That’s why swampy, high-
precipitation territories (like the  Philippines ) tend to change
direction -- heading now toward democracy, then toward
dictatorship -- like lightning in a rainstorm.  Can irrigation create democracy where rainfall is
infrequent? No, because the ruler’s hand is always ready to
divert the river or close the dam. All the wealth a farmer has
built up is in jeopardy if his water supply can be cut off.  There is one example of a heavily irrigated democracy:
Israel. However, the authors argue, the immigrants who settled
Israel -- whether Germans, Poles or Russians -- came from
agricultural countries, and therefore had amassed the human
capital necessary for democracy. In other words, Israel’s
democracy was created before  Israel  itself.  Controlling the Flow  Here’s a current example of the Haber-Menaldo theory:
 Ethiopia  wants to dam the Nile, diverting water from Egypt and
 Sudan  to the benefit of Ethiopia, Kenya or  Uganda , which may
provoke yet another round of conflict in  Africa .  You can see this idea at work even in movies: the parched
town of Dirt in the animated film “ Rango ” is held hostage by a
corrupt mayor who diverts the precious gallons to  Las Vegas ,
driving Dirt’s townsfolk to pick up their pitchforks.  In the Biblical story, Joseph stored grain and created
wealth for the pharaoh, but that helped neither Jews nor non-
royal Egyptians in the long run because “there came a new king,
which knew not Joseph,” and didn’t build on Joseph’s
contribution.  Haber says studying the relationship between rainfall and
regimes is useful because it reminds us of our (military)
limits: “Societies are an outcome of nature’s constraints,”
Haber wrote in an e-mail to me. “ Iraq  is highly unlikely to
ever look like  Ohio , no matter how much money we pour into it.”  Another valuable takeaway: It is more important for a
farmer to own a farm than to get subsidies for it.  This paper should spur doubt among those who emphasize
radical Islam at the expense of other forces at work in the
Mideast. “Egypt was a dictatorship long before Islam even
existed,” Haber said. “Overall, rain is a better predictor of
stable democracy than the percentage of Muslims in a country.”  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  