-- 
Isovoltaic Seeks to Raise Up to $537 Million in Solar IPO

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-04T14:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/isovoltaic-seeks-to-raise-up-to-538-million-in-solar-initial-offering.html
Isovoltaic AG, the world’s biggest
maker of backsheets for solar modules, is seeking to raise as
much as 378 million euros ($537 million) in an initial public
offering in Vienna.  The Austrian company will offer as many as 18 million
existing shares, at 16 euros to 21 euros apiece, from today
through April 14, according to its  prospectus . That includes as
many as 2.35 million shares that Isovoltaic could sell in an
overallotment option if demand is high enough. The company will
list a total of 40 million shares for trading on the Vienna
Stock Exchange on April 15.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  are joint global coordinators
and bookrunners for the sale.  Lebring, Austria-based Isovoltaic had revenue of 120.7
million euros last year, 68 percent of which was generated in
 Asia , according to regulatory filings. The company had net
income of 24.8 million euros.  Isovoltaic forecast strong sales growth this year and
continued high margins, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rossegger
said at a press briefing in Vienna today. The company supplies 6
of the 10 biggest solar-module makers including Suntech Power
Holdings Co.,  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and has
held talks with three of the other four, he said.  Valuation  The low end of the share price range values the company at
10 times price-to-estimated earnings for 2011, Erste’s Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Franz Hochstrasser, said at the
briefing. That implies a valuation of 13 times projected profit
at the high end of the range, according to Bloomberg News
calculations and compares with an average ratio of 13.9 for the
Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index.  After the IPO the so-called free float will be 45 percent.
The remainder of the shares will be held by companies owned by
Stanislaus Turnauer, who also holds two registered shares in
Isovoltaic. Each of the registered shares allows the naming of
one member of the supervisory board, which currently is made up
of three members and may be expanded to four, Rossegger said.  Isovoltaic is the Vienna market’s second IPO planned this
year, after AMAG Austrian Metall AG, an aluminum maker owned by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s buyout arm One Equity Partners LLC,
announced its initial offering on March 24.  The IPOs are the first in Vienna since builder Strabag SE’s
share sale in October 2007. Companies have started to return to
the market after the country’s benchmark ATX doubled since March
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  