-- 
Italy Says Arming Rebels Is a ‘Last Resort’ Allowed by UN

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-04T14:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/italy-says-arming-rebels-is-a-last-resort-allowed-by-un-1-.html
Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini indicated the Western-led coalition could stretch the
limits of a United Nations resolution and arm rebels as a last
resort to help them depose Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Two months into the conflict, rebels trying to oust Qaddafi
have struggled to take and hold strategic cities in the center
of the country. That raises the question within the coalition
that began UN-authorized airstrikes last month of whether to arm
the insurgents in a bid to break a potential stalemate.  Supplying arms is an “extrema ratio,” Latin for last
resort, that can be used “only and exclusively to protect
civilians from the attacks of Qaddafi,” Frattini said in a
joint news conference today with Ali al-Isawi, foreign affairs
chief of  Libya ’s opposition Transitional National Council.  The U.S., the U.K and France are split on how to interpret
two UN Security Council resolutions, one that imposes an arms
embargo and another that authorizes “all necessary measures”
to protect civilians.  France  sees the provision of weapons as a
clear violation of the first resolution while the U.K. sees
wiggle room and the U.S. is wary of taking that step.  French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said on March 31
that supplying arms was “not on the agenda” because doing so
wouldn’t be “compatible” with the UN resolution.  Not Ruled Out  “On the question of arming the rebels, we have been clear
about our view, which is that the UN resolutions do not
necessarily rule it out in certain circumstances,” the U.K.
Foreign Office said in statement read over the phone by a
spokesman.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Mike Mullen, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress on April 1
they don’t favor using the military to provide weapons or
training to the rebels. Mullen said there are “plenty of
countries who have the ability, the arms, the skill set to be
able to do this.” Gates said the U.S. doesn’t know enough about
the insurgent groups beyond a “handful” of leaders.  “I would be inclined to do it,” former President  Bill Clinton  told ABC News in a television interview. “I sure
wouldn’t shut the door to it.”  Arming the rebels could backfire on Western-led forces,
according to Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow at the  Royal
United Services Institute  in London. The composition and
intentions of the rebels are still opaque, he said.  Two Options  Italy  today became the fifth country formally to recognize
the Transitional National Council. France was first to announce
plans to send an ambassador to Benghazi, where the rebels are
based. The U.S. and the U.K., while holding talks with the
group, have yet to forge diplomatic ties.  “We have two options: NATO helps us to get rid of the
snipers on the roofs or it helps us to get arms so our fighters
can do it,” Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head of the rebel Interim
National Council, told new agency Ansa in a telephone interview
from his home in Benghazi.  Mahmoud Shammam, media coordinator for the transitional
council, said the rebels welcome “any help we can get.”  “Until now we did not get anything,” he said on March 29.
“We didn’t get an offer yet and we didn’t ask specifically. We
ask for political support more than arms, but if we get both
that would be great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  