-- 
Italy Seeks Orsi as Finmeccanica CEO, Enel, Eni CEOs to Remain

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-04T19:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/italy-seeks-orsi-as-finmeccanica-ceo-enel-eni-ceos-to-remain.html
The Italian government proposed that
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  Chief Executive Officer Pier Francesco
Guarguaglini be appointed chairman of the company. It also
proposed General Electric Co. Southern Europe’s Chairman
Giuseppe Recchi as chairman of  Eni Spa (ENI)  and for Paolo Andrea
 Colombo  to be chairman of  Enel SpA (ENEL) , respectively, the country’s
biggest oil and power companies.  Italy also wants Augusta Westland chief Giuseppe Orsi to be
CEO of Finmeccanica to replace Guarguaglini and proposed Orsi as
a board member of Finmeccanica to begin the process of
appointing Orsi, according to a statement today. Paolo Scaroni
CEO of Eni and Fulvio Conti his counterpart at Enel were also
proposed as members of their company’s boards as the government
seeks to keep them in their posts.  The Italian State nominates the heads of the companies
because it owns the largest stakes.  Italy ’s Finance Ministry
owns 32 percent of Finmeccanica, 31 percent of Enel, and 30
percent of Eni, according to the website of market regulator
Consob.  Company shareholders will vote on the appointments at their
annual meetings on April 29.  Recchi would replace Eni Chairman Roberto Poli and Colombo
would Enel Chairman Piero Gnudi.  Orsi rose through the ranks at Finmeccanica to his current
position as chief of the company’s Anglo-Italian helicopter-
making unit.  He would work alongside Guarguaglini, 74, who served three
terms as CEO, helping the company strengthen its presence
overseas, particularly in the U.S. with the acquisition of DRS
Technologies Inc. in 2008. More recently, Guarguaglini pushed
Finmeccanica to offset reductions in U.S. and European defense
spending with cost cuts and greater focus on emerging markets
like  Russia  and the United Arab Emirates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  