-- 
Most Japan Stocks Decline as Real-Estate Companies,  Fishing Shares Drop

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-04-04T07:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/japan-stocks-rise-after-u-s-jobs-grew-faster-than-forecast-canon-gains.html
Most Japanese stocks fell after
real-estate companies declined on concerns the March 11 temblor
may hurt earnings and agriculture shares dropped as  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co. failed to stop a radioactive water leak.  Mitsubishi Estate Co., the country’s biggest developer by
market value, lost 2.5 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG
lowered its rating on Japan’s real-estate industry to “market
weight” from “overweight.”  Maruha Nichiro Holdings Inc. (1334) ,
which sells seafood, declined 1.7 percent as Tokyo Electric
Power said radioactive water may be flowing into the sea through
a different crack in a damaged reactor than initially thought.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average pared earlier gains to close
0.1 percent higher at 9,718.89 at the finish of  stock trading  in
Tokyo, with about three shares falling for every two that rose.
The gauge is down 5.2 percent since March 11, the day Japan was
hit by a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami. The Nikkei slumped
as much as 16 percent in the two days following the temblor. The
broader Topix index fell 0.3 percent to 859.75 today, with
almost double the number of share falling for each that gained.  “The damage from the earthquake and tsunami is deep,”
said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion. “As
well as it being hard to see the future of company earnings,
investors are becoming more wary of buying shares on concerns
the nuclear accident will slow the recovery.”  U.S. Employment  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index rose 0.5 percent on April 1, adding to
gains from the market’s biggest first-quarter rally since 1998,
as faster-than-forecast U.S. jobs growth bolstered optimism and
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. started a bidding war for NYSE Euronext.  A gauge of real-estate shares declined 2.4 percent today,
posting the biggest drop among the Topix index’s industry
groups. Mitsubishi Estate sank 2.5 percent to 1,395 yen. Mitsui
Fudosan Co.,  Japan ’s the second-largest developer, slid 1.9
percent to 1,381 yen. Sumitomo Realty & Development Co., the No.
3, declined 3.4 percent to 1,633 yen.  Masahiro Mochizuki, an analyst at Credit Suisse, reduced
his rating on the sector, citing concerns that the earthquake
and tsunami will have an impact on the profits of developers.  “Share prices could weaken further as the deterioration in
earnings becomes apparent,” Mochizuki wrote in a report dated
April 1. “Companies are scheduled to release results for the
year ended March 2011 in late April or early May and investors
should note the possibility that guidance for the new fiscal
year could have a negative impact on share prices.”  Tokyo Electric’s Drop  The Nikkei 225 declined 12 percent in the Japanese fiscal
year that finished March 31, and dropped 4.6 percent last
quarter. Among the Topix’s industry groups,  utility companies 
including Tokyo Electric Power tumbled the most last fiscal
year, followed by brokerages, while oil refiners led gains.
Nikkei shares trade at an average 14.6 times estimated profit,
compared with about 18 times at the beginning of the year.  Tokyo Electric Power, also known as Tepco, has plunged 79
percent since March 11. The utility, the operator of nuclear
 power plants , is battling to stop radiation leaks of a crippled
nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture following the earthquake
and tsunami that knocked out the plant’s cooling systems,
resulting in a partial meltdown of some of its reactors. The
earthquake and tsunami, which destroyed cities and towns north
of Tokyo, has left 27,653 people dead and missing.  Radioactive Water  Agricultural shares, which include fishing processors and
distributors, declined today as Tepco failed to stop radioactive
water from leaking into the sea.  Maruha Nichiro dropped 1.7 percent to 118 yen, its second
day of declines. The shares have plunged 20 percent since March
11.  Nippon Suisan Kaisha Ltd. (1332) , which fishes and produces seafood
products, slid 2.2 percent to 223 yen. Kyokuyo Co., which sells
seafood and salted fish, lost 1.7 percent to 170 yen.  Tepco plans to build a silt barrier in the sea to stop the
leak of radioactive water from its crippled nuclear station,
after failing to clog a crack with a mix of sawdust, newspaper
and plastic.　The company also said that no change had been seen
in the flow of radioactive water from a cracked pit near the No.
2 reactor of its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, and that
water may be flowing into the sea through another route. Tepco
shares lost 1.6 percent to 442 yen today.  The Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey also showed Japan’s large
manufacturers expect business confidence to slump in coming
months. The quarterly outlook index of sentiment among big
manufacturers is seen falling to minus 2 in June from 6 in
March, the lowest reading in a year, the BOJ said today.  Hard to Trade  “Investors need to see what companies plan for their
earnings going forward. Until then, it’s hard for investors to
trade.” said Ryuta Otsuka, a strategist in Tokyo at Toyo
Securities Co.  Among other stocks that advanced, Fast Retailing Co.,
 Asia ’s No. 1 clothing chain, jumped 3.4 percent to 11,050 yen,
the biggest single positive influence on the  Nikkei 225. (NKY)  The
company’s investment rating was boosted to “outperform” from
“neutral” by Credit Suisse.  Oki Electric Industry Co., a maker of communications
equipment, jumped 4.6 percent to 69 yen, posting the second-
biggest gain on the Nikkei 225. The stock was raised to
“neutral” from “sell” by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 