-- 
Japan May Re-Examine Carbon-Reduction Pledge After Atomic Crisis

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-04T14:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/japan-may-re-examine-carbon-reduction-pledge-after-atomic-crisis.html
Japan  may re-examine its pledge to
cut greenhouse gases by 25 percent after an earthquake and
tsunami damaged a nuclear power plant, disrupting the country’s
ability to generate power with low emissions.  “We will consider, we will debate everything,” Akira
Yamada, deputy director-general for global issues at the Foreign
Ministry, said today in an interview during the United Nations
climate talks in Bangkok. “If we consider the 25 percent
target, it is one of the things. We have not decided, we don’t
know the direction. It’s too premature.”  Japan, which has virtually no domestic oil and gas
resources, made the pledge last year for a one-quarter cut in
its emissions by in 2020 compared with 1990 levels as part of UN
climate talks. Some 42 industrialized countries and 48
developing nations have so far submitted their emission-
reduction targets or plans as negotiators worldwide try to iron
out a new legal framework for when climate-protection provisions
of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol expire in 2012.  Japan’s energy strategy assumed the country would pursue
nuclear power plants, Yamada said.  “The impact of the earthquake and tsunami on the nuclear
power industry is very big, very deep and very longstanding,”
he said. “But it is premature for us to assess how large an
impact it is on our economy and  energy policy . We have to
discuss, we have to review.”  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant damaged by the tsunami
and the earthquake on March 11 generated almost 10 percent of
the energy of the Kanto region, which includes  Tokyo  and about a
third of Japan’s 127 million people.  More Costly  Cutting greenhouse gas blamed for  climate change  would be
more costly without nuclear energy,  Nobuo Tanaka , executive
director of the  International Energy Agency , said today in
Paris.  The government estimated last month that damage from
Japan’s strongest earthquake on record to be as much as 25
trillion yen, or 0.5 percent of the country’s economy, the
world’s third-largest after the U.S. and  China .  “We are very much ready to discuss, debate, over what kind
of energy policy we will take,” Yamada said. “We have to
increase the share of renewable energy, but the simple
calculation does not allow that all the nuclear power can be
replaced by renewable energy, simply because of the area
coverage in Japan is very small.”  ‘Every Effort’  Japan, which pledged under the Kyoto Protocol to trim
emissions by 6 percent by 2012 from 1990 levels, will make
“every effort to fulfill” its commitments, according to
Yamada. The country has been in the past years among leading
buyers of the Assigned Amount Units, or emission rights used by
countries to comply with their Kyoto targets.  The climate treaty allows polluters emitting more than they
pledged to buy emission rights from those nations that pollute
less. They can also use for compliance the so-called offsets,
including credits generated for emission-reduction projects
under the UN Clean Development Mechanism. The CDM is the world’s
second-biggest carbon market.  Analysts including Emmanuel Fages at the Paris-based Orbeo
said last month that Japan may declare force majeure on the
first commitment period of the  Kyoto Protocol  to prevent
additional costs of buying emission permits.  “By looking at the actual emissions data and the credits
acquired and the CDM activities, we are in almost at the level
to achieve the first commitment period,” said Masaru Moriya,
adviser to the Minister of the Environment, in an interview
today. “We need to see the next year also so that we can make a
final judgment on the compliance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  