-- 
Japan's Bonds Gain, Snap Four-Day Loss, as Demand Rises at 10-Year Auction

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-05T06:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/japan-bonds-may-rise-snapping-four-day-slide-on-auction-demand-outlook.html
Japan ’s 10-year bonds rose, snapping
a four-day decline, after demand increased at the first auction
of the securities this fiscal year on speculation last month’s
earthquake will weigh on growth.  The lowest accepted price at the 2.2 trillion-yen ($26.1
billion) sale was 99.95, above the 99.91 estimate of traders
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Longer-maturity bonds have
underperformed shorter-term notes since the nation’s worst
earthquake on March 11 on expectations the government will
increase debt sales to finance reconstruction.  “The better-than-expected results of the auction eased
excessive concern” about demand for bonds, said Makoto Noji, a
senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “For the near term, there are plenty
of buying catalysts for Japanese bonds, with a possible slump in
the economy in the April-June and July-September periods.”  The 10-year yield dropped three basis points to 1.27
percent as of 3:11 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 gained 0.220 yen to 100.220 yen. The
yield earlier climbed to 1.305 percent, the highest March 10.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.04 to 139.27
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Today’s auction attracted bids for 3.97 times the amount on
offer, the highest so-called bid-to-cover ratio since August
2010. Christian Carrillo, head of Asia-Pacific interest-rate
strategy at  Societe Generale  in Tokyo, wrote in a report
yesterday he would be “surprised” if the ratio rose to 3.1.  Growth Forecast  BNP Paribas cut its growth forecast for Japan to 1.6
percent in 2012 from 3 percent, Tokyo-based economists led by
 Ryutaro Kono , wrote in a report today, citing electricity
shortages. Gross domestic product will contract 0.8 percent and
1.3 percent in the second and third quarter respectively, the
economists wrote.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is conducting rolling blackouts
while struggling to contain leaks from its crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  Japan’s bonds maturing in 10 years or more have handed
investors a loss of 0.6 percent since the March 11 quake,
according to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. An
index of debt due in one to three years has returned 0.1 percent
in the period.  “Details about how the government will finance rebuilding
are yet to be clear” and that is weighing on bonds with longer
maturities, SMBC Nikko’s Noji said.  Inflation Expectations  The gain in bonds was tempered as Treasuries fell after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central
bank needed to watch inflation closely.  “We have to monitor inflation and inflation expectations
extremely closely because if my assumptions prove not to be
correct, then we would certainly have to respond to that and
ensure that we maintain  price stability ,” Bernanke said
yesterday in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
has risen 8.8 percent in 2011, after gaining more than 17
percent annually for the past two years. Inflation, or a general
gain in prices, reduces the purchasing power of the fixed
payments from debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 