-- 
Japan Quake Recovery, Atomic Concerns Drive Demand for Copper, Iron, Beef

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-04-04T08:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/japan-quake-recovery-atomic-concerns-drive-demand-for-copper-iron-beef.html
Copper,  iron ore  and beef are likely
to benefit from rising demand in Japan as the country recovers
from a record earthquake and tsunami that wiped away towns and
triggered a nuclear crisis.  Rebuilding may drive demand for steelmaking materials and
metals used in construction, said  Ben Westmore , a commodities
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne . Demand
for imported beef and dairy products may increase because of
damage to local protein supply, Rabobank Australia Ltd. analyst
 Wayne Gordon  said on April 1.  Increased demand may boost commodity prices after raw
materials measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index
posted a third quarterly gain in the period to March 31.
Radiation leaks from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant are
forecast to boost demand for food imports, while metals and
other steelmaking materials will be needed to rebuild towns and
infrastructure.  Japan ’s large manufacturers signaled increased
concern today about business confidence in coming months.  “The short-term dynamic is definitely a fall in demand for
iron ore and metallurgical coal, but when we look three to six
months in the future we see the reconstruction process as being
a positive for steel production in the country and demand for
the raw materials used in steel,” Westmore said. A shift to
stronger demand would also occur for metals such as copper,
aluminum, zinc and nickel, he said.  Demand for lead in Japan may climb as the country seeks
batteries and generators to provide power, according to analysts
including  Gayle Berry  at  Barclays Capital  and Neil Hawkes at
London-based researcher CRU International Ltd.  Phone Networks  “Everyone is talking about reconstruction efforts,”
Hawkes said March 29. “Obviously that will be good for steel
and copper. For lead, the interesting aspect is that they are
going to rebuild the mobile-phone networks. All of these have
lead-acid batteries attached to them.”  The magnitude-9 quake off the coast of northeast Japan and
the subsequent tsunami on March 11 left more than 28,000 people
dead or missing as of April 1, caused power blackouts in Tokyo
and disrupted production by companies including  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Sony Corp.  Scrap Steel  Chinese buyers stopped new orders of scrap steel from Japan
and blocked some existing cargoes because of concern over
radiation from the nuclear plant, researcher Umetal.com said.
Scrap prices are falling after the earthquake increased supply
in Japan, the biggest exporter of scrap steel after the U.S.  Japanese companies have been damaged by radiation rumors
and excess concern about steel and manufactured products, Japan
Iron and Steel Federation Chairman  Eiji Hayashida  said last week,
citing cases of overseas ports rejecting Japanese cargoes and
vessels avoiding Japan.  Efforts to rebuild will offset the initial toll the
disaster will take on the nation’s gross domestic product, Hideo Hayakawa, the head of the Bank of Japan’s Osaka branch, said
March 24. Economists at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
forecast a contraction in GDP may be as deep as an annualized 12
percent in the second quarter.  Tankan Survey  The quarterly outlook index of sentiment among big
manufacturers is seen falling to minus 2 in June from 6 in March,
the biggest drop since September, according to a breakdown of
the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released in  Tokyo  today. A
negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  The report underscores how last month’s disaster has
worsened corporate sentiment, as damage to plants and power
shortages limit production.  “By mid-year we would expect the reconstruction to be into
full swing and then for it to add to growth through the second
half of the year,” Westmore said.  Log and lumber shipments from New Zealand may also gain as
Japan rebuilds towns along its northeastern coast, said Murray
Sturgeon, managing director at Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. The
Nelson-based processor is owned by Sumitomo Forestry Co. Ltd.  Cattle futures in  Chicago  have surged to a record as demand
for U.S. beef rose in Japan amid concern that radiation from the
stricken nuclear plant will contaminate food supplies.  ‘Checks, Balances’  “You have got to restore consumer confidence and part of
that is making consumers feel as if all the checks and balances
have been undertaken to make sure all food is safe,” said
Gordon from Rabobank. “That takes three months or so at the
very least.”  The  New Zealand  Horticulture Export Authority has forecast
consumers in Japan will seek alternative vegetable supplies,
while seafood exporters from  Indonesia  to  Norway  may benefit
from a gain in demand from Japan because of radiation concerns.  Still, demand for high-priced foods such as lobster or some
meat and dairy products could be curbed by a return to recession,
just as Japan was gaining economic momentum before the natural
disaster, Gordon said.  “Now it appears it’s going to be a protracted recovery as
a result of potentially entering another recession, and that
weighs more on those higher-value products,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  