-- 
Japan's Tankan Signals Concern That Business Confidence Will Keep Sliding

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-04T07:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/japanese-business-confidence-weakened-after-quake-tankan-breakdown-shows.html
Japan ’s large manufacturers expect
business confidence to slump in coming months after the nation’s
strongest earthquake on record devastated the northeast region
on March 11.  The quarterly outlook index of sentiment among big
manufacturers is seen falling to minus 2 in June from 6 in March,
which would be the lowest reading in a year, according to a
breakdown of the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released in today.
A negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  The report underscores the blow to corporate sentiment as
damage to factories and power shortages limit production and
Tokyo Electric Power Co. struggles to stem radiation leaks at a
crippled nuclear plant. At the same time, the projected
deterioration in confidence wouldn’t be as bad as during the
financial crisis, when the measure plunged to a record low of
minus 58.  “The report doesn’t reflect how truly bad corporate
sentiment is,” said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “We’ll see considerable contractions
in gross domestic product in the first quarter and second
quarter, so sentiment will likely be bad for some time.”  The yen traded at 84.14 per dollar as of 3:40 p.m. in Tokyo.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.1 percent to 9,718.89.  Global Financial Crisis  Large manufacturers’ business confidence fell to 6 between
March 12 and March 31 from 7 from Feb. 24 to March 11, the
central bank said in Tokyo. It cautioned that the figures
weren’t robust because only 2,618 responded after the disaster
compared with 7,998 before. Previously released numbers showed
the figure was 6 through March 31, from 5 in December.  Sentiment during the global financial crisis fell to the
lowest level since the survey began in 1974. Economists at
Nomura Securities Co. and RBS Securities Japan Ltd. forecast GDP
will contract this quarter, though not at the record pace it
shrank in 2009.  “In terms of GDP, it won’t be as bad” as after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a
senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “That was a global
recession, but this time overseas economies are expanding and
we’ll start to see some reconstruction demand in coming months.”  ‘Vulnerability’ of Economy  Data so far for March have shown that manufacturing fell at
the fastest pace in at least nine years, while new car sales in
Japan decreased 37 percent, the biggest drop for the month ever.
The earthquake and tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant, causing the world’s worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986.  “What I think we’re going to see in the macro data in the
months and quarters to come is not very good-looking data,”
Kathy Matsui, strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo,
told reporters today. “What this has to remind us all is the
vulnerability of this economy” as seen in its reliance on
exports for growth and the impact of the nuclear disaster.  Companies from Honda Motor Co. and Sony Corp. have halted
production after the disaster.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, has said
it lost 140,000 units of production from March 14 to March 26,
citing a shortage of electronic parts, rubber and plastics.
Scarce parts and electricity may prompt it to delay making at
least 500,000 vehicles in Japan, according to  Koji Endo , an auto
analyst at Advanced Research Japan. Honda Motor Co. has seen a
production loss of 46,600 cars and trucks and 5,000 motorcycles.  Signs of Resilience  March reports have overshadowed February data that showed
industrial production rose for a fourth month and the
 unemployment rate  dropped to a two-year low, data that indicated
the economy’s resilience would cushion the effect of the natural
disaster this quarter.  “Given the earthquake, the economy will likely contract
both in the first quarter and the second quarter, putting off an
escape from the economic lull,”  Takahide Kiuchi , chief
economist at Nomura in Tokyo, said before the report. “The BOJ
may expand the size of its asset purchase program” this month.  The disaster, which has claimed more than 11,000 lives, has
also caused a plunge in Japanese stocks and sent the yen to a
post-World War II high against the dollar, prompting the first
coordinated currency intervention by Group of Seven nations in
more than a decade.  Damage Estimate  Damage from the quake and tsunami is estimated by the
government to swell to as much as 25 trillion yen ($297 billion).
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is preparing an extra budget to pay for
reconstruction efforts.  The BOJ doubled its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion
yen on March 14, to increase liquidity the financial system.
Nomura’s Kiuchi said the bank may increase the size of that
program, which buys assets such as debt and real estate
investment trusts, by between 3 trillion yen and 5 trillion yen
at its meeting on April 28. The central bank will next meet on
April 6-7.  The central bank is also considering offering temporary
loans to banks to encourage lending to companies with cash-flow
shortages in the wake of the quake, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  