-- 
Jefferies Hires Pimco Money Manager Peterson for Muni Securities Trading

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-04T10:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/jefferies-hires-pimco-money-manager-peterson-for-muni-trading.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank expanding its fixed-income business, hired a money manager
from Pacific Investment Management Co. to trade municipal
securities as forecasts mount of rising defaults on the debt.  Danford Peterson, who was a senior vice president at Pimco
focused on munis, will work as a managing director in
Jefferies’s municipal securities group in  New York , the New
York-based firm said today in an e-mailed statement. Before
joining Pimco, Peterson worked for more than 10 years at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  Jefferies, with more than 100 bankers, traders, sales
people and other workers in its municipal group, is hiring
Peterson as economists and analysts predict growing distress
among governments grappling with budget deficits and tax
collections that haven’t returned to pre-recession levels.  Banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  rattled the $2.93 trillion
municipal-debt market in December, predicting “hundreds of
billions” of dollars of defaults could occur in 2011. The
consulting firm of  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
economist who in 2006 predicted the credit-market collapse, said
in a report dated Feb. 28 that about $100 billion of U.S.
municipal debt will default over the next five years.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon said March 31 at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce event in
Washington that some municipalities will need to renegotiate
debt and a hundred may not “make it.” Dimon cautioned the
audience not to panic about his comments, saying it’s it won’t
“shatter America” and is just “a part of the credit cycle.”  Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is based
in  Newport Beach , California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  