-- 
Judges Dismiss Lawsuit Against FCC by Verizon, MetroPCS

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-04-04T20:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/judge-dismisses-lawsuit-against-fcc-by-verizon-metropcs.html
The Federal Communications
Commission won dismissal of lawsuits in which  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and MetroPCS Communications Inc. sought to
overturn the agency’s rules for managing Web traffic.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit today dismissed the cases after the FCC argued they were
premature. The rules, adopted in December, haven’t been
published in the Federal Register, a step needed before they
take effect.  The so-called net neutrality rules would bar  Internet
service providers  including Verizon and  AT&T Inc. (T)  from unfairly
blocking or slowing Web content sent to homes and businesses.
Backers said the rules were needed to prevent abuses, while the
service providers said the regulations were unnecessary.  “Verizon attempted to game the system by attempting to
challenge the FCC’s open Internet decision prior to its official
release,” Andrew Jay Schwartzman, policy director of
Washington-based public-interest law firm  Media Access Project ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It was a blatant effort to
steer the case to a sympathetic court, but the judges
unanimously agreed that the appeal’s prematurity was
incurable.”  New York-based Verizon intends to file another appeal after
the FCC order is published in the register, Ed McFadden, a
company spokesman in  Washington , said in an interview. Verizon
filed in January “to protect our rights” amid “unclear”
rules for timing appeals, he said.  Drew Crowell, a spokesman for Richardson, Texas-based
MetroPCS, declined to comment.  ‘Premature’ Challenge  “We are pleased the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals has
agreed with the commission that Verizon and MetroPCS were
premature in challenging the open Internet framework,” Robert Kenny, an FCC spokesman, said in an interview. “The
commission’s policy preserves Internet freedom and openness and
strikes the right balance for consumers and businesses across
America.”  Verizon increased 14 cents in New York Stock Exchange
trading today to close at $38.61. MetroPCS decreased 16 cents,
or 1 percent, to close at $16.33 in New York Stock Exchange
trading.  The cases are Verizon v. Federal Communications Commission,
11-1014,  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  v. Federal Communications
Commission, 11-1016 U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia
Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  