-- 
Sept. 11 Terrorist Suspects to Face Guantanamo Military Trial, U.S. Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/khalid-sheikh-mohammed-9-11-planner-to-get-military-trial-at-guantanamo.html
The Obama administration abandoned
plans for a civilian trial in New York City for the self-
proclaimed mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks and is sending the
case to a military commission at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  blamed Congress for the
administration’s decision to move the trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his four alleged co-conspirators to the military
justice system. Lawmakers enacted legislation that blocked the
administration from moving terror suspects from Guantanamo to
the U.S. for trial, and the administration decided it couldn’t
allow the case to be delayed while it worked to repeal the
restrictions, Holder said.  “Members of Congress have intervened and imposed
restrictions blocking the administration from bringing any
Guantanamo detainees to trial in the United States, regardless
of the venue,” Holder told a news conference in Washington
yesterday. “Those unwise and unwarranted restrictions undermine
our counterterrorism efforts and could harm our national
security.”  The administration’s 2009 announcement about holding a  New
York  trial ignited fierce debate in congress that continued ever
since. Republican leaders argued against a trial in federal
court, saying it could pose a safety risk in New York and that
the alleged terrorists could be found not guilty on a legal
technicality. Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont  and other
Democrats stood by civilian trials, saying the court system had
a proven record of handling terrorism cases.  Lawmakers Object  The administration announced last year that it was
reconsidering holding the trial in New York City after
objections from lawmakers and city officials.  The decision to hold the trials at Guantanamo helps further
postpone a hallmark initiative that President  Barack Obama 
announced soon after he took office: to close the prison there
opened by President  George W. Bush  after the Sept. 11 attacks.
The administration still wants to shutter the facility, Holder
said. The Obama administration says it has become a recruiting
tool used by terrorists.  The  Justice Department  was prepared to bring a “powerful”
case against the suspects in civilian court that Holder
described as “one of the most well-researched and documented
cases I have ever seen in my decades of experience as a
prosecutor.”  Senators  John McCain , a Republican from  Arizona , and  Joe Lieberman , an independent from  Connecticut , said in a joint
statement that they were pleased with the administration’s
decision.  War Crimes   The suspects “are charged with war crimes and their cases
belong before military commissions, not federal courts here in
the  United States ,” they said.  Congress and the Obama administration improved the military
commissions in 2009 and created a system that “is fair and
consistent with our values while ensuring the safety of American
citizens and preserving classified information during wartime,”
McCain and Lieberman said.  Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican and one of the
administration’s most vocal critics over holding a civilian
trial, called Guantanamo the “ideal setting” for the trial
because it is ’’fully secure.’’  “We have witnessed the serious problems that arise when
high-level terrorists are tried in civilian courts -- including
the dismissal of important evidence, attacks on guards,
intelligence leaks and enormous burdens on the surrounding
community,” Sessions said.  ‘Broken and Deficient’  Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , said in a statement that the commissions are
“broken and deficient” and shouldn’t be used to try the Sept.
11 suspects.  “There is a reason this system is condemned: It is rife
with constitutional and procedural problems and undermines the
fundamental American values that have made us a model throughout
the world for centuries,” he said.  Holder said he had “full faith and confidence” in the
military commission system’s ability to handle the case.  Leahy, who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
said the suspects should have been tried in federal court.  “When Americans are murdered on American soil, we should
not be afraid to bring those responsible for those heinous acts
to justice in American courts,’” Leahy said in a statement.  Chief Prosecutor  The Pentagon’s chief prosecutor for military commissions,
Navy Captain  John Murphy , said his office would file charges in
the case “in the near future.”  “I intend to recommend the charges be sent to a military
commission for a joint trial,” Murphy said in a statement.  Holder said “it’s an open question” about whether a
suspect can plead guilty in a military commission and still
receive the death penalty. In announcing plans for a civilian
trial in 2009, Holder said he expected to direct prosecutors to
seek the death penalty against the Sept. 11 suspects.  Murphy declined to comment on whether the defendants might
face the death penalty, saying prosecutors will make the
determination in preparing the case.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  was among those last year
to call for the trial to be moved. The New York mayor is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  “While we would have provided security if we had to here
in  New York City , being spared the expense is good for us,”
Bloomberg said yesterday at a news conference in the Bronx. “I
happen to think that it’s more appropriate to do it in a secured
area with a military tribunal.”  Other Locations  Holder said yesterday that the administration considered
other locations outside New York City because of the objections.  As a result of the decision to move the case to the
military justice system, a Manhattan federal judge ordered the
unsealing and dismissal of criminal charges against the Sept. 11
suspects.  The 80-page indictment, which named the almost 3,000 people
killed in the attacks, charged Mohammed and four others with
conceiving and helping execute the plan to hijack airliners and
crash them into U.S. buildings “causing maximum casualties and
destruction.”  The indictment charged Mohammed, Walid Bin Attash, Ramzi Bin Al-Shibh, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali and Mustafa Al-Hawsawi with
nine criminal counts including conspiracy, acts of terrorism
transcending national boundaries, violence on and destruction of
aircraft, aircraft piracy, murder of U.S. officers and
employees, destruction of the World Trade Center and conspiracy
to kill Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  