-- 
King Soothes BOE Staff With Memo on Canteens to Restrooms After Pay Freeze

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-05T09:02:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/king-soothes-boe-staff-with-memo-on-canteens-to-restrooms-after-pay-freeze.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
pledged a range of measures for staff from limiting canteen food
prices to offering dry cleaning and accelerating restroom
repairs as he strives to improve conditions during a pay freeze.  The London-based central bank will also change free drinks
available at vending machines, provide more microwaves and
refrigerators for workers to use when bringing in their own
food, and offer health checks to all staff every three years,
King said in a memo dated April 1 and obtained by Bloomberg
News. A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment.  The changes “recognize the loyalty, commitment and hard
work of all our staff and will make the bank an even better
place to work,” King said in the memo. “We continue to face
challenging times and these challenges will create more
opportunities for staff going forwards. I look forward to
sharing this journey with you all.”  King has imposed a two-year pay freeze in line with the
government’s policy for civil servants, raising the prospect of
staff defections to the finance industry. The measures on 
working conditions were chosen from a list produced after a 
consultation with employees.  “I have been impressed and heartened by the many
suggestions received,” King said in the memo. This is a “wide-
ranging package of measures that we feel will genuinely enhance
people’s working lives and careers at the bank.”  London Bonuses  The central bank has struggled to keep staff because of the
higher pay offered at London banks. Bonuses for London’s 300,000
financial-services workers totaled as much as 7 billion pounds
($11.3 billion) last year, according to an estimate by the
Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd.  The bank will “accelerate” an upgrade of restrooms at its
London headquarters and will provide “more comfortable
seating” at its cafe, according to the memo.  Officials will avoid an increase in restaurant prices while
maintaining the quality of cuisine, King said. The pledge to
freeze food costs comes after record commodity prices helped
push U.K. inflation to 4.4 percent in February, more than double
the bank’s 2 percent target.  It contrasts with a  promise  made by Prime Minister  David Cameron  in September 2009, when he was in opposition, to “cut
the cost of politics” by removing subsidies at canteens in
Parliament. The price of a cup of tea has risen to about 60
pence from about 40 pence.  Rules on Leave  Bank of England employees will also be able to take three
months unpaid leave without affecting their pensions, and carry
over five days of leave to another year. They’ll also get a paid
half-day leave on Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve, the memo
said. Staff will now be allowed to send and receive packages at
the office.  King turned down a suggestion to link additional leave to
“excess hours,” saying the existing rules “offer staff
sufficient flexibility, in principle.”  “I want to thank you again for your fantastic response”
to the consultation, King told staff. “It is clear how much
people care about working at the bank and how committed they are
to making it an even better place to build their careers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  