-- 
Zapatero's Polish Follower Napieralski Promises Respite From Aggression

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-05T13:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/napierski-leads-polish-party-s-revival-with-investment-focus.html
Polish opposition party leader
 Grzegorz Napieralski  has revived his party just in time for
elections in October, saying he can handle swelling debt and
offer respite from Poland’s often acrimonious debates.  Napieralski, who said he models his politics on Spanish
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, has doubled support
for his Democratic  Left Alliance  within nine months and says its
track record as the party that steered Poland into the European
Union in 2004 is proof it can manage the economy and fill state
coffers.  The increasing support for the Alliance means that the next
election may move beyond the decade-long rivalry between Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk ’s  Civic Platform  and former Premier
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s Law & Justice. The clashes peaked last year
when Kaczynski blamed a "hate campaign" by Tusk and others for
the shooting death of a party employee.  "People don’t want aggression," said Napieralski in an
interview in Warsaw. "And we don’t use aggressive language like
the other big parties. People are turning away from the
political right throughout  Europe , looking for alternatives."  With elections due by October, Napieralski’s party had 16
percent support last month after sinking in February 2009 to the
5 percent parties need to win to gain seats in parliament. The
ruling Civic Platform is at 35 percent and Law & Justice at 18
percent.  Budget Deficit  Poland’s next government will face the task of trimming the
budget deficit in the largest country among the EU’s eastern
members to prevent public debt from reaching 55 percent of gross
domestic product, a legal limit that would trigger automatic
austerity measures.  The zloty weakened 1.8 percent against the euro in March,
its worst month in 10, in part on concern the government will
struggle to narrow the budget deficit from about 7.9 percent of
GDP last year.  Poland has pledged to cut the budget gap to less than 3
percent by the end of next year. Failure to comply with the EU
limit may lead to the loss of grants that helped Poland become
the only member of the 27-member bloc to avoid recession in
2009.  “Austerity will be the name of the game in 2012, whoever
ends up forming the government,” said  Lars Christensen , chief
emerging-markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, by
phone. “Poland’s budget deficit is simply unsustainable.”  Zapatero, who has made  Spain ’s deepest budget cuts in at
least three decades as unemployment remains the highest in the
EU at above 20 percent, is a role model because of his "courage
to take responsibility," Napieralski said.  The Spanish premier said on April 2 he would stand down
before next year’s general election.  ‘Transparent and Solid’  “Only a transparent and solid financial plan can
strengthen Poland’s credibility in the eyes of foreign
investors," Napieralski said in the March 30 interview. The
Alliance plans to publish its economic program in June, he
added.  Napieralski, who last month urged the government to cut
excise taxes on fuel for three months, filed a motion of no
confidence against Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski, citing
incompetence.  The Alliance, which emerged from  Poland ’s communist-era
ruling party and governed between 1993 and 1997 before returning
to power for a second stint from 2001 to 2005, was damaged by a
corruption investigation during its second term in office,
sinking to an 11 percent showing in the 2005 election from 41
percent four years earlier.  ‘Attracting Foreign Investors’  The Alliance helped usher in an investment boom with a cut
in the corporate  tax rate  to 19 percent from 27 percent in 2003.
Annual economic growth averaged 5.4 percent in the next five
years, compared with 2.3 percent in the previous three,
according to calculations by Bloomberg.  ‘‘We want to follow the path that we began back then,”
Napieralski said. “That means attracting foreign investors and
making business profitable for our local investors, who have
been fleeing to countries with lower production costs.”  Tusk isn’t doing enough to prevent Poland being left out of
the European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund, risking Poland “becoming marginalized” as “the
division between the richer EU countries that belong to the euro
area and those outside it deepen before our eyes,” he said.  Napieralski had an approval rating of 53 percent in a March
poll by the Warsaw-based Center for Public Research, second only
to President Bronislaw Komorowski.  His youth and ability to stay out of the squabbles of the
larger parties put him in a position to attract disillusioned
voters, said Slawomir Sowinski, a political scientist at
Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University in Warsaw.  “Voters are naturally looking for a left-wing alternative,
and that gives the Alliance a natural opportunity,” he said by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  