-- 
Nasdaq CEO Greifeld May Inherit NYSE Floor After Years Fighting to Bury It

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-04T13:09:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nasdaq-ceo-greifeld-may-inherit-nyse-floor-after-years-fighting-to-bury-it.html
After four decades promoting the
advantages of an all-electronic stock market,  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  may end up owning the world’s most famous trading floor.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld would take over the
New York Stock Exchange’s 108-year-old trading room should his
offer for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  win over the bid from Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , which agreed in February to a merger now
valued at $9.26 billion. Nasdaq OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  said April 1 that they would pay $11.3 billion in cash and
stock for the 219-year-old exchange operator at the corner of
Wall and Broad Streets in  Manhattan .  While Greifeld promised 74 percent more expense reductions
than Deutsche Boerse, he said last week he wouldn’t close NYSE
Euronext’s open-outcry auction venue, which has been the image
of American capitalism for more than a century. The floor’s
value in attracting new stock listings outweighs the cost and
 Nasdaq  OMX would allow it to coexist with its electronic systems
that have become a model for markets globally, brokerage
executives and investors said.  “The floor is an American icon, a global icon,” said
Joseph Gawronski, chief operating officer at Rosenblatt
Securities Inc., which employs about a dozen traders at the NYSE
executing orders for institutions. “It’s a symbol of such
importance that Greifeld might not be doing what would come
naturally to him, cutting costs by shutting down the floor.”  20% Higher  Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta-based ICE’s unsolicited bid of
$42.50 in cash and stock for each NYSE Euronext share was about
20 percent more than its closing price of $35.17 on March 31.
 Deutsche Boerse ’s all-stock agreement to purchase NYSE Euronext
valued the company at $34.83 a share at 8:13 a.m. in New York.  NYSE Euronext, which said its board will consider the
offer, rose 13 percent to $39.60 on April 1. New York-based
Nasdaq gained 9.3 percent to $28.23. ICE slipped 3.1 percent to
$119.75. Both proposals for NYSE would face antitrust review.  ICE would acquire NYSE Euronext’s  Liffe futures markets .
Nasdaq OMX would keep the U.S. stock and options businesses,
giving it almost half of American equities trading and a
monopoly on listing corporations and exchange-traded funds in
the world’s largest capital market. The Deutsche Boerse deal,
announced on Feb. 15, would create the world’s biggest exchange
operator, with venues in the U.S. and  Europe .  Cost Cuts  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and
ICE said in a statement they anticipate eliminating about $740
million in expenses. That compares with Deutsche Boerse’s plans
for $427 million in reductions.  It’s “our intention to keep the floor,” Greifeld said on
an April 1 conference call. Nasdaq OMX has owned an options
trading room since 2008 when it bought the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange, founded in 1790, for $652 million. “Under our
stewardship, that floor has grown and flourished,” he said.
“We certainly see value to the floor.”  As markets around the world adapted to electronic trading
and sought new users over the last quarter century, the  London ,
Toronto and Boston stock markets, International Petroleum
Exchange, and London International Financial Futures & Options
Exchange closed their physical trading rooms. Nasdaq became the
leader in running electronic venues that allowed investors to
trade through computers without requiring people to gather in
one location.  Founded in 1971  The Nasdaq Stock Market started in  1971  as an automated
quotation system for shares not listed on the NYSE or the
 American Stock Exchange , growing to become the second-largest
equities market operator in the U.S. and attracting companies
such as Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the biggest
software maker, and  Santa Clara , California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
the largest producer of semiconductors.  As Nasdaq proved that equities could be traded without
face-to-face interaction, U.S. regulators passed rules that
pushed more volume onto electronic markets. Regulations
implemented in 2007 forced the NYSE to overhaul the way orders
are handled to compete with faster and cheaper venues.  Federal authorities are investigating whether Nasdaq OMX’s
electronic network has been breached by hackers. The National
Security Agency, the top U.S. electronic intelligence service,
joined a probe of the October cyber attack on Nasdaq OMX,
according to people familiar with the investigation.  No Data Stolen  Nasdaq OMX said in February that the breach of its
computers was limited to a system known as Directors Desk, a
product used by board members of companies to exchange
confidential information. The exchange operator said that as far
as investigators could determine, no data or documents on that
system were taken.  NYSE Euronext CEO  Duncan Niederauer  told analysts and
reporters when the Deutsche Boerse agreement was announced that
the NYSE trading floor remains central to expansion plans. The
company began renovating the floor in 2009, updating facilities
that have been in place since the main room was refurbished in
1981.  About 960 equities traders including 120 market makers
worked on the NYSE floor in January, down from about 1,200 two
years earlier when the population had already declined 70
percent from the 1990s, said  Ray Pellecchia , an NYSE Euronext
spokesman. Changes instituted in recent years were aimed at
bolstering the floor-based model even as executives remade the
exchange as an electronic market.  ‘Amazing End’  Should the Nasdaq OMX bid succeed, the combination would
symbolize an “amazing end” to a decade of convergence in the
rules and systems used to match buyers and sellers in the U.S.
stock market, said  Jamie Selway , a managing director at New
York-based  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)  Changes in the last
five years compelled NYSE to become more electronic and rely
less on human traders while Nasdaq OMX has shifted from a
dealer-based market for over-the-counter stocks to an exchange.  “NYSE has headed toward Nasdaq in terms of trading
automation and technology and Nasdaq has been building a
marketing presence as an exchange to create a global listings
brand,” Selway said.  NYSE’s market share in stocks it lists declined from 80
percent in 2005 to 24 percent in February, according to data
compiled by Barclays Plc. Nasdaq Stock Market’s share of NYSE-
listed equities was 12 percent that month. Each company owns
three  platforms  to trade stocks with rules and fees catering to
different segments of investors. Nasdaq’s share of trading in
the securities it lists was 27 percent in February, according to
Barclays data.  International Allure  An advantage of the NYSE floor is its stature among
investors and traders outside the U.S., which can influence
corporations to list their shares there, Gawronski said.
Greifeld has increased Nasdaq OMX’s efforts to get foreign firms
to list shares on his market and said in the statement
announcing the offer that the combined company would draw more
firms that may have sought listings elsewhere to U.S. exchanges.  Nasdaq OMX has sought to emulate some of the NYSE
Euronext’s practices. Its  MarketSite  building in Times Square
holds  opening  and closing ceremonies for company executives and
facilitates broadcast reporting for financial news and media
organizations, even though no traders or market makers work in
the building.  “When you take a group of executives, particularly from
overseas, on the floor, they are wowed,” Gawronski said. “It
is still a big deal to ring that bell -- so much so that Nasdaq
has its own bell even though they have no floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  