-- 
Nedbank CEO Unaware of Reasons for Standard Chartered Takeover Speculation

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-04T10:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nedbank-ceo-brown-not-aware-of-anything-related-to-takeover-speculcation.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  said it’s unaware
of any talks by Britain’s  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to acquire  Old
Mutual Plc (OML) ’s stake in the South African lender.  The London-based lender may buy the fund manager’s 52
percent stake in  Nedbank , the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times
said yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, abandoned a bid to buy
a $7.3 billion controlling stake in Nedbank in October.  Nedbank is “not aware of anything that could be at source
of these rumors,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Brown said in an
e-mailed response to questions today. He declined to comment
further. Old Mutual spokesman Don Hunter declined to comment on
what he called “rumor and speculation.”  Standard Chartered 
spokesman Jon Tracey also declined to comment.  The South African government said it hasn’t been approached
about any sale of the stake in Nebank. The government will
consider applications on bank takeovers on a “case-by-case
basis” and “as and when it happens,” Deputy Finance Minister
Nhlanhla Nene said in response to questions in Cape Town today.  “In 2011, we will continue to work with Nedbank to build
shareholder value,” Old Mutual CEO Julian Roberts said in the
U.K.-based insurer’s  annual report  today. “Although we were
disappointed that negotiations to sell our controlling stake in
Nedbank fell through during the year for reasons beyond our
control, we remain very satisfied with the earnings stream from
this investment and continue to see the bank as a key
contributor to the group.”  Nedbank climbed 1 percent to 141.65 rand as of 10:49 a.m.
in Johannesburg trading. Old Mutual rose 0.6 percent in London
trading to 140.9 pence. Standard Chartered dropped 0.4 percent
to 1,647.5 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  