-- 
New Jersey Panel Approves Democrat-Backed Redistricting Map

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/new-jersey-panel-approves-democrat-backed-redistricting-map.html
The New Jersey  panel  overseeing the
redistricting process approved a plan that may allow the
 Democratic Party  to maintain its majority in both houses and
keep a check on Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s agenda.  The commission of five Democrats and five Republicans,
charged with redrawing state legislative districts following the
2010 census, voted 6-5 yesterday in Trenton in favor of a plan
submitted by Democrats. Alan Rosenthal, a professor of public
policy and political science at  Rutgers University , cast the
tie-breaking vote.  “The Democratic map, I believe, was more conservative and
a less-disruptive map,” Rosenthal told commission members as he
cast his vote. “It’s a map that gives the minority party a
chance to win the majority in the Legislature, even in what is
essentially a Democratic state.”  States redraw the boundaries used to elect lawmakers once a
decade following the U.S. census in order to account for shifts
in population and growth. Following the last redrawing in 2001,
Democrats captured control of the Legislature from Republicans.
In a separate process, the state will also redraw the districts
used to elect members of the U.S. House of Representatives.  “It is Governor Christie’s belief that the Republican-
sponsored version was a fairer, more competitive map,”  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, said in an e-mail following the
vote. “Despite this, the new map still is more competitive than
what previously existed.”  Newark ,  Jersey City   The plan would preserve the split of the state’s two
largest cities, Newark and Jersey City, into two legislative
districts each. It also moves the hometown of the state’s only
openly gay lawmaker, Democratic Assemblyman Reed Gusciora of
Princeton Township, out of the district he has represented since
1996.  Assemblyman Jay Webber, the Republican co-chair of the
commission, said his party is looking into whether the new set
of boundaries illegally fractures the 7th District in Burlington
County. Both parties said their plan would increase minority
representation in Trenton and more equitably distribute
population.  Patrick Murray , a political scientist from  Monmouth
University  in  West Long Branch  and head of its polling
institute, said the choice in maps is often crucial in
determining which party will control the Legislature each
decade.  ‘Another 10 Years’  He said the new map will allow Democrats to maintain a
check on Christie’s proposals, including reducing pension
benefits for state workers and forcing them to pay more for
health insurance. The Star-Ledger of Newark  reported  Christie
personally pitched his party’s case to Rosenthal and in recent
weeks the governor has implored voters to elect Republicans in
the fall.  “This means Democrats just got another 10 years in control
of the Legislature,” Murray said in an interview in Trenton.
“On the face of it, it’s the biggest loss of his tenure so far.
He forcefully put himself out there in front of this.”  The new map will be used during the November elections, in
which all 120 members of the Legislature are up for election.
Democrats currently control the Assembly 47-33, and the Senate
23-17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Glenn Kalinoski at 
 gkalinoski1@bloomberg.net  