-- 
Nigeria Delays Elections by a Week After Parliamentary Vote Ends in Chaos

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-04T14:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nigeria-delays-elections-by-a-week-after-parliamentary-vote-ends-in-chaos.html
(Corrects spelling of analyst’s name in fourth paragraph.)  Nigeria ’s electoral commission is
scrambling to prepare for rescheduled parliamentary elections on
April 9 after two delays cast doubt on its ability to organize
the vote in Africa’s top oil producer.  The  Independent National Electoral Commission  delayed for
two days voting for parliament set for April 2, before
announcing yesterday that the entire general election schedule
would be pushed back by a week. The presidential ballot will now
take place on April 16, with state elections a week later.  The commission decided it couldn’t hold the legislative
election as scheduled because of the late arrival of voting
materials. President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s People’s  Democratic
Party  and the biggest opposition party, the Action Congress of
Nigeria, supported the decision to reschedule the vote.  “The postponement is certainly an embarrassment” for
INEC, Sebastian Boe, an analyst at  Global Insight  in London,
said in a reply to e-mailed questions today. “The collapse of
the first of the three elections this month is acutely
embarrassing, not only for the chairman, Attahiru Jega, but for
the government of President Jonathan, who had pledged credible
elections under his watch.”  Elections in 2003 and 2007 in Africa’s most populous nation
were marred by violence, voter intimidation and the stuffing of
ballot boxes. More than 50 people have died in election-related
violence since July, according to  Amnesty International , while
sectarian clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at
least 200 since Dec. 24.  Voters’ Confidence  “It’s an opportunity for INEC to address all the anomalies
observed on Saturday and take its time to remobilize for the
election,” ACN spokesman Lai Mohammed said by phone.  Some polling stations had opened before they were ordered
to close. Governor Tunde Fashola of Lagos state, which includes
the West African nation’s commercial capital, said on Lagos TV
that he was among those who voted. Today he described the
original proposal to delay the vote by 48 hours as “probably
not well thought out.”  “People’s confidence to come out and vote may have been
shaken by these two postponements,” Clement Nwankwo, executive
director of the  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre , which is
monitoring the electoral process, said by phone yesterday.  The parliamentary vote is for 109 Senate seats and 360
seats in the House of Representatives. The main opposition
parties, Action Congress of Nigeria and the Congress for
Progressive Change, aim to cut the majority the People’s
Democratic Party won in both houses four years ago by saying it
failed to reduce poverty, corruption and violence.  Presidential Contest  The vote is a prelude to the presidential contest that pits
Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former military ruler
Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the anti-graft agency,  Nuhu Ribadu , of the ACN.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California,  Total SA (FP)  of
France and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  “A successful election means so much for us in terms of
the image of our country, in terms of the economic opportunities
that it brings because once we get this election right, we are
telling the world that politically our country is stable,”
Fashola said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 