-- 
Google to Get $25 Million Breakup Fee If Rival Wins Bid for Nortel Patents

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nortel-offers-google-25-million-break-up-fee-in-patent-auction.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will be paid a
$25 million breakup fee if another bidder wins a proposed
auction for bankrupt  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s patent portfolio,
according to court papers.  Google agreed to be the initial bidder with a cash offer of
$900 million at the proposed auction, which Toronto-based Nortel
will seek to hold June 20 at the New York office of its
bankruptcy law firm, Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton.  The proposed breakup fee and other concessions were
necessary for Google “to continue to participate in the auction
process,” Nortel said in court papers filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware. Google is also
guaranteed repayment of as much as $4 million in expenses.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is
moving into areas such as mobile and desktop operating systems
to broaden sales, a strategy that has spurred patent lawsuits
from companies including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   The planned sale, which includes about 6,000 patents and
patent applications, must be approved by the judges overseeing
Nortel’s bankruptcy cases in the U.S. and  Canada .  The patent portfolio is the last significant asset the
company has to sell. Since filing bankruptcy in the U.S., Canada
and the U.K., Nortel has sold almost all of its businesses,
raising about $3 billion to distribute to creditors. Creditors
of the company’s main U.S. unit, Nortel Networks, claimed they
were owed $16.3 billion, according to bankruptcy court
documents.  To beat  Mountain View , California-based Google, any
competitor must offer at least $29 million more than the
company’s initial offer. Thereafter each bid must be at least
$5 million more than the last offer, according to the proposed
bidding rules.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  