-- 
Northern Ireland’s McGuinness Says Dissidents are `Enemies'

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-04-04T14:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/northern-ireland-s-mcguinness-says-dissidents-are-enemies-.html
Northern Ireland ’s deputy first
minister, Martin McGuinness, said dissident republicans who
killed a policeman in the region on April 2 are “enemies of the
people of Ireland,” and should end their activities.  The murder of 25 year-old officer Ronan Kerr has “totally
and absolutely united,” the community, McGuinness told
reporters at Stormont Castle outside Belfast. Those responsible
“need to consider how isolated they are and they need to bring
their activities to an end.”  Dissident republicans who oppose Northern Ireland’s U.K.
link are trying to restart a three decade-long conflict that
claimed 3,500 lives before largely ending with a peace deal in
1998. More than 300 police were killed in the conflict. Kerr is
the second member of the  Police Service of Northern Ireland  to
be killed since dissidents ramped up their campaign in 2009.  “I cannot understand their strategy,” First Minister
Peter Robinson told reporters at the same press conference.
“All that it has done is strengthen the institutions, bring
politicians closer together and ensure that there is a united
response in support of the PSNI.”  Kerr died when a bomb exploded under his car outside his
home in the town of Omagh in county Tyrone, about 70 miles from
Belfast.  Robinson, whose  Democratic Unionist Party  supports Northern
Ireland’s continued union with the U.K., and McGuinness, whose
 Sinn Fein  party wants a united Ireland, head up a power-sharing
 assembly  that was revived in 2007, two years after the  Irish
Republican Army , once supported by  Sinn Fein , decommissioned
their weapons and renounced violence. Sinn Fein declared support
for the police in 2007.  The PSNI was created in 2001 to replace the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, which was more than 90 percent Protestant. The aim
of creating the PSNI was to attract more Catholics into the
force, which now is about 30 percent Catholic. Last month the
U.K. government ended a policy of 50/50 Catholic and Protestant
recruitment into the PSNI, first introduced to encourage
Catholics to join.  Most of the RUC members killed during the conflict, known
as “the Troubles,” were killed by the IRA. McGuinness, a
former IRA leader, said today he was “proud” of Catholics who
joined the PSNI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  