-- 
NYC School Chancellor Black’s Approval Rating Is 17%, Poll Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nyc-school-chancellor-black-s-approval-rating-is-17-poll-says.html
Cathie Black, the former Hearst
Magazines chairman chosen by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  as
schools chancellor last year, holds a 17 percent approval rating
among city residents, a  Marist College poll  found.  The survey showed that only 2 percent rate Black’s job
performance as “excellent,” while 15 percent grade her as
“good.” Among the rest, 34 percent rate her “fair,” 27
percent “poor” and 23 percent reserved opinion. Black got a 21
percent approval rating in February, the poll said.  “Chancellor Black is still not on firm footing with New
Yorkers,” said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Poughkeepsie, New
York-based Marist College Institute for Public Opinion, in a
statement. “She’s somewhat better known, but not better
graded.”  Black, 66, took control of the largest U.S. school system
in November, after predecessor Joel Klein resigned to join  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s education ventures. Black, who will oversee the mayor’s
proposal to cut as many as 6,166 of the city’s 75,000 teaching
positions while maintaining improved test scores and graduation
rates, has been  jeered  by parents at some public meetings.  As with Bloomberg’s appointment of Klein, a former Justice
Department attorney, Black’s lack of formal school-administrator
experience and academic training required state officials to
make an exception to the law before she could assume the post.  1 Million Students  The system of about  1,600 schools  and 1 million students
operates on a $19 billion budget with a five-year $13 billion
capital spending plan for new and renovated classrooms.  Of public-school parents surveyed, 53 percent gave the
schools either excellent or good marks, while 35 percent rated
them fair and 12 percent poor. Among all adults surveyed, 8
percent said they are excellent, 30 percent described them as
good, 34 percent graded the schools fair and 20 percent poor.  “The majority of families are happy with their child’s
school, which is a testament to the progress we’ve made over the
last nine years,” said Natalie Ravitz, a spokeswoman for the
Department of Education, when asked about the poll.  The cuts to the teaching staff, including 4,666 who may be
fired, have become the target of a $3 million television  ad
campaign  by the  United Federation of Teachers  that has attacked
the mayor’s stewardship of the schools and opposed his effort to
abolish “last-in-first-out,” or seniority, as the basis for
choosing whom to dismiss.  Ad Campaigns  Bloomberg, 69, who proposed the staff cuts to help close a
$2.4 billion gap in a $65.6 billion budget, has countered the
union commercials by using his own money to buy time on
television and finance a direct-mail campaign. A March 31 Marist
poll showed only 40 percent viewed his job performance
favorably.  Klein’s resignation and Black’s appointment were announced
together in November without any prior statement from the
Bloomberg administration that it had been searching for a
replacement.  “The way this chancellor came into office was a great
disservice both to her and to the schools of this city, and I
put that responsibility squarely on the shoulders of the mayor,”
said Michael Mulgrew, president of the teachers’ union, in an
interview.  Today’s poll resulted from telephone interviews with 772
New York City adult residents from March 22 to March 24, with an
error margin of 3.5 percentage points, the institute said in a
news release.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  