-- 
NYSE Shareholders Anticipate Counterbid From Deutsche Boerse After Nasdaq

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-04T20:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/nyse-shareholders-anticipate-counter-bid-from-deutsche-boerse.html
Deutsche Boerse AG will probably
raise its offer for NYSE Euronext to fend off  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) ’s unsolicited bid, according to three shareholders of the
biggest U.S. stock exchange operator.  NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer 
told employees on April 1 that while he will study the $11.3
billion proposal from  Nasdaq  OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE) , the company is “fully committed” to the Deutsche Boerse
deal. Deutsche Boerse’s board isn’t currently considering
raising its announced $9.53 billion bid, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private.  The offer from Nasdaq OMX and ICE may force Deutsche Boerse
to act because of the higher value and its cash component, said
Ian McDonald, a Baltimore-based U.S. exchanges analyst at T.
Rowe Price Group Inc.,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s biggest owner with a 7.3
percent stake on Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Regulators may block either plan because they concentrate
ownership of securities venues in the U.S. and  Europe .  “It’s difficult to view the two deals on equal footing
with their prices roughly 20 percent apart,” McDonald said. “I
view the Nasdaq-ICE bid as credible, and I don’t believe it
faces any more regulatory uncertainty than the Deutsche Boerse-
NYSE combination.”  All-Stock Deal  Deutsche Boerse’s all-stock deal, valued at $34.89 a share
at 4:33 p.m. in New York, is 18 percent below Nasdaq OMX and
ICE’s bid of $42.48 a share, which includes $14.24 in cash. New
York-based Nasdaq OMX is seeking a lock on U.S. stock listings
and almost half of American equity and options trading. ICE
would get the London-based Liffe futures markets. NYSE Euronext
faces a 250 million euro ($356 million) breakup fee should the
merger with  Deutsche Boerse  fail, company filings show.  Deutsche Boerse’s bid for NYSE Euronext is “the best
possible combination for both shareholder groups and the
stakeholders of the companies,” Deutsche Boerse said in a
statement last week. Its board hasn’t discussed changes to its
offer and it considers Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s announcement on
April 1 to be a proposal rather than a formal bid, said the
person familiar with the matter who declined to be named.  Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined to
comment. Frank Herkenhoff, a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse,
didn’t respond to two telephone messages today.  Rising Shares  Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s bid has pushed NYSE Euronext up 11
percent since it was announced to $38.98, making the New York-
based company one of 2011’s biggest winners among large U.S.
stock. Nasdaq OMX has risen 6.2 percent to $27.44 in the past
two days. Atlanta-based ICE slumped 3.8 percent to $118.90, and
Deutsche Boerse slipped 3 percent to 52.20 euros.  “History suggests that when a third party steps in with an
offer, then all parties must step back and reassess,” said
 Keith Wirtz , who helps oversee $18 billion, including about
100,000 NYSE Euronext shares, as chief investment officer for
Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “Deutsche Boerse
may be forced to raise their offer if they want the transaction
to be consummated. We haven’t seen the final word yet.”  NYSE Euronext, which has trailed the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by more than 46 percentage points since its first day of
trading as a public company in March 2006, is the 24th-best-
performing stock in the gauge this year. The owner of the  New
York  Stock Exchange has climbed 17 percent since Feb. 8, the day
before the company said it was in merger talks with Deutsche
Boerse. Deutsche Boerse has slid 9.2 percent in that period.  Greater Savings  Nasdaq OMX’s shares have more than quadrupled since
Greifeld started as CEO. They beat the Bloomberg World Exchanges
Index in 2010, rising 20 percent versus the measure’s 5.3
percent advance. While the stock is up 16 percent in 2011, its
increase since the market bottomed in March 2009 is 39 percent,
less than the exchange index’s 120 percent advance.  NYSE Euronext has fallen 42 percent since March 7, 2006,
its first trading session as a public company, and lost 55
percent since Nov. 14, 2007, when Niederauer’s appointment was
reported. It gained 19 percent in 2010 and 30 percent in 2011.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and
ICE said they will generate about $740 million in expense cuts
and synergies after three years. That compares with Deutsche
Boerse’s 300 million euros in cost savings.  “We have some skin in this game and we would like to see
the very, very best deal for NYSE Euronext,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chairman and chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd., a C$1 billion ($1 billion) money management
firm in Toronto that owns shares of NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX
and  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)  “We think Greifeld’s bid is a good bid,
and still the Deutsche Boerse deal does have a certain amount of
attractiveness. They could sweeten it and come close to Nasdaq’s
offer. It would seem odd to me that they would just roll over.”  Reducing Expenses  Greifeld, 53, joined Nasdaq OMX in May 2003 and began
acquiring companies in 2005, when he bought the Inet electronic
market. That year, he cut a third of the company’s staff,
vacated surplus  office space  and turned to lower-cost computer
systems to handle trading.  Nasdaq OMX expenses fell to 59 percent of revenue last year
from 68 percent in 2006, while it bought more than a dozen
companies, Bloomberg data show. Deutsche Boerse may say Nasdaq
OMX’s cost-cutting targets aren’t as achievable as its own, said
 Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York.  ‘Better Deal’  “The management teams of NYSE and Deutsche Boerse will
work to convince the market that their deal is a better deal,
that it makes more sense and delivers more value in the longer
term,” he said. Still, Nasdaq OMX and ICE have “good track
records” that will make too much criticism “a tough sell to
the market,” Ditmire said.  While a combination of Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext
“makes a lot of sense” because of synergies, too high of a
premium would defeat its purpose, said Juergen Meyer, a  fund
manager  at SEB Asset Management in  Frankfurt , which oversees
about $220 billion. One of his funds owns 800,000 Deutsche
Boerse shares.  “If one party gains more than the other one, it doesn’t
make sense anymore,” Meyer said. “Deutsche Boerse as a stand-
alone company is a highly profitable business. There is
absolutely no need to buy something at any price.”  ICE CEO Jeff Sprecher’s unsolicited bid for the Chicago
Board of Trade in 2007 forced the Chicago Mercantile Exchange to
raise its stock offer three times, eventually boosting it by 25
percent, from the original bid in October 2006 to July 2007 when
shareholders approved the deal that created  CME Group Inc. (CME)   CME Offer  The CME originally offered 0.3006 share for each CBOT
share, and ended paying 0.375 share. The value increased by
about $3.2 billion to $11.2 billion from the original deal.  NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX would have about 48 percent of
U.S. equity trading. They have struggled to keep market share
since  Kansas City , Missouri-based Bats Global Markets and  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC started venues
about five years ago. NYSE Euronext currently handles 28 percent
of equity volume and Nasdaq OMX has 20 percent, according to
data from London-based Barclays Plc for the fourth quarter.  A Deutsche Boerse acquisition would create the world’s
largest exchange operator and futures venues that would rival
the world’s largest, according to data from the Futures Industry
Association, a trade group representing Wall Street banks. It
would control 11 derivatives markets that handled a total of 4.8
billion contracts in 2010, according to FIA. That compares to
3.1 billion trades last year at Chicago-based CME Group, the
world’s largest futures exchange.  “Both parties can make a case their bid means better
corporate outcomes or has a better chance on the regulatory
front,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion
as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “And since those
things are both arguable, the only thing then that becomes
important is the price. That’s the only real, tangible thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  