-- 
Ho Wah, IJM, Kumpulan Europlus, OSK: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-04T00:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/ho-wah-ijm-kumpulan-europlus-osk-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,555.38.        Ho Wah Genting Bhd. (HWG)  : The manufacturer of wires and
cables said it received a government license to manufacture
ferro silicon at the Samalaju Heavy Industrial Park in Sarawak
state. Ferro silicon, an alloy of iron and silicon, is mainly
used in steelmaking and foundries, the company said in a
statement. The stock was unchanged at 72.5 sen.  IJM Corp. (IJM MK): The builder said it has received
government approval for the proposed extension of the New Pantai
Elevated Highway to Ampang road in  Kuala Lumpur , according to a
company statement. IJM slid 0.9 percent to 6.35 ringgit.        Kumpulan Europlus Bhd. (KEUR)  : The builder said it
received “in-principle” approval from the government to build
the West Coast Highway, according to a company statement. The
company expects to complete negotiations on the technical and
financial terms for the project within six months. The company,
partly owned by IJM, was unchanged at 1.53 ringgit.        MWE Holdings Bhd. (MWE)  : The yarn and fabric
manufacturer said it agreed to sell its 39 percent stake in PI
International Holdings Ltd. to China Great Wall Computer (HK)
Holding Ltd. for 29.7 million ringgit ($9.8 million). MWE will
earn 9.7 million ringgit from the sale, the company said in a
statement. MWE added 2.4 percent to 1.26 ringgit.    OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  : The Malaysian stockbroker said
it agreed to buy 48.9 percent of Thailand’s BFIT Securities Pcl
for 1.032 billion baht ($34 million), according to a company
statement. OSK’s OSK Investment Bank Bhd. unit will buy the
stake from Bangkok First Investment & Trust Pcl, it said. OSK
was unchanged at 1.80 ringgit.        Sunway Holdings Bhd. (SGW)  : The construction and
property group said it won a 22.6 million ringgit contract from
Perumahan SLG Central Sdn. to carry out piling works for an
office and apartment project in Kuala Lumpur, according to a
company statement. Sunway rose 0.9 percent to 2.30 ringgit.        Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  : Malaysia’s biggest
electricity producer said it awarded a 5.1 billion ringgit
contract to construct a coal-fired power plant to a group
comprising Alstom SA, China National Machinery Import & Export
Corp. and CMC Machipex Sdn., according to a company statement.
Tenaga lost 1.1 percent to 6.18 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  