-- 
Obama Begins Bid for 2012 Re-Election With Video and E-Mail

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/obama-begins-bid-for-2012-with-campaign-video-is-said-to-prepare-filing.html
President  Barack Obama  began his bid
for re-election in 2012 by releasing a campaign video on  his
website  and sending an e-mail to supporters that said the job of
preparing for his campaign “must start today.”  Obama filed  paperwork  today with the Federal Election
Commission and spoke with supporters tonight in a conference
call that also was broadcast on his campaign website.  “We’re doing this now because the politics we believe in
does not start with expensive TV ads or extravaganzas, but with
you -- with people organizing block-by-block, talking to
neighbors, co-workers and friends,” Obama wrote in an e-mail.
“That kind of campaign takes time to build.”  The campaign will be “farther reaching, more focused, and
more innovative than anything we’ve built before,” Obama said.
“Even though I’m focused on the job you elected me to do, and
the race may not reach full speed for a year or more, the work
of laying the foundation for our campaign must start today.”  The filing with federal election officials allows Obama to
begin fundraising and other organizational efforts for winning a
second White House term. The campaign will have its headquarters
in  Chicago , the president’s adopted hometown and base for his
2008 victory.  Obama, 49, said this will be his “final campaign, at least
as a candidate,” and signed the message, “Barack.”  Video Interviews  The two-minute video features interviews with supporters
and doesn’t include any spoken words from Obama. It starts with
a man in  North Carolina , the state that will host the Democratic
National Convention next year and one that he carried in 2008.  The video also includes images from his historic 2008
campaign, when he was elected the first black U.S. president,
including his announcement speech in Springfield,  Illinois , and
a Fox News television screen showing him the victor of the Iowa
caucuses in January 2008, the first official contest on the
nomination campaign.  The  Republican National Committee  responded to the Obama
video by distributing to reporters editorial criticism from
newspapers and blogs saying that Obama is conducting “a
backseat presidency” by failing to tackle “exploding costs of
entitlement spending” in such areas as Medicare and Medicaid.  “Obama has shown a distinct lack of leadership on the
budget debate,” the RNC said, adding that he chose “politics
over substance by sitting on the sidelines” on overhauling
programs.  Policy Challenges  The president is beginning his campaign as he confronts
foreign policy challenges that include the turmoil in the Middle
East and North Africa. There is also continued economic stress
at home.  The national  unemployment rate  is projected to be 8.3
percent in 2012, according to a median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News in March. While that would be down
from the current 8.8 percent figure, no president since World
War II has been re-elected with the jobless rate higher than 7.5
percent.  Obama likely will give a formal speech on his re-election
bid at a later date. He is scheduled to make an April 14
fundraising stop in Chicago, where donors four years ago
provided him some of his earliest funding. Additional April
fundraising events are being planned in  California  and New York.  Campaign’s Cost  Analysts who track fundraising say they expect the 2012
presidential election to cost $3 billion, about 50 percent more
than the $2 billion the Federal Election Commission said was
spent in 2008 by candidates, the political parties and outside
groups. Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007 and 2008 for
his presidential campaign and was the first major-party nominee
to reject public financing for the general election.  Jim Messina , a former White House deputy chief of staff,
has moved to Chicago to run the campaign. Also back in Chicago
to handle the campaign’s messaging and strategy is  David Axelrod , a former senior Obama adviser in the White House.  The president’s job approval was at 42 percent in a
 Quinnipiac University poll  taken March 22-28 with an error
margin of plus-or-minus 2.2 percentage points. That was down
from 46 percent in a March 3 Quinnipiac survey and at its lowest
level in the university’s surveys on Obama.  Also, 50 percent of the registered voters surveyed by the
Hamden, Connecticut-based polling institute said Obama didn’t
deserve re-election in 2012, compared with 41 percent who said
he should receive a second four-year term.  In a hypothetical race with an unidentified Republican
opponent, voter sentiment was statistically tied: 36 percent for
Obama, 37 percent for a Republican.  Republican Race  The Republican nomination contest remains wide open, with
potential candidates ranging from former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney to real estate developer  Donald Trump .  Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who is exploring a
Republican presidential bid, released a campaign-style video on
the Internet today in response to Obama’s announcement.  “How can America win the future, when we’re losing the
present?” Pawlenty asks in the video, which highlights
unemployment and record home foreclosures. “In order for
America to take a new direction, it’s going to take a new
president.”  Other prospective Republican candidates include former
Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa caucuses in
2008, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels
of  Indiana , and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who is
stepping down as the Obama-appointed ambassador to  China  in
April.  Barbour, Santorum  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  has expressed interest
in the Republican race, as has former Senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania. The lack of a clear frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  The Iowa caucuses, the first electoral test in the
nomination process, are tentatively scheduled for Feb. 6, 2012.  Pawlenty announced March 21 that he is forming a committee
to explore a bid, becoming the first major prospective candidate
to do so. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  said
March 3 he was creating a  website  to explore a run.  Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the presidential
contest, a total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled
their candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama and then-Senator  Hillary Clinton 
of  New York , who now serves as secretary of state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  