-- 
Lockhart Says U.S. Growth Will Withstand Spending Cuts, Consumer Caution

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-04T15:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/lockhart-says-recovery-well-established-faces-headwinds.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S. recovery from the
deepest recession since the 1930s will probably persist, while
buffeted by government spending cuts and reductions in consumer
debt.  “With each quarter, the recovery is increasingly well
established,” Lockhart said today in a speech in West Palm
Beach,  Florida . “However, underlying the recovery there remain
serious imbalances that have not been corrected.”  Lockhart is one of several Fed officials who have noted an
improving U.S. economic outlook and strengthening labor market
since a March 15 policy meeting. The  U.S. economy  added 216,000
workers last month, more than forecast, and the  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of 8.8 percent,
figures from the Labor Department showed April 1.  Still, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said April 1 he expected the central bank to complete
$600 billion in planned U.S. Treasury purchases to stimulate the
expansion, adding a “substantial pickup is sorely needed” in
job growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who speaks today at a
conference hosted by the Atlanta Fed, has given no indication he
wants to tighten credit with unemployment still high.  “Households are repairing their balance sheets by reducing
debt and rebuilding savings,” Lockhart said to the Palm Beach
Strategic Forum, a group promoting international economic
development. “ Consumer spending  has been growing more slowly
relative to income than it did before the recession. I expect
that this more measured consumption behavior is likely to
persist.”  ‘Savings Glut’  In comments during a panel discussion, Lockhart said that
while a “savings glut” from  China  and other emerging markets
may reverse over time, the cost of investment capital will be
held down by moderate inflation in the U.S. and other markets.  “You are likely to continue to see a moderate rate of
inflation,” Lockhart said. “The central bank here in the
 United States , and I know all around the world, are very, very
focused on the current price activity going on but also the
expectations of the public.”  The central bank’s policy committee said last month that
the recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor market
is “improving gradually.”  The U.S. economy is estimated to have expanded at a 3.4
percent rate last quarter and is forecast to expand 3.3 percent
rate in the second quarter, according to the median of 67
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.  ‘Significant Reduction’  The U.S. also faces a “significant reduction” in public
borrowing, and pension reform is a “necessary element” of
changes, Lockhart said.  “The public sector in the United States must stabilize its
finances and reverse the accumulation of debt that has
accelerated in recent years,” he said. “This process of public
sector deleveraging, an element of fiscal rebalancing, is mostly
ahead of us.”  Lockhart also urged U.S. regulators to find a “balance”
in the reregulation of the financial sector to avoid hurting
lending and growth.  “Many contacts across the Southeast region of the country
are increasingly giving voice to claims that this re-regulation
is overreaching and potentially destructive,” he said.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed regional bank presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in  West Palm Beach , Florida, at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  