-- 
Oil Rises to 30-Month High on Libya Conflct; Kuwait Says Price Is Too High

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-04T12:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/oil-rises-to-30-month-high-in-new-york-on-fuel-demand-outlook-u-s-jobs.html
Oil climbed to the highest level in
30 months in  New York  on speculation that U.S. economic growth
may support demand and a protracted conflict in Libya will
curtail supply.  Futures advanced a third day after an April 1 report showed
the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer, added more jobs
than economists forecast last month. Prices are too high and
“worrying,” the chief executive officer of Kuwait Petroleum
Corp. said today. Forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
bombed an oil field south of the city of Ajdabiya, Al Jazeera
television reported, heightening concern output losses from
Africa’s third-largest producer may continue.  “It’s becoming increasingly clear that the situation in
Libya may be prolonged,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker
at Bache Commodities Ltd. in  London . “The more one looks at
uprisings in the Middle East, the more one realizes they will
not be easy to resolve. At the same time, oil demand is
relatively inelastic to higher prices.”  Crude for May delivery gained as much as 84 cents, or 0.8
percent to $108.78 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest since Sept. 24, 2008, and
was at $108.16 at 1:39 p.m. London time. Prices are up 25
percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement rose as much as $1.05, or 0.9
percent, to $119.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract climbed 2.7 percent last week.  U.S. Jobs Growth  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $11.25 a
barrel over U.S.-traded West Texas Intermediate. The difference
between front-month contracts in London and New York surged to a
record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and
North  Africa  and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for WTI. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  Kuwait would prefer to see  oil prices  at $90 to $100 a
barrel, Kuwait Petroleum CEO Farouk Al-Zanki said at a
conference in Kuwait City.  Prices gained 2.4 percent in New York last week as fighting
in Libya between rebels and forces loyal to threatened to
prolong supply cuts from Africa’s third-largest producer.  U.S. payrolls advanced by 216,000 workers in March compared
with a 190,000 gain projected by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped to 8.8 percent from 8.9
percent, the fourth straight decrease, the Labor Department
said. The  unemployment rate  was projected to hold at 8.9
percent, according to the median forecast in the survey.  “The U.S. data paints a positive picture,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in
Sydney, said by telephone today. “People are still concerned
about  Libya , but not overly. If Qaddafi decides to call it a
day, then there will be a short, sharp sell-off.”  Nigeria Elections  Oil in New York has climbed 28 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in Libya, cutting the nation’s
output by two-thirds. The conflict is the bloodiest in uprisings
that have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to Bahrain, Iran, Yemen and Oman.  An emissary ofQaddafi met with  Greece ’s prime minister
yesterday and may be seeking a political or diplomatic solution
to hostilities, according to Greek Foreign Minister Dimitris Droutsas.  “Upcoming elections in Nigeria amid the intensified
unrest” in the Middle East and North Africa region may add to
concern over oil supplies,  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in an e-mailed note.  Long Positions Increase  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest oil producer, will hold general
elections a week later than planned, the electoral commission
said, after a vote to elect lawmakers ended in chaos on April 2.  Parliamentary elections, which had been rescheduled to
start today, will take place on April 9, while the presidential
vote is set for April 16, Attahiru Jega, head of the Independent
National Electoral Commission, said yesterday.  Nigeria pumped 1.92 million barrels a day in March,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Saudi Arabia ,
the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped 9 million barrels a day.  Net-long positions in oil, or bets that prices will rise,
increased by 5,254 futures and options combined, or 1.8 percent,
to 292,066  in the seven days ended March 29, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders
report released at the end of last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  