-- 
Mol Refuses Allegations of Market Manipulation in INA Share Buy

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-04-04T13:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/mol-refuses-allegations-of-market-manipulation-in-ina-share-buy.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, rejected allegations that it secretly purchased shares
in its Croatian subsidiary  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d. and
manipulated the market.  “With respect to recent media publications about alleged
manipulation with INA shares, Mol firmly refuses all accusations
of market manipulation,” the Budapest-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. “Recent attempts to damage Mol’s
reputation are unlawful and completely unacceptable.”  Croatia ’s market regulator suspended trade in INA on the
Zagreb bourse and launched an investigation into recent trades
in the company’s stock “following significant trading by
foreign investors,” the regulator said on March 28. Croatian
Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said on April 2 that INA shares
were traded “in a non-transparent way, and there are
allegations of  money laundering .” The investigation will focus
on funds in Slovakia, Hungary and Cyprus, Kosor said.  Mol holds 47.26 percent of the Croatian oil and gas
company, while the Croatian government owns 44.84 percent. Mol
won the controlling rights of INA in a 2009 partnership
agreement with the government. The Hungarian company on Dec. 3
offered to buy the outstanding INA shares traded in Zagreb. It
obtained 0.1 percent of the total stock.  INA shares have jumped 134 percent since Mol’s offer,
closing at 4,011 kuna ($771) per share on March 25, before
trading was suspended.  The Croatian government is planning to cap individual
holdings in INA at 49 percent after the investigation is
concluded, Kosor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  