-- 
Holocaust Crimes by Nazi-Era Police Investigated in Berlin Show

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/holocaust-crimes-by-nazi-era-police-investigated-in-berlin-show-review.html
Julius Wohlauf, born in Dresden in
1913, joined the Nazi Party and the Stormtroopers after school.
He was recruited by the police and posted to  Poland , where he
oversaw the deportations and mass murders of Jews.  Ten years after World War II ended, Wohlauf was again
recruited by the police. He rose through the ranks to become
head of the Hamburg force’s road-safety department, until a
murder investigation against him put an abrupt end to his career
in 1963. He was sentenced to eight years in prison for
complicity in the killings of 9,200 people.  It’s the jail sentence that is the most atypical part of
his resume, according to an exhibition in Berlin about the Nazi-
era crimes of German police. Only a handful of officers were
convicted and imprisoned for genocide. Many continued police
work after the war.  The lack of criminal convictions contributed to an
erroneous belief that just the Gestapo, the secret police, was
implicated in the Holocaust, according to the curators.  “Order
and Annihilation -- The Police and the Nazi Regime”  at the
German Historical Museum is the first exhibition to address
police crimes in the  Third Reich .  With a comprehensive selection of photos, documents, maps,
video clips and exhibits including weapons, it shows that the
Kriminalpolizei (Crime Police) and Ordnungspolizei (Order
Police) were up to their necks in Nazi atrocities.  Hitler Oath  The exhibition starts during the  Weimar Republic , at a time
when communists and Nazis were battling in the streets. Police
brutality, particularly toward communists, was commonplace. In
1929, police shot 40 people in a Berlin riot.  After the Nazis came to power, the police had to swear an
oath of allegiance to  Adolf Hitler . Officers persecuted regime
opponents, homosexuals, the clergy and Jehovah’s Witnesses as
well as enforcing dozens of anti-Semitic laws.  As war broke out and the German army advanced, so the
police’s territory expanded to the east. Its crimes included the
murders of 60,000 members of the Polish elite, terrorizing slave
laborers, setting up the ghettos and shooting hundreds of
thousands of civilians.  The Gestapo organized the mass deportation of Jews to the
death camps. The Kriminalpolizei oversaw the transport of Sinti
and Roma.  Ghetto Brutality  In the ghetto of Lodz, 45,000 Jews died of hunger, disease
and police brutality. A photograph shows officers in the Warsaw
ghetto, smiling as they drink in a bar whose walls are decorated
with a drawing of a policeman shooting an escaping Jew.  Police staffed the mobile Mordkommandos, the paramilitary
death squads administered by the SS. They shot Jews, communists,
war prisoners and Roma and Sinti behind the frontline. In the
 Soviet Union , such squads -- together with police battalions --
murdered more than 1 million people from 1941 to 1942.  Maps in the exhibition mark the locations of mass murders
by the German police: They are littered with red dots. This is
just a “selection,” we are told.  Very few policemen refused to join the killing. A rare
resister was Paul Mattick, a Berlin constable and Social
Democrat who protected Jews hiding in a Swedish church by
warning them before searches.  Peer Pressure  Yet the “I was only following orders” argument is hard to
apply, because there are no known cases of police being punished
for refusing to take part in  war crimes . Peer pressure may have
been the main driving force. Officers who didn’t take part in
firing squads were considered weaklings.  After the war, the East German authorities purged the
police force and recruited only committed communists. In the
west, no purge took place, exposing it to propaganda attacks
from the East. A 1968 cartoon in an East Berlin newspaper shows
police searching the libraries of West Berlin’s Free University
during the student riots.  “Boss, here at the university there are a lot of books,
Einstein and so on,” reads the caption. “Should we just burn
them like we did back in May 1933?”  “Order and Annihilation -- the Police and the Nazi
Regime” is at the Deutsches Historisches museum through July
31. For more information, go to  http://www.dhm.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 