-- 
Honda Generators Run Out as Quake Cripples Output

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-04-06T03:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/honda-portable-generators-run-out-as-earthquake-cripples-output.html
Portable power generators made by
Honda Motor Co.,  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  and Yamaha Motor
Co. are running out after Japan’s largest earthquake crippled
production while simultaneously stoking demand.  Orders for the generators, used to provide hot baths and
meals to survivors of the magnitude-9 temblor and ensuing
tsunami, surged after the disaster knocked out  power plants ,
causing electricity shortages.  “We’re completely out,” said Ryuzo Nishikawa, who runs
his own company in Tokyo selling generators made by Fuji
Heavy and Yamaha. “We ran out three days after the quake,
but we’ve been receiving orders from hospitals and factories
every day.”  Companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp.
halted output after last month’s disaster devastated
northeastern Japan, damaging factories that make parts and
materials and disabling a nuclear-power plant. The government
estimates damage from Japan’s strongest earthquake to be as
much as 25 trillion yen ($299 billion), or 0.5 percent of
Japan’s economy, the world’s third-largest.  Higher Prices  The natural disasters left more than 27,500 people dead
or missing as of April 3, according to the  National Police
Agency  in Tokyo. Emergency shelters housed 161,643 people,
police said.  The disasters also sparked nationwide shortages of power
generators, flashlights, batteries and bottled water, as
rolling blackouts and government reports of elevated
radiation in tap water drove up demand.  A  Honda EU9i generator  was bid at 178,000 yen, the
highest of 128 offers, on Yahoo Japan Corp.’s online auction
site on April 1, compared with a regular price of 129,150 yen.  “Some suppliers of parts needed to make generators were
directly hit by the earthquake, and due to a shortage of
these parts, we haven’t been able to make them,” said Yuki
Watanabe, a spokeswoman at Honda. “We’ve received five to
six times the usual orders from dealers, and we’re almost
out.”  Nishikawa said he called Yamaha and Fuji Heavy asking
for more and was told the companies were prioritizing orders
from the government, the  Self-Defense Force  and from people
in the region directly hit by the natural disasters.  Makeshift Baths  The Self-Defense Force gathered generators from its
bases across Japan and bought additional units after the
disaster, said Manabu Ikezaki, a spokesman for the military,
which is assisting evacuees living in emergency shelters such
as schools in the quake-stricken region.  “We use the power generators to heat makeshift baths
and to cook warm food outside,” Ikezaki said. “We use them
for just about everything.”  The earthquake and tsunami destroyed 21 million
kilowatts of electrical generating capacity, or about the
amount that would be generated by 10 Hoover Dams.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the operator of the damaged
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, expects a shortage of
8.5 million kilowatts this summer as seasonal demand may peak
at about 55 million kilowatts, compared with its capacity of
37.5 million kilowatts on March 31.  The utility began rolling blackouts to avoid bigger
outages after the earthquake. The Dai-Ichi plant generated
almost a 10th of the energy of the Kanto region, which
includes Tokyo and contains about a third of Japan’s  127
million people .  ‘Completely Out’  Shunsuke Yamaki, a spokesman at Yamaha, and Fusao
Watanabe, a spokesman at Fuji Heavy, both said output of
portable generators at their companies is unlikely to resume
anytime soon, due to parts shortages.  “Orders have surged seven to eight times, but we’re
completely out,” Yamaki said.  Honda sold 37,000 portable power generators in  Japan 
last year, accounting for 45 percent of the market by unit
sales. Yamaha had “a little over 30 percent” market share,
including sales to other companies, in 2010, according to
Yamaki. Fuji Heavy declined to give a sales figure.  Tokyo-based Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, also
halted domestic automobile production after the earthquake
due to a shortage of components. Honda has estimated it lost
output of 46,600 autos and 5,000 motorcycles between March 14
and April 3.  Honda has declined 11 percent in Tokyo trading since the
day before the earthquake. The shares fell 1.3 percent to
3,010 yen as of today’s close at 3 p.m.  Resuming Output  Honda’s portable power generators are priced from
100,000 yen to 550,000 yen, Yuki Watanabe said. The devices,
commonly used by construction workers and street vendors, use
gasoline and have running times ranging from two hours to 12
hours.  Yamaha, whose generators cost from 130,000 yen to
530,000 yen, donated 500 units to the government for relief
efforts, Yamaki said.  Honda has secured enough parts to partially resume
production of large generators at a factory in Kumamoto,
southwest Japan, though the company doesn’t know how long it
may take to start making portable units, Watanabe said.  Yuichi Kato, who runs a business selling Honda
generators in Tokyo, said customers quickly bought all of his
36 units after the earthquake.  “We ran out two days after the quake hit,” Kato said.
“It doesn’t look like any of the makers will be getting
their supply back anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  