-- 
Osborne Says Government Committed to London as Financial Center

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-04T14:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/osborne-says-government-committed-to-london-as-financial-center.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the British government is committed to maintaining
London’s place as a global financial center.  “This government is absolutely committed to the success of
a strong, resilient, stable and globally competitive financial
services industry,” Osborne said at the opening of Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s 546,000-square-foot (50,700-square-meter) London
headquarters on the banks of the River Thames. “We are
committed to London as a world center for finance.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and HSBC Holdings Plc,
three of Britain’s five biggest lenders, last year threatened to
leave London if the government broke up their commercial and
investment banking divisions. The banks’ statements about the
British capital have become more positive since the U.K.’s
 Independent Commission on Banking  said in January it wouldn’t
recommend a split, with Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  saying last month that the bank planned to keep its
headquarters in London.  “London has always been an important hub for Nomura’s
international business,” CEO Kenichi Watanabe said today. “We
have every intention of continuing to work with the government
and regulators to grow sensibly here.”  Britain is home to about 80 percent of Europe’s hedge funds
and about 60 percent of its private equity firms. The U.K.
accounted for about 37 percent of all global foreign exchange
trading in April and 46 percent of global interest rate over-
the-counter derivative trading, according to TheCityUK, a lobby
group started by the City of London Corporation.  Nomura has added 700 jobs in  Europe  since January 2010,
Watanabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  