-- 
Motion Picture Association Sues to Block Zediva Movie Streaming Service

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-04-04T22:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/motion-picture-association-sues-to-block-zediva-movie-streaming-service.html
The  Motion Picture Association of
America , representing the major Hollywood studios, filed a
copyright infringement lawsuit against the operators of the
movie-streaming service Zediva.  Zediva  illegally streams movies to its customers without
obtaining required licenses from the movie studios, in violation
of the studios’ right to “publicly perform” their works, the
MPAA said today in an e-mailed statement.  The closely held company, based in  Santa Clara ,  California ,
offers 14 rentals of new-release DVDs for $2 per movie, or $1
when ordering 10 films. That undercuts what cable companies
charge for on-demand and is less than the $3 that  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  began charging in a test of 24-hour rentals on Facebook.
Zediva likens the service to those offered by DVD retailers.  “Zediva’s mischaracterization of itself is a gimmick it
hopes will enable it to evade the law and stream movies in
violation of the studios’ exclusive rights,” Dan Robbins, the
MPAA’s associate general counsel, said in the statement.
“Courts have repeatedly seen through the façade of this type of
copyright-avoidance scheme, and we are confident they will in
this case too.”  Zediva didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
sent by e-mail through its press office.  Low Prices  The company can offer low prices because it doesn’t pay
studios to license their films, Venky Srinivasan, chief
executive officer of Zediva, said in an interview last month.
Zediva purchases DVDs as consumers do, and loads them into
hundreds of DVD players in a central office. The service offers
“long-distance rentals” of both the movie and DVD player, he
said.  “You rent just like you would at Redbox or Blockbuster,
only you don’t have to go anywhere to do it,” Srinivasan said.  The studios’ complaint alleges a single count of copyright
infringement against WTV Systems, the parent company of Zediva,
and Srinivasan, according to the statement.  The complaint, filed in federal district court in  Los
Angeles , alleges that the defendants violate the plaintiffs’
exclusive right to “publicly perform” their movies under
Section 106(4) of the Copyright Act.  The studios seek unspecified damages and Zediva’s profits
from infringing their copyrighted works, or statutory damages of
$150,000 per violation, and a court order stopping Zediva from
further infringement.  The case is Warner Bros. v. Zediva, 11-2817, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 