-- 
Congress Fights Clock to Reach Spending Deal to Avert Government Shutdown

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T21:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/house-republicans-use-policy-riders-as-bargaining-chip-in-budget-talks.html
Lawmakers trying to reach a 2011
spending compromise have made “some progress,” the House’s top
Republican said, though time is running short to avert a U.S.
government shutdown threatened for week’s end.  President  Barack Obama  invited Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, to meet with him and Vice President  Joe Biden  on the
budget tonight at the White House.  Prior meetings have yet to yield a breakthrough, even as
Obama said it would be “inexcusable” for Congress to fall
short of an accord and allow federal agencies to be closed for
the first time in 15 years.  Boehner of  Ohio  said that while the talks are advancing,
he’s still pushing for deeper spending cuts than Democrats favor
and for environmental and other policy directives backed by his
party.  “I think we’ve made some progress, yes,” Boehner said
after meeting with all House Republicans and a telephone call
this morning from Obama. “But we are not finished, not by a
long shot.”  Current government spending authority is scheduled to
expire April 8. Without an agreement, all non-essential
government functions would close.  Congressional officials negotiated privately as leaders
publicly feuded over proposed spending cuts and the policy
directives, and the administration and Congress prepared for a
shutdown.  ‘Moving Toward Closure’  A leading Senate Democrat said he was more optimistic than
earlier in the week that an accord could be reached.  “I feel better today than I did yesterday,” said Senator
 Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat.
“There’s a direct negotiation. There have been things put on
the table that had not been discussed before, and I think that
we’re moving toward closure.”  House Republican leaders say they will move through the
chamber tomorrow a temporary funding measure that would keep the
government operating through April 15, impose $12 billion in
budget cuts and fund the Pentagon for the remainder of the year.
Senate Democratic leaders have said they oppose the bill,
meaning it may end up being a symbolic measure.  $40 Billion  Boehner told Democrats yesterday at a private White House
meeting that he might be able to agree to a plan that sliced $40
billion from current spending, according to an administration
official who sought anonymity. That is $7 billion higher than
the $33 billion plan lawmakers had been working to assemble.  A spokesman for Boehner,  Michael Steel , declined to confirm
whether the speaker had raised such a proposal.  Many of the House’s Tea Party-backed freshmen are beginning
to soften their opposition to compromising on funding levels for
the rest of this fiscal year, said Representative Mike Rogers,
an Alabama Republican.  “You can really see this week a lot of the freshmen
evolving and growing” and “maturing,” he said. “There’s
three levers that make laws; we just have one of the three.
That’s just the way it is. The Senate’s got one, the president’s
got one -- they’re starting to get it.”  IRS Audits  The Obama administration said it is preparing for a partial
shutdown of operations if Congress doesn’t act, which would
suspend Internal Revenue Service audits and federal small-
business loan processing, as well as government guarantees of
some mortgages, according to an official who briefed reporters
on condition of anonymity.  Congress, too, was bracing for a shutdown. Officials have
told lawmakers and senior aides to designate which employees are
“ essential ” and must report to work, and said those deemed
non-essential will be furloughed without pay. It’s up to
Congress to decide whether they will be compensated for the
forced time off, as they have been during past shutdowns.  “It is unknown whether legislation will ultimately be
passed in this circumstance to provide back pay for the period
of furlough and you should plan accordingly,” said a sample
letter to  non-essential  employees posted on the Committee on
House Administration’s  website . “We wish that we could provide
you with more guidance on this issue but, due to the fluid
nature of the situation, we cannot.”  ‘No Excuse’  Obama, wading into the talks after weeks on the sidelines,
said yesterday that Democrats have offered cuts to the proposed
2011 budget that should meet Republicans’ demands, and that the
nation can’t afford a government shutdown if an accord isn’t
reached by the end of the week.  “We are now at a point where there’s no excuse to extend
this further,” the president told reporters at the White House
after he had hosted the meeting with congressional leaders.  Today in Fairless Hills,  Pennsylvania , Obama said the
stalemate threatens the U.S. economic recovery just as it is
gaining momentum.  “Companies don’t like uncertainty, and if they start
seeing that suddenly we may have a shutdown of our government,
that could halt momentum right when we need to build it up,”
Obama said. “I do not want to see Washington politics stand in
the way of America’s progress.”  2012 Budget  The showdown over this year’s spending persisted as House
Republicans discussed their budget proposal for the 2012 fiscal
year that would cut the deficit in coming years by about three-
quarters, with a $6 trillion reduction in spending and a 25
percent cap on tax rates. The proposal by Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  would trim the deficit next year
to $995 billion from about $1.4 trillion now.  The plan’s scope dwarfs what lawmakers are arguing over
now, a spending measure to fund the government through the 2011
fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  Complicating the debate over the 2011 budget is the dispute
over dozens of so-called policy riders  House Republicans  tacked
onto their 2011 spending plan that seek to limit the Obama
administration’s prerogatives for environmental rules, health
care and abortion, among other matters. Republicans have said
they will only agree to strip some of the directives from a
budget deal in return for deeper spending cuts.  “I thought this was about deficits rather than policy, and
unfortunately policy issues are still on the table,” Durbin
said. “I hope he doesn’t go too far,” he said, referring to
Boehner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  