-- 
Republicans to Unveil Budget Plan With Sweeping Changes

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-05T04:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/house-budget-chairman-ryan-targets-medicare-medicaid-in-4-trillion-cuts.html
Republicans are set to propose a
budget plan calling for fundamental changes in the U.S.
government’s tax and spending policies, including overhauling
the Medicare health-insurance program for the elderly.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  is scheduled
today to release a plan that would cut more than $6 trillion
from President Barack Obama’s budget over 10 years, phase out
traditional Medicare and call for a revamp of the  tax code .  “This is a serious proposal,” Representative Tom Cole, an
 Oklahoma  Republican, said in an interview. “We’re headed
towards a big debate.”  The plan carries political risk for Republicans because
Democrats are sure to use proposals to cut some of the most
popular federal programs as a cudgel before next year’s
elections.  “We are giving them a political weapon,” Ryan, a
Wisconsin Republican, acknowledged on “Fox News Sunday.”  The plan coincides with a separate fight over spending
levels for the rest of this fiscal year. A partial government
shutdown looms if lawmakers don’t agree on a plan by April 8.  Public opinion polls show Americans want Congress to bring
down the federal deficit, though without harming entitlements
such as Medicare and Social Security or many discretionary
spending programs. Yet it’s the expanding entitlement programs
that pose the biggest threat to the government’s long-term
fiscal standing, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Phasing Out Medicare  Ryan’s proposal to end traditional Medicare calls for new
beneficiaries, starting in 2022, to instead be provided
subsidies to buy private health insurance.  It would cap spending on Medicaid, the health-insurance
plan for the poor, and give states more discretion over how to
run the joint federal-state program. Ryan’s plan would also roll
back so-called discretionary spending to below 2008 levels and
freeze it there for five years.  Even as Democrats denounce the changes, some of Ryan’s
Republican colleagues want even bigger savings.  Representative Mick Mulvaney said he wants Ryan’s budget to
cut the annual deficit from $1.4 trillion this year to less than
$1 trillion in 2012, which would mean finding more than $400
billion in savings in a single year.  “That’s important for us to send a strong message that we
have a dramatic reduction off of this year’s deficit,” the
South Carolina lawmaker said in an interview. “We have pushed
Chairman Ryan harder than he’s ever been pushed before.”  ‘Pledge to America’  Many Republicans, pointing to their 2010 campaign “ Pledge
to America ” to put the government on a path to a balanced
budget, want Ryan’s plan to erase the deficit within 10 years.  Debt-cutting proposals last year by the leaders of Obama’s
deficit commission and by a group of independent budget experts
would take more than 25 years to balance the federal budget.
Obama’s budget request, announced in February, would reduce the
deficit to $750 billion in 2015 though it would rise again after
that, according to CBO.  None of that is ambitious enough for Representative Joe Walsh, a freshman Republican from  Illinois  who said he will have
a “real hard time” voting for Ryan’s budget if it doesn’t
erase the deficit.  “It would be hard to go back home and take to my people
back home a plan that will balance the budget in 20 or 25
years,” Walsh said. “I couldn’t do that with a straight face.
I think a lot of us couldn’t.”  ‘Ideological Agenda’  He said the Republican Study Committee, a bloc of fiscal
conservatives in the House, will produce an alternative budget
plan that achieves balance in the next decade.  Ryan hasn’t said how quickly his plan would bring down the
deficit, whether it would balance the budget at some point or
where he intends to find his savings.  He won’t be able to depend on Democratic votes to pass his
budget, as Republicans did last month with the stopgap measure
currently funding the government.  Ryan’s plan “is the same old ideological agenda, except
this time on steroids,” Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
 Maryland , the ranking Democrat on the Budget Committee, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Ryan’s budget began in a big hole because of his party’s
unwillingness to raise taxes. Obama’s budget proposal would
reduce the deficit in part by relying on more than $1 trillion
in tax increases, including by allowing President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for households earning more than $250,000 to
expire at the end of 2012. Republicans will have to replace that
with equivalent spending cuts to show the same amount of  deficit
reduction . Ryan’s budget proposes to set the top individual and
corporate income tax rates at 25 percent.  Reshaping Medicare  Ryan’s plan to convert Medicare into what he calls a
“premium support” program wouldn’t take effect until 2022 to
allow current beneficiaries and those nearing retirement to
remain in the current system. That means it won’t yield big
savings any time soon.  The Pentagon’s $700 billion budget, one of the government’s
single-biggest expenses, has grown by 75 percent over the past
decade, not including war costs. Yet Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has signaled his opposition to cuts larger than Obama
proposed.  “I don’t intend to be a lot to the left of a Democratic
president on defense,” said Cole of Oklahoma.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 4-7 showed that
Americans consider the widening deficit and debt second only to
unemployment as the most pressing issues confronting the U.S. On
Medicare, just 22 percent of respondents said benefits should be
reduced. The poll also showed the public doesn’t support the
Republicans’ deep cuts to social and scientific programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  