-- 
How to Avoid the Pitfalls of a New Tech Bubble: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/how-to-avoid-the-pitfalls-of-a-new-tech-bubble-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Initial public offerings. Big
takeovers. Nerdy 20-somethings getting rich quickly. To borrow a
phrase from an old Prince song, the markets are suddenly
partying like it’s 1999 again.  The tech bubble is back. Facebook Inc. is commanding an
enormous valuation. So are Groupon Inc., Twitter Inc. and
LivingSocial.com. Even Rovio Mobile Oy, the small Finnish
company behind the hit app Angry Birds, looks like it will soon
be worth a fortune.  The trouble is, everyone still remembers how the bubble
burst last time around. Investors know there is a lot of money
to be made from technology. They also know there is just as much
to be lost when the bubble bursts.  To steer a way through that -- backing the winners, and
avoiding the obvious calamities -- there are some simple rules
we should draw from the last tech boom: Don’t worry too much
about business models; look for emerging monopolies; back the
greediest entrepreneurs; and buy after the hype subsides.  That way, one should still be able to make money out of
what remains the world’s most lucrative growth industry.  There is little question that some verve and excitement
have returned to the technology markets. It might not be quite
back to the levels of mania that surrounded the  dot-com boom  --
but it is getting close.  $50 Billion  Facebook is valued at $50 billion, on the basis of its most
recent stock sales. Groupon, the Chicago-based daily-deals site,
has held talks about an IPO that would value it at as much as
$25 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. Its
competitor LivingSocial may follow it to the market. Twitter
valued itself at $3.7 billion at the end of last year, and may
be worth a lot more by now.  AOL Inc. (AOL) , a company that knows a fair bit about Internet
bubbles, has pumped some excitement into a moribund  media
industry  with its $315 million purchase of the Huffington Post
website. Even humble app designers are now hot properties. Rovio
Mobile is preparing itself for an IPO, and last month received
$42 million in funding. At this rate, it may one day overtake
that fallen star of the Finnish technology industry: Nokia Oyj.  Not everyone thinks it will end happily.  “Most of them will be overpriced,” said  Warren Buffett ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
speaking about social-networking valuations last month.  Fortunes Lost  True enough. Among investors with a memory stretching back
more than a decade, the simple combination of words “tech” and
“IPO” conjure visions of valuations spinning out of control --
and everyone losing a fortune on a lot of companies that,
looking back, were about as solid as a bowl of chicken broth. It
is certainly possible that this tech boom will end up with more
Angry Stockholders rather than Angry Birds.  Against that, the likes of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Amazon.com Inc. and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are now among the biggest companies in the world. The
Internet economy is expanding all the time. If you invested in
the right businesses last time around, you made a lot of money.  So the trick is to back the right horses -- and to do that
you need to learn the lessons of the last tech bubble to steer
your way through this one.  Here are four good places to start.  First, don’t worry about business models. Google didn’t
have one to start with. Neither did Facebook. The advertising
followed later. Both concentrated on making a great product that
would have a huge audience, and figured that so long as they had
that the  revenue  would follow. So don’t spend too much time
fretting about how the business doesn’t make any money yet. So
long as the audience is there, it will be fine.  Network Effect  Two, look for monopolies. The Internet has an in-built
tendency to create companies with massive market share. There is
a simple reason for that: the network effect. We all use
Microsoft operating systems because everyone else does.
Likewise, we go to Facebook because that is where all our
friends are. So it’s best to look for sites or software systems
that everyone flocks to -- not because they are necessarily that
great but just because everyone else does.  Three, skip the companies selling shares too soon. The best
Internet entrepreneurs are greedy. They know they are on to
something good, and they won’t be giving away equity until they
have to. Watch for the businesses where the founders are only
selling stock when they really need to -- and skip the ones
where they are cashing out too early.  Four, buy after the IPO. There is an inevitable cycle of
hype and disappointment before the really strong businesses
emerge. The company goes public on a wave of excitement, then
there is disappointing news, and the shares crash. Make sure you
buy on the disappointment rather than the hype.  It remains the case that technology is where the real
fortunes of the next decade will be made. Investors just need to
make sure they tread carefully -- because there will be some
spectacular turkeys out there as well as some great businesses.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  