-- 
Pandora Subpoenaed in Probe of Privacy Policies Among Mobile-App Companies

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-04T19:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/pandora-discloses-privacy-related-grand-jury-probe-of-apple-android-apps.html
Pandora Media Inc., the largest
Internet radio company, said it’s been asked for information as
part of a federal grand-jury probe into the way smartphone
software developers handle personal data.  Pandora isn’t a specific target of the investigation and
similar subpoenas have been issued to other publishers of apps
that run on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, the company said in a securities filing today.  “We were served with a subpoena to produce documents in
connection with a federal grand jury, which we believe was
convened to investigate the information sharing processes of
certain popular applications that run on the Apple and Android
mobile platforms,” Oakland, California-based Pandora said.  As the popularity of apps grows, software developers are
facing more scrutiny by regulators and privacy groups. Like many
apps, Pandora’s Internet-radio service uses tracking programs to
target advertising and monitor how people interact with the
software. Pandora, with more than 80 million registered users,
collects information such as age, gender, ZIP code and any
material a person puts on their profile, including comments left
on other users’ pages.  “Most people who are downloading applications have very
little idea how much personal information that app can access,”
said Nicole Ozer, the technology and civil liberties policy
director of the  American Civil Liberties Union  of Northern
California. The group has been pushing for more disclosure about
how information is used.  App Stores  Apple and Google maintain stores for mobile software
programs, letting independent developers submit their apps and
take the majority of revenue when the programs sell. More than
350,000 applications are available for Cupertino, California-
based Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, while  Mountain View ,
California-based Google offers more than 150,000 apps.  Pandora made the disclosure in a securities filing as part
of plans for an initial public offering. The company didn’t
disclose the location of the grand jury. Deborah Roth, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the filings.  “They represent the totality of public information about
Pandora at this time,” she said in an e-mail.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, had no immediate
comment. Shari Yoder Doherty, a Google spokeswoman, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Pandora has sought to attract more listeners to its service
and get them to use it for longer stretches of time. That’s
helped increase revenue from advertising and subscription
services, and put the company close to breaking even.  Sales more than doubled to $137.8 million in the fiscal
year ended Jan. 31. The company’s net loss narrowed to $1.76
million, from $16.8 million the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  