-- 
Peltz Says Governance Changes Put ‘Untouchables’ Within Reach

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-04T20:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/peltz-says-governance-changes-makes-50-billion-companies-easier-targets.html
Billionaire  Nelson Peltz  said
changes in corporate governance will enhance his ability to make
activist investments in “untouchables,” his term for companies
with market capitalizations of $50 billion or more.  Peltz, in a speech to the Council of Institutional
Investors in Washington today, said pressure on companies to
revise corporate election rules, such as requiring directors to
receive a majority of ballots cast, is giving activists more
tools to gain board seats. Larger companies may provide bigger
profit opportunities for activism, he said in the speech.  Peltz, 68, the investor who bought Snapple Beverage Corp.
in Valley Stream,  New York , for $300 million from Chicago-based
Quaker Oats Co. in May 1997 and sold it three years later for
$1.45 billion, formed Trian Fund Management LP to seek outside
capital in 2005. Most of Trian’s activist investments have been
in companies with market values of $13 billion or less, ranging
from H.J. Heinz Co. to  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , one
exception being Kraft Foods Inc.  “We saw multiple opportunities in large-cap companies that
could benefit from our constructivist approach,” when Trian was
formed, Peltz said today. “Now we can target them more
easily.”  There are about 57 U.S. companies with market
capitalizations equaling or exceeding $50 billion, the largest
being Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp., with an estimated
value of $421 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The smallest member is Apache Corp. of Houston, with a market
value of $50.2 billion.  Income Statement Rules  Trian seeks out investments by scrutinizing the income
statements of public companies to determine which could benefit
from the firm’s expertise. The New York-based hedge fund
typically acquires stakes of 4.9 percent -- just below the
public disclosure threshold of 5 percent -- and initiates
discussions with management, Peltz said.  “At Trian, we live and breathe the income statement,”
Peltz said. “We focus on building businesses by growing the top
line, improving margins and putting a ceiling on expenses.”  Trian’s holdings include Tiffany, a New York-based jewelry
retailer with a market value of about $7.9 billion, and Legg
Mason, a Baltimore-based money-management firm valued at about
$5.6 billion. When the fund informed Pittsburgh-based Heinz in
March 2006 that it wanted to nominate five people for its board,
the world’s largest ketchup maker had a $12.8 billion market
cap, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in  Washington  at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  