-- 
Pfizer Sells Capsugel Pill Unit to KKR for $2.4 Billion

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-04T20:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/pfizer-will-sell-capsugel-to-kkr-for-2-38-billion-in-cash-plans-buyback.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed to sell its Capsugel manufacturing unit to KKR
& Co. for $2.38 billion in an effort to focus on its higher-
profit business developing new medicines.  The New York-based company lowered its yearly revenue
forecast after backing out  Capsugel , a unit that makes wholesale
pill casings and had $750 million in sales last year. Pfizer
said it will use proceeds from the deal to expand a planned $5
billion share repurchase.  Today’s sale may be the first of several for Pfizer this
year, and may spur rivals to evaluate similar deals as generic
competition erodes sales of top-selling medicines, said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based fund manager at Miller Tabak & Co.,
which owns Pfizer shares. Drugmakers face generics copies in the
next five years to products with $141 billion in annual sales,
according to health research firm IMS Health.  “Pharma acts like a herd sometimes, and other
pharmaceutical companies are probably looking through their
portfolios as we speak,” Funtleyder said in a phone interview
today. Pfizer executives “have been signaling that they want to
do divestitures, and now they’re going through with it. That
will be perceived by the market as a positive.”  Pfizer rose 16 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $20.54 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 17 percent this year. KKR climbed 23 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $17.14.  KKR’s Deals  The acquisition of Capsugel is KKR’s second-largest deal in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
November, a KKR-led group agreed to buy Del Monte Foods Co. for
$5.3 billion including debt. Capsugel, Pfizer’s smallest unit,
made more than 180 billion hard capsules for drugs in 2010,
Pfizer said. The unit is separate from Pfizer’s drug business
and will be easy to split off, said  Barbara Ryan , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  “It really doesn’t make sense for Pfizer to keep it,”
Ryan said in a telephone interview. “It’s too tiny to make a
difference either way, and it’s a distraction.”  Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Ian Read said Feb. 1 that he
is reviewing each of the company’s business units as the company
faces generic competition to $10.7 billion in annual sales of
its Lipitor cholesterol pill. Pfizer acquired the Capsugel unit
in its 2000 purchase of Warner-Lambert Co.  ‘Starting Point’  “Our hope is that this represents the starting point of a
larger series of divestitures by the company, said  Tim Anderson ,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, in a
note to clients today. Pfizer may shrink the company’s revenue
base by almost half, to as little as $35 billion from $67
billion, according to Anderson.  “To achieve this, Pfizer’s nutritionals, consumer health,
animal health and established products drug division may be
jettisoned,” Anderson said.  Pfizer lowered its annual revenue forecast range by $800
million to $65.2 billion to $67.2 billion this year to reflect
lost Capsugel sales.  There have been 81 acquisitions of U.S. health-care
companies by private equity firms in the past five years, with
an average value of $1.01 billion and a typical premium 64
percent. The biggest was the $32.2 billion purchase of hospital
operator HCA Holdings Inc. in 2006 by funds led by New York-
based KKR and Bain of  Boston .  $210 Billion  KKR, the New York-based private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  has a portfolio of businesses with
more than 900,000 employees $210 billion in annual sales, the
company said. KKR’s investments in the health-care industry
include HCA Holdings, the largest publicly-traded U.S. hospital
chain, and Biomet Inc., a manufacturer of orthopedic medical
devices.  Pfizer and KKR expect to complete the deal in the third
quarter. Morgan Stanley and Guggenheim Securities LLC were
financial advisers for the drugmaker, while Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP and White & Case LLP provided legal
counsel. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP acted as legal counsel
for KKR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 