-- 
Philippine Peso Strengthens on Rate-Gain Outlook; Bonds Decline

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-04-04T08:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/philippine-peso-gains-for-a-fourth-day-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
The Philippine peso rose for a
fourth day on speculation inflation will accelerate and make an
increase in borrowing costs more likely, boosting the nation’s
yield advantage over developed economies.  The currency touched a three-week high before a government
report tomorrow that may show consumer prices gained 4.5 percent
last month from a year earlier, the most since April 2009,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank isn’t ruling out another increase to its benchmark
overnight rate because of price pressures, Governor Amando Tetangco said on April 2. Government bonds dropped.  “People are anticipating faster inflation,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in  Manila .
“Higher  interest rates  mean a stronger peso.”  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 43.30 per dollar as of
4:19 p.m. in Manila, the strongest level since March 10,
according to prices from inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc.
The currency has rallied 1.2 percent this year.  Policy makers raised the rate paid to lenders for overnight
deposits by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent on
March 24, the first increase since August 2008. That compares
with maximum rates of 0.25 percent in the U.S. and  Japan .  Emerging-market bond funds had inflows of $2.3 billion in
the first quarter, down from $11.5 billion a year earlier,
according to EPFR Global data.  Philippine three-year bonds dropped, with the yield on the
6.25 percent note due January 2014 rising one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.05 percent, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  Peso-denominated  government bonds  have declined 1 percent
so far this year, after gaining in the ten previous quarters,
according to data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. They are the
worst performers this year among 10 Asian markets tracked by the
bank.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 