-- 
Philippine Stocks: Energy Development, First Gen, Metropolitan

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-04-04T04:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/philippine-stocks-energy-development-first-gen-ip-e-game.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the noon close in  Manila .  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 1.9 percent to
4,209.43, the highest level since Jan. 6.  Banks:  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co, the nation’s
second-biggest bank by assets, climbed 4.9 percent to 68.45
pesos, the sharpest gain since Dec. 29, on speculation lending
margins at banks will benefit from a possible increase in
interest rates.  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  , the No.
3 bank, rose 2.3 percent to 60.35 pesos, a five-month high.  The central bank “cannot rule out further adjustment” in
interest rates “given inflationary pressures” in the
 Philippines  and abroad, Governor Amando Tetangco told a
conference on April 2.  “Further rate increases are taken by the market positively
because this will preempt a higher inflation rate,” said Peter Lee, senior investment officer at Manila-based IGC Securities
Inc. “As long as the increases in  interest rates  are gradual,
banks can benefit both from trading and lending activities.”  Energy Development Corp. (EDC)  , the nation’s biggest
producer of power using geothermal energy, surged 3 percent to
6.48 pesos, the highest close since Sept. 28.  First Gen Corp. (FGEN) 
 said it exercised an option to buy 390 million shares
in the unit. First Gen advanced 1.9 percent to 13.04 pesos, the
highest level since Nov. 9.  Manila Electric Co. (MER)  , the nation’s biggest power
retailer, decreased 0.8 percent to 263 pesos, snapping a three-
day, 7.5 percent rally. Sales per kilowatt-hour may not have
grown in the first quarter, Chief Operating Officer Oscar Reyes
told reporters.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  , the
nation’s largest phone company, climbed 1.9 percent to 2,400
pesos, the highest close since Feb. 9. ePLDT Inc., a unit of the
company, completed the sale of a 75 percent stake in an Internet
cafe operator to IP E-Game Ventures Inc., a stock exchange
filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  