-- 
PLC Medical’s RenalGuard Reduces Kidney Damage From Imaging Dye

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-04-04T15:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/plc-medical-s-renalguard-reduces-kidney-damage-from-imaging-dye.html
A device developed by PLC Medical
Systems Inc., the maker of equipment used in cardiac procedures,
reduced the number of patients who developed kidney damage from
a thick dye used to help peer into patient’s hearts and veins.  About 4 million patients in the U.S. and 3 million in
 Europe  undergo cardiac procedures each year in which doctors
inject a  contrast dye  into their veins to visualize the blood
vessels with X-rays or other imaging methods, said Mark Tauscher, chief executive officer of Franklin, Massachusetts-
based PLC.  In the 10 percent to 20 percent of patients whose renal
function is already compromised, the dye may clog and harm the
kidneys, forcing some to get dialysis, he said. The viscous dye
builds up in the kidneys and damages the nephrons, the parts
that filter out waste in the blood and purge it from the body in
urine, Tauscher said.  “It’s like pouring motor oil through a coffee filter,”
Tauscher said.  “Not a lot is going to get through.”  As a result, the already damaged kidneys of these heart
patients “lose their ability to filter or they filter more
poorly,” Tauscher said. “You don’t want to damage the kidney
function of a person with an unhealthy heart.”  The dyes, known as contrast agents and made by General
Electric Inc, Bayer AG and others, have a high iodine content
that blocks the X-rays, allowing the walls of the blood vessel
to be visualized.  Flushes Kidneys  PLC’s system, called the  RenalGuard , uses a drug to boost
the output of urine and a device that measures how much flows
out and pumps in saline solution at the same rate. This
increases the volume of liquid flowing through the kidneys,
flushing out the dye.  In a study conducted in  Italy  and presented today at the
 annual meeting  of the  American College of Cardiology  in  New
Orleans , 292 patients with chronic  kidney disease  who needed an
angiogram or angioplasty were treated using the RenalGuard
system or were treated with routine methods that increase
hydration. The trial was led by  Carlos Briguori , director of the
Laboratory of Interventional Cardiology at the  Clinica
Mediterranea  in Naples.  Among patients treated with standard hydration, 20.5
percent developed kidney damage, compared with 11 percent who
were treated using the RenalGuard, the study found. In addition,
4.8 percent of the patients treated with the standard method
needed dialysis within one month as did 0.7 percent of those who
used PLC’s system.  PLC has been marketing the system in Europe since 2008,
charging $500 for each use, Tauscher said. The company is now
starting a 400-patient study that will be needed for U.S.
regulatory approval, a process that may take two years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 