-- 
Private Education Tax Credits Upheld by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-04T14:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/private-education-tax-credits-upheld-by-u-s-supreme-court-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court put new
limits on the power of citizens to challenge government programs
as unconstitutionally promoting religion, upholding an  Arizona 
tax credit aimed at helping cover private-school tuition costs.  The justices, voting 5-4, today said opponents lacked
“standing” to challenge the 14-year-old program, which gives
tax credits for donations to organizations that provide private-
school scholarships. The opponents faulted the program for
relying on religious organizations that require their recipients
to enroll in sectarian schools.  The ruling marks the second under Chief Justice John Roberts to insulate government programs from church-state
challenges. The court in 2007 threw out a suit over then-
President  George W. Bush ’s faith-based initiatives office.  The case split the court along familiar lines, with the
court’s five Republican appointees -- Roberts and Justices
Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas ,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito  -- in the majority.  Since 1968, when the court issued a decision known as Flast
v. Cohen, individuals have possessed the right to challenge
statutes that direct government money to be spent for religious
purposes. Flast marked an exception to the general rule that
Americans can’t go to court to contest how their tax dollars are
spent because they don’t have enough of an individual stake in
the outcome.  The majority today said Flast didn’t apply. In reaching
that conclusion, the majority agreed with the contentions of the
Obama administration, which joined Arizona in defending the
program.  A federal appeals court had let the lawsuit go forward.  The Arizona tax credit applies after taxpayers have
computed how much they owe for the previous year. At that point
individuals can send as much as $500 to so-called school tuition
organizations, reducing their tax liability by the same amount.  The court ruled in 2002 that tax-funded school vouchers are
constitutional so long as parents have a “genuine choice” not
to send their children to religious schools.  The cases are Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization
v. Winn, 09-987, and Garriott v. Winn, 09-991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 