-- 
Radiation in Tokyo Water Stokes Run on Indonesian Coconut-Shell Purifiers

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-04-04T06:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/radiation-in-tokyo-water-stokes-run-on-indonesian-coconut-shell-purifiers.html
Efforts to protect  Tokyo ’s tap water
from radiation leaked by a damaged nuclear-power plant have led
to a run on Indonesian coconut husks.  Granulated charcoal, made of shells of coconuts and oil-
palm kernels, is being used by treatment plants in Tokyo and
neighboring regions to filter tap-water supplies. Prices for the
absorbent carbon material have risen as much as 44 percent since
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that triggered the radiation
threat, said Yoshio Toi, a spokesman for the municipal
government in Chiba, a prefecture neighboring Tokyo.  Treatment plants are trying to remove any traces of
radioactive matter, such as  iodine-131 , known to cause thyroid
cancer, and convince customers that water supplies are safe.
Some Tokyo facilities more than quadrupled the amount of
activated charcoal used in filtration after a March 21 sample
contained iodine-131 that exceeded the safe limit for infants.  “Tokyo is ordering more activated charcoal as we deplete
our stocks,” said Gen Ozeki, a spokesman for the city’s Bureau
of Waterworks. “It’s not just Tokyo doing this, others are
taking extraordinary measures for their water, too, so charcoal
is becoming scarce.”  Surging Orders  Iodine-131 is selectively taken up in the thyroid gland,
where it can cause cancer. Levels reported in Tokyo on March 22
and 23 exceeded the recommended limit for infants. The increase
was probably caused by contaminated rain and dust falling on the
water catchment area, Ozeki said. Levels of I-131 since have
fallen, and none has been detected since March 28, he said.  “We haven’t seen the rain since then and the figure has
fallen and stabilized,” Ozeki said today. The extra charcoal
has probably helped, though tests haven’t been taken for
comparison, he said.  Kuraray Co., which produces about 24,500 tons of a year of
activated charcoal, is receiving orders for “several hundred
tons” daily from utilities in and around Tokyo, said Takeshi
Hasegawa, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company. He declined
to comment on prices.  Kuraray has gained 9.9 percent the past two weeks in Tokyo,
almost triple the benchmark Topix index’s advance. The stock
fell 1.5 percent to 1,100 yen at the 3 p.m. close today.  China  Buying  Suppliers are asking at least 300 yen ($3.58) a kilogram
(2.2 pounds) for orders for the next 12 months, said Toi, the
Chiba official. The local government paid between 208.95 yen and
260.40 yen last year, he said.  Neighboring Saitama prefecture will seek bids again after
the initial quoted price jumped at least 20 percent, said
Hisashi Fukushima, a water control official. Saitama is seeking
350 tons for the year ending March 2012, compared with the usual
200-300 tons, he said.  More than 3,000 miles away on the Indonesian island of
Batam, charcoal supplier PT General Carbon Industry says that,
for the first time, buyers of coconut-derived charcoal are
coming from China. What’s more, they are seeking as much as 2
1/2 times the company’s monthly production, said Tonny, PT
General’s marketing manager, who goes by one name.  “I’m not sure what it’s for, but it’s possibly for re-
export to  Japan ,” Tonny said.  The magnitude-9 quake, Japan’s strongest on record, caused
a tsunami that crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant in Fukushima, 135 miles north of Tokyo,
enabling radiation to escape.  Doubling Use  Treatment stations in Japan plan to double their use of
charcoal in the wake of the contamination threat, said Makoto Kurosawa, an equities analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Tokyo, who recommends investors buy Kuraray shares.  Kuraray got about 4 percent of its 332.9 billion yen
revenue from activated charcoal in the year ended March 2010.
Additional demand for the product may boost operating profit by
1.7 percent in the year ending March 2012, Kurosawa said in an
e-mail.  “They are beefing up what are normal water-cleansing
activities in a municipal water-supply system,” said Stephen Lincoln, a chemistry professor at the University of Adelaide in
 Australia . “This would certainly be pretty effective.”  Restaurateurs are also buying charcoal to purify water,
said Kohichi Shiratori, a wholesaler in central Tokyo. Customers
are buying more than 50 40-gram (1.4 ounce) packets of the odor-
absorbing material daily, compared with one or two a day usually,
he said.  Shiratori has increased orders by fivefold for the packs,
which go for as much as 580 yen each, he said.  Sri Lankan Palms  “Restaurants and other businesses are stockpiling charcoal
because of their concern about the water,” Shiratori said.  Orders have risen fivefold during the past three weeks,
said Toshiya Ueda, who sells charcoal made from Sri Lankan oil
palms online in  Osaka  for 2,000 yen a kilogram. Most of his
customers are Tokyo-based and want 5 kilograms to 25 kilograms.  “I just had an inquiry from a foreign company asking if I
can send 5 tons,” Ueda said.  Tokyo, with an urban sprawl encompassing about 35 million
residents, gets more than three-quarters of its water from the
Arakawa and Tone rivers that trace to four dams in Gunma, about
87 miles northwest of the city, and one in Saitama.  Before reaching Tokyo households, tap water passes through
one of a dozen plants for six hours of treatment. The process
includes using charcoal to absorb impurities, polyaluminum
chloride to make contaminants clump together, ozone to disinfect
and a 2.5-meter (8-foot) charcoal filter to capture solids.  ‘Restore Confidence’  Tokyo’s government ordered plants to add as much as six
times more activated charcoal than usually used in emergencies,
as well as extra polyaluminum chloride, the water bureau’s Ozeki
said.  The charcoal absorbs organic radioactive contaminants and
the polyaluminum chloride will help take out metallic salts,
said Lincoln, who teaches nuclear and environmental chemistry.  Tokyo officials handed out about 240,000 bottles of water
last month after levels of iodine-131 measured at a treatment
facility in Katsushika ward on March 22 reached 210 becquerel
per kilogram, or more than double the recommended 100 Bq/kg
limit for infants. The recommended limit for adults is 300 Bq/kg.  “Authorities have to be seen doing something positive and
definite to ameliorate the situation and restore confidence,”
said Peter Burns, former chief executive officer of the
Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency.  “The sorts of doses we’re talking about are the same that
people would get flying around in an airplane for a few hours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  