-- 
Chiesi Told Rajaratnam She ‘Played’ Friend Like ‘Piano’

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-04T23:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/rajaratnam-jury-hears-chiesi-say-she-played-akamai-friend-like-piano-.html
Danielle Chiesi told  Raj Rajaratnam ,
the Galleon Group LLC co-founder on trial for insider trading,
that she “played” a friend “like a finely tuned piano” after
getting a tip  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  would lower its forecast.  Prosecutors today played recordings of Chiesi, a former
analyst at New Castle Funds LLC, speaking with Rajaratnam in
July and August of 2008, immediately before and after Akamai
changed the earnings estimates it provided investors.  “They’re gonna guide down,” Chiesi told Rajaratnam,
according to a wiretap of their conversation on July 24, 2008,
six days before Akamai made its public announcement. “I just
got a call from my guy. I was talking about the family and
everything and then he said, people think it’s gonna go to 25.”  “Honey, you know what, it’s just for us,” Chiesi
continued, according to the tape. “We go slow, keep shorting
every day.”  “I played him like a finely tuned piano,” she added.  Prosecutors say Chiesi, 45, got tipped by Kieran Taylor,
then an Akamai executive. Taylor hasn’t been charged with
wrongdoing. Chiesi has pleaded guilty to  insider trading . In a
short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares, hoping to replace
them later with cheaper shares while profiting from the
difference.  ‘Classy Way’  Akamai announced its lower forecast on July 30, 2008. At
5:30 p.m. that day, Rajaratnam called Chiesi to say “thank
you,” according to another tape played today in which
Rajaratnam says he sold at least 150,000 Akamai shares short.
The stock, which closed at $31.25 on July 30, opened then next
day at $23.34.  “You did it in such a classy way,” Rajaratnam said in the
taped call. “The way you worked the relationship.”  “It’s a conquest,” an excited Chiesi responded, according
to the tape. “It’s a conquest. It’s mentally fabulous for me.”  Chiesi, who lives in New York, then said she was on her way
to a meeting at the Chinese consulate.  “I want to own  China ,” Chiesi told Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips by
corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing, saying he
based trades on research and published sources.  Prosecutors said today they expect to rest their case on
April 6.  Insider Trading  The Chiesi-Rajaratnam recordings are the latest to show
what prosecutors say is insider trading as it actually takes
place. Earlier recordings caught Rajaratnam talking to friends
 Anil Kumar  and Rajiv Goel and Galleon trader  Adam Smith .  The Chiesi recordings are the raciest so far. In them,
Chiesi refers to her relationship with  Robert Moffat , a former
International Business Machines Corp. senior vice president who
was sentenced to six months in prison for leaking information to
her. In his guilty plea last year, Moffat admitted having an
“intimate relationship” with Chiesi and claimed she “played
him” to get tips.  Chiesi also alludes to an intimate relationship with  Hector
Ruiz , who was chief executive officer of  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  An earlier witness testified that Chiesi had such a
relationship, which Ruiz has denied through a spokesman.  ‘Defer to You’  “I must defer to you on IBM,” Rajaratnam told Chiesi in
another taped call.  “And AMD,” Chiesi responded as they discussed an AMD
spinoff that would soon be announced. Prosecutors say the tip on
the AMD spinoff was also inside information.  AMD came up repeatedly in the Chiesi tapes. On Aug. 27,
2008, she called Rajaratnam and asked his “help” on whether to
buy AMD shares, with a note of concern in her voice.  “There are people who hate me,” she said on the
recording. “I am a chick in this business.”  Chiesi asked whether she should be “showing a pattern of
trading AMD.”  “You should buy and sell, and buy and sell,” Rajaratnam
said, according to the recording.  Along with the Chiesi-Rajaratnam tapes, prosecutors played
taped conversations of Chiesi talking to Taylor, including one
where she tells to have “integrity.” The wiretaps were played
during the testimony of J. Donald Sherman, chief financial
officer of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai.  Three Times  On Sherman’s cross-examination, defense attorney  John Dowd 
sought to show that Akamai stock had fallen by nearly 18 percent
before Rajaratnam got the alleged tip. That may establish that
the leak wasn’t material or criminal.  “Do you think that an investor would view that as a ‘guide
down’?” Dowd asked.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter on redirect
examination countered the attack by asking Sherman if he knew
that Rajaratnam increased his short position in Akamai from
300,000 to 875,000 shares after getting the tip.  “How much of a percentage increase is that?” he asked.  “Almost three times,” Sherman said.  Also today, prosecutors said they wouldn’t call to the
witness stand  Roomy Khan , the ex- Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive and stock
trader who was among the first to plead guilty and cooperate
with prosecutors against Rajaratnam. Khan has twice been
convicted of insider trading and admitted lying to prosecutors.  Camera Footage  Instead, prosecutors want jurors to see Intel surveillance
camera footage of Khan faxing confidential information to
Rajaratnam. Two videotapes from late 1997 and early 1998 show
Khan faxing Intel “book-to-billing” reports to Rajaratnam’s
Galleon fax machine, according to a court filing. U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell will decide whether to admit the footage.  Another alleged co-conspirator was made public today. In a
Jan. 26 letter to Rajaratnam’s lawyers entered into records,
prosecutors identified Nathaniel Cohn as an alleged accomplice.
A Dec. 31, 2006, Galleon phone directory entered in evidence
lists an ex-Galleon employee by that name. Cohn isn’t charged.  In the same letter, prosecutors identified a Tom Lin as a
cooperating witness who made recordings of another cooperating
witness, ex-Galleon portfolio manager Adam Smith. It wasn’t
clear what company Lin worked for.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  