-- 
Rand Weakens Versus Euro on Speculation ECB Rate Rise May Cut Carry Trade

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-04T13:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/rand-weakens-versus-euro-on-speculation-ecb-rate-rise-may-cut-carry-trade.html
The rand weakened against the euro
for the first day in five and fell against the dollar on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise its benchmark
interest rate, reducing the rand’s carry-trade appeal.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 0.4 percent
to 9.5682 per euro, and traded 0.1 percent weaker at 9.5451 per
euro as of 3:31 p.m. in Johannesburg. It slipped 0.1 percent to
6.7047 per dollar.  The ECB will raise its  reference rate  to 1.25 percent on
April 7, from a record-low 1 percent, according to all 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The change would narrow
the differential with South Africa’s key central bank rate of
5.5 percent. The euro fell against the majority of its most-
traded peers today.  “It looks like the ECB is going to hike,” said Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13 billion rand ($1.9 billion) of debt
as head of fixed-interest investments at Cape Town-based
Metropolitan Asset Managers. “You could see the rand weakening
against the euro.”  In the carry trade, investors borrow in the currency of a
country with low interest rates to invest where interest rates
are high. The rand earned 7.8 percent in the euro carry trade in
the past year, the third-best among more than 20 most-traded
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  surprised investors on
March 3 when he signaled that policy makers may raise interest
rates at their next meeting to curb consumer-price inflation,
which reached a two-year high of 2.6 percent in March.  Fueling Decline  The rand weakened even as commodity prices and emerging-
market stocks rose, indicating investor appetite for high-
yielding assets is increasing. South Africa’s benchmark stock
index added 0.4 percent, led by mining companies including  Anglo
American Plc (AGL)  and  BHP Billiton Plc. (BIL)  The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index gained 0.7 percent.  Importers buying foreign currency and speculation the
central bank is buying dollars to boost foreign reserves fuelled
the South African currency’s decline, said Ion de Vleeschauwer,
chief foreign-exchange dealer at Bidvest Bank in Johannesburg.  “The rand is still relatively strong, and at these levels
you could expect some importer demand,” De Vleeschauwer said.
“There has also been some interest from the central bank.”  Bonds declined on expectations that faster economic growth
may spur the central bank to raise interest rates sooner than
previously thought. The South African economy may growth more
quickly than the government’s 3.4 percent estimate, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on April 1. The purchasing
managers’ index, which measures growth in factory production,
rose to a 13-month high in March.  ‘Very Good Chance’  “There is a very good chance of an interest-rate increase
by November,” Metropolitan’s Van Zyl said.  The 13.5 percent government bond due 2015 rose 27 cents to
121.38 rand, driving the yield down 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 7.71 percent, the lowest level on a closing
basis since March 2.  South Africa will auction 900 million rand of 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 and 1.2 billion rand of 6.25 percent securities
due 2036 in its weekly bond auction tomorrow, the  Reserve Bank 
said on its Bloomberg page.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 