-- 
Real Madrid Cedes Power to Top Earner Mourinho as Fans Fret About Tenure

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-04-05T10:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/real-madrid-cedes-power-to-top-earner-mourinho-as-fans-fret-about-tenure.html
Jose Mourinho  is dismantling a half-
century-old hierarchy at Real Madrid without saying how long
he’ll stay at soccer’s biggest club by sales.  The 48-year-old coach reports directly to President
Florentino Perez and rules on everything from player trades to
the squad’s  Adidas AG (ADS)  apparel, said three people with knowledge
of the situation. Traditionally, the coach of Real, which hosts
Tottenham tonight in a Champions League quarterfinal match,
reports to a sports executive.  Former Real President Ramon Calderon says it’s risky to
give so much power to Mourinho because the coach isn’t concerned
with long-term planning like the development of younger players.
The best-paid manager in soccer hasn’t completed more than three
seasons at any of his last five clubs.  “Mourinho is asking for all the power,” Calderon said.
“The problem is Mourinho has a shelf life.”  Perez, who fired seven coaches in seven years, is banking
on Mourinho’s expertise to help land the record nine-time
European champion’s first Champions League title since 2002.
It’s had more success boosting sales by signing marquee players
like  David Beckham  and  Cristiano Ronaldo  than by winning titles.
Mourinho won the elite continental competition with Porto in
2004 and Inter Milan last year. A Mourinho-led team hadn’t lost
a home league match in nine years until last weekend, when
Sporting Gijon won 1-0 in Madrid.  Ronaldo's Return  Ronaldo, who injured a hamstring in a March 19 game with
 Atletico Madrid , was named in the squad for tonight’s match.  Since joining Real, Mourinho has made it known he doesn’t
want directors to interfere with his work. He objected to
General Director Jorge Valdano speaking to players in the locker
room, the former World Cup winner told Cadena Ser radio station
on March 31. Valdano, who has held roles at Real Madrid dating
back to 1994, said he has willingly consented because he wants
Mourinho to be comfortable.  Mourinho pushed to acquire  Manchester City ’s Emmanuel Adebayor on loan in January against the wishes of Valdano,
according to Calderon. He has reduced the number of press
conferences for his players to keep them out of the spotlight
and prohibited the media from filming training sessions, said
two of the people, who declined to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Mourinho has acquired power similar to  Alex Ferguson , who
has coached  Manchester United  since 1986, according to Eugene
Martinez Bravo, a former candidate for Real’s presidency who
leads a group of 1,000 members.  ‘Complicated’ World  “We now have an English-style manager” for the first
time, Martinez Bravo said. “If Mourinho stays a long time, it
will work, but I’m worried that if he leaves, Real Madrid will
have to start all over again.”  Perez, Real’s president, said Feb. 22 that Mourinho was
“within his rights” to ask for more autonomy. “The world of
soccer is more complicated” than running a business, said
Perez, chief executive officer of Spanish construction company
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA.  Mourinho earns a salary of 10 million euros ($14.2 million)
at Real, according to El Pais newspaper. Alfredo Saenz, the CEO
of Banco Santander SA, received 10.24 million euros in fixed and
variable pay in 2009,  Spain ’s biggest bank said on its website
in April last year.  Mourinho said last month he couldn’t comment on how Real
Madrid, which had sales of $620 million in fiscal 2010,
functioned before he arrived. At an April 1 news conference, he
rejected Calderon’s complaint that he isn’t making long-term
plans for the team.  Young Players  “This is surely one of the youngest teams in  Europe ,”
Mourinho said, citing the team’s 32-year-old defender  Ricardo Carvalho  as the only player in the last phase of his career.
“All the others are pretty much young men. This is a team of
the future.”  While Mourinho holds sway in Madrid, he isn’t likely to
spend time on nurturing less experienced players like Sergio
Canales, 20, and Pedro Leon, 24, according to Calderon. They
started one league game between them this season.  Real  Madrid ’s bet on Mourinho may be working. The team beat
Lyon 3-0 March 17 to reach the Champions League quarterfinals
for the first time in seven years. Real fans chanted Mourinho’s
name twice during the match. He told reporters he will stay at
Real as long as he and club executives are content.  Solution  “If one day the directors and I aren’t happy,” Mourinho
said, he will consider leaving. “I’m not one to be an obstacle,
I want to be a solution.”  He left Porto after two years in charge, having led it to
the UEFA Cup and Champions League. He quit Chelsea just over
three years later after leading the London-based team to two
Premier League titles and then spent two seasons at Inter Milan,
also winning the league twice.  Mourinho, who told France Football magazine last year his
“natural habitat” is English soccer, has said several times
since that he intends to return there.  At Real, his influence extends to apparel. When last year
he said players needed neck-warmers, team supplier Adidas, which
didn’t have an appropriate range, made a batch for them and
plans to put a branded team version on sale later in 2011, one
of the people said. On March 5, soccer regulators banned the use
of the items in games.  “A club like Real Madrid with its history and budget can’t
be in the hands of just one person,” Calderon said. “Logic
says Mourinho is not going to stay more than three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 