-- 
Treasuries Advance as Fed's Lockhart Cites Headwinds to Economic Recovery

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-04T21:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/treasury-10-year-yields-near-three-week-high-on-economic-growth-outlook.html
Treasuries rose for a second day as
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said
the U.S. recovery faces headwinds, reducing speculation the
central bank will cut its $600 billion debt-buying program.  U.S. six-month bill rates fell today to a record low amid a
scarcity of short-term debt. Two-year notes gained, pushing
yields to a one-week low, as Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
said the amount to be purchased in the central bank’s stimulus
program may be “about the right number.” Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is scheduled to speak at 7:15 p.m. in Atlanta.  “We saw pretty harsh reaction last week to some of the
hawks,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
with the U.S. central bank. “We don’t think the chairman will
say we’ll raise rates quickly. We expect the Fed will raise
rates, but not as soon as some of the time horizons people were
saying last week.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.42 percent at 5:12 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625 percent
security maturing in February 2021 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 22/32. The yield touched 3.52 percent
on April 1, the highest level since March 9, a day after
reaching last week’s low of 3.4 percent.  Two-year note yields dropped four basis points today to
0.76 percent. Thirty-year bond yields fell one basis point to
4.48 percent after earlier touching 4.46 percent.  Bill Rate Tumbles  Rates on six-month bills tumbled to 0.1099 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That exceeded the
previous record of 0.1109 percent set in November 2009.  Six- and three-month bill rates have dropped as the
Treasury cut to $5 billion from $200 billion the amount of
outstanding Supplementary Financing Program bills it sells on
behalf of the Fed in a program set up in 2008 to help  prop up
the financial system. The reduction was made because of concern
the federal debt limit was approaching. At the same time,
changes in Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fees on banks stoked
demand for short-term debt.  The rate on three-month bills tumbled to as low as 0.0304
percent, the least since January 2010. U.S. auctions today of
$32 billion of the securities and $30 billion of six-month bills
today drew rates of 0.05 percent and 0.13 percent, also the
lowest since January 2010.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities known as the
break-even rate, increased to as much as 2.55 percentage points,
the widest level since March 9.  ‘Serious Imbalances’  “With each quarter, the recovery is increasingly well
established,” Lockhart said today in the text of a speech in
 West Palm Beach ,  Florida . “However, underlying the recovery
there remain serious imbalances that have not been corrected.”  Evans said in an interview with CNBC that improvement in
the  U.S. economy  means the Treasury-purchase program is about
the right size. The program, which the Fed ordered in November,
is scheduled to last through June.  “I thought going into the asset-purchase program that we
might need to do more than $600 billion eventually but $600
billion was a good start,” Evans said. “It’s quite likely that
$600 billion could be about the right number.”  Lockhart’s and Evans’s remarks came after New York Fed
President William C. Dudley told reporters April 1 he would be
surprised if the central bank didn’t finish its purchases, the
second round in a strategy called quantitative easing.  Exit Effort  The statements followed comments last week by other policy
makers that an earlier end to stimulus is needed.  Treasuries fell March 31 after St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  said at a dinner in  London  the previous day the
central bank may need to begin exiting from record levels of
monetary accommodation, even amid uncertainties in  Japan  and the
Middle East.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  told reporters
on April 1 in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , that “it’s certainly a
possibility” the central bank may have to raise interest rates
before the end of the year. The Fed has kept its benchmark at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  U.S. payrolls added 216,000 workers last month, more than
forecast, figures from the Labor Department showed April 1.  Shouldn’t Alter Plans  Dudley said last week in  San Juan ,  Puerto Rico , that
faster-than-expected payroll growth shouldn’t alter the Fed’s
program to buy Treasuries to prop up the recovery. “I don’t see
any reason to pull back from that yet,” he said.  Traders lowered bets today that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs at their January meeting. Fed funds futures
showed a 46.3 percent chance of an increase in the target
lending rate, compared with 52.5 percent odds a week ago.  The Fed bought $8.03 billion in Treasuries today maturing
from November 2016 to March 2018 in the purchase program. It’s
scheduled to purchase $6.5 billion to $8.5 billion tomorrow of
 U.S. debt  maturing from May 2018 to February 2021.  The Treasury Department will conduct its regular schedule
of securities auctions in the event of a government shutdown, a
government official said today. The official spoke to Bloomberg
News on condition of anonymity because he’s not authorized to
speak publicly. Congress is working on a 2011 budget to avoid a
shutdown when the current spending authority ends April 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  