-- 
Treasury Six-Month Bill Rates Drop to Lowest Level on Record Amid Scarcity

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-04T20:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/treasury-six-month-bill-rates-drop-to-lowest-level-on-record-amid-scarcity.html
Six-month bill rates declined to a
record low as the Treasury reduces sales of short-term
securities while the Obama administration and Congress wrangle
over budget cuts and raising the U.S. debt limit.  The rate dropped as much as three basis points, or 0.03
percent to 0.1099 percent in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. The prior record low of 0.1109 percent was set
in November 2009.  Treasury also auctioned three- and six-month
bills today at the lowest rates since January 2010.  The U.S. will reach its legal debt limit no later than May
16 unless Congress acts before then, and emergency measures may
provide extra borrowing room to last only until about July 8,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today. Since
February, the Treasury has cut by $195 billion the amount of
outstanding Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it
sells on behalf of the Federal Reserve in a program set up in
2008 amid efforts to prop up the financial system.  “It’s created a log-jam at the front end of the yield
curve,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York, one of the 20 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “It exacerbated what was already a bit
of a collateral squeeze at the front end.”  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. adjustment of insurance
fees, effective April 1, to broaden the base to banks’
liabilities rather than domestic deposits has also increased
demand for bills, McCarthy said.  ‘House of Pain’  Democratic and Republican leaders are negotiating a
proposal to slash $33 billion in 2011 spending and keep the
government operating through September. Congress must agree on
spending for this fiscal year or risk a government shutdown when
current spending authority ends April 8.  Yields on bills have lingered near historic lows since the
Fed reduced its target rate for overnight loans between banks to
a record low range of zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008 as
part of the efforts to lift the economy from recession. The Fed
is also buying $600 billion in Treasuries to help spur growth
and reintroduce inflation after prices of assets such as housing
and commercial real estate collapsed.  “The money market has become an ever-worsening house of
pain, owing to the  Federal Reserve ’s merciless effort to create
an investment climate so punishing that it drives investors to
seek refuge in other assets,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a portfolio
manager and strategist at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a note today. “This
will no doubt continue the exodus by investors from the money
market realm.”  Government Shutdown  The Treasury auctioned $32 billion of three-month bills
today at a rate of 0.05 percent and $30 billion of six-month
bills at 0.13 percent. The rates at both sales were the lowest
since Jan. 11, 2010.  The reduction in the SFP has made Treasury bills more
expensive in both regular trading and the repurchase-agreement,
or repo, market. The program has $5 billion of notes still
outstanding.  The FDIC intends to shifting the burden for depositor
protection to larger lenders whose reliance on riskier funding
may pose greater threats to the financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  