-- 
Red River Rising in Fargo as Flood Risk Continues in the U.S.

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-04T12:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/red-river-rising-in-fargo-as-flood-risk-continues-in-the-u-s-.html
The Red River of the North in Fargo
is expected to rise this week to  major stage  flooding for the
third year in a row.  The Red River, which forms the border between  Minnesota  and
North Dakota, probably will rise to 30 feet, the level for major
stage flooding, on April 6 and may reach 37.7 feet, or almost 20
feet above flood stage, by the weekend, according to the
 National Weather Service .  “The highest stage indicated may not reflect the crest for
this flood event,” the agency said in a flood warning. “This
forecast does not account for ice jams that can quickly raise
local river levels with little or no notice.”  In March 2009, the river reached a record crest of 40.8
feet, causing about $223.7 million in damage and killing more
than 91,000 cattle. Last year, it reached 36.9 feet before
subsiding.  The river runs from south to north. Flood warnings have
been issued for counties on both sides from  South Dakota  to
 Canada . Since 2001, the river in Fargo has reached six of its 15
 highest flood levels , according to the National Weather Service.  Melting snow and rain are combining to create runoff that
is raising rivers and streams across the U.S. Last month, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said almost half
the U.S., including crop-growing regions of the Midwest and
areas around New York City and northern  New Jersey , has a
higher-than-average risk of flooding through April.  The Mississippi River north of  St. Louis , the Red River of
the North and parts of eastern  Pennsylvania  were also among the
areas cited by NOAA as at risk for above-average flooding.  Fargo, the largest city in  North Dakota , has about 2.5
million sandbags filled and ready to deploy, Mayor Dennis Walaker has said. Last week, Fargo closed one of its streets to
install temporary flood barriers, according to a city statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 