-- 
Russia Speeds Up Moon, Mars Plans as U.S. May Cut Spending

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-05T14:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/russia-speeds-up-moon-mars-plans-as-u-s-may-cut-space-funds.html
Russia  may accelerate planned
missions to the moon and Mars as it seeks to maintain its lead
over China in space exploration and close the gap with the U.S.  Russia may start manned flights to the moon by the end of
the decade, 10 years earlier than previously planned, and
establish a base there by 2030, according to Russia’s Roscosmos
space agency. Russia may also send a man to Mars by 2040.  “It is the first time that the government has allocated
decent financing to us,” Anatoly Perminov, head of the Russian
space agency Roscosmos, said in a phone interview on April 2.
The agency’s $3.5 billion budget for 2011 has almost tripled
since 2007, reaching the highest since the collapse of the
Soviet Union in 1991. “We can now advance on all themes a
bit,” Perminov said.  Unlike 50 years ago, when beating the U.S. into space
marked a geopolitical victory in the Cold War, Russia is
focusing on the commercial, technological and scientific aspects
of space travel. President Dmitry Medvedev has named aerospace
one of five industries the government plans to nurture to help
diversify the economy of the world’s largest energy supplier
away from resource extraction.  “We are increasing the space budget as the time has come
for a technological breakthrough,” Dmitry Peskov, the spokesman
for Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, said by phone yesterday. “We
need to replace outdated infrastructure and continue to support
the flagship status of the space industry.”  Space Station Cooperation  Russia’s Soyuz TMA-21 spacecraft with three astronauts on
board was launched early today from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in
Kazakhstan to the International Space Station. The launch marks
the 50th anniversary on April 12 of Yuri Gagarin’s first mission
to space. Alexander Samokutiaev and Andrey Borisenko of
Roscosmos and  NASA ’s Ron Garan are scheduled to arrive at the
station on April 7, Roscosmos  said  on its website.  Russia is working on the ISS with the U.S. It will provide
the only way for U.S. astronauts to travel to the station
following a decision to end the almost 30-year-old space shuttle
program this year, with the last two flights scheduled for April
and June.  U.S. Funds  Russia receives $752 million from the U.S. for sending
crews to the ISS through 2015. The country is using the launch
fee of $63 million per member on craft development, maintenance
and upgrade, Perminov said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  in February last year announced
an end to NASA’s Constellation program, developed under former
President George W. Bush’s administration, which would have
built rockets and spacecraft for a return to the moon by 2020.  The decision has been criticized by former NASA astronauts
and officials, including the agency’s previous administrator and
Neil Armstrong, the first man to walk on the Moon, saying it
will sideline the American space program. With no manned
government rockets ready to go, routine trips to so-called low-
earth orbit will be outsourced to private companies.  NASA is seeking an $18.7 billion budget for next year, $300
million less than the funding targeted for this year.  Russia intends to continue allocating more funds for the
space industry, Peskov said. “We’ll increase financing if
possible, depending on the budget balance, because the industry
was and remains one of our priorities,” he said.  China’s Plans  China , which made its first successful manned flight in
2003 aboard the Shenzhou spacecraft, plans to put a capsule on
the moon in 2013 and have the technology for a manned mission in
2020, Xu Shijie, a member of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference said on March 3 in Beijing. The country
plans to have its own orbital station in about 2020.  Russia’s space industry suffered a blow last year when a
Proton-M rocket failed to deliver three navigation satellites
into orbit for Glonass, a rival to the U.S. Global Positioning
System. Medvedev fired Viktor Remishevsky, the deputy head of
Roscosmos, and Vyacheslav Filin, the deputy chief of rocket
maker RKK Energia, over the loss of the satellites. Medvedev
also issued a reprimand to Perminov.  “We need the Mars flight as it will help create new large-
scale technologies,” Yuriy Karash, member of the Russian Space
Academy, said by phone yesterday. “It means there will be new
rockets, new engines, new anti-radiation medicine that will
protect people in outer space.”  Mars Mission  Russia may be able to complete a Mars mission within 12
years if it is included in the new federal space program, Karash
said.  Roscosmos is working on a plan that will start in 2015,
focusing more on outer space than before, Perminov said in the
interview. A flight to Mars is more likely in cooperation with
other space programs, according to the Roscosmos plan.  Roscosmos last June began a Mars flight simulation program,
locking three Russians, two Europeans and a Chinese astronaut in
1,750 square-meter (18,800-square-foot), five-module complex to
live there in isolation for 17 months.  Russia will need a new rocket, a new manned spacecraft for
crews of between four and six members and a new launch site to
operate manned flights as early as in 2018, Perminov said.  The new rocket, Rus-M, which is to become Russia’s main
vehicle for manned spaceflights, should be ready for the 2015
start of Russia’s new space program, he said.  Cosmodrome Vostochny in Russia’s Far East will launch
unmanned craft from the end of 2015, in line with the Roscosmos
plan. The country will continue to use Kazakhstan’s Baikonur
Cosmodrome until 2050. Russia is also considering building a
new-generation orbital station, according to Roscosmos.  Space Tourism  The need to accommodate expanded crews has halted travel by
paying space tourists 2009, Perminov said, adding that space
tourism may resume in 2013.  Astronauts from other countries have to wait in line as
demand for flights to the ISS is growing and Russia’s capacity
is limited by the number of spacecraft, Perminov said. Russia
would be able to earn $1 billion a year if it could carry out
all requested launches, including commercial flights on its
Proton and Soyuz rockets, he said.  “It would be good to have two, three or more tourists a
year,” Perminov said. Roscosmos is in talks with Russian
spacecraft maker RKK Energia to increase production, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 