-- 
Saab Auto’s Top Priority Is to Avoid Bad Publicity, Muller Says

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-04T15:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/saab-auto-s-top-priority-is-to-avoid-bad-publicity-muller-says.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish
carmaker forced to temporarily halt production last week amid a
payment dispute with suppliers, must repair the damage caused to
its reputation, Chairman Victor Muller said.  “The most important thing Saab must now do is to not be in
the media in a negative way,” Muller told reporters today in
Nacka, Sweden. “We failed last week, clearly. We have spent one
year trying to build up trust and the confidence in the
business. It will take time to repair this, but we’ll repair
it.”  Saab is again producing cars after a stop on March 29, and
now has the supplier issue “under control,” Muller said at an
event outside  Stockholm  where the Trollhaettan-based carmaker
displayed its new models.  Saab, bought by Zeewolde, Netherlands-based  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) 
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  in February 2010, reiterated its goal of
boosting sales to 80,000 cars this year from last year’s 31,696
and turning profitable in 2012. The company must avoid creating
situations like the production halt that may scare customers
away, Muller said.  “If we have a production stop for two hours, when we lose
56 cars, in the media it’s like we’re going bankrupt,” Muller
said. “It’s almost impossible to prevent, but you can do your
utmost to contain situations. The situation last week just spun
out of control.”  New Releases  Spyker, which last year had a net loss of 218 million euros
($310 million), is following its business plan despite selling
fewer cars in 2010 than expected, Muller said.  “The business plan did hold up last year” in terms of
earnings before interest and taxes, he said. “The team managed
to push down the break-even point and the cost.”  Most of the 80,000 cars Saab aims to sell this year will
come in the second half as the company is releasing two new
models in the next few months, the 51-year old Dutchman said.
Saab is starting production next month of the 9-4X, its first
crossover, to compete with Audi’s Q5 and with  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s X3. The crossover combines features of a car and a
sport-utility vehicle.  Saab will start making the 9-5 wagon in July to take on the
Audi A6, Volvo S80 and V70, and the BMW 5-series, said Magnus Hansson, head of Saab’s sales in the Nordic region.  Saab aims to sell 20,000 9-5 wagons next year, Chief
Executive Officer Jan-Aake Jonsson said.  Russian Banker  Muller reiterated he’s optimistic that Vladimir Antonov, a
Russian banker, will be allowed to join Saab as a shareholder
and financier. Antonov would not get a management position,
Muller said. Antonov has agreed to limit his stake to less than
30 percent, Muller said March 31.  Sweden ’s national debt office, the  European Investment Bank 
and General Motors must all approve Antonov as a shareholder,
Muller said today, noting the U.S. carmaker no longer opposes
the Russian’s involvement.  “GM has changed its mind,” he said.  “You can rest assured we’ll be around, we’re not going to
go away,” Muller said. “The small glitch we had last week is
not going to change the picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  