-- 
Santander Tops Goldman as Green Bank on Deals From Cool Offices

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/santander-tops-goldman-as-greenest-bank-on-deals-from-cool-offices.html
At  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  headquarters
on the outskirts of Madrid, Joaquin de Ena says he’s gotten used
to wearing his sweater vest indoors after the bank turned down
the heat to trim power use and greenhouse-gas emissions.  “This is OK,” de Ena, director of corporate social
responsibility, says with a laugh as he looks at a conference
room thermostat as a chilly wind blows through the capital on an
early March day. “I’m not sure if it should go any lower.”  Elsewhere on Santander’s 395-acre (160-hectare) campus,
Antonio Garcia Mendez is adapting the green philosophy to
investments. Spain’s biggest bank arranged a $324 million loan
for a U.S. wind farm developed by BP Plc and  Sempra Energy (SRE)  last
year, Bloomberg Markets reports in its May issue.  Mendez, 39, global head of power project and acquisition
finance, says his team has closed 40 deals already this year, 90
percent involving renewable energy. Investment in clean-energy
companies and projects rose 30 percent to a record $243 billion
in 2010, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Santander’s in-house conservation and ecominded investments
won it top billing in Bloomberg Markets’ inaugural ranking of
the world’s greenest banks.  The data were compiled by Bloomberg from company filings,
websites, social responsibility reports and other public
documents. The ranking covers 188 banks with market
capitalizations of $10 billion or more in 49 countries,
assessing them in two areas: Investments in clean-energy
projects from 2004 through 2010 make up 70 percent of the final
score. The banks’ efforts to reduce their own carbon footprints
account for 30 percent.  Tesla (TSLA)  IPO  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was second overall and topped the
list for green investing. New York-based Goldman, along with No.
4 bank  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , managed the $3 billion initial
public offering of  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , Rome-based operator of
wind, geothermal and hydropower plants. Goldman also co-led the
IPO of Tesla Motors Inc., the Palo Alto, California, maker of
the $109,000 all-electric  Roadster .  Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  was No. 3. It arranged $1.4
billion of loans for wind farms, solar plants and waste-to-
energy generators last year, according to BNEF.  Eight of the top 10 banks are based in Europe, mirroring
the European Union’s commitment to curbing emissions through
such efforts as the world’s biggest carbon-trading market. The
EU plans to get 20 percent of its energy from wind, wave, tidal
and solar power and to cut carbon pollution by 20 percent from
1990 levels by 2020.  Environmental Awareness  The only other U.S. bank among the top 10, No. 5  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , is building on a 2007 pledge by former Chief Executive
Officer Charles Prince to invest $50 billion to fight  climate
change . Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  was sixth,
followed by Edinburgh’s Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in Paris, London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
another Paris bank,  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Santander measured its global environmental footprint for
the first time in 2009 -- and aimed to improve. De Ena, 42, says
that raising awareness of environmental issues will help the
bank increase its overall operating efficiency and detect
financial risks for project loans.  Santander consumed 1,200 gigawatt-hours of electricity that
year, equal to 0.5 percent of Spain’s power demand, and emitted
the equivalent of 626,505 tons of carbon dioxide. It plans to
decrease those numbers by 3 percent a year during the next three
years. De Ena says it looks like Santander likely met the first-
year goal.  Recycling Batteries  The bank is also parlaying its ties with Spain’s low-carbon
companies to make headway in  Latin America . It arranged a $149
million loan for a 102-megawatt wind farm in Oaxaca,  Mexico . In
its Brazilian branches, customers can leave batteries in white
bins for recycling. The bank collected 172 tons last year.  “There are markets that have done a lot, like Brazil and
Mexico,” Mendez says. “Others are yet to start but are very
concerned with carbon emissions and compliance. There is great
potential.”  Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs are also chasing
carbon-free investments as they put their buildings on energy-
saving diets. Deep in the  Madison Avenue  basement of Zurich-
based Credit Suisse’s 30-story U.S. headquarters, an 800-ton
steel chiller produces ice during the evening when electricity
is cheaper. The ice is stored in 64 giant tanks to supplement
air conditioning.  Credit Suisse says it cut  carbon emissions  to zero last
year. It got about 208 million kilowatt-hours of electricity
from renewable sources, accounting for 34 percent of its global
energy consumption.  Zero Footprint  The bank uses renewable energy exclusively for electricity
in all offices in  Switzerland , says Andrew Aulisi, head of
sustainability for the Americas. The bank purchased  carbon
offsets  through sources including Europe’s emissions-trading
system to offset the 366,000 metric tons of CO2 the bank’s
50,100 employees were still emitting last year, Aulisi says.  Some conservationists aren’t buying corporations’ green
assertions.  “As environmental issues become more popular, companies
are ready to make any sort of claim to show their green
credentials,” says Brant Olson, a campaign director at
 Rainforest Action Network  in  San Francisco . He points out that
banks also have big-spending clients from carbon-spewing
industries like coal and petroleum.  In a troubling sign for Europe’s banks, countries are
rolling back renewable-energy subsidies, making investments in
clean technologies potentially less lucrative.  Financial Pressures  In the U.S., where the Senate voted last December to extend
tax credits for solar and wind producers for another year,
clean-energy projects face a different challenge. A glut of
shale natural gas, and prices that have tumbled 42 percent in
the past five years, are making alternative energy uneconomical.  “Global momentum for clean energy is not abating,” Aulisi
says. “But if subsidies are withdrawn, then you’ll see
significant declines.”  Citigroup gained its No. 5 ranking thanks in part to two of
the biggest U.S. wind deals. It led banks that raised $1.43
billion in loans for Caithness Energy LLC to build the 845-
megawatt Shepherds Flat wind park in eastern Oregon, the world’s
largest. Citigroup also arranged $1.2 billion in financing for
Terra-Gen Power LLC’s Alta Wind Energy Center near Tehachapi,
California.  “These are elephant-size deals,” says Sandip Sen, global
head of Citigroup’s Alternative Energy Group. The bank had
planned to trim its greenhouse-gas emissions by 10 percent from
2005 by 2011. It now bets it can cut 25 percent by 2015.  For Santander’s de Ena, the future means using less and
recycling more. He’s sure Santander can meet its goals.  “Efficiency is one of the strengths of this bank,” he
says. “Energy savings is an area that we haven’t focused on
until now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  or
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  