-- 
Sbarro, Mall Restaurant Chain, Seeks Bankruptcy Protection

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-04T20:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/sbarro-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-after-restaurant-chain-s-sales-slid.html
Sbarro Inc., operator of more than
1,000 pizza restaurants worldwide, sought  bankruptcy protection 
to eliminate about $200 million in debt after sales slowed and
cheese costs rose.  The chain listed assets of $471 million and debt of $486.6
million in documents filed today in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in New
York. Sbarro, based in Melville, New York, said it had as many
as 10,000 creditors.  “We believe this plan represents the best opportunity for
Sbarro to clear a path for future growth by restructuring its
debt in an effective and timely manner,” Nicholas McGrane,
interim president and chief executive officer of Sbarro, said in
a statement. “We are a strong company with one of the most
recognizable restaurant brands in the world.”  The company is scheduled to ask a judge tomorrow for
permission to borrow $16.5 million of a $35 million loan from
existing first-lien lenders. Cantor Fitzgerald Securities would
be the agent, according to a court filing.  Under a bankruptcy plan backed by creditors Ares Management
LLC and MidOcean Partners, Sbarro would convert second-lien and
bond debt to equity and raise $30 million in equity through a
rights offering, according to court papers.  Ratings Cut  MidOcean owns 95 percent of Sbarro’s $34.2 million in
second-lien debt and Ares Management LLC holds a majority of the
company’s $150 million in senior notes, according to court
filings.  Sbarro has struggled since at least August 2008, when it
reported losses because of higher costs for ingredients
including cheese, flour and pasta. That prompted  Standard &
Poor’s  to cut its ratings on Sbarro’s debt, saying the company
might breach covenants on $150 million in senior notes. Sbarro
sold the notes the previous year to help finance its purchase by
a MidOcean unit in January 2007.  Sales have declined as consumers spend less money eating
out. For the quarter ended Sept. 26, Sbarro had a net loss of
$5.3 million, and $12.7 million in cash. Its long-term debt was
$336.1 million.  “We face pressure related to increasing commodity costs,
particularly cheese and flour,” the company said in a Nov. 10
regulatory filing, noting that debt costs and reduced mall
traffic also put pressure on the company.  Diners Stay Home  The Sbarro family started its business after moving to
 Brooklyn ,  New York , from Naples,  Italy , in 1956. Sbarro now has
about 8,000 employees in more than 40 countries, according to
its website.  Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp., also an Italian restaurant
chain, filed for bankruptcy in January 2010, saying the worst
economic slump since the Great Depression had caused more diners
to stay home, hurting its 200 U.S. pizzerias.  Restaurant chains including Bennigan’s and Steak and Ale,
both owned by Metromedia Restaurant Group, and Buffets Holdings
Inc. filed for bankruptcy in the past three years. Midland Food
Services LLC, the operator of 92 Pizza Hut restaurants in six
states, and Commissary Operations Inc., a distributor of food
and supplies to chains, also sought court protection.  Under terms of Sbarro’s bankruptcy loan, the company is
required to file in court its reorganization plan within 60 days
and win court approval of the plan with 170 days, according to a
court filing.  The case is In re Sbarro,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ), 11-11527.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ; David McLaughlin in New York at 
4817 or  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 