-- 
Securitization Proposal by U.S. Includes Bond ‘Deal Killer,’ JPMorgan Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-04T15:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/securitization-proposal-by-u-s-includes-bond-deal-killer-jpmorgan-says.html
A U.S. government proposal forcing
bond issuers or lenders to keep stakes in securitized loans
contains a provision that may be a “deal killer” for home-loan
bonds and shut down the market for commercial-mortgage
securities, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Companies packaging property loans into securities would
need to set aside certain cash that they normally collect
upfront in bond sales. The proposed rules were released for
public comment on March 29 by regulators including the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal Reserve .  The “premium capture cash reserve accounts” would relate
to bonds tied to interest payments on securitized assets in
excess of what’s needed to pay other debt sold in the deals. The
accounts would be in addition to the amounts that issuers or
lenders must retain to satisfy a requirement that they hold 5
percent of the credit risk of transactions, according to the
 proposal .  For home-loan securities without government-backed
guarantees, a market that has become “close to viable” again
for the safest and largest loans, the provision “could
potentially be a ‘deal killer,’” New York-based JPMorgan
analysts led by  John Sim  and Ed Reardon wrote in a report.  Sim didn’t immediately return a call seeking further
comment.  The reviving market for commercial-mortgage-backed
securities would also be damaged, separate JPMorgan analysts led
by  Alan Todd  wrote in another piece in the bank’s report,
released April 1.  “The CMBS market, as it exists currently, would shut down
if the rules are enacted as written,” they said.  Congress Mandated  Banks have arranged about $8.2 billion of commercial-
mortgage bonds this year, compared with $3.4 billion in all of
2009 and a record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show.
Less than $500 million of non-agency bonds backed by new home
loans have been created since July 2008, after sales reached
about $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006.  Congress mandated last year that U.S. agencies create risk-
retention rules, reflecting a view that a lack of skin in the
game among lenders and bond issuers helped fuel the shoddy
mortgages that sparked collapses in housing and financial
markets. Regulators included the provision on premium accounts
to address a way issuers could potentially work around their
rules’ focus, including a “special anti-evasion” procedure to
strengthen the provision.  The set of rules applies to so-called interest-only
securities or bonds sold for more than face value. It could be
most problematic for deals being put together during a period in
which  interest rates  are declining, Nomura Securities
International Inc. analysts said.  Bank Pushback  “This restriction would greatly decrease the
attractiveness of securitizations, as it would push issuers to
realizing gains over time rather than up-front,” the  New York- 
based Nomura analysts including Paul Nikodem and Ankur Mehta
wrote in an April 1 report.  The provision “might get the most pushback from banks
given that it forces big changes to their securitization
model,” Barclays Capital analysts said.  “It could be improved substantially by allowing” a
modified version of the rules when originators have spent more
than the face value of the loans to obtain the debt, New York-
based analysts including Sandeep Bordia wrote in an April 1
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net  