-- 
Serbia Expects New EIB Loan to Give Boost to Rising Exports

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-04T13:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/serbia-expects-new-eib-loan-to-give-boost-to-rising-exports.html
Serbia , which aims to become a
European Union candidate this year, wants a 250 million-euro
($356 million)  credit line  from the  European Investment Bank  to
boost exports, Deputy Premier Bozidar Djelic said.  The EIB’s board of directors is expected to approve the
lending targeted at Serbian exporters on April 14 “without any
additional guarantees or collateral,” Djelic told reporters at
an annual conference on competitiveness in Belgrade today.  “The EIB’s financial support has so far largely been used
to improve the liquidity of our companies,” Djelic said. “The
previous 250 million-euro tranche was snatched up within six
months. This time the new loan will go toward export-oriented
industries.”  Serbia’s economy contracted 3.5 percent in 2009 after
foreign capital inflows and investments dried up at the height
of the global recession. Prime Minister’s Mirko Cvetkovic
government is attempting to create economic growth from exports
instead of relying on foreign investment and external borrowing.  A third of the new EIB loan, or 80 million euros, will be
given to  Italy ’s carmaker Fiat for its new plant in Serbia and
car-part producers who supply Fiat, Economy Minister Nebojsa Ciric said.  Export Growth  Serbian exports rose “between 35 percent and 36 percent in
euro terms in January and February versus a year ago, when the
growth rate of exports stood at 24 percent to 25 percent,”
Circic said.  Part of export growth was fueled by the weakening dinar,
which ended in late 2010. The dinar traded at 102.60 to the euro
at 1:42 p.m. in Belgrade, or 2.8 percent lower from its end-
December level.  The meeting today of the Competitiveness Council, which
gathers government officials, bankers and company managers, did
not address the issue of the dinar rate.’’ Djelic said it was
proof “the current dinar level was optimal both for citizens
and exporters” and “we would not want to change that.”  Financing exporters is part of the government’s plan to
bolster their competitiveness abroad and ensure new jobs a year
before general elections, Djelic said. Unemployment stood at 20
percent at the end of 2010.  The government also plans to adopt a set of laws by the end
of June to help Serbia win a positive opinion from the European
Commission and become an EU candidate and get a date for the
start of membership talks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  