-- 
SK Innovation Tumbles on Fuel Price-Cut Plan; Rivals Also Fall

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-04-04T06:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/sk-innovation-tumbles-on-fuel-price-cut-plan-rivals-also-fall.html
SK Innovation Co.,  South Korea ’s
biggest oil refiner, dropped the most in more than two years in
Seoul trading after saying it will cut gasoline and diesel
prices. Smaller rivals also fell on concerns they may follow.  SK Innovation tumbled 10 percent to 191,000 won at the
close on the Korea Exchange, the biggest drop since Nov. 6,
2008, while the benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.2 percent. The
stock’s decline helped make the Korea Chemical Product Index the
worst performer among the Kospi’s 19 industry groups. The
refiner was also the biggest decliner on the  MSCI AC Asia
Pacific (MXAP)  Index.  The South Korean government pressured refiners to cut
prices as part of its efforts to curb inflation. SK Innovation
will reduce the cost of gasoline and diesel by 100 won (9 cents)
a liter in its nationwide gas stations for three months,
starting April 7, the company said yesterday.  “The decision by SK Innovation may lead other refiners to
join the price cuts and this may badly affect their second-
quarter profits,” Lee In Jae, an analyst at KB Investment &
Securities Co., wrote in a report today.  The government needs to review whether oil-product prices
are at a “reasonable level,” President  Lee Myung Bak  said in
January. The Korea Economic Daily reported March 31 that the
nation’s fair trade agency sent refiners the result of a review
on unfair activities. The Korean-language newspaper didn’t say
where it got the information.  GS Holdings (078930)  Corp., parent of South Korea’s second-largest
refiner GS Caltex Corp., lost 7.5 percent to 87,900 won.  S-Oil
Corp. (010950) , the third-biggest, lost 5.6 percent to 143,500 won.  In March, South Korea’s consumer-price index climbed to the
highest in 29 months. Quickening inflation underscores the
difficulty President Lee has in containing prices since
launching a “war” on inflation and pledging to use controls to
contain it at 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  