-- 
Solvay’s Pursuit of Rhodia Feeds $25 Billion Chemical Deal Boom

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-04T22:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/solvay-s-pursuit-of-rhodia-feeds-25-billion-chemical-deal-boom.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s planned acquisition of
French cosmetic-ingredients maker  Rhodia SA (RHA)  adds to a flurry of
specialty-chemical takeovers so far this year, with the value of
deals rising to $25 billion, the most in at least a decade.  Investors are betting there will be more. Shares of  Arkema
SA (AKE) ,  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  and  Lanxess AG (LXS)  jumped yesterday,
driven by optimism the $4.8 billion takeover of Rhodia by
Belgium’s largest chemicals company will spawn more acquisitions
in the industry. Royal DSM NV and  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  of the 
Netherlands, and  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of  Germany  are among
the companies that may make acquisitions.  Solvay, flush with cash from the disposal of a drugs unit,
is the latest commodity chemical company to buy mid-sized
targets making ingredients for consumer products. BASF, the
world’s biggest chemical maker, is partway through its
integration of moisturizer maker Cognis, which it bought for
$4.3 billion in December to extend a shift from petrochemicals
made at a lower cost in the Middle East.  “Companies are taking advantage of the boom time to
reorganize their portfolios,” said Pierre-Alexis Dumont, a fund
manager at Ofi Asset Management in Paris, which oversees 1.2
billion euros in stocks. “Once there’s a bit of momentum in an
industry, the odds are great that it will continue, provided
that market and funding conditions remain good.”  The Rhodia takeover comes three weeks after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to buy lubricant and
personal-care chemical maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  for $9.2 billion,
the largest transaction in that segment so far this year.  Buffett Catalyst  “Berkshire Hathaway’s move into the sector has forced many
to recognize that there are many undervalued targets out
there,” said  Peter Hall , a partner at chemical M&A adviser
Valence Group, which has closed nine deals in the past year.
“It sometimes takes a move by an outsider to remind people of
the inherent value of the chemicals industry.”  The average deal size of the 64 transactions in specialty
chemicals so far this year is $702 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 50 percent involved a U.S. company,
either as an acquirer or seller. In contrast to this year’s
pace, the combined sum of deals in the first and second quarters
of 2010 was $3.3 billion, the data show.  “The Rhodia deal has excited investors’ interest, and a
lot of mid-cap stocks are rising,” said Martin Evans, an
analyst at JPMorgan Securities Ltd. in  London . “It’s
encouraging that Solvay has felt it right to spend money.”  Bidding Contest  Arkema, the Colombes, France-based former unit of  oil
company  Total SA, added 2.3 percent in Paris, the most in a
month, valuing the business at more than 4.1 billion euros.
Lanxess jumped 3.7 percent for a value of 4.7 billion euros.
Croda, based in northern  England , advanced 1.4 percent, valuing
the company at 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion).  Solvay turned to Rhodia after being outbid by DuPont Co.
for Danish food-ingredient maker Danisco A/S this year. It’s
paying 7.3 times recurring earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for Rhodia. That’s in line with
the average multiple for specialty chemical acquisitions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Christian Jourquin, who will hand
the reins to his counterpart at Rhodia when he retires, said in
February that he would “never overpay” for a target. The
company embarked on “in-depth” analyses of segments to invest.
With Rhodia, Jourquin took just over a month to persuade company
management of the deal’s merits.  Solvay is paying in cash and the Brussels-based company
aims to double earnings to almost 2 billion euros. Rhodia has an
operating profit margin of about 12 percent, compared with 8.2
percent for Solvay. Soda ash, among Solvay’s main products, is a
bulk ingredient in the glass-making industry, while caustic soda
is a raw-material for detergents.  Plotting Moves  “Many CEOs of mid-sized players in complex industries are
concluding that they will always struggle to get their share
price up to a level that reflects inherent value,” said
Valence’s Hall. “Hence, if an attractive offer comes along then
it has to be given serious consideration.”  While Solvay gains knowledge of the Chinese market, Rhodia
can leverage its new parent’s strength in markets such as Russia
and  Thailand . The enlarged resources of the group will also be
channeled into acquiring consumer-chemical companies, Rhodia CEO
Jean-Pierre Clamadieu said yesterday.  “What brings us together is a common plan, and the
conviction that we would never have managed to be a real
European player separately,” Jourquin told reporters yesterday.  Other companies that may plot takeovers include Bayer, the
former parent of Lanxess, as well as Ludwigshafen, Germany-based
BASF, said Dumont, the Ofi  fund manager .  Potential Predators  BASF has said it’s in the midst of digesting Cognis, and
its preferred strategy is to complete the integration of one
purchase before embarking on another.  Enzyme maker Royal DSM and paint maker Akzo Nobel, both
based in the Netherlands, may also seek purchases, Caroline Brugere, an analyst at  Credit Agricole , said yesterday. DSM has
completed the $1.09 billion purchase of Martek Biosciences, a
U.S. nutritional products maker it acquired after also
unsuccessfully pursuing Danisco.  Herleen, Netherlands-based DSM will continue to look for
other assets, Societe Generale analysts Bob Buhr and Roberto Pozzi said in a note.  Even those with much sought-after assets won’t necessarily
join the M&A frenzy.  Air Liquide SA (AI) , the world’s biggest
producer of industrial gases, has so far rebuffed approaches for
its specialty-chemicals arm Seppic, preferring to keep the cash-
generating business.  “There are real development opportunities in everything
related to consumer chemicals,” Rhodia CEO Clamadieu said.
“There are still a certain amount of players, and there are
opportunities to seize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 