-- 
Sony PlayStation Portable Holiday Release May Be Delayed by Japan Disaster

-- B y   C l i f f o r d   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-04-05T21:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/sony-new-playstation-portable-may-be-delayed-by-japan-disaster.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  may stagger the global
release of its next-generation PlayStation Portable game machine
after the earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan  last month led
to production disruptions.  The new PlayStation Portable, dubbed “NGP,” may be
introduced in a single region this year instead of starting
sales in  Asia ,  Europe  and the U.S. in time for the end-of-year
 holiday shopping season , said Jack Tretton, president of Sony
Computer Entertainment of America, citing production problems
related to the March 11 disaster.  “It may be the straw that says ‘maybe we get to just one
market by the end of the year,’” Tretton said in an interview
last week. A delayed introduction may give game developers in
certain regions more time to complete their software, he said.  A 2012 rollout some markets threatens to put Sony further
behind Nintendo Co. in the portable-games market, said Edward Woo, a video-games analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles . Nintendo released its 3DS handheld player in the U.S.,
Japan and Europe in the past couple of months.  “It raises the bar on the competitive issues that Sony is
going to have to hurdle,” said Woo. “As it is now, it’s
already going to be almost eight months behind Nintendo, and a
delay could push that to a year.”  Tretton declined to say which region Tokyo-based Sony may
offer the device in first.  Past Statements  Sony and its executives have been unclear about specifics
of the release. Sony said in a Jan. 27 statement that NGP would
make its debut this year, without giving details. In a
subsequent interview with trade publication IGN,  Kazuo Hirai ,
head of Sony’s games business, described “holiday season”
introduction. Tretton, speaking with the website  Engadget , said
the company was being ambiguous “for a reason” and that Sony
may not get to more than one territory by year-end.  Sony’s U.S. shares fell 1.1 percent, or 34 cents, to $31.11
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have lost 13 percent this year.  Nintendo, based in Kyoto, Japan, said last month it sold a
record number of handheld machines on the 3DS’s first day of
sales in the U.S. The device, which allows people to play 3-D
games without special glasses, sold more than 800,000 units in
the first month following its debut in Japan on Feb. 26,
according to Tokyo-based researcher Enterbrain Inc.  Japan’s disaster, described by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as
the nation’s biggest crisis since World War II, has left more
than 27,000 people dead or missing and caused estimated damages
of as much as 25 trillion yen ($297 billion).  Cutting Estimates  Damage sustained in the 9-magnitude temblor and tsunami
that followed have forced Sony to shut down several factories in
Northern Japan for repair. A lack of parts from component
suppliers also is delaying production at locations not directly
affected by the disaster, Tretton said.  Atul Goyal, a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
in  Singapore , in March cut his estimates for Sony’s operating
profit for the 12 months ended March 31 and this fiscal year,
citing concerns over the economic fallout from the earthquake.  Hirai said in January that the NGP will deliver the power
of the PlayStation 3 game console in a handheld. The new
portable model will have a 5-inch (12.7 centimeters) organic
light emitting diode, or OLED, display, and will offer location-
based services as part of an application called “Near.”  The NGP features front and rear-facing cameras and a rear
multi-sensor touchpad. The company also has developed a
proprietary memory format for the NGP.  Tablets, Smartphones  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung Electronics Co. and other mobile-device
makers are improving graphics capabilities on tablet computers
and smartphones to deliver more realistic games to those
devices.  Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB is set to introduce
the Xperia Play smartphone in Europe over the next several weeks
and this spring on Verizon Wireless’ network, the company said.
The device uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system and is
the first that will let users play Sony-developed games under
its PlayStation Certified program that optimizes any Android
handheld for a gaming experience.  “Expectations are pretty limited for NGP this calendar
year, the idea being that they would need some time to build up
a library,” said  Jay Defibaugh , an analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities in  Tokyo . “Third parties carry more weight for the
Sony platform and are going to need more time for development,
so the medium-term view is more important for NGP than how it
gets out of the starting block.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  