-- 
South African Domestic Car Sales Jumped by 23% in March, Exports Hit High

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-04-04T09:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/south-african-domestic-car-sales-grow-23-exports-reach-record.html
South African domestic vehicle sales
rose an annual 23 percent in March while exports reached a
monthly record, an industry group said.  Sales in the country increased to 53,478, the National
Association of Automobile Manufacturers of  South Africa  said in
an e-mailed statement today. The average growth rate in the
previous four months was 26 percent.  Carmakers have benefited from interest rate cuts that have
brought the benchmark to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent, as the
 Reserve Bank  sought to boost  consumer spending  in Africa’s
biggest economy. Higher sales in the past 15 months “reflected
a robust recovery on the consumption side of the South African
economy driven by the six and a half percent decline in  interest
rates  since December 2008,” the association said.  Passenger car sales gained 24 percent from a year ago to
35,167 in March, while purchases of light commercial vehicles,
such as pick-up trucks and minivans increase 22 percent to
15,736, the association said.  “We had a very good month,” Johan Kleynhans, marketing
and sales director for Nissan Motor Co. in South  Africa , said in
an e-mailed statement today. “With our passenger cars
performing particularly strongly, we find ourselves back on
track after a slow start to the year and an improved February.”  Exports surged an annual 37 percent to 29,254 in March. The
association forecasts exports will reach 300,000 this year.  Economists predict an interest rate increase in the second
half of the year as rising oil and food prices may push up
inflation above the 3 percent to 6 percent band targeted by the
central bank, from the current 3.7 percent.  A rate increase would temper future sales growth, which
will be supported by global economic growth of about 4.5 percent
this year, the association said.  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami may have added to pre-
emptive buying last month, resulting in component and vehicle
stock shortages and causing a “temporary impact on domestic
sales and exports,” the carmakers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 