-- 
Sovereign Default-Swap Trades Double on China Slowdown: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-04-05T06:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/sovereign-default-swap-trades-double-on-china-slowdown-australia-credit.html
Trading in credit-default swaps on
Australian sovereign debt doubled in the past year as the nation
becomes increasingly dependent on its biggest export market
 China , which is seeking to slow growth to stem inflation.  The number of swap contracts used to speculate on
creditworthiness and government bond prices rose to 1,284
covering a net amount of $2.7 billion as of March 25, from 551
and $1.2 billion a year earlier,  Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp.  data show. The price of contracts increased 10.3 basis
points to 49.4 basis points in the past 12 months, meaning
investors consider Australia to be less risky than the U.K. at
50.8 and more than  Germany  at 41.3, according to CMA data.  China took 27 percent of the nation’s exports in January
and a stalling of the world’s fastest-growing major economy
would threaten a resources boom that’s driven  Australia ’s export
earnings from commodities to a record. Australia is one of four
developed markets where bond yields have fallen this year, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, and its dollar touched a
record $1.0417 against the U.S. currency yesterday.  “Our base case is for a soft landing in China and thus
Australia, but given Australia is closely linked to China, tail
risk cannot be ignored,” said Chris Viol, a credit analyst at
UBS AG in Sydney. “Buying Australian sovereign credit-default
swaps at these levels makes sense.”  Measure of Risk  There was a net $2.72 billion of contracts on Australian
government debt outstanding in the week ending March 11, the
highest level since at least May 2009, according to DTCC data.
The number of contracts on Australia has overtaken Iceland,
Vietnam and  Israel  in the past 12 months, the data show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its
debt agreements. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  China surpassed the U.S. and  Japan  to become Australia’s
largest economic partner as bilateral trade quadrupled over the
past seven years to A$97.6 billion ($100.8 billion) in 2010,
according to government data.  The People’s Bank of China said last month that controlling
inflation, which quickened to a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in
November, remains its main task. Policy makers have boosted
borrowing costs three times since the start of 2010 while
raising banks’ reserve requirements nine times.  Interest Rates   The  Reserve Bank  of Australia forecasts economic growth
will accelerate to 4.25 percent this year. It increased
borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to November 2010
to contain inflation as a mining-investment boom bolsters
employment growth.  Employers added 24,000 jobs last month and the  unemployment
rate  remained at 5 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists ahead of jobs data scheduled to be published April 7.  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
today at 4.75 percent for a fourth straight meeting, as forecast
by all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Traders see a
32 percent chance Governor Glenn Stevens will keep rates on hold
for the rest of the year, bank bill futures show.  The highest benchmark rate in the developed world has
helped spur the Australian dollar to strengthen 6.2 percent in
the past six months, the best performance among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  Taiwan ’s dollar. The so-called Aussie
traded at $1.0324 as of 3:46 p.m. today in Sydney.  Sovereign Bond Yields  Australian sovereign bond yields have dropped 11.5 basis
points this year to 5.2 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Governments Index. Yields also fell
in  Spain ,  New Zealand  and  Italy , while they rose in 16 other
developed markets tracked by Merrill Lynch, the data show.  The yield on the 10-year government note fell 3.2 basis
points to 5.51 percent today, or 207.4 basis points more than
similar-dated Treasuries.  Consumer prices may rise an annual 2.91 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on  government
bonds  and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to hold
inflation between 2 and 3 percent on average.  Australia will earn a record A$220.6 billion from shipments
of raw materials in the 12 months ending June 30, the government
estimated March 1. The nation’s shipments to China totaled
A$37.2 billion in the seven months to Jan. 31, a 55 percent
increase on the same period a year earlier, according to the
 statistics bureau .  ‘Beholden’ to China  “There is no getting around the fact that Australia is now
far more beholden to the turn of fortunes in China,” Paul Bloxham, Sydney-based chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc and a
former central bank official, wrote in a research note last
month. Any slowdown in growth in China would dampen commodity
prices and “have a significant effect on the Australian
economy,” he said.  Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said investors should sell protection against
an Australian government debt default, rather than buy credit-
default swaps on the sovereign.  “The credit quality of the Aussie sovereign remains very
strong,” said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  portfolio
management  at Pimco, which managed $1.24 trillion of assets
globally as of December. “The appetite globally for Australian
assets as reflected by bond yields, equity prices and the
Australian dollar bear witness to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 