-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: Zapatero Won’t Run in 2012; CAM Seeks $4 Billion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/spain-daybook-zapatero-won-t-run-in-2012-cam-seeks-4-billion.html
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said he won’t run for a third term in 2012 while
savings bank  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  said it will seek
2.8 billion euros ($4 billion) from the bank-rescue fund.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Labor Ministry publishes registered unemployment data for
March at 9 a.m. CET
* ICO Publishes its consumer confidence measure for March.  ECONOMY:
* Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said on April 2 he
won’t be the Socialist party’s candidate in elections scheduled
for March 2012, unleashing a succession battle. Deputy Prime
Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba is the favorite to succeed him
as the candidate, according to a poll in El Pais.
* Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo will seek 2.8 billion euros
from the state’s bank-rescue fund after a merger with other
lenders collapsed. The Bank of  Spain , which has set a deadline
of April 28 for lenders to approve their recapitalization plans,
hasn’t commented on CAM’s request.
* The Spanish region of Catalonia is preparing to sell 2.7
billion euros of one- and two-year bonds to retail investors,
the regional finance department said on April 1. It will pay a
4.25 percent coupon and 0.75 percent to 2.5 percent commission
on the one-year debt and 4.75 percent and a commission of 1
percent to 3.5 percent on the two-year paper.
*  Portugal ’s credit rating was slashed to BBB- at  Fitch Ratings ,
which said it may cut the grade further to below investment
grade.  EQUITIES:
*  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  may have made an offer for Caja de Ahorros
del Mediterraneo and if CAM doesn’t accept the bid, the Bank of
Spain may seize the lender, El Economista reported, without
saying where it got the information. An official at CAM, who
declined to be named in line with company policy, said the
report was false. A spokesman for Santander declined to comment
and no one was available at the Bank of Spain.  MARKETS:
* The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  rose 1.5 percent to 10,730.
* The spread between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
was unchanged at 194 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  