-- 
Sprint Plans Tap-And-Go Payments in 2011, Ahead of Rivals

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-04T20:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/sprint-plans-tap-and-go-payment-service-this-year-to-get-a-jump-on-rivals.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  plans to start a
service this year that will allow customers to make purchases
with their mobile phones, ahead of a similar initiative from
rivals  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  T-Mobile USA .  Sprint is working with payment networks and handset makers
on technology called near-field communication, or NFC, which
allows people with smartphones to make purchases by tapping them
on or waving them in front of electronic readers in stores, said
Kevin McGinnis, vice president of product platforms.  The effort may give Sprint an advantage in attracting new
customers and compelling existing ones to upgrade to the tap-
and-go handsets. The competing joint venture, known as  Isis ,
said in November its network may not be available to consumers
until 2012.  “We intend to make this an open solution where consumers
can use their phone in a variety of physical locations,” said
McGinnis. “Because we’re allowing other brands and other
institutions to participate, they can also tell their consumers
that this is available on Sprint.”  Rather than take a percentage of each transaction, as Isis
plans, Sprint could share in revenue from sales of coupons sent
to its customers’ handsets or targeted advertising, McGinnis
said. Users’ purchases would be billed through their regular
credit-card statements.  “That’s considered the holy grail in preventing bill
shock,” said Richard Crone, president of Crone Consulting LLC
in San Carlos, California. “All the carriers will have to work
on merchant acceptance, which today is very low.”  Google, Apple  Crone said about 150,000 U.S. merchant locations are
enabled for NFC payments today, compared with about 6 million
that accept traditional credit-card payments. Microsoft Corp.
and Amazon.com Inc. are both working on services to enable NFC,
people familiar with the companies’ plans said last week, and
later this year  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is set to release its NFC-enabled
 Samsung Electronics Co. Nexus S  handset.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone, is also among those
working on a NFC technology in its handsets, consulting firm
Envisioneering Group said in January.  Tap-and-go handsets may also allow for other transactions,
such as those at vending machines, parking meters and transit
ticket gates,  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  analyst Thomas Husson
wrote in a March 31 report.  “Operators believe payments represent an opportunity for
them to create value-added services, reduce churn, increase data
revenues, and impose hosting and management fees on third
parties,” Husson said.  HTC Effort  The number of phones with NFC will double in 2012, from 35
million shipped in 2011, consultant ABI Research estimated. In
2014, 340 million global mobile users will use mobile payments,
with such transactions totaling $245 billion, up from $32
billion last year, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT)   Troy McCombs, a spokesman for New York-based Isis, declined
in an e-mail to comment on Sprint’s plans.  Handset maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  is working on phones that will
incorporate NFC technology and will likely release at least one
version this year, said Jason Mackenzie, Americas region
president, in an interview last month. McGinnis declined to say
which device manufacturers Sprint is working with, though he
noted the Nexus S phone will be on the carrier’s network.  Sprint had been a part of the Isis group and later decided
to develop a mobile-payments service on its own, McGinnis said.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, rose 6 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $4.62 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have added 9.2 percent this year.  Verizon Wireless is co-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
and Vodafone Group Plc, and T-Mobile USA is a unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  