-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop; Adecco, Logitech International Slide as Sonova Climbs

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-04T15:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/swiss-stocks-drop-adecco-logitech-international-slide-as-clariant-climbs.html
Swiss stocks retreated for the
second time in three days as  Adecco SA (ADEN)  and  Logitech
International SA (LOGN)  declined.  Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
fell after a downgrade from Deutsche Bank AG. Logitech extended
last week’s losses, slumping close to its lowest price in almost
two years.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  helped pull the
benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lower as the shares traded without
the right to the latest dividend payment.  The SMI of the country’s largest listed companies dropped
0.4 percent to 6,414.6 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, lagging
14 of 17 other western European markets. The gauge has still
advanced 6.5 percent since this year’s low on March 16 as
investors speculated that  Japan ’s largest earthquake on record
and the popular revolts in north  Africa  and the Middle East
won’t derail the economic recovery. The broader Swiss
Performance Index was little changed today, falling 0.1 percent.  “If markets are moving lower, there are some interesting
opportunities,” said Christoph Riniker, head of strategy
research at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in Zurich.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet may
increase the euro area’s benchmark interest rate this week for
the first time in almost three years. Trichet and his 22 fellow
policy makers convene in Frankfurt on April 7, a month after he
surprised investors by signaling an increase in the ECB’s key
rate by a quarter of a percentage point.  Adecco, Logitech  Adecco fell 1.1 percent to 61.50 Swiss francs after
Deutsche Bank cut the shares to “hold” from “buy.”  Logitech sank 3.5 percent to 13.46 francs, extending last
week’s 17 percent slide. The maker of computer mice cut its
predictions for fiscal full-year sales and operating income
after the close of trading on March 31.  “We think things could get tougher in full-year 2012
following the profit warning,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by
Ashish Sinha wrote in a note to clients today.  Zurich Financial, Switzerland’s biggest insurer, decreased
0.9 percent to 243.60 francs as it traded for the first time
without the right to the latest dividend. The shares dropped 7.3
percent, including the effect of losing the payment.  Sika AG (SIK) , the maker of chemicals for the  construction
industry , climbed 2.6 percent to 2,250 francs.  “We forecast growth in Americas and Asia mostly driven by
consolidation effects,” Patrick Laager and Christoph Gretler,
analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to clients.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the hearing-aid maker that replaced its
chief executive officer last week, rallied 3.3 percent to 86.75
francs. JPMorgan Chase & Co. included the company in a list of
stocks that may receive takeover offers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  