-- 
U.K. Economic Rebound From Slump is Weaker Than Expected, BCC Report Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-k-economic-rebound-from-slump-weaker-than-expected-bcc-says.html
The first-quarter rebound in the
U.K.’s economy was weaker than expected, adding to the argument
that the  Bank of England  should delay raising its key interest
rate, the British Chambers of Commerce said.  Gross domestic product probably grew between 0.6 percent
and 0.7 percent from the fourth quarter, when the economy
contracted 0.5 percent, BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in
an interview in London yesterday. “I was expecting a bigger
rebound,” he said.  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
is holding off raising interest rates to support a faltering
recovery, even after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace
in more than two years. The BCC’s first-quarter survey of U.K.
companies published today showed “disappointing” results as
all key manufacturing gauges fell and service-industry measures
posted only a “slight” improvement.  Today’s data “don’t point to a new recession, they point
to continued growth, but the recovery is fragile and they
certainly provide support for the view that the MPC should not
rush” tightening policy, Kern said. “The longer they wait, the
better the growth profile.”  While the probability of policy makers raising  interest
rates  this month or next has increased, Kern said, they should
consider holding off until at least the third quarter. Bank of
England officials will probably leave their benchmark rate and
their emergency bond-purchase plan on hold later this week,
according to surveys of economists by Bloomberg News.  Orders, Sales  Measures of orders, sales, exports, employment and
confidence among manufacturers declined in the first quarter,
according to a survey conducted by BCC. An index of factory
domestic sales fell 15 points to 8, the lowest reading in a
year, while export sales dropped 7 points to 30, today’s report
showed.  Indexes of confidence of revenue and profitability among
manufacturers dropped to their lowest since the second quarter
of 2009, the height of the recession, the BCC said. Among
service providers, the gauge of domestic sales gained 1 point to
6 and export sales slipped 6 points to 15.  Some of the results of the first-quarter survey, which
covered almost 6,000 companies between Feb. 21 and March 14 and
asked firms about conditions in the preceding three months, may
have been depressed as cold weather disrupted activity in
December, Kern said. However, “in spite of the weather, the
results are disappointing,” he said.  Inflation Concerns  The report found that inflation was the “biggest area of
anxiety” among manufacturers and service companies in the first
quarter as the proportion of respondents saying price gains were
more of a concern than three months ago rose “sharply.”  All 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict the
Bank of England will keep its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent on April 7. Officials will also leave
the size of the bank’s emergency bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($323 billion), according to all 32 economists in
a separate survey.  Kern forecasts that the Bank of England’s main interest
rate will rise to 1.25 percent by the end of this year in three
25 basis-point moves. He maintained an estimate of 1.4 percent
growth in Britain’s gross domestic product in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  