-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Benchmark Falls to Lowest in Two Weeks

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-04T21:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-credit-default-swaps-benchmark-falls-to-lowest-in-two-weeks.html
The cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. fell to the lowest level in more
than two weeks as investors absorbed a positive report on the
jobs market and awaited corporate earnings.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 93.4 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  “We’re in this lull before the earnings,” said  Mikhail Foux , a New York-based credit strategist with Citigroup Inc.
“Earnings will effectively be the main impetus for the market,
and before that, people will just gear themselves up.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, is at the
lowest since March 18. U.S. payrolls grew more than forecast and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly dropped last month, the Labor
Department said April 1.  Earnings for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
are poised to surpass the 2007 peak of $90 a share in the third
quarter in the quickest recovery since at least 1900, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from S&P and  Yale University ’s
 Robert Shiller .  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which climbs as investor confidence in the creditworthiness of
speculative-grade companies improves, increased 0.2 percentage
point to 102.9 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  