-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Will Reach Debt Limit May 16; Default Is `Unthinkable'

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-04T21:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-government-to-reach-debt-ceiling-no-later-than-may-16-geithner-says.html
The U.S. will reach its $14.29
trillion legal debt limit no later than May 16 unless Congress
acts before then, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
today, and he warned of “severe hardship” for Americans if
lawmakers fail to act.  If the limit hasn’t been raised by May 16, the Treasury
Department will turn to a toolkit of emergency measures that can
provide up to eight weeks of additional borrowing room, Geithner
said. That extra time would end about July 8, the Treasury chief
said.  “The longer Congress fails to act, the more we risk that
investors here and around the world will lose confidence in our
ability to meet our commitments and our obligations,” Geithner
said in a letter to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and other
members of Congress.  Congress needs to raise the limit to maintain vital
services and avoid “questions about our ability to defend our
national security interests,” Geithner said. The U.S. would
face sharply higher  interest rates  and would have to stop or
delay payments to the military, retirees and others, he said.  “Default would cause a financial crisis potentially more
severe than the crisis from which we are only now starting to
recover,” Geithner said. “For these reasons, default by the
 United States  is unthinkable.”  Bill Rates  Six-month bill rates declined to a record low today as
investors sought the safe haven of short-term government debt.
The rate dropped as much as three basis points, or 0.03 percent
to 0.1099 percent in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The prior record low of 0.1109 percent was set in
November 2009.  Treasury also auctioned three- and six-month
bills today at the lowest rates since January 2010.  Newly elected Republican lawmakers have been resisting a
debt-limit increase while calling for extensive budget cuts.
U.S. Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, has said he
won’t approve a debt-limit increase without a range of tax-and-
spending reforms.  “We need to use the debt limit itself as the way to ensure
that America’s debt limit begins to decline, not always go up,”
Rubio said in a March 29 television interview with Fox News.
“How about the debt limit starting to go down? These are the
kinds of things that I hope we’ll focus on.”  Holding Hostage  The debt limit fight will be shaped in coming weeks by how
voters and markets react to the prospect of a government
shutdown, said Stanley Collender, managing director of Qorvis
Communications and a former congressional budget analyst. The
government’s current spending authority ends April 8.  “If there’s a shutdown and Republicans take it on the chin
politically, their appetite for holding the debt ceiling hostage
may go down,” Collender said in a telephone interview. “If
Democrats take it on the chin or the White House, their appetite
for holding the debt ceiling hostage may go up.”  The Treasury will conduct its regular schedule of
securities auctions in the event of a government shutdown, an
official told Bloomberg News today. A shutdown due to a lack of
spending authority is not the same as an inability to borrow
because of the debt limit.  Geithner said in his letter today that spending cuts can’t
provide the cash needed now, and he warned that the Treasury’s
projections won’t change in a way that would give Congress extra
time. He also said it would not be “viable” for the U.S. to
sell gold, financial investments or  student loans .  ‘No Alternative’  “There is no alternative to enactment of an increase in
the debt limit,” Geithner said. He said that increasing the
limit “does not increase the obligations we have as a nation;
it simply permits the Treasury to fund those obligations that
Congress has already established.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said last week that companies, insurance funds and investors
would lose access to markets if the U.S. appears to be headed
toward a default related to its debt limit.  “If the United States actually defaults on our debt it
would be catastrophic,” Dimon, 55, said at a March 30 U.S.
Chamber of Commerce event in Washington.  Dimon, who’s also chairman of New York-based JPMorgan, the
second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said the U.S. would be
“crazy” to leave the debit-limit question unresolved and that
market participants eventually would need to take “drastic
action.”  “Companies like us, every single company with Treasuries,
every insurance fund, every requirement, it will start
snowballing,” Dimon said. “All short-term financing would
disappear.”  Emergency Measures  Geithner’s letter today described the emergency measures
his department could take, along with the amount of borrowing
room each step could free up. The measures, which have been used
by prior administrations, include suspending issuance of state
and local government securities, tapping government retirement
funds and accessing the exchange stabilization fund.  “These extraordinary measures are less useful than in
previous debt limit impasses,” Geithner said. These measures
can free up about $230 billion, and the debt increases by about
$125 billion each month, he said.  Some tools used by prior administrations, such as
suspending savings bond sales or tapping the Federal Financing
Bank, wouldn’t have much impact, Geithner said. Others are no
longer possible because of changes in cash management and
congressional authority, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  