-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecutors to Show Jurors Video of Khan Faxing Data to Galleon

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-04T18:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-won-t-call-khan-as-witness-favors-video-of-her-faxes-to-rajaratnam.html
Roomy Khan , the former Intel Corp.
executive and stock trader who pleaded guilty to  insider trading 
charges, won’t be called as a government witness in the trial of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Reed Brodsky said.  Instead, prosecutors said today they want jurors to see
Intel surveillance camera footage of Khan faxing confidential
information to Rajaratnam. Two videotapes from late 1997 and
early 1998 show Khan faxing Intel “book-to-billing” reports to
Rajaratnam’s Galleon fax machine, according to a court filing.
The government also has records showing “numerous calls” from
Khan’s work phone to Rajaratnam’s, prosecutors said.  “The B&B reports provided a sense of Intel’s earnings,
were used to analyze business trends and customer demand for
Intel processors, and helped determine whether Intel was meeting
internal earnings expectations,” prosecutors said in court
papers filed today in federal court in  Manhattan .  The government lawyers told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell today that they want the jury to hear testimony from
Mark West, an Intel employee who set up video surveillance of
Khan’s work station and an office fax machine at the time.  Khan pleaded guilty more than eight years ago to leaking
stock tips to Galleon and was sentenced to probation. In 2009,
she pleaded guilty in the current investigation, the biggest
crackdown targeting insider trading at  hedge funds , and is
cooperating with the government.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam tried to block West’s testimony,
arguing that it will unfairly prejudice jurors and isn’t
relevant to the charges he faces. Holwell heard arguments after
the lunch break today. He hasn’t yet decided.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 