-- 
U.S. Treasury Will Hold Debt Sales in Government Shutdown, Official Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-04T14:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-treasury-will-hold-auctions-in-shutdown-official-says.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department will
conduct its regular schedule of securities auctions in the event
of a government shutdown, a government official said today.  The official spoke to Bloomberg News on condition of
anonymity because he is not authorized to speak publicly. The
Treasury borrows money through the weekly sales of bills,
monthly sales of longer-term notes as well as 30-year bonds to
fund government operations.  “Based on history, this is not a surprise as the
government will continue to need financing operations to
continue,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York .  Democrats and Republicans are working on a fiscal 2011
budget to avoid a government shutdown when current spending
authority ends April 8. The government has been operating
without a formal 2011 budget since the fiscal year started last
Oct. 1.  President Barrack Obama telephoned Senate Democratic Leader
 Harry Reid  and Republican House Speaker John Boehner on April 2,
urging them to resolve the impasse.  House and Senate negotiators, joined by the White House,
are considering plans to reduce the budget by about $33 billion.
Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts so far for the fiscal
year.  ‘Wiggle Room’  “The government usually has some wiggle room here as a
shutdown will likely result first in a temporary suspension of
non-essential government services,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York. “The Treasury financing operations, funding the budget
deficit spending, at regularly scheduled auctions, is not a non-
essential service, especially when foreigners own more than 50
percent of all the Treasury paper outstanding.”  Under another scenario, failure by Congress to raise the
government’s debt limit could challenge the Treasury’s ability
to auction securities. The Treasury has estimated that limit may
be breached sometime between April 15 and May 31.  If the government were to test its debt limit, history has
shown steps can still be taken to use funds to avoid default. In
November 1995, then-Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin  announced
the conversion of $61.3 billion in  government securities  held in
two federal employee benefit funds into cash to meet expenses.  As of March 31, total Treasury debt subject to limit was
$14.218 trillion, with a debt limit of $14.294 trillion,
according to the Treasury’s daily cash balance statement
released on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  