-- 
U.S. Transportation Department Probes Employee Purchases

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-04-04T20:41:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-transportation-department-probing-possible-purchasing-fraud.html
The U.S. Transportation Department’s
inspector general opened investigations into purchases by
employees with government-issued credit cards and into improper
oversight of transit grants from the 2009 stimulus program.  The audit of workers’ use of payment cards comes after the
inspector general found more than $150,000 in possible
fraudulent transactions. Recent probes revealed “weaknesses”
in the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s oversight of workers’
use of SmartPay cards, the office of the inspector general  said 
in an e-mailed statement today.  “We welcome the Inspector General’s review,”
Transportation Department spokesman  Bill Adams  said in an e-
mailed statement. “The program only stands to benefit from the
type of careful objective review we anticipate from the Office
of Inspector General.”  A former employee of the FAA’s financial services
comptroller was  sentenced  Feb. 25 in U.S. District Court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , to four months in prison and four months of
home detention for embezzling $123,774 from the agency,
according to the inspector general’s Web site.  Keysha Logan pleaded guilty to using her card from 2007 to
2010 to buy gift cards from  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and other retailers
and using the FAA accounting system to approve the charges.  Sabrina Vines, a former FAA employee,  pleaded guilty  in
June 2008 in U.S. District Court in Washington to making more
than $23,000 in unauthorized purchases of items such as laptop
computers and high-definition televisions. She also used her
government credit card to pay for a rental car and resort hotel
in Myrtle Beach,  South Carolina , according to the inspector
general’s Web site.  Improper Payments  The new investigation will look at the adequacy of the
department’s internal controls for the program. Transportation
Department employees made more than $200 million in purchases
with these cards last year, according to the inspector general’s
notice.  A second investigation is looking into possible “improper
payment oversight” in how the Federal Transit Administration
has awarded more than 1,000 capital improvement grants totaling
$8.8 billion from the 2009  stimulus law , according to a
statement from the inspector general’s office.  The FTA has distributed $5 billion of the $8.8 billion so
far, according to the audit  announcement  on the inspector
general’s Web site. The capital grants programs is “susceptible
to significant improper payments,” it said.  In 2009 and 2010, the Transportation Department reported
$35.3 million of improper payments in the FTA’s two main grant
programs, according to the announcement.  The  formula grant program  provides funding for capital and
operating assistance and planning to urban areas of more than
50,000 population, based on a formula set in law. The  Major
Capital Investments program  helps pay to construct of new
transit rail systems and update existing systems. It also pays
for new and replacement buses, equipment and facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  