-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Lead Advances to Three-Year High

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-04-04T11:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-lead-advances-to-three-year-high.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Copper Seen Rising 17% on Biggest Mine Shortages Since 2004 (2)  Copper’s worst start in a decade may extend into this
quarter as stockpiles expand, Chinese imports plunge and  Japan 
reels from its nuclear disaster, before rebounding to a record
when shortages take hold.  China  Buries Obama’s ‘Sputnik’ Goal for Clean-Energy Use (2)  China is beating the U.S. in the race to supply clean-
energy technologies to the world, helped by a government bank
whose advisers include  Henry Kissinger .  Tepco Swaps Show Bondholders Will Survive Crisis: Japan Credit  Tokyo Electric Power Co. credit-default swaps show that
while shareholders may be wiped out by losses and claims tied to
a crippled atomic plant, traders are betting the utility won’t
default on its $60 billion of debt.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Lead Reaches Three-Year High on Demand Speculation; Copper Rises  Lead rose to the highest price in almost three years in
 London  on speculation that rebuilding in Japan after last
month’s earthquake and revived car sales will spur demand.
Copper climbed.  Aluminum May Rise on 100-Day Moving Average: Technical Analysis  Aluminum may advance 6.1 percent with prices holding above
the 100-day moving average, according to technical analysis by
 Barclays Capital .  China Stops New Orders for Japan Scrap Steel, Umetal Says (1)  Chinese buyers stopped new orders of scrap steel from Japan
and blocked some existing cargoes because of concern over
radiation from a crippled nuclear plant, researcher Umetal.com
said.  Mitsubishi Materials to Boost Lead Output by 16% on Demand (1)  Mitsubishi Materials Corp., Japan’s third-largest copper
producer, said it will boost lead output by 16 percent in the
April-to-September period to meet increasing demand for
batteries after a record earthquake and tsunami.  Japan Recovery, Nuclear Worries to Drive Commodity Imports (1)  Copper, iron ore and beef are likely to benefit from rising
demand in Japan as the country recovers from a record earthquake
and tsunami that wiped away towns and triggered a nuclear
crisis.  MINING:  Coal of Africa Climbs in Johannesburg on Vele Water License (1)  Coal of Africa Ltd., a producer of the fuel in  South
Africa , rose the most in almost five months in Johannesburg
trading as its Vele project gained a water license, moving the
company closer to resuming output halted in August.  Minmetals May Need to Raise C$6.3 Billion Equinox Bid by 29%  Minmetals Resources Ltd., a unit of China’s biggest metals
trader, may need to raise its ($6.5 billion) unsolicited cash
offer for Equinox Minerals Ltd. about 29 percent to win over
investors in the copper producer.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances on Libya, European Debt; Silver at 31-Year High  Gold gained in London as the conflict in Libya, concerns
about European debt and rising inflation spurred demand for an
alternative investment. Silver climbed to a 31-year high.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Jumps to Highest Since 2008 as Stockpiles Shrink on Demand  Corn rose for a third day to the highest price since 2008
in  Chicago  on concern that a planned increase in sowing in the
U.S. will fail to rebuild global inventories drained by
increased demand.  Palm Oil  Rises, Tracking Gain in Soybeans, Corn on Inventories  Palm oil increased, paced by gains in corn and soybeans
after a U.S. government report showed inventories fell from last
year and soybean plantings will drop.  Cocoa Seen Dropping 12% Once Fight for  Ivory Coast  Power Ends  Cocoa may slump 12 percent once an end to fighting between
two rivals for the presidency of Ivory Coast means exports from
the biggest producer can resume.  Tainted Pork Adds to Pressure on China Inflation: Chart of Day  The cost of fixing China’s  interest rates  for five years
will rise as a scandal over illegal additives in pig feed
becomes the latest driver of food inflation, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  SHIPPING:  Maersk Would Be Able to Send Ships to Ivory Coast ‘Immediately’  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
shipping line, would be able to send ships to the Ivory Coast
ports of Abidjan and San Pedro “immediately” if European Union
sanctions against the country are lifted, according to Sonny
Dahl, director of West Africa services.  Capesize Rates May Fall on Lack of Brazil Cargoes, Arctic Says  Charter rates for capesize ships, the most common  iron-ore 
transporters, may decline because of a lack of Brazilian
cargoes, according to Arctic Securities ASA.  ECONOMIES:  Fed Answers Brazil-China-Germany Axis Over QE2 With U.S. Growth  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is proving critics
wrong as his stimulus program’s weight on the dollar boosts U.S.
growth without slowing a global expansion or diminishing demand
for America’s financial assets.  Spain  Deficit Fight Risks Setback as Zapatero Quits Election (1)  Spain’s efforts to reduce its  budget deficit  and rebuild
investor confidence may suffer a setback as Prime Minister Jose
Luis Rodriguez Zapatero bows out of next year’s election.  OTHER MARKETS:  Commodities Climb to Two-Year High as Stocks Gain on Takeovers  Commodities rose to a two-year high on evidence economic
growth is being sustained, while more than $20 billion of
takeovers spurred gains in stocks for a second day. U.S. index
futures advanced.  Asia Stocks Gain on Recovery, Takeovers; Oil at 30-Month High  Asian stocks climbed while  South Korea ’s won and crude oil
reached 30-month highs after economic reports bolstered optimism
the global economic recovery is strengthening and as takeovers
increased.  Euro Snaps Four-Day Rally on Concern Rate Rise Will Hurt Economy  The euro snapped a four-day advance against the dollar on
concern a likely interest-rate increase by the  European Central
Bank  this week will hurt the economies of the most-indebted
nations in the 17-member bloc.  Euro Has Best First Quarter as Trichet Transforms Into Hawk (2)  The euro, seen as a potential failure 10 months ago, had
its strongest start to a year on record as German growth
accelerates and policy makers prepare to boost interest rates.  European Stocks Extend Three-Week High as Rhodia Surges on Bid  European stocks climbed, extending a three-week high, as a
rally in chemical companies outweighed a drop in financial
shares. Asian equities and U.S. index futures advanced.  Oil Climbs to 30-Month High on Demand Outlook After U.S. Jobs  Oil climbed to the highest level in 30 months in  New York 
on speculation that U.S. economic growth may support demand and
a protracted conflict in  Libya  will curtail supply.  SPORTS:  Benitez Looks to Return to Premier League, Mail Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Gambhir, Yuvraj Earnings to Climb 30% After World Cup Victory  India ’s first cricket World Cup victory in 28 years may
help players  Yuvraj Singh  and Gautam Gambhir boost their
earnings by 30 percent as companies including BP Plc and Canon
Inc. vie for their endorsements in the world’s second-most
populous country.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  