-- 
U.S. Employment Index Increases for Sixth Straight Month

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-04T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-employment-index-increases-for-sixth-straight-month.html
Job prospects in the U.S. improved
in March for a sixth consecutive month, indicating employers
plan to keep adding to payrolls.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.7 percent to 100.9, the highest level since October 2008, the
New York-based private research group said today. The measure
rose 8 percent from a year earlier.  Labor Department figures last week showed the jobless rate
fell in March to a two-year low of 8.8 percent, while private
payrolls rose by 230,000 after a February increase of 240,000,
the strongest back-to-back gains since 2006. Employment growth
was widespread, underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s view that the
recovery is on “firmer footing.”  “Employment excluding construction and state and local
government has been growing faster than almost any other six-
month period in the past decade,” Gad Levanon, associate
director of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said
today in a statement. “We do not expect a turnaround in those
sectors, which are still lagging, nor do we forecast
acceleration in overall economic growth in the next several
quarters.”  The index aggregates eight labor-market indicators to
forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the gauge can
signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before the
fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in advance,
the Conference Board said.  Improvements in five of the index’s eight components
contributed to the increase in the ETI. These included fewer
claims for jobless benefits, an increase in temporary jobs and a
gain in industrial production.  Auto Sales, Hiring  Stronger demand is encouraging the  auto industry  to hire.
Chrysler Group LLC, aiming for its first net profit since
emerging from bankruptcy in 2009, plans to hire 1,000 engineers
and high-tech workers for its small and midsized vehicles. The
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company is also urging its dealers
to hire more salesmen and service workers to help boost sales by
32 percent this year.  “Hiring additional personnel in preparation for the spring
market is essential for success in 2011,” Peter Grady, vice
president of Chrysler’s network development and fleet, said in a
memo to dealers last month.  Last week’s Labor Department report showed total payrolls,
which include government agencies, increased by 216,000 in March
after a revised 194,000 gain the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  