-- 
U.S. Indicts Two Chinese Citizens For Trying to Obtain Military Microchips

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-04T18:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/u-s-indicts-two-for-attempting-to-export-military-microchips-to-china.html
Two Chinese nationals were indicted
and accused of attempting to obtain radiation-hardened
microchips used in the military and aerospace industries in
violation of an embargo.  Hong Wei Xian, also known as Harry Zan, 32, and Li Li, also
known as Lea Li, 33, were charged by a U.S. grand jury in
Alexandria,  Virginia , with conspiring to violate the Arms Export
Control Act and to smuggle goods from the U.S., and the
attempted export of munitions in violation of the act, according
to a statement today from the U.S. Justice Department.  “Neither Xian nor Li applied for nor received a license
from the  United States  to export defense articles of any
description,” according to the statement.  Xian is president and Li is vice president of Beijing
Starcreates Space Science & Technology Development Co., which
imports and sells programmable read-only memory microchips to
 China  Aerospace Science & Technology Corp., according to the
statement. The latter company is controlled by the government of
China, according to the statement.  The two were arrested in  Hungary  in September and
transferred to the custody of U.S. marshals on April 1,
according to the statement. The conspiracy charge carries a
maximum five-year prison term and the export violation carries a
penalty of as long as 20 years in prison, the U.S. said.  Lawyers for Xian and Li couldn’t immediately be reached.
They were scheduled to appear today in federal court in
Alexandria.  The U.S. has had an embargo against China since 1990
prohibiting the export of defense articles to the country,
according to the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Xian, 10-cr-00207, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 