-- 
Lugar Presses for Taiwan F-16 Sale to Avoid ‘Urgent’ Shortage

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-04T23:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/lugar-presses-for-taiwan-f-16-sale-to-avoid-urgent-shortage.html
Taiwan ’s military faces an
“urgent” need for new  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets
to avoid being left without “credible” air combat
capabilities, U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar  said in a letter to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  “Taiwan has legitimate defense needs and its existing
capabilities are decaying,” Lugar, the top Republican on the
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee , wrote to Clinton on April 1.
Unless the Obama administration approves Taiwan’s request for
new F-16s, the island nation will have “no credible air-to-air
capability” when it retires its existing fighter jets in the
next decade, Lugar said.  Lugar’s appeal follows recent calls by analysts and former
U.S. officials to re-examine relations with Taiwan. The U.S.
supplies armaments to the island nation under the 1979 Taiwan
Relations Act, over the objections of  China , which cut off
defense talks after the last two sales of military equipment
were announced in October 2008 and January 2010.  The U.S. last delivered warplanes to Taiwan in 1999, even
though the island’s leaders have asked at least three times
since 2006, according to the  U.S.-Taiwan Business Council  in
Arlington, Virginia. The group is made up of individuals and
private companies with business interests in Taiwan.  “To date, we haven’t had any response from the Obama
administration beyond the January 2010 package,” said Rupert Hammond-Chambers, president of the council, in a telephone
interview yesterday. That sale included missiles, helicopters
and ships valued at about $6.4 billion.  Decision Timing  The U.S. would have to decide this year to approve the F-16
sale to produce the jets in time for delivery by 2015, Lugar
said in his letter. In addition to F-16s, Taiwan’s military has
U.S.-made F-5s, French-made Mirage aircraft from  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM)  and its own fighter jets.  Among the calls for re-evaluating ties with Taiwan was a
set of recommendations from a January meeting organized by
former U.S. Ambassador to China and retired Navy Admiral Joseph Prueher in January, for the  University of Virginia ’s  Miller
Center of Public Affairs . The participants also included retired
Admiral Timothy Keating, the former commander of U.S. Pacific
Command.  “Our involvement with Taiwan is a frequent point of
contention with the Chinese, particularly in respect to arms
sales, and one that should be re-examined,” according to the
group’s recommendations outlined in a  report  from the center.
“The complex relationship is political and should be re-
examined outside of a military context.”  Improving Ties  Proponents of caution on U.S. arms sales to Taiwan,
including California Democrat  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, cite improving relations between
the Taiwan and China. Taiwan counters that it needs the
confidence of its U.S.-provided defenses to continue to advance
negotiations with China.  Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou has sought to improve ties
across the Taiwan Straits since he took office in May 2008,
including establishing direct air, shipping and postal links.  China has viewed Taiwan as a renegade province since Mao Zedong’s Communists won control of the mainland in 1949.  The State Department doesn’t comment on foreign military
sales issues unless it has notified Congress of a planned
transaction, said Nicole Thompson, a spokeswoman.  “We have received Senator Lugar’s letter and we will
provide a response as soon as possible,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  