-- 
UnitedHealth, Humana to See 0.4% Medicare Rate Rise in 2012

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-04-04T21:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/unitedhealth-humana-to-see-0-4-medicare-rate-rise-in-2012-1-.html
Medicare payments to U.S. health
insurers led by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM)  will
increase 0.4 percent in 2012, less than projected because of
lower-than-expected spending on doctor visits, regulators said.  The Baltimore-based  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services  announced in February the private health plans may
expect an average 1.6 percent gain in payments. Medicare  spent 
less than administrators expected on physician visits in 2010,
Jonathan Blum, a deputy director of the agency, said during a
conference call after the close of U.S. markets. Payments to
Medicare Advantage plans are tied to overall program spending.  A payment boost under Medicare Advantage, through which
private insurers offer health benefits to those eligible for
Medicare, is “incredibly important” to plans like Humana,
based in Louisville,  Kentucky . The plans face $136 billion in
cuts under the health overhaul through 2019, said Robert Laszewski, the president of  Health Policy Strategy and
Associates , an Alexandria, Virginia-based company that consults
with health insurers.  “The chickens come home to roost” beginning in 2014,
Laszewski said in an interview, referring to the point when top
provisions in the health-care overhaul take effect.  Medicare is the U.S. government health-care program for the
elderly and disabled. Program administrators must phase in rate
reductions over three to six years until they are closer to the
cost of enrolling a person in the standard, government-run
Medicare program,  according to  the nonprofit Kaiser Family
Foundation in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Covering an individual through Medicare Advantage costs the
U.S. an average of  10 percent more  than providing benefits under
traditional Medicare, the U.S.  Medicare Payment Advisory Board 
reported last month.  The lower-than-expected spending on physician services by
Medicare is a reflection of the fact that Americans are using
less health care, said Dan Mendelson, chief executive officer of
the Washington-based consulting firm  Avalere Health LLC .  “That is a trend you see throughout the industry,”
Mendelson said in an interview. “That will require some
adjustment on the part of the plans.”  Twenty-four percent of the 47 million people enrolled in
Medicare last year were covered by private insurance companies,
including Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth and Humana,
according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation . Enrollment is
expected to increase 6 percent this year compared from 2010,
 Donald Berwick , the administrator of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, said in February.  Regulators didn’t increase Medicare Advantage payment rates
for this year so health insurance companies are being paid the
same as in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 