-- 
United Jet's Nose Gear Veers Off New Orleans Runway After Smoke in Cockpit

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-04T22:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/united-jet-emergency-landing-ends-with-nose-gear-off-runway-1-.html
A  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
jet lost electrical power and had smoke in the cockpit, forcing
an emergency landing at the New Orleans airport that ended with
the nose gear off the edge of the runway.  The 100 passengers and 5 crew members of Flight 497 slid
down emergency chutes when the Airbus SAS A320 returned to the
airport shortly after takeoff, said Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman
for Chicago-based United. No injuries were reported, he said in
a telephone interview.  “The pilots reported smoke in the cockpit and then
reported losing their electronics while making their way back to
the airport,” said Lynn Lunsford, a spokesman for the  Federal
Aviation Administration . The FAA and the  National Transportation
Safety Board  are investigating the incident.  Upon landing, the jet veered off the left side of a 7,001-
foot runway about 2,000 feet (610 meters) from the end, with a
“loss of anti-skid braking and nose-wheel steering,” the NTSB
said. The incident occurred at about 7:30 a.m. local time,
interrupting a trip to  San Francisco .  Flight 497 was at an altitude of about 4,000 feet when the
crew got automated warnings and detected smoke, to which they
responded with plans for an emergency landing, according to an
NTSB statement.  Instruments Lost  “We’ve lost all our instruments right now,” one of the
pilots told air-traffic controllers, according to a recording
posted on LiveATC.net in which beeping alarms could be heard
when the pilots talked.  Controllers helped guide the jet to the runway, pointing
out landmarks and giving them directions, including: “Continue
left turn; I’ll tell you when to stop, sir.”  The plane was back on the ground about 20 minutes after
takeoff and sustained “minor damage,” the NTSB said.  A United spokesman, Mike Trevino, confirmed the plane had a
problem with its instruments while declining to say whether
there was smoke in the cockpit.  United has 97 of the A320s in service, with an average age
of 12.5 years, according to the carrier’s most recent annual
report. The twin-engine planes can carry 144 passengers. United
has 710 aircraft in its main jet fleet.  United fell 19 cents to $22.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 17
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 