-- 
Turkish Yields Drop Most in 4 Months, Stocks Rise on Inflation

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-04T15:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/turkish-yields-drop-most-in-4-months-stocks-rise-on-inflation.html
Turkish bond yields dropped the most
since December and stocks climbed to an almost three-month high
as slowing inflation revived speculation the central bank won’t
raise  interest rates  until after June elections.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point,  to 8.77 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, the biggest basis-point decline since Dec. 13. The  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  of equities rose 2.8 percent to 67,581.95,
the highest closing level since Jan. 14, led by lenders after
Moody’s Investors Service said an increase in  reserve
requirements  was “credit positive” for the banking industry.
The lira slid 0.2 percent to 1.53280 per dollar, weakening for
the first day in five.  The unexpected decline in the inflation rate to 4 percent,
announced by the statistics agency today, eases pressure on the
central bank to increase rates from 6.25 percent. The median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
inflation of 4.4 percent. None forecast a slowdown.  Lower inflation “should buy the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee enough time to hold the current policy until
after parliamentary elections,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-market
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in e-mailed
comments to clients. “ Turkey  is in the sweet spot with rapid
growth and declining inflation.”  The central bank cut the benchmark rate by 75 basis points
in December and January and raised banks’ reserve requirements
to control credit growth as the economy grew at an annual 9.2
percent in the fourth quarter  Policy makers are expected to raise the key rate to 7
percent in the final quarter of 2011, according to the median
estimate of seven banks surveyed by Bloomberg.  Elections  Yields on two-year debt have risen from a record low of 6.9
percent in January as banks sold bonds to fund the increase in
reserves they’re required to deposit with the central bank. By
yearend, yields are expected to rise to 8.97 percent for the
benchmark bond index, according to the average estimate of banks
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The inflation data affected the  bond market  very
positively,” Yagiz Oral, a fixed-income trader at Denizbank AS
in Istanbul, said by telephone.  Turkey will hold parliamentary elections on June 12. Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  may increase his share of the vote
to 48 percent from 47 percent at an election four years ago,
according to an opinion poll by Metropoll Stratejik & Sosyal
Arastirmalar published on March 25.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  advanced 5.2 percent to 7.72
liras, the most in two months.  “The Moody’s statement reinforced the buying in the
banking stocks that had basically started after lower-than-
expected inflation data because it reaffirms that the central
bank’s policy will be positive for the banks’ health in the
medium and long term,” Nezihi Abay, head of trading at Global
Menkul Degerler AS, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  