-- 
Turkish Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed to 4%, Backing Interest Rate Policy

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-04T07:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/turkish-inflation-unexpectedly-slowed-to-4-backing-interest-rate-policy.html
Turkey ’s inflation rate unexpectedly
fell in March, extending a historic low and backing the central
bank’s case for keeping  interest rates  on hold.  Inflation slowed to 4 percent, the lowest since July 1970,
from 4.2 percent a month ago, the state statistics agency in
Ankara said today on its website. The median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.4 percent, and none
forecast a slowdown. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month.  Governor  Durmus Yilmaz , who steps down this month, has kept
the one-week repo rate unchanged at 6.25 percent since January,
even while warning that inflation may accelerate. Rather than
hike the benchmark, he has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks, reducing the amount of money they can lend in a bid to
curb domestic demand.  “This is excellent news for the central bank, it provides
credibility and breathing room for a bank that seems determined
to stay on hold,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“Headline and core inflation were lower than expected and food
prices remain benign.”  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds declined the most in 
almost three weeks in Istanbul, dropping 17 basis points to 8.84
percent at 11 a.m. The main ISE National 100 share index rose 0.5
percent to 66,070.50. The lira weakened 0.3 percent to 1.53470
per dollar.  Food prices fell 0.4 percent in the month, while transport
costs rose 1.6 percent, according to the statistics agency.  Energy Prices  Yilmaz said Feb. 25 that surging global energy prices are
likely to mean a higher year-end inflation rate than the bank’s
5.9 percent forecast. The economy expanded an annual 9.2 percent
in the fourth quarter, driven by a boom in domestic demand that
the bank is trying to slow through limits on bank loans.  The measure of  core inflation  the bank follows, which
excludes energy and grocery prices, was unchanged at 3.8
percent. The bank has forecast that core inflation will approach
the headline rate over the coming months.  Today’s figures will “help inflation expectations
improve,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for Turkey, the Middle
East and North Africa at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “Only transport had a noteworthy rise.”  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
10.1 percent in the 12 months through March, compared with 10.9
percent the month before, the statistics agency said today.
Producer prices gained 1.2 percent in the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 