-- 
Vanguard to Sell Exchange Traded Funds in Europe in Challenge to BlackRock

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-04-05T16:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/vanguard-to-challenge-blackrock-s-ishares-in-european-etf-market.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the world’s
biggest mutual-fund company, plans to start selling exchange-
traded funds in Europe this year, betting that the passive, low-
cost style of investing that has changed asset management in the
U.S. will do the same abroad.  The decision by Vanguard, based in  Valley Forge ,
 Pennsylvania , is a challenge to its New York rival  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , which dominates the $332 billion ETF market in Europe.
BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, is forecasting
European sales of the funds may grow as much as 30 percent a
year. Vanguard last year took the No. 1 spot for U.S. ETF sales.  “Passive investing, in general, is nowhere near as adopted
in Europe as it is in the U.S.,” Scott Burns, head of ETF
research at research firm Morningstar Inc., said in an
interview. “There’s real potential that Vanguard is waiting to
tap.”  Vanguard will initially target U.K. financial advisers when
it introduces a number of broad-index ETFs registered in Dublin
and available to investors across Europe by Dec. 31, said Thomas
Rampulla, head of Vanguard’s European operations. The firm
expects that two planned rule changes will boost ETF providers,
especially those focusing on individual clients, he said.  Catching Up  ETFs and  index funds  in the U.S. have taken about a fifth
of the fund market, attracting investors with lower costs than
actively managed mutual funds, tax advantages and easy access to
markets and industries. Their market share has risen from 8.7
percent a decade earlier, and they accounted for half of new
investments in 2010, according to the  Investment Company
Institute  in  Washington .  U.S. ETFs grew 15-fold in the decade ended Dec. 31, while
actively managed mutual funds increased by just two-thirds. ETFs
now hold $1.05 trillion in assets, including those structured as
exchange-traded notes and trusts, according to Morningstar.  Vanguard entered the ETF market in 2001, four years after
iShares, which BlackRock acquired through its 2009 takeover of
 Barclays Global Investors , and eight years behind  State Street
Corp. (STT)  While it has slightly more than a third of BlackRock’s
$458 billion in U.S. ETF assets, Vanguard was the top seller in
the 12 months ended Feb. 28, gathering $40.9 billion, compared
with BlackRock’s $32.5 billion. State Street, No. 2 in the U.S.
with $244 billion, took in $39 billion.  The firm is hoping to repeat the pattern in Europe, where
BlackRock dominates with $108 billion, or 33 percent of the
market.  Fragmented Market  “We’d like to be a global ETF player and our goal is to
have a significant presence in Europe, particularly in the
U.K.,” Rampulla said in a telephone interview from London. He
declined to provide details on how many or what kinds of ETFs
the company plans.  Europe’s ETF market is more fragmented than in the U.S.,
where the top three players hold 82 percent of the assets. The
same proportion is split among seven competitors in Europe, led
by BlackRock and Paris-based Societe Generale SA’s Lyxor Asset
Management, whose ETFs had $53.7 billion at the end of February.
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  followed with $50 billion.  Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, opened its first European ETFs in January and
February. The three Dublin-based fixed-income funds hold a
combined $59.5 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , started its ETF
business in 2009 and runs 13 funds in the U.S. with $2.43
billion.  New Rules  Sales of ETFs in Europe may get a lift in 2013, when the
U.K. will ban independent financial advisers from taking
commissions from fund companies, removing a marketing advantage
enjoyed by mutual funds, Rampulla said.  Unlike mutual funds, ETFs are listed on an exchange and
trade like a stock. As with stocks, the issuer can’t pay
commissions to intermediaries. As a consequence, advisers may be
forced to shift to fee-based compensation, where clients pay a
percentage of assets managed, providing an incentive to use
lower-cost products such as ETFs, Rampulla said.  The average expense ratio on actively run mutual funds in
 Europe  is 1.52 percent, compared with 0.77 percent for index
funds and 0.45 percent for Europe-based ETFs, according to
Chicago-based Morningstar. Vanguard ETFs have among the lowest
fees in the U.S. with an average expense ratio that’s less than
half the average for iShares there, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘A Virtuous Circle’  Another anticipated rule change would make over-the-counter
volume across Europe visible to investors, making ETFs more
attractive, particularly to large, institutional investors. The
European Union’s executive body has proposed requiring the
reporting of all ETF trades as part of an overhaul of trading
rules, said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the European
Commission in Brussels. The commission intends to issue its
final plans this year, she said.  The change may be implemented in late 2012 or early 2013,
said  Deborah Fuhr , global head of ETF research for BlackRock.
Two-thirds of ETF trades in Europe are done over the counter and
go unreported, she estimated. That can deter investors who fear
they won’t be able to trade in large amounts, and without moving
the price, she said.  “Seeing more liquidity would give institutional and retail
investors comfort that they can get in and out of a position,”
Fuhr said in a phone interview from  London . “And then it’s a
virtuous circle. More liquidity begets more liquidity.”  Lower Daily Volume  While ETFs registered in Europe hold a third as much in
assets as their U.S. counterparts, their reported average daily
trading volume is less than one-tenth, according to BlackRock.  Liquidity is more a problem of perception than reality,
said Christos Costandinides, an ETF strategist at Deutsche Bank,
which owns the db X-trackers and db Etc. fund lines. The change
would only raise reported volume and not the actual number of
ETF shares traded, he said.  “A lot of people don’t understand how ETFs work,”
Costandinides said in an interview. “They are used to looking
at stock turnovers to determine liquidity, so they say, ‘This is
not very liquid,’ and might hesitate buying.”  Large orders for ETFs, typically 25,000 shares or more, are
handled by agents who purchase the underlying basket of stocks,
bonds or derivatives and swap them directly with the fund for
new fund shares. That means big investors don’t rely on the
liquidity of existing ETF shares.  Practical Implications  “Most ETF providers spend a lot of time explaining to
institutional clients that real liquidity is very much driven by
the liquidity of the underlying securities,” said Scott Ebner,
head of ETF development for State Street.  The EU’s reporting mandate would have more practical
implications for individual investors and the financial advisers
serving them because they typically don’t place big enough
orders to create new shares. That gives them a greater interest
in getting reliable data on volume.  “This is a big deal for the retail market,” Rampulla
said. “The on-screen spread is not indicative of what’s really
happening,” because so much trading is done outside of
exchanges, he said.  Individual investor sales account for as little as 10
percent of European ETF assets, compared with about 50 percent
in the U.S., said Deutsche Bank’s Constandinides.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  