-- 
Venture-Hungry German Website Takes On Grease-Stained Menus

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-04T22:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/venture-fund-hungry-german-website-takes-on-grease-stained-menus.html
Fabian Siegel  used to spar with his
wife over which takeaway service to use for dinner. Now, they
can order different genres from the food-ordering Internet site
he’s running.  Lieferheld , or Delivery Hero, was founded by Berlin-based
 Team Europe Ventures  last year and hired the 35-year-old Siegel
in November. His task is to grab a share of an expanding 2.5
billion-euro ($3.6 billion) food-ordering market in  Europe ’s
biggest economy by aggregating takeaway ordering services and
organizing neighborhood restaurants on the Web.  Lieferheld, Just-Eat Holding Ltd. and U.S.-based GrubHub
Inc. are betting on increasing use of the Internet and devices
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to order food. GrubHub last month
raised $20 million from DAG Ventures and Benchmark Capital.
 Greylock Partners , which owns with stakes in Facebook Inc.,
LinkedIn Corp. and Groupon Inc., invested $48 million in London-
based Just-Eat with other venture capital companies.  “There’s a massive market opportunity,” Andrew Lipsman, a
Chicago-based director of industry analysis at research firm
ComScore, said in an interview. “E-commerce in general is
growing, but online food ordering is still in the early phase.”  Lieferheld, whose logo is reminiscent of comic hero
Superman’s, raised 5 million euros from the venture capital arms
of publisher  Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH , German food retailer
 Tengelmann  and Team Europe Ventures.  Ordering takeaway food through grease-stained to-go menus
is inferior compared with using the Internet, Siegel said.  ‘Hassle’  “It’s always a hassle to explain what you want, sometimes
you’re misunderstood, you don’t know which restaurants deliver
to you and then you have to find out which flyers you have,” he
said in an interview.  More than 12 million Germans, out of a total population of
82 million, order food for delivery at least once a month with
more than 5 million doing so more often, research data from
publisher Hubert Burda Media Group shows.  The German takeaway market is fragmented, with 85 percent
of outlets run by a single proprietor, Siegel said. By putting
their menus online, Lieferheld saves businesses from printing
flyers, putting them in hundreds of mail boxes and having
someone staffing a phone to take orders. Clients can pay with a
 credit card ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal service, or in cash.  Germans order Italian food and pizza 60 percent to 70
percent of the time, compared with less than 50 percent in the
U.K. and even less in the U.S., said Siegel, who moved his
family back to  Germany  from  New York  to run Lieferheld.  Cultural Differences  Some popular German fast foods don’t lend themselves to
deliveries because customers prefer to consume, for example,
sausage at a local Wurst stand, Siegel said. In the U.S.,
Chinese, Indian and Mexican food deliveries are more common
because of the country’s demographics, he said.  The percentage of U.S. customers who have used the Web to
place a food order has risen to 32 percent from 11 percent in
the past five years, according to the  National Restaurant
Association  in  Washington . More than half of the $600 billion
annual U.S. restaurant sales come from delivery, carryout or
drive-through orders.  Lieferheld, which is adding 200 restaurants a week, said an
advertising agreement with Germany’s largest private
broadcaster,  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , may help it eclipse local
rival  Pizza.de  GmbH by the end of the year with 6,000
restaurants and 500,000 customers.  Web Talents  Menu aggregators have attracted investors and executives
with previous Web experience.  Lukasz Gadowski , a partner at Team
Europe Ventures, co-founded shopping community Brands4friends
that was acquired by EBay Inc. in December for about $200
million. Siegel helped to create Internet payment-service
provider Clickandbuy, which was taken over last year by  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)   Just-Eat shareholder Greylock has emerged as one of the
leading Internet investors since backing LinkedIn in 2004 and
Facebook Inc. in 2006.  LinkedIn, the biggest professional-networking site, this
year filed to go public. Just-Eat CEO Klaus Nyengaard said a
share sale is also an option for his business.  “We need to reach a certain scale,” Nyengaard said in an
interview, adding  OpenTable Inc. ’s IPO set the benchmark for his
industry. The reservation company’s stock has more than doubled
in value since its 2009 debut, giving the company a market value
of $2.5 billion.  Adding Menus  Just-Eat has delivery deals with 14,300 restaurants in
Europe, while GrubHub has agreements with 4,000 restaurants in
the U.S. and displays more than 13,000 menus on its website.  GrubHub aims to build a billion-dollar “category-defining
online-ordering company,” said CEO Matt Maloney, who co-founded
the company in 2004. The company forecasts it will process $200
million in orders in 2011, more than doubling from $85 million
last year.  GrubHub knows its boundaries and won’t expand into offering
food itself, Maloney said.  “We’re not interested in touching the food,” he said.
“Restaurants do a good enough job in cooking the food.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  