-- 
Vivendi’s Levy Gets Cash Cow With EU7.95 Billion SFR Deal

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-04T16:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/vivendi-s-levy-gets-full-control-of-cash-cow-with-11-3-billion-sfr-deal.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Bernard Levy’s 7.95 billion-euro ($11.3 billion) SFR deal,
his largest, gives him full ownership of the company’s biggest
cash generator and completes a decade-long effort to break from
its messy past.  Vivendi, which owns 56 percent of SFR, France’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, yesterday announced an agreement
to buy  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake, giving it complete
control of the steady, subscription-based business that has 21.3
million users.  Vivendi “can now run the operation single handedly and
milk the cow that represents” the biggest cash-flow provider
for the company, said Neil Campling, an analyst with Aviate
Global LLP in  London .  While former Vivendi CEO Jean-Marie Messier went on a $77
billion acquisition binge to transform the 150-year-old water
utility into a global media giant, Levy, 56, has sought to make
more selective purchases, including Brazilian phone company GVT
Holding SA in 2009, to drive growth. Since taking over as CEO in
2005, he has both dismantled Messier’s empire and expanded in
new directions.  The SFR deal will enable the company to add “in excess of
600 million euros” to adjusted net income each year in 2012 and
2013, Levy said on a conference call today. It “allows us to
increase the dividend,” he said.  Restoring Stability  Vivendi shares rose 0.6 percent in Paris at 20.64 euros.
Vodafone, which plans to use 4 billion pounds ($6.4 billion) of
the net proceeds to repurchase its stock, slid 0.1 percent, to
178.85 pence in London.  The deal to take full control of SFR may be Vivendi’s
biggest move yet to restore stability after Messier’s tenure.  “Vivendi has become a much more straightforward company,
much more centered on France, compared with Messier’s very
ambitious, very seductive vision,” said Alain Busson, an
affiliate professor of media economics at Paris’s Ecole des
Hautes Etudes Commerciales.  The SFR buyout will be partly funded by the $5.8 billion
sale in 2010 of Vivendi’s stake in entertainment group  NBC
Universal  to  General Electric Co. (GE) , which ended a decade-long
foray into Hollywood initiated by Messier.  Cash Generator  SFR, which vies with  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Bouygues SA for
French mobile and broadband customers, may be a less glamorous
asset than NBC Universal, whose film and TV titles include “The
Bourne Identity” and “Saturday Night Live.” Yet it generated
3.95 billion euros in cash in 2010, about half Vivendi’s total.
At $12.6 billion, it accounts for almost 50 percent of revenue
and brought in about 2.5 billion euros in earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization.  Vivendi hasn’t made a major external acquisition since late
2009, when it took control of GVT -- now the company’s fastest-
growing unit -- for $4.2 billion. Levy has said Vivendi’s
priority is taking full control of existing assets, including
SFR and  Canal Plus ,  France ’s largest pay-TV operator, along with
“organic growth,” especially in emerging markets, where
acquisition targets are increasingly rare.  The SFR accord dwarfs Levy’s 4.5 billion-euro deal for
control of French broadband operator Neuf Cegetel in 2008. It’s
still far less aggressive than Messier’s signature deals, which
often involved totally new business areas and enormous sums.  Growth Drivers  The former CEO’s transformation of what was once water
utility Cie. Generale des Eaux included a $34 billion takeover
of Seagram Co. along with dozens of other debt-fuelled
acquisitions.  At its Messier-era peak, the Vivendi included some 6,000
consolidated companies, which former CEO Jean-Rene Fourtou cut
down with more than $11 billion in asset sales in the first year
after Messier’s ouster in a 2002 boardroom coup. That year,
Vivendi posted the largest annual loss in French corporate
history.  Levy’s past acquisitions, which rebuilt the stripped-down
Vivendi the former Oddo & Cie banker inherited from Fourtou, are
driving current growth. GVT, which Vivendi bought after
outbidding  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , boosted revenue last year by
72 percent as members of  Brazil ’s burgeoning middle class signed
up for Internet services.  Activision Blizzard, the video-game publisher Vivendi
created in 2008, has also added to profits thanks to hits like
“Call of Duty” and “Guitar Hero.”  ‘Too High?’  Those activities helped Vivendi increase profit by 4.4
percent last year, to 2.7 billion euros, even as it faced sharp
declines at its Universal Music Group unit, the world’s largest
record company.  With SFR, Levy may be paying too high a price in a market
that is gearing up for a new mobile-phone rival with the entry
of  Iliad SA (ILD)  next year, some analysts said. Including SFR’s debt,
Vivendi’s purchase price represents 6.2 times 2010 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “The price is too high,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analysts including Claudio Aspesi wrote in a report today.
Typical valuations for mature telecommunications markets are
about 5.1 times to 5.3 times, according to Bernstein estimates.  Still, with demand for data-hungry devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and iPad and devices based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software surging, mature markets are expanding. The
number of mobile-data connections in  Europe  is set to rise by an
average of 15 percent a year to 270 million in 2014, according
to market researcher IDC.  Third Major Disposal  “Risks coming from competition and regulation,” have been
exaggerated, Levy said on the conference call. The long-term
outlook is ``very exciting.”  For Vodafone, the SFR sale is the third major disposal of a
minority asset by CEO Vittorio Colao, and the largest since he
took charge in 2008. Vodafone sold its 3.2 percent stake in
China Mobile Ltd. last September for $6.5 billion, and a 3.1
billion-pound holding in  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. in November.  The sale of the SFR stake brings the total value of
Vodafone’s disposals to about $22.8 billion since September. The
company said March 31 it will acquire an additional stake in its
Indian venture for $5 billion after partner Essar Group
exercised an option to sell down its holding.  Colao is also seeking the resumption of a dividend from its
Verizon Wireless joint venture. Vodafone hasn’t received a
dividend from the U.S. operator since 2005 as partner Verizon
Communications Inc. focused on repaying debt.  ‘Win-Win’  The SFR deal “is a win-win for all the participants,”
said Emmanuel Soupre, helps manage $6.6 billion at Neuflize
Private Assets in Paris. “For Vodafone, it is exiting a
minority stake at a good price. For Vivendi, it means taking
control of the most important asset and reducing the holding
discount.”  Vivendi’s majority stakes in Activision Blizzard, SFR and
Canal Plus have earned it a “holding company” label, weighing
on its shares.  The SFR agreement moves Levy a step closer to achieving his
stability goal, with a pledge for an increase in dividends
beyond 2010’s 1.40 euros a share.  “The main thing is that this means full access to the cash
generator within the Vivendi group,” said Alex Wisch, an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in London. “In the
more mid- to long-term, it secures Vivendi’s status as a very
good dividend-paying company.”  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA are advising Vodafone on the
transaction. Rothschild is Vivendi’s adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  