-- 
Vodafone CEO’s $22.8 Billion Asset Sales Show Patience Pays

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T16:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/vodafone-s-colao-shows-patience-pays-with-22-8-billion-asset-sale-gains.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao was under shareholder pressure to sell
assets when he took over after his predecessors’ decade-long
takeover binge. This week, he showed that his patience paid off.  Vodafone agreed to dispose of its 44 percent stake in
French wireless operator SFR to  Vivendi SA (VIV)  for 7.95 billion
euros ($11.3 billion), topping average valuations for phone
deals. A $6.5 billion disposal of a minority holding in  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  last September generated double the amount former
CEO Christopher Gent invested in the company a decade earlier.  “Quite a few people demanded quick asset sales when Colao
took over, but he took his time and struck some fine deals,”
said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1 billion euros at
 Aramea Asset Management  in Hamburg, including Vodafone shares.
“The deals Colao has done are good examples that CEOs shouldn’t
always give in to investor demands.”  Predecessor Arun Sarin pushed Vodafone into markets such as
Ghana and  Turkey  to make up for a slowdown in  Europe . As Colao,
49, unwinds some positions, Vodafone can now focus on gaining a
dividend from its U.S. wireless venture and may buy out an
Italian minority holding, analysts say.  Colao, who became deputy CEO in October 2006 and was
promoted to the top job in July 2008, has generated 15 percent
in annualized returns for Vodafone shareholders under his watch,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with a 7.1 percent
increase under Sarin and a 26 percent slump under Gent, who led
Vodafone through a six-year $300 billion acquisition spree.  T-Mobile USA Boost  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator,
slipped 2.7 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 176.15 pence in London.
The stock is up 6.2 percent this year, valuing the Newbury,
England-based company at 91 billion pounds ($147 billion).  The sale of the SFR stake, announced on April 3, came two
weeks after  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s agreement to buy  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
T-Mobile USA unit for $39 billion, a transaction that boosted
share prices of European mobile-phone companies.  Including SFR’s debt and taking into account subscriber-
acquisition costs, the sale price values  France ’s second-largest
wireless operator at 6.7 times 2010 earnings, according to
Vodafone’s calculations. That compares with typical valuations
of about 5.1 times to 5.3 times for mature telecommunications
markets, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimates.
Vodafone’s SFR holding had a carrying value of 4.9 billion euros
at the end of September 2010.  Industry Shakeup  Vodafone wouldn’t have got the same price two years ago,
said Boehm, adding that the economic slump at the time lowered
asset valuations. The T-Mobile USA sale, the wireless industry’s
biggest deal since 2004, “really shook up the
telecommunications M&A scene,” he said.  Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at
 Societe Generale  in  London , told clients in a note in February
that Vivendi would be unlikely to pay a premium for an asset
that they already control.  Shortly after taking over in 2008, Colao suggested that
disposing of units outright could be difficult. In February
2009, when asked about asset sales, he said it’s “theoretical”
for Vodafone to have “a bunch of people knocking at the door to
ask for exactly what we have at the bottom of our list.”  At the time, Colao opted to merge Vodafone’s Australian
unit with Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s operations in the country.  Good Timing  “His timing has been very good and it marks a change from
the Vodafone of old which tended to pay top dollar for a lot of
its acquisitions,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at
Investec Securities who recommends buying Vodafone shares.  Colao’s attempt to unwind some of his predecessors’
takeovers has led him to exit China Mobile and reduce its
interests in  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. Vodafone is now pursuing a
sale of its 24 percent holding in Polish operator Polkomtel SA.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  was among investors who
have called on Colao to wring more value out of Vodafone’s
assets. As recently as in last August, the Vodafone shareholder
demanded the resignation of Chairman John Bond, citing the
company’s “disastrous” acquisition record and the stock’s
“substantial, persistent” discount to its asset value.  Colao then sold Vodafone’s 3.2 percent stake in state-owned
China Mobile for $6.5 billion. Vodafone had bought the shares in
two transactions between 2000 and 2002 for $3.25 billion.  Share Repurchase  Vodafone raised its stake in SFR, formerly known as
Cegetel, to 44 percent after buying a 15 percent holding in
January 2003. Vodafone had sought to gain full control in
December 2002.  The sale of the SFR holding brings the total value of
Vodafone’s disposals to about $22.8 billion since September.
Vodafone said it will use 4 billion pounds of the net proceeds
from the SFR deal to repurchase stock and the remainder to
reduce its own debt.  The CEO has also said money will be spent investing on
existing businesses as the company faces intensifying
competition. He needs to deal with a slump in demand for
services in the southern European markets. In the U.K., Vodafone
is also set to spend on additional wireless frequencies in an
auction next year analysts estimate could cost the country’s
operators as much as 2.6 billion pounds.  Vodafone decided to exit the French market ahead of the
2012 entry of Iliad SA’s Free brand, “the impact of which
nobody knows,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at  Kepler Capital
Markets  in Paris.  Verizon Deal?  While selling minority assets, Colao is consolidating the
company’s operations in existing markets. The company said March
31 it will acquire an additional stake in its Indian venture for
$5 billion after partner Essar Group exercised an option to sell
down its holding.  Vodafone is also seeking a payment from  Verizon Wireless ,
its U.S. venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  The company
hasn’t received a dividend since 2005, as the U.S. operator
focused on paying down debt. Verizon said in January it may pay
a “fair dividend” to Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of
Verizon Wireless.  Moody’s Investors Service today changed the outlook of
Vodafone’s debt ratings to “positive” from “stable,” citing
the SFR sale and the possibility of a Verizon Wireless dividend
“over the short to medium term.” The rating agency ranks the
debt Baa1, the third-lowest of 10 investment grades. Net debt at
the end of 2010 was 30.3 billion pounds.  Vodafone may also buy out Verizon’s minority holding in
Vodafone Italy, valued at about 4.8 billion pounds, as part of
an agreement to restore the dividend, said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  Bobby Leach, a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment.  As Colao tidies up the company’s holdings, he should
refrain from making further acquisitions outside existing
markets, according to Steve Malcolm, an analyst at Evolution
Securities in London.  “The question will be can the company retain its
discipline with less debt, decent  cash flow  and not buy stuff,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  