-- 
Wisconsin Union Law’s Future May Hinge on High Court Election

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/wisconsin-supreme-court-race-may-help-decide-union-law-s-fate.html
Wisconsin voters will elect a
Supreme Court justice today in a race that has become a proxy
for the battle over Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s law
curbing collective bargaining for public unions.  Groups inside and outside the state are pouring money into
the nonpartisan contest between Justice David T. Prosser Jr. and
challenger  JoAnne Kloppenburg , an assistant state attorney
general. The outcome may shift the court’s ideological balance
and determine how a legal challenge to the Wisconsin law is
decided, said Mordecai Lee, who teaches government at the
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.  “This is not merely a symbolic referendum on public
opinion about the collective-bargaining bill; it is
substantively about the collective-bargaining bill,” Lee, a
state lawmaker from 1976 to 1990, said by telephone yesterday.
“This is the swing seat on the Wisconsin Supreme Court that
will probably eventually decide the issue.”  The election will send a strong message, said Charles Franklin, a University of Wisconsin-Madison politics professor.  “The stakes are high,” he said.  If Kloppenburg wins, it will show Republicans may pay a
price for backing Walker’s initiatives, Franklin said. A Prosser
victory will indicate that the storm of opposition by Democrats
and unions to the law Walker championed won’t be enough to
topple fellow Republicans, he said.  Furious Reaction  The Wisconsin law that passed last month with no votes
from Democrats limits most government unions to bargaining for
wages alone; raises can’t exceed inflation unless voters agree.
The measure requires increased contributions for health-care
coverage and pensions, and prohibits automatic dues collection
from workers’ pay. Debates about government workers’ bargaining
power and benefits also are unfolding in states including Ohio,
 New Jersey  and  Indiana .  The district attorney of  Dane County , which encompasses the
capital of Madison, sued to block the Wisconsin law, saying that
legislators violated the state’s open-meetings statutes in
passing the measure  Kloppenburg has “said she’s giving a wink and a nod on how
she will vote on the repair bill,” Mike Gousha, distinguished
fellow in law and public policy at Marquette University Law
School, said in a telephone interview. “She has hit him with
the partisan charge and he’s fired back, calling her everything
from an environmental extremist to an unbending ideologue.”  Career Litigator  Kloppenburg, 57, has been a litigator in the state  Justice
Department  since 1989, serving under  attorneys general  from both
parties, according to her campaign  website . She gave a total of
$1,025 to seven candidates and the Assembly Democratic Campaign
Committee between 2002 and 2010, according to the  Wisconsin
Democracy Campaign , a nonpartisan watchdog group. Six candidates
were Democrats, while the seventh race was nonpartisan.  Prosser, 68, served as a Republican for 18 years in the
state Legislature and on his campaign  website  says, “I present
myself as a judicial conservative, devoted to the constitution
and the rule of law.”  Kloppenburg would be an independent jurist, said Melissa
Mulliken, her campaign manager. Mulliken questioned Prosser’s
impartiality, pointing to a Dec. 8 statement from his campaign
that said his election would be “a common-sense complement to
the new administration and Legislature.”  The race shouldn’t be a referendum on Walker’s agenda, said
Brian Nemoir, his campaign manager. It should be on keeping the
conservative judicial majority that Prosser represents, he said.
Nemoir called it “a classic battle between those who want a
liberal, activist court and those who desire a conservative
court.”  Primary Results  Prosser won 55 percent of the vote in the nonpartisan
primary Feb. 15, while Kloppenburg was second with 25 percent,
according to the  Wisconsin Government Accountability Board .  Since Walker  introduced  his “budget-repair” bill in
February and the lawmakers passed it March 10, more than a dozen
groups buying television and radio advertisements and other
campaigning and have made the race a “dogfight,” said Mike
McCabe, executive director of the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign.  Both Prosser and Kloppenburg accepted public financing from
the state of $100,000 each for the primary and $300,000 each for
the general election, meaning they can no longer take private
donations, McCabe said.  Millions Spent  Independent groups have spent more than $3 million combined
on television ads through April 3, including $2.6 million for
the general election, according to  an analysis  released
yesterday by the  Brennan Center for Justice  at  New York
University ’s law school.  That includes $1.2 million from the  Greater Wisconsin
Committee  supporting Kloppenburg, plus about $1.8 million from
the  Wisconsin Club for Growth , Citizens for a Strong America and
two other groups backing Prosser, the Brennan Center said.
Independent spending for the 2009 Wisconsin Supreme Court race
reached almost $306,000, according to the center.  “Interest in the race has soared as liberal-leaning
organizations have attacked Prosser as a ‘rubber stamp’ for
Walker, and business groups have warned that a Kloppenburg
victory could endanger Walker’s legislative accomplishments if
and when the Supreme Court rules on challenges to the
legislation,” the Brennan Center said.  The outcome of the race also could affect efforts to recall
state senators stemming from the fight over the union bill, UW-
Madison’s Franklin said. Committees have been formed in the
districts of eight Democrats and eight Republicans eligible for
a recall this year, said Michael Haas, a lawyer with the
Wisconsin Government Accountability Board.  Recall Petitions  Petition forms have been filed in one district to seek the
recall of Republican Senator Dan Kapanke of La Crosse, Haas said
by telephone. The committee presented about 21,700 signatures
and needs 15,588 to be certified to force a recall election.
That’s about a quarter of the number of votes cast for governor
in November, he said.  The race between Prosser and Kloppenburg is “a proxy
against their will,” UW-Milwaukee’s Lee said. “The campaigns
have been kidnapped by these larger issues and larger forces.
Whether they like it or not, the two candidates are left in the
passive role of watching the campaign that they are barely
participants in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  