-- 
Work Days of 11 Hours Boost Risk for Heart Disease, Study Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-04-04T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/work-days-of-11-hours-boost-risk-for-heart-disease-study-says.html
Working overtime may be a killer,
according to research that finds long hours on the job is a
heart risk along with smoking, bad cholesterol and high  blood
pressure .  Adults who worked 11 hours a day or more had a 67 percent
higher risk of developing coronary  heart disease  than those who
worked an 8-hour shift, a study today in the  Annals of Internal
Medicine  found. The researchers found that by adding working
hours to a standard heart risk assessment model they could
increase the accuracy of heart disease predictions by 5 percent.  Because working long hours is common and on the rise in
developed countries, the study may have implications for doctors
when it comes to advising patients on their health, said  Mika
Kivimaki , the lead researcher. Heart disease is the leading
 killer  in the U.S. for women and men, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  “Current evidence on coronary heart disease prevention
emphasizes the importance of focusing on the total risk rather
than single risk factors,” said Kivimaki, a professor at
 University College London , in an April 1 e-mail. “People who
work long hours should be particularly careful in following
healthy diets, exercising sufficiently and keeping their blood
pressure, cholesterol levels and blood glucose within healthy
limits.”  If today’s findings are confirmed in other trials, doctors
will have another tool to help them determine who is at greater
risk for heart disease, Kivimaki said.  Artery Plaque  Heart disease is usually caused by plaque building up on
the walls of the arteries of the heart and can cause chest pain,
shortness of breath and heart attack, according to the  NIH .
Those with high cholesterol, high blood pressure and chronic
 kidney disease , as well as people who smoke, are at higher risk
for developing the condition.  Srihari Naidu, director of the Cardiac Catheterization
Laboratory at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola,  New York ,
said these findings show that how a person lives --their stress
levels, sleeping, eating and exercise habits -- can affect their
risk for heart disease.  “It teaches us that we should actually be more careful if
we’re going to work that long, that we should take breaks to do
exercise and concentrate even more heavily on the types of food
we’re eating,” said Naidu, who wasn’t an author of today’s
paper, in an April 1 telephone interview. “The choices we make
in our lifestyle may have consequences.”  The research followed 7,095 civil service workers in  London 
who were ages 39 to 62 at the start of the trial. They were
screened for heart disease every five years. The study found
that 192 people developed heart disease over 12.3 years of
follow up. Those who worked 10 hours a day had a 45 percent
higher risk of heart disease than those who worked 7 to 8 hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  