-- 
Yen Falls Before BOJ Meeting Amid Recovery Signs; Dollar Gains on Bernanke

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-05T05:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/yen-weakens-ahead-of-boj-meeting-fed-minutes-amid-economic-recovery-signs.html
The yen fell against all its major
counterparts before reports that economists said will show
European retail sales increased and U.S. service industries
expanded, reducing demand for  Japan ’s currency as a refuge.  The dollar approached a six-month high versus the yen after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said inflation
expectations need to be watched “extremely closely.” The euro
rose toward a 10-month high against Japan’s currency on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise interest rates
this week while the  Bank of Japan  will keep them near zero.  “The worldwide economic recovery looks robust so there’s a
trend for a weaker yen,” said Yousuke Hosokawa, a senior
currency dealer in Tokyo at Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co., a
unit of Japan’s seventh-largest bank. “Perceptions that the BOJ
is lagging behind in monetary normalization is also weighing on
the yen.”  The yen declined to 84.36 per dollar as of 6:42 a.m. in
 London  from 84.06 yesterday in  New York , after dropping to 84.73
on April 1, the weakest level since Sept. 24. Japan’s currency
fell to 119.76 per euro from 119.54 yesterday, when it
depreciated to 120.06, the lowest since May 10. The euro was at
$1.4203 from $1.4221.  Euro-region retail sales rose 0.1 percent in February from
January, when they gained 0.2 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey before today’s report. The U.S. Institute for Supply
Management’s index of non-manufacturing businesses was 59.5 in
March after a 59.7 reading the previous month that was the
highest since August 2005, a separate survey showed ahead of
today’s data. A reading above 50 signals growth.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index gained for a second day after Bernanke
said he expected an increase in commodity prices to create a
“transitory” boost in U.S. inflation and the central bank
would act if he’s proven incorrect.  The Fed will today release minutes of its March 15 meeting
where policy makers said the U.S. economic recovery “is on a
firmer footing.”  “Bernanke said the Fed needs to watch inflation, so the
dollar is higher,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “He may be turning
slightly more hawkish.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, advanced 0.1
percent to 76.008.  Yen’s Decline  Japan’s currency weakened 3.4 percent in the past month,
the biggest decline among the 10 most-widely traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The BOJ is considering offering temporary loans to banks to
aid companies with cash-flow shortages in the wake of the March
11 earthquake, people familiar with the matter said. The plan
may be presented to the BOJ board as early as this month, the
people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
discussions weren’t public.  Japan’s government said last month the direct damage from
the disaster may reach 25 trillion yen ($296 billion), about 5
percent of gross domestic product. The central bank will keep
its target rate on hold in a range of zero to 0.1 percent on
April 7, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “The Fed will be catching up with the ECB in raising
 interest rates , while the BOJ is heading in the opposite
direction,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., Japan’s second-largest publicly
traded lender. “I don’t see any reason to buy the yen.”  Aussie Falls  Australia ’s dollar fell for a second day after central bank
Governor Governor Glenn Stevens left interest rates unchanged
and a government report showed the country unexpectedly recorded
a trade deficit.  The Australian currency weakened versus 15 of its 16 major
counterparts after the statistics bureau said the deficit was
A$205 million ($212 million) in February. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted a surplus of A$1.2 billion.  “The RBA statement is consistent with inaction for some
period of time, and there’s nothing new in the statement that
would push the Aussie higher,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . The
Australian currency “is now going to be disproportionately
impacted by downside data surprises, given the market is
extremely long Aussie.”  The so-called Aussie declined 0.3 percent to $1.0329 from
yesterday, when it rose to $1.0417, the strongest level since it
began trading freely in 1983.  -- With assistance from Mayumi Otsuma and Masahiro Hidaka in
 Tokyo  and Candice Zachariahs in Sydney. Editors: Jonathan
Annells, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 