-- 
‘Lost’ Star Fox Pumps Pecs, Sienna Stiffens Lip: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/-lost-star-pumps-pecs-sienna-s-stiff-lip-coward-s-spirit-london-stage.html
Reading a title like  “In a
Forest Dark and Deep,”  playgoers might reasonably expect
storms, sinister happenings and gothic revelations.  U.S. playwright Neil LaBute’s new two-hander in London
instead offers overwrought hooey and a plot twist signaled
with bells and whistles.  LaBute directs the production, set in small-town America.
College lecturer Betty (Olivia Williams) asks her brother
Bobby (Matthew Fox from television series “Lost”) to help
pack up books from her cabin in the woods. The stuff seems to
have belonged to her tenant, who has disappeared suddenly.  When a character mentions both a missing person and her
dented front fender in the first 10 minutes of a play, don’t
you find yourself hoping against hope that that can’t possibly
be the plot’s main MacGuffin?  Keep your hopes if you like, and believe in  Santa Claus 
too. I’ll just say that the predictable denouement lumbers
forward with the haste of a very old, and very dead, sloth.  Betty turns out to be a bit of a liar. Bobby, a stubbled
working-class tough guy, keeps needling her to tell the truth
about old family arguments. A storm rattles at the window
panes. Lightning flashes.  Alas, it isn’t meant to be comedy-horror. It really is
meant to be a dark psychodrama about terrible secrets and
guilty behavior.  Slippery Betty  Williams invests the slippery Betty with more detail and
range than the character deserves, and her performance proves
to be the evening’s saving grace.  Fox stands around with his shoulders back and his pecs
straining, just like he does on the poster for “Lost.” When
he wants to show he’s troubled or perplexed, he strokes the
stubble on his jaw, or on his head. That’s what tough guys do.  If any potential playgoers have stubble themselves,
they’d better start stroking it. They’ll need to be tough to
get through this one. Rating: *.  The hysterical recriminations start early in LaBute’s
play and continue, with diminishing returns, to get louder and
more hysterical. It couldn’t be further from Terence
Rattigan’s gripping Royal Air Force drama  “Flare Path” 
(1942) starring Sienna Miller, and directed by Trevor Nunn.  British understatement is the order of the day. A bombing
raid is described as “a bit of a shaky do.” “Bad luck about
old Johnny,” is the comment on a colleague presumed to be
dead. Upper lips don’t get any stiffer.  Hotel Lover  Patricia (Miller), a beautiful actress, is married to
Flight Lieutenant Teddy Graham (Harry Hadden-Paton). Her lover
(the superb James Purefoy) turns up at their hotel near
Teddy’s RAF base. He begs Patricia to leave with him.  She’d married Teddy on a whim, and is willing to go. Then
Teddy confesses that his stiff upper lip is a sham. He’s sick
with terror every time he flies on a bombing raid.  The scene in which he crumples with shame and nausea,
crying out his need to be comforted, packs a mighty dramatic
punch and Hadden-Paton gives an electrifying account of it.
Rattigan had a nose for the fault lines of the British psyche,
and he sniffs them out here like a bloodhound.  If Sienna Miller isn’t in Hadden-Paton’s league, she
gives a watchable performance, full of restraint and delicacy.  Sheridan Smith (Olivier Award-winning star of the musical
“Legally Blonde”) adds comic color as a local barmaid who
marries a Polish count in the RAF. She gives a fine
performance, yet the padded-out subplot doesn’t grip the
emotions like the blistering central  love triangle .  Thankfully, that grips hard enough to make a great
evening. Rating: ***.  Mischievous Ghost  Noel Coward’s comedy  “Blithe Spirit”  was written the
year before Rattigan’s drama, and treats the fear of death in
quite a different style. Clipped vowels, cocktails and
waspishness are the coping mechanisms here.  Skeptical author Charles Condomine is researching
seances, and hires the batty medium Madame Arcati. She
accidentally conjures up the ghost of his skittish first wife
Elvira, who proceeds to play havoc with his marriage to Ruth.  It’s deliciously sharp stuff, which casts a cold witty
eye over the institution of marriage. Thea Sharrock’s slick
production, set in a beautiful Art Deco living room, keeps the
ball in the air, and the odd greenish glow that appears around
Elvira whenever she’s on stage is a tour-de-force of
theatrical lighting.  Alison Steadman gives a hilariously dotty performance,
and even brings a touch of flirtatiousness to headmistressy
Madame Arcati. Robert Bathurst (“Downton Abbey”) is
delightfully unflappable as the sophisticated Charles.  Ruthie Henshall and Hermione Norris are the former and
current wives, and occasionally let their characters sound
shrill rather than clipped. It just takes the edge off an
otherwise amusing revival. Rating ***.  “In a Forest Dark and Deep” is at the Vaudeville
Theatre. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  +44-844-
482-9675; “Flare Path” is at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket,
 http://www.trh.co.uk  or +44-845-481-1870; “Blithe Spirit” is
at the Apollo Theatre,  http://www.nimaxtheatres.co.uk  or +44-
844-482-9671.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 