-- 
‘Minuscule’ Amounts of Radiation From Japan Detected by California Station

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-03-18T23:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/-miniscule-amounts-of-radiation-from-japan-detected-by-sacramento-station.html
A “miniscule” amount of radiation
that probably came from damaged nuclear reactors in  Japan  was
picked up at a California monitoring station yesterday, the U.S.
government said.  The level of radiation registered in  Sacramento  was about
“one-millionth of the dose” a person gets from rocks, bricks,
the sun and natural background sources and “poses no concern,”
the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  and  Energy Department 
said in a joint statement.  A similar level of the radioactive isotope, xenon-133, was
detected in Washington state on March 16 and 17, according to
the agencies. It was “consistent with a release from the
Fukushima reactors in Northern Japan,” according to the
statement. The EPA and Energy Department have monitoring systems
and neither found “radiation levels of concern.”  Japan is seeking to avert a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant, which was damaged by a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. Helicopters and fire trucks used water buckets and
cannons to help cool the plant, which has been crippled by
explosions, fires and radiation leaks.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the plant’s owner, said it’s also
trying to connect a power line to the site to restart water
pumps used to keep fuel rods from overheating.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday his nuclear advisers
don’t expect “harmful levels” of radiation will reach the U.S.  Aircraft, Ships  Aircraft and ships can operate into Japan’s airports and
sea ports, excluding those damaged by the tsunami, the  International Civil Aviation Organization  said, citing
information from the  World Health Organization  and other
international agencies.  Screening for radiation of international passengers from
Japan isn’t considered necessary at this time, the organization
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The radiation is actually at a rather low altitude, less
than a kilometer, rather than up high,” the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said yesterday in an e-mail. “It is
bleeding out, carried on plumes of heat, and radiation levels
drop off rapidly higher above the plant.”  California Governor  Jerry Brown  said the Japan crisis poses
“no threat” to the state’s residents, and officials are
monitoring  air quality  and consulting with federal agencies.  Doctors and scientists have said the Fukushima plant is
unlikely to pose a health risk for people living more than 36
miles (50 kilometers) from the site.  Chernobyl, Containment  The containment devices in Japan, even if compromised,
offer more protection than reactors at the world’s worst nuclear
disaster at  Chernobyl , Ukraine, in 1986, said Donald Bucklin,
former medical director of  Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station 
in  Arizona , the largest U.S. nuclear plant.  Radiation can damage DNA, the building blocks of human
life, said Bucklin, now medical review officer for U.S.
HealthWorks, the nation’s largest private provider of
occupational health care. While the body repairs most damage,
some radiation-caused mutations can make cells malignant, he
said.  Radiation spewed from the reactor in a meltdown might rise
to as high as 500 meters (1,640 feet), and is unlikely to reach  Tokyo , 135 miles away, John Beddington, U.K’s chief science
officer, said on a conference call March 16 with the British
Embassy in Tokyo. The Chernobyl explosion sent radioactive dust
30,000 feet high and continued for months.  The public-health risk would be equal to little more than
two additional chest x-rays, said John Lee, a professor of
nuclear engineering and radiological sciences, at the  University
of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . A Chernobyl type of explosion is
impossible, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  