-- 
Madoff Trustee Picard Sues Consultant Hired in Bank Austria Probe

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-19T00:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/madoff-trustee-picard-sues-consultant-hired-in-bank-austria-probe.html
  Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm, sued a consultant in
the Bank Austria probe, alleging he was a “faithless servant”
who may have disclosed confidential information and told people
they wouldn’t be sued if they agreed to speak to the trustee.  Ewald Weninger, a Vienna, Austria-based retired attorney,
hired a year ago to assist in investigating individuals in
Austria connected to Madoff’s firm, acted outside the scope of
his duties by demanding that Picard release certain people as
defendants in the $19.6 billion complaint against Bank Austria,
Sonja Kohn, founder of Bank Medici AG, and other entities,
according to a lawsuit filed today in federal  bankruptcy court 
in  Manhattan . The complaint didn’t name the people.  Picard’s lawsuit seeks $810,000 in fees paid to Weninger
since March. The trustee hired Weninger to talk to people who
may have participated directly or indirectly in Madoff’s fraud,
obtain information from them, set up informal interviews with
Picard and trace any assets flowing from Madoff’s business in
and out of  Austria , the complaint said.  “Weninger may have revealed to one or more third parties
confidential information or communications” including “the
revelation of documents, strategies and/or tactics employed in
furtherance” of the start of the lawsuit, the complaint said.  The complaint names Weninger and his business in Vienna. A
call to phone numbers listed for both weren’t answered after
regular business hours.  December Lawsuit  Bank Austria, now known as UniCredit Bank Austria AG, was
named in Picard’s $19.6 billion lawsuit filed in December
against 20.20 Medici AG, formerly Bank Medici, Sonja Kohn, the
bank’s founder, and other defendants.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to masterminding the fraud in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. At the
time of his arrest in December 2008, his account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances of $68 billion.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.  The case is Picard v. Weninger, 11-1680,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  