-- 
Qaddafi May Face Air Strike as Allies Prepare After UN Vote

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T12:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hague-suggests-u-k-forces-will-respond-to-libya-un-resolution.html
British and French leaders began
preparing for possible air strikes against  Libya  after a United
Nations vote cleared the way for the first Western military
action against an Arab country since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron told Parliament in  London 
today that the U.K. would “in the coming hours” deploy Tornado
and Typhoon warplanes, air-to-air refuelling craft and
surveillance aircraft to enforce the UN’s no-fly zone aimed at
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi.  “There will be a clear statement later today setting out
what we now expect from Colonel Qaddafi,” Cameron said, adding
that he’ll attend a meeting in Paris tomorrow hosted by French
President Nicolas Sarkozy with the  Arab League . France would
join any military operation against Libya, government spokesman
Francois Baroin told RTL radio.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, signaled after the UN
resolution that government troops won’t try to enter the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, though they will encircle it, backing
away from earlier threats,  Agence France-Presse  reported.
Qaddafi had said he’d “destroy” the opposition movement,
recapture Benghazi, a city of 1 million people, and show “no
mercy” to “traitors” who don’t surrender.  Troops loyal to Qaddafi shelled the city of Misrata with
heavy artillery today, Al Arabiya TV said, citing witnesses. Al
Arabiya reported four killed and 70 injured in the city, citing
doctors and medical staff  Protect Civilians  The UN Security Council voted yesterday to ground Qaddafi’s
air force and grant military authority to the U.S. and its
allies to protect civilians and population centers. The
announcement drew cheers and celebratory gunfire from anti-
Qaddafi Libyans gathered in Benghazi.  Brazil ,  China , Germany,  India  and  Russia  abstained from voting in  New York . Oil extended
gains on the prospect of a broader conflict in Libya, which
holds Africa’s largest reserves.    France ’s Figaro newspaper said military action could
include jamming Libyan communications, bombing tanks and
artillery and strikes on the “center of gravity” of the regime
which may mean targeting Libyan leaders.  “It may start with a mixture of cruise missiles and air
strikes,” said  Jan Techau , director of the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Brussels and a former analyst at the
NATO Defense College in  Rome  and the German Defense Ministry.  ‘Blind the Leadership’  “The first things they’ll hit are the command and control
centers in order to blind the Libyan leadership,” Techau said.
“They may then conduct very selective air operations against
artillery posts and tank columns.”  The UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 10 to 0, with
the five abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a
no-fly zone over Libya, demands a cease-fire and allows “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”  President  Barack Obama  called Cameron and Sarkozy last
night to discuss enacting the resolution, the White House said
in a statement. The three agreed to work closely with Arab and
other international partners on enforcing the terms of the
resolution and called for an end to the violence against
civilians in Libya, the White House said.  The U.S. ordered 400 Marines and two Navy vessels,
including the amphibious assault ship USS Kearsarge, to the
Mediterranean off the Libyan coast, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said March 1. At the time, he said the ships were sent to
help with evacuations and for humanitarian relief.  U.S. Ships  Several destroyers and submarines in the Mediterranean are
“available for tasking as required,” Admiral Gary Roughead,
the Pentagon’s chief of naval operations, told a Senate
subcommittee on March 16.  Italian newspapers, including  Corriere della Sera , reported
today that the government would make three bases available to
support a no-fly zone -- Sigonella and Trapani Birgi in Sicily
and Gioia del Colle near the southern city of Bari.  At Sigonella, one of the closest NATO bases to Libya, about
340 miles (547 kilometers) from Tripoli and 465 miles from
Benghazi, the U.S. Navy has its own installation. It is the
“primary logistical support element for the  U.S. Sixth Fleet 
operations,” according to the website of the U.S. base.  Italian Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa said yesterday
that Italy “wouldn’t back away from its commitment” to the
international community. Italy’s government and top military
officials will meet in Rome today to discuss a possible role in
carrying out the no-fly zone, Ansa newswire reported, citing
unidentified government sources.  Turkish Opposition    Turkey , a majority-Muslim member of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, does not support military intervention in
Libya “for the moment,” said Selcuk Unal, spokesman for the
Foreign Ministry.  Denmark has committed to sending six F-16 fighter planes to
help back the no-fly zone, Copenhagen-based newswire Ritzau
reported, citing Defense Minister Gitte Lillelund Bech. Canada
will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets, Postmedia News reported,
citing unnamed sources.  NATO member  Germany  said it wouldn’t join any intervention.
“German soldiers won’t take part in a military mission in
Libya,” Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said.  Qatar plans to take part in the mission to protect Libyan
civilians under the UN resolution, the state-run Qatar News
Agency reported today citing a government spokesman.  UAE, Qatar  “The  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar may be involved,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in a
telephone interview. “Saudi could also be involved too, but
given that they’re mired in Bahrain, we’re going to have to
see,” he said, adding that the only Arab friend that Qaddafi
has left is Syria and “they don’t have the capabilities.”  Libyan Deputy UN Ambassador  Ibrahim Dabbashi  -- who has
broken with the Qaddafi regime -- said five Arab nations have
agreed to contribute to the no-fly zone, and diplomats said that
group would include Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United
Arab Emirates.  The U.S. deployed forces against Libya in the 1980s.  U.S. President Ronald Reagan, who called Qaddafi “the mad
dog of the Middle East,” banned the import of Libyan oil and a
number of exports to Libya. The U.S. bombed Tripoli in 1986 in
retaliation for an attack on a Berlin discotheque that killed
two U.S. servicemen.  Libya came under U.S. and UN sanctions in the 1980s and
1990s over accusations of planning terrorist attacks, including
the 1988 bombing of the Pan American World Airways Boeing Co.
747 over Lockerbie that killed 270 people.  The turnaround in relations with the West started in 1999,
when Qaddafi allowed the extradition of two Libyan suspects in
the Lockerbie bombing. He abandoned a nuclear-arms development
effort after 2002 while also pledging to destroy a chemical
weapons stockpile and renouncing terrorism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  