-- 
AIG Says Chartis Executive Moor Denied Full Bonus for ‘Underachievement’

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-18T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/aig-says-chartis-executive-moor-denied-full-bonus-for-underachievement-.html
  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, said the
executive in charge of its property-casualty division won’t get
a full bonus because of “underachievement.”  Kristian Moor, head of AIG’s Chartis insurance group, was
awarded incentive pay equal to 90 percent of the $1.9 million
target set for 2010, or $1.71 million, the New York-based
insurer said yesterday in a regulatory filing. AIG cited
“underachievement of certain financial metrics.” Moor received
a salary of $5 million in stock and $700,000 in cash.  “Increasing Chartis’ reserves back in February was
something of a surprise,” said  Clark Troy , a senior insurance
analyst based in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , for Aite Group.
“The reserve adjustment would suggest that things aren’t going
as perfectly as they had hoped.”  AIG, which got a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout, said in
February it set aside about $4.2 billion to boost reserves at
the Chartis property-casualty unit after claims costs were
higher than projected. The insurer has slipped 26 percent this
year, the second-worst performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index after Monster Worldwide Inc.  Mark Herr, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment and said
Moor wasn’t available for an interview.  AIG gained 11 cents to $35.70 in regular  New York  trading
yesterday. The stock almost doubled last year as Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  sold non-U.S. insurance businesses for
more than $30 billion as part of an effort to repay the U.S.
government.  Benmosche, Hancock  Benmosche was awarded 100 percent of his incentive, or $3.5
million, and also earned $7 million in cash and stock for 2010,
AIG said in the filing.  Peter Hancock, head of finance and risk, received 120
percent of his incentive pay, or $4.3 million, for less than 11
months of work, AIG said in its filing. He was paid $2.4 million
in stock and $1.5 million in cash. AIG’s compensation is still
overseen by the Treasury Department’s Office of the Special
Master.  Moor, 51, fell short of the financial metrics set for him
by the company, including maintaining grades from the four
ratings companies, according to the filing. Moor met the
strategic and operational metrics set for him, AIG said.    Standard & Poor’s  lowered Chartis’s rating to A from A+ in
February because of “deterioration in the group’s operating
performance,” according to a Feb. 28 statement. The property-
casualty units were downgraded Feb. 10 by  Fitch Ratings , which
said the company was a “significant outlier” in the industry
for reserve additions.  Chartis’s Performance  “The operating performance of AIG’s Chartis companies has
been lower than our expectations and will likely remain so,”
Standard & Poor’s analysts led by Steven Ader wrote.  The operating loss for the Chartis division, which sells
coverage for commercial property, corporate boards and
airplanes, as well as workers’ compensation insurance, widened
to $3.97 billion in the fourth quarter from $1.75 billion a year
earlier. Chartis spent 160.5 cents per every premium dollar on
claims and expenses in the period, up from 132.5 cents a year
earlier.  AIG hired Hancock in February 2010 from KeyCorp,  Ohio ’s
second-largest bank, where he was the vice chairman responsible
for national banking. Hancock spent 20 years at a predecessor to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he established the derivatives
group, AIG said.  Chartis has more than 45 million clients in more than 160
countries and jurisdictions, AIG said. It wrote $31.6 billion in
net premiums in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  