-- 
Air France Charged With Manslaughter Over Fatal Airbus Crash

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-18T12:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/air-france-charged-over-airbus-a330-crash-into-atlantic-in-2009.html
Air  France  SA was charged with
manslaughter over the fatal crash of an Airbus SAS jetliner into
the Atlantic while en route from  Brazil  to Paris in June 2009.  The preliminary charges, filed after a French investigating
judge met with Air France’s lawyers, allow the continuation of a
probe into the crash of Flight 447, which killed all 228 people
on board. Airbus was charged with the same offense yesterday.  “We do not recognize any good reason to justify this,” Air
France Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said as he
left the judge’s office in Paris. The carrier wasn’t responsible
for the crash, “and it’s up to us to demonstrate that,” he said.  Airbus CEO  Tom Enders  said yesterday that he “strongly
disagreed” with the charges, given an “absence of facts” to
support the step. The Toulouse, France-based manufacturer is
focused on finding the cause of the accident, something that
will require further searches for the twin-engine A330-200
plane’s missing “black boxes,” or flight recorders, he said.  The criminal investigation is running parallel with a probe
by safety experts into the crash. Three searches have so far
failed to locate further wreckage or the recorders, which should
contain critical information about the flight’s last moments.  Work on scouring 17,000 square kilometers (6,600 square
miles) of seabed will resume on March 21, Gourgeon said today.
The BEA, France’s air-accident investigator, has said there can
be no certainty about the cause of the accident unless the boxes
are found.  Speed Sensors  Gourgeon said there’s no evidence that the crash was caused
by the plane’s speed sensors, or Pitot tubes, and that “it
would not have changed the case” had they been swapped for a
different make. The sensors may have iced up, causing unreliable
speed readings that contributed to the accident, the BEA said
after reviewing data transmitted by in the jet’s last minutes.  The probes on the Air France plane were made by  Thales SA (HO) 
of France. Within three months of the accident, authorities in  Europe  and the U.S. ordered carriers to replace any such devices
fitted on Airbus A330 aircraft with ones made by  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   Still, Alain Bouillard, BEA chief investigator, said last
year that speed-sensor failure can’t alone explain the crash,
and aviation records in Europe and the U.S. document dozens of
incidents where the probes failed and pilots retained control.  Human Factors  Bouillard said narrowing the investigation to pitot tubes
would mean failing to fully consider other technical and human
factors -- such as the comfort of flying a fully  computerized 
plane making a loss of control more challenging than previously.  France is one of the few countries where fatal accidents
automatically prompt criminal probes to run concurrently with
investigations by civil authorities. This week’s charges allow
Airbus and Air France to access to documents filed in the case.  The twin-track approach bogged down the investigation into
the crash of an Air France Concorde on July 25, 2000, with the
criminal trial starting almost 10 years after the accident and
seven years after the supersonic jet’s last commercial flight.  Parent company  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group said in January it will
rapidly implement most of the 35 recommendations from a report
into the A330 crash from a panel of external experts including
ex-U.S. airline and Federal Aviation Administration officials.  Air France-KLM shares traded up 1.4 percent at 11.34 euros
as of 1:51 p.m. in Paris. Airbus’s owner, European Aeronautic,
Defense & Space Co., was 0.9 percent higher at 19.23 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  