-- 
Airbus Cures Largest A350 Fuselage Panel as Production Advances

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/airbus-cures-largest-a350-fuselage-panel-as-production-advances.html
Airbus SAS, aiming to begin
assembly of its A350 wide-body jetliner by yearend, completed
the curing of the plane’s largest fuselage panel from carbon
composites as the company works to keep the program on schedule.  The panel, assembled at the aircraft maker’s Nordenham
plant in  Germany , will become part of the forward right-hand
side of the fuselage, Airbus said in a statement today. The
component will undergo ultrasonic inspection, trimming and
drilling before being joined with other panels, Airbus said.  Airbus is in the process of building sections of the A350
in factories scattered across France, Germany, the U.K. and  Spain  before it can begin piecing together the first jet at an
assembly plant in Toulouse, France, later this year. The A350,
like  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner, will have a structure that’s
about 50 percent made from composite materials, rather than
aluminum, the traditional building material of modern aircraft.  Airbus opted for large fuselage panels for the A350
covering a skeletal internal structure, saying their thickness
can be tailored according to the different loads required. The
approach differs from Boeing’s design on the 787, which enters
service later this year and is built in barrel sections with no
internal structure.  The aircraft maker said last week that getting production
of the A350 up to speed remains “challenging” and the
company’s “top risk program.” Airbus was dogged for years by
delays on the A380 double-decker aircraft, and Boeing, too, has
failed to maintain its development schedule on the 787, which is
now three years behind its original delivery date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse,  France  on 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at  