-- 
Malaysian Ringgit Gains as G-7 Intervention Calms Flight to Yen

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-18T01:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/malaysian-ringgit-gains-as-g-7-intervention-calms-flight-to-yen.html
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened for
a third day, paring a weekly decline, after Group of Seven
nations agreed to joint intervention to calm currency markets
roiled in the aftermath of  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record.  The G-7 said it will sell yen after the currency yesterday
touched its strongest level since World War II, threatening
exports as the nation contends with what Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  described as its worst postwar crisis. Japan’s currency
weakened today, snapping a five-day run of gains that was fueled
by speculation funds would be repatriated after the earthquake
and ensuing tsunami killed more than 5,000 people and led to
explosions at a nuclear power plant.  “They will try to stabilize the market and they will
support whatever initiatives are needed to calm the  currency
market ,” said Mohd Yazid Safuan, head of treasury sales and
trading at Al Rajhi Banking & Investment Corp. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“It’s still very fluid. So long as we don’t hear of more power-
plant failures, there will be also less uncertainty.”  The ringgit gained 0.3 percent to 3.0470 per dollar as of
9:30 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, trading little changed on the week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched a
three-week low of 3.0703 yesterday. The yen slumped 2.9 percent
to 81.24 per dollar, trimming this week’s gain to 0.8 percent.  The G-7 said in a statement today it will intervene “in
response to recent movements in the exchange rate of the yen
associated with the tragic events in Japan.” It will monitor
exchange markets closely and will cooperate as appropriate,
according to the statement.  Japan accounted for 10 percent of Malaysian exports last
year, according to data published by the Southeast Asian
nation’s trade ministry. Only  Singapore  and China bought more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 