-- 
Allergan, Mead Johnson May Sell Within Year, Goldman Says

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-03-18T19:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/allergan-mead-johnson-may-sell-within-year-goldman-sachs-says.html
Allergan Inc.,  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS) 
and  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  are among companies that have at
least a 30 percent chance of being sold in the next 12 months,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said.  The list of 33 companies also comprises  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ,  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)  and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) ,
Goldman Sachs including Robert Boroujerdi said in a research
note today.  A broader group of potential takeover targets, which
Goldman Sachs created in October 2009 and updates periodically,
returned 51 percent since inception, compared with 19 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Goldman Sachs said.  “A combination of solid GDP growth, improving equity
sentiment and CEO confidence bodes well for a continued pickup”
in mergers and acquisitions, the analysts wrote.  Climbing corporate cash balances and unspent private-equity
funds will also contribute to more mergers and acquisitions,
benefiting advisory firms such as  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
buyout fund managers such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Goldman Sachs
said. Global M&A activity jumped 27 percent to $2.23 trillion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Allergan is a specialty health-care company based in  Irvine ,  California . Citrix, based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ,
is among 14 companies Goldman Sachs had on its original October
2009 list of top takeover targets, saying that the companies had
a 30 to 50 percent chance of M&A activity. All of those
companies remain independent.    Lear Corp. (LEA)  and  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  are among the top
candidates for a leveraged buyout, Goldman Sachs said, based on
a separate model that calculates the potential internal rate of
return that a private-equity buyer could expect to realize.  Below is the list of the 33 companies that Goldman Sachs
analysts said have at least a 30 percent chance of being sold in
the next 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 