-- 
Alrosa CEO Says Jump in Rough-Diamond Prices May Signal Bubble

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v ,   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 
2011-03-18T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/alrosa-ceo-says-jump-in-rough-diamond-prices-may-signal-bubble.html
Alrosa, the world’s largest
diamond miner by output, said prices for rough gems exceed pre-
crisis levels and are growing faster than forecast, potentially
signaling a bubble in the market.  “At the end of last year we increased the price by 5
percent, and this year we increased the price more than 10
percent,” Alrosa Chief Executive Officer Fyodor Andreev said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “Now our price is 8 percent
more than it was before the 2008 crisis.”  Prices of rough, or unpolished, diamonds have returned to
levels last seen in June 2008, after producers including  De
Beers , Alrosa’s biggest competitor, cut output and gem dealers
rebuilt stockpiles. The market has also benefited from a rebound
in U.S. demand and growing consumption in emerging economies.  Alrosa sales may rise to $4 billion this year from $3.4
billion last year, reaching a target initially planned for 2018,
Andreev said. Soaring prices for rough diamonds, which at times
exceed those for polished gems, are a “dangerous signal” that
a bubble may emerge, as in 2008, he said, adding that Alrosa
sells about 70 percent of its stones under long-term contracts.  While the producer mainly trades though Antwerp in  Belgium ,
the traditional market for diamonds, it has signed long-term
contracts with three Indian companies and is seeking deals in  China , Andreev said. Alrosa is less “optimistic” than analysts
about the strength of these new markets, he said.  African Production  The global diamond industry, structured around the four
biggest producers -- De Beers, Alrosa,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and BHP
Billiton Ltd. -- may change in coming years as African states
seek a foothold in the market, Andreev said.  “All governments in  Africa  would like to create their own
diamond companies,” he said. “Because of this strategy we may
get an additional three to five quite big companies in the
future.”  In  South Africa , members of the ruling  African National
Congress  have called for mining to be nationalized, saying the
country doesn’t derive enough benefit from the industry. South
Africa is the largest producer of platinum and the second-
biggest miner of palladium, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said March
9 that the country won’t nationalize its mines.  The world’s biggest diamond mine by production value is De
Beers’ Jwaneng venture in Botswana. The southern African
country, which accounts for about a fifth of global output, has
boosted gem production since 2009, when the global financial
crisis slashed demand and led to the temporary closure of mines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in  London  at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  