-- 
Alrosa, Biggest Diamond Producer, Plans $3 Billion Offering

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v ,   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-18T10:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/alrosa-biggest-diamond-producer-plans-3-billion-ipo-for-2012.html
Alrosa, the world’s biggest diamond
company by production last year, plans to raise as much as $3
billion in an initial public offering in 2012, according to
Chief Executive Officer Fyodor Andreev.  “My personal target is to prepare the company so we’ll be
ready to do an IPO in the middle of next year,” Andreev said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. Alrosa is studying the
U.K.,  Canada ,  Hong Kong  and  Russia  as locations, he said.  Alrosa , Russia’s state-owned diamond monopoly, will sell a
stake of about 20 percent to 25 percent and use the money to
fund expansion and help repay its $3.2 billion of debt, Andreev
said. “Big banks like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley
and VTB Bank” will be invited to tender as advisers, he said.  A sale would make Alrosa by far the biggest listed diamond
company. De Beers, the largest producer by sales, exited the
Johannesburg exchange in 2001, while gems make up less than 5
percent of Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s output. That
may allow Alrosa to tap pent-up investment demand after rough
diamonds rose as much as 90 percent from a trough during 2009.  Investors are unable to directly trade diamonds, which are
only sold through a closed network of dealers or by retailers.  Alrosa, based in Siberia’s Yakutia region, produced 34
million carats (220,000 ounces) of diamonds last year, compared
with  De Beers ’s  33 million carats . It aims to boost output to 40
million carats by 2018, investing about $7.5 billion in new
mines, and to dig underground at its open pits, Andreev said.  Output Slides  The company should be valued at similar multiples to gold
producers, he said, adding that analysts had priced the business
at between $6 billion and $12 billion.  Underpinning diamond prices is a steady drop in output of
the rough diamonds that are fashioned into cut gems, and signs
that demand will outstrip supply. Rough diamond prices may jump
more than 25 percent this year on “almost insatiable” demand
from  China ,  India  and the U.S.,  Gem Diamonds Ltd. (GEMD) , based in  London  and operating in southern Africa and  Australia , said this
week.  “Most people in the industry continue to be surprised by
the voracious appetite from the Chinese consumer for diamonds,”
Chief Executive Officer Clifford Elphick said in an interview.  De Beers said last month it may reach full capacity by the
end of 2012 to meet “extraordinary” demand from China and
India. Demand from the two countries last year expanded by 25
percent and 31 percent, respectively, the company said,
forecasting that China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India and the Persian
Gulf would make up almost 40 percent of global demand by 2015.  Global Prices  China recently surpassed  Japan  as the world’s second-
biggest buyer of diamonds, behind the U.S., which consumed 38
percent of production in 2010, according to De Beers.  Global prices of rough, or unpolished, diamonds gained 26
percent last year, above pre-recession highs, according to data
compiled by  WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd.   World output slid 8.5 percent to 161.1 million carats in
2008 from 2005, according to  RBC Capital Markets , before falling
30 percent in 2009 as consumption tumbled following the global
financial crisis. Even before the collapse, output in Botswana,
the biggest source, fell for three straight years through 2008,
and in Australia it slid by more than half, RBC said.  Alrosa is also talking with Russian and Chinese businesses,
and the “world’s biggest companies,” on selling as much as 51
percent of its untapped Timir iron ore field in Yakutia to help
fund at least $4 billion of investment, Andreev said. “We need
to make decisions about this before the IPO,” he said.    BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is the world’s largest mining company,
while  ArcelorMittal (MT)  is the biggest steelmaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;  Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 