-- 
Lan, Tam Sink as Chile Antitrust Tribunal Proceeds With Acquisition Review

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/lan-tam-tumble-most-in-seven-months-as-tribunal-proceeds-with-deal-review.html
  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  and  Tam SA (TAMM4)  fell to
their lowest levels in at least seven months after a Chilean
antitrust tribunal decided to proceed with a review of their
planned tie-up to create Latin America’s largest carrier.  Lan declined 1.7 percent to 11,890 pesos in Santiago
trading, the lowest since July 21. Tam slid 3.8 percent to 31.85
reais in  Sao Paulo , the lowest since Aug. 12, the day before Lan
announced an agreement to buy Tam for $3.5 billion.  The tribunal, known as TDLC, will proceed with a review at
the request of a consumer group after rejecting an appeal
submitted by the country’s National Economic Prosecutor and Lan,
TDLC said on its website after the close of trading yesterday.  “If the appeal had been accepted, it would have been
positive for the stock,” said Mabel Weber, an analyst at the
brokerage unit of Banco BICE in Santiago. “But the scenario
hasn’t changed. The market has already priced in that the deal
will be closed by late 2011 or early 2012.”  Lan will collaborate with the tribunal’s review, which the
Santiago-based carrier hopes will be completed by the end of
second quarter, Lan said in an e-mailed statement today. The
review may delay the takeover, “which won’t happen before the
last quarter of the year,” Lan said.  The TDLC said in January it would review the acquisition,
which has already been approved by Brazilian aviation
authorities. TDLC has taken about eight months, on average, to
reach decisions in cases it reviews, according to statistics
published on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  