-- 
Manhattan Apartments Lure Investors Seeking a Foothold in Market

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-18T18:05:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/manhattan-apartments-lure-investors-seeking-a-foothold-in-surging-market.html
When  UDR Inc. (UDR)  agreed to pay $260.8
million for a tower in  Manhattan ’s Financial District, it was
not only the borough’s biggest apartment sale in almost three
years. It was also the company’s first foray into New York City.  The deal this month by Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based UDR
is the latest by a multifamily property investor trying to
establish a beachhead in the borough, as apartment demand climbs
and rents recover from last year’s lows. Several new players are
finding opportunity as city mainstays such as Equity
Residential, which bought three prime high-rises from developer
William Macklowe in 2010, turn their attention to less-costly
acquisitions outside New York.  Manhattan “has everything going for it from a multifamily
perspective,” said UDR Chief Financial Officer David Messenger,
whose company is the third-biggest publicly traded U.S.
apartment owner.   New York  has a great economic base, financial
center of the world, extremely high propensity to rent, low home
affordability.”  Eight apartment buildings below 96th Street in Manhattan
were sold or went into contract this year, not including
converted or stalled condominiums, according to  Real Capital
Analytics Inc. , a New York-based property research firm. The
three largest by price, which are also the most recent, went to
buyers who are dropping a multifamily anchor in the borough.  Sagamore, Elektra  In February,  LaSalle Investment Management , a Chicago-based
private-equity firm, agreed to buy Related Cos.’s 265-unit
Sagamore building on the Upper West Side, beating 15 other
bidders. The company also has purchased multifamily properties
in  Los Angeles  and  Washington , D.C., in the past year, according
to Real Capital.  The  Elektra , a 166-unit apartment building in the Gramercy
neighborhood, also went into contract last month, to buyer
Invesco Real Estate, Real Capital said. The Dallas-based company
hasn’t owned a multifamily property in the borough since 2004,
said Bill Hensel, an Invesco spokesman.  “For several years leading up to the credit crisis, Equity
Residential and Archstone were the dominant buyers of rare,
large, trophy, luxury multifamily Manhattan offerings,” said
Doug Harmon, senior managing director at  Eastdil Secured LLC  in
New York. Harmon represented the owner of 10 Hanover Square, the
Witkoff Group, in its deal with UDR, as well as the sellers of
the Sagamore.  “These days the playing field is a little more open and a
little less predictable,” he said.  Market History  The newcomers aren’t “clouded by their knowledge of
history” of the market, which might make them more hesitant to
strike a deal, said Robert Knakal, chairman of commercial
property brokerage  Massey Knakal Realty Services  in New York.  “Sometimes you have investors who have been around for
decades who turn transactions down, who say, ‘I could have
bought that building decades ago for $30 a square foot, why
would I pay $700 a square foot today?’’ he said. ‘‘It prevents
them from making a move.’’  Longtime apartment owners haven’t abdicated the borough,
according to UDR’s Messenger, who said his company competed with  Equity Residential (EQR)  on several deals last year.  ‘‘We still see all the common players at different sites as
we’re entering a building and they’re leaving a building,”
Messenger said. “We know that they’re around and they know that
we’re around as well.”  Cap Rates  Demand for Manhattan apartment properties has pushed up
prices and lowered the yield for investors. Capitalization rates
on multifamily buildings in the borough averaged 5.1 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with 6.6 percent
nationally, according to Real Capital. Cap rates, a measure of
investment yield, are calculated by dividing a property’s net
operating income by its purchase price.  Invesco’s contract to buy the Elektra for $125 million
implies a cap rate of 4 percent, according to Real Capital.
Invesco’s Hensel said the company doesn’t comment on sales that
are pending.  UDR bought 10 Hanover at a cap rate of about 5.3 percent,
after  capital expenditures  and management fees are included, Rob
Stevenson and Nicholas Yulico, analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
estimated in a March 11 report. Over time, UDR may seek to have
10 percent or more of its portfolio in  New York City , which
would have “a material benefit on the stock’s valuation,”
wrote the analysts, who have a ’neutral’ rating on UDR shares.  Rent Growth  “Cap rates for Class A apartments in Manhattan have
returned to near-peak levels,” the analysts wrote. “Buyers are
betting that a rebounding New York City job market and lack of
new supply in 2011 will drive 25 percent cumulative rent growth
over the next five years.”  The average monthly rent for a one-bedroom Manhattan
apartment  increased  8.6 percent in February from a year earlier
to $2,535, according to brokerage  Citi Habitats . Rents for two-
bedrooms climbed 9.6 percent to $3,597, while three-bedroom
apartments had an average increase of 12 percent to $4,874.
Average rents for apartments of all sizes have recovered 11
percent from their January 2010 low of $2,914.  The apartment vacancy rate declined in February to 1.18
percent from 1.54 percent a year earlier, Citi Habitats said.  Rent Vs. Own  While rents are climbing, New York is the No. 1 U.S. city
where leasing an apartment is more affordable than buying a
home, according to property website  Trulia.com , which compiles
data from 50 markets.  At least two high-end Manhattan buildings came to market
last month. Developer Gotham Organization is selling its Upper
West Side high-rise, the Corner, just a year after construction
was completed. Africa Israel USA expects to fetch about $250
million for  88 Leonard St. , its tower in the TriBeCa
neighborhood that began leasing in 2007, Chief Executive Officer
Tamir Kazaz said in an interview last week.  Of the almost 150 would-be buyers who inquired about the
property, which includes a fireplace lounge and an outdoor
communal whirlpool, many were companies that don’t yet own
apartments in Manhattan, he said.  Potential Buyers  “A lot of them are domestic, outside of New York --  Chicago , Atlanta,  California ,” Kazaz said.  Chicago-based  Waterton Associates LLC , which bid on the
Sagamore, will probably “take a run at” 88 Leonard, co-founder
David Schwartz said in a telephone interview. The investment
firm, which owns and operates more than 15,000  apartments in 12
states, has a new $500 million fund that will be leveraged to
buy $1.5 billion of apartment assets, the company said in a
March 8 statement. Manhattan is one of its targets, Schwartz
said.  Waterton Associates entered the New York market in
December, when it bought the senior construction loan and
mezzanine debt of downtown Brooklyn’s 271-unit Addison apartment
complex. The borrower will complete construction on the property
and retain ownership, Schwartz said. Waterton will be paid a
“preferred return” from the rental profits.  “We have no presence in New York and we felt structuring a
debt position in this case was fine for us,” Schwartz said.  ‘Tremendous Competition’  “We’ve always been an opportunistic buyer and New York is
difficult in that there’s tremendous competition, extremely
savvy local players,” he said.  UDR’s purchase of the 493-unit  10 Hanover Square  is the
largest apartment deal in Manhattan by price since August 2008,
when  New York University  bought the 304-unit Gramercy Green
complex for $275 million, according to Real Capital data.
LaSalle’s agreement to buy Related’s Sagamore for $140 million
is the biggest transaction since last March.  “Both recent deals demonstrate a growing institutional
appreciation for Manhattan’s resiliency and the current positive
imbalance between demand and supply, which will no doubt lead to
strong rental growth over the foreseeable future,” said
Eastdil’s Harmon.  UDR has been considering acquisitions in Manhattan for at
least two years, according to Messenger. It reviewed the
Macklowe collection of three buildings that went to Chicago-
based Equity Residential, the largest publicly traded U.S.
apartment owner, for $475 million, he said.  UDR officials are “walking up and down the streets looking
at different assets,” and plan to buy several more properties
in Manhattan soon, Messenger said, declining to specify how many
or when.  “You’re going to see us continually monitoring the
market,” he said. “One asset isn’t going to be enough for
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  