-- 
Tanker Rates Fall First Week in Three as Japan Threatens Demand

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-18T17:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tanker-rates-fall-first-week-in-three-as-japan-threatens-demand.html
The cost of delivering Middle East
crude oil to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers,
fell for the first week in three as the earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan  curbed demand.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route slid 0.6
percent to 62.82 Worldscale points today, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. Returns from the route, which reflect
fuel costs, declined 0.8 percent to $22,678 a day.  The March 11 temblor and tsunami disrupted supplies from
plants accounting for about 1.3 million barrels a day of the
country’s refining capacity, or 29 percent of the total. Japan
is the world’s third-largest oil importer.  “Any prolonged loss of refinery capacity would mean lower
crude tanker demand,” E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd. said in a
report. “The majority of any crude cutback is likely to be in
VLCC trade from the Middle East, and if those VLCCs were to be
re-let on the  spot market  it would weaken rates.”  For the past six sessions, rental income from the Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route has been below the $30,100 a day that
Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator, says it needs to break
even on the ships.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a metric ton, are revised
annually by the  Worldscale Association  in London to reflect
changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  