-- 
Appliance Tax Credit for Whirlpool, GE Gets Higher Price Tag

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-18T19:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/appliance-tax-credit-for-whirlpool-ge-gets-higher-price-tag.html
Extending the tax credit for
energy-efficient appliances through 2012 would cost the
government $235 million, according to the first  updated
congressional estimate  since officials acknowledged that they
did not realize how much companies including  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  were benefiting from the tax incentive.  That estimate, released yesterday by the Joint Committee on
Taxation, is more than three times the $78 million projected
cost of the one-year extension through 2011 that Congress passed
in December. It’s more than nine times the Treasury Department’s
$25 million estimate for extending the credit through 2012.  Bloomberg News reported Feb. 22 that Whirlpool estimated it
would receive $300 million from the credit this year, and that
GE received more than $200 million in 2010 and will continue to
get credits this year.  “This is the kind of thing that shocks people, and it
wakes them up to the cost of these seemingly well-intentioned
incentive programs,” said Scott Hodge, president of the  Tax
Foundation , a  Washington  group that favors a simpler  tax code .
“In Washington, $200 million doesn’t sound like much. Sometimes
it’s even the smallest programs that shock people, just because
of their outrageousness.”  The credit will generate about one-third of Whirlpool’s
earnings this year. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the company had $555
million in stockpiled business credits and $2 billion in tax
losses. Losses and credits can typically be used to offset
future income or taxes for up to 20 years.  New Estimate  Hodge said he thought the new estimate would help draw
lawmakers’ attention to the credit, which expires Dec. 31.  The figure was included in JCT’s estimate of the 2012
budget that President  Barack Obama  proposed Feb. 14. Obama
supports a one-year extension of the appliance credit.  The credit, enacted in 2005, provides fixed-dollar amounts
to companies that increase production of high-efficiency
dishwashers, clothes washers and refrigerators that meet
standards set out in the tax code.  The law caps the credits any company can receive for 2011
at $25 million for most appliances. Companies that manufacture
the clothes washers and refrigerators that meet the highest
efficiency standards are eligible for uncapped credits of $225
and $200 per appliance, respectively.  Thomas Barthold, chief of staff of the Joint Committee on
Taxation, said in February that the cap was a factor in last
year’s $78 million estimate. He did not respond to an e-mailed
request for comment today.  Whirlpool, based in  Benton Harbor ,  Michigan , declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  