-- 
Lara Setrakian Joins Bloomberg TV as Dubai-Based Reporter

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-18T14:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/lara-setrakian-joins-bloomberg-tv-as-dubai-based-reporter.html
                                
Press Release  Setrakian Based in Bloomberg’s Expanded Dubai bureau  New York, London and Dubai -- Bloomberg announced today that
Lara Setrakian has officially joined Bloomberg Television as a
reporter based in Dubai. Setrakian, who joins Bloomberg from ABC
News in Dubai, has extensive expertise covering the Gulf.  Most
recently, she reported on the unrest in the Middle East from
 Saudi Arabia  and Cairo’s Tahrir Square. While at ABC, Setrakian
covered the 2009 Iranian presidential election, energy prices in
Saudi Arabia, Dubai’s financial crisis and other key economic
and political stories.  Setrakian joins Bloomberg’s expanding news operations in Dubai,
currently the company’s largest bureau in the Middle East with
over 15 news professionals covering markets, energy, finance,
government and other news. This week, Bloomberg L.P. officially
unveiled its Dubai office, the company’s 10th global hub, to
house Bloomberg’s expanding news operations and provide customer
support for a growing client base in the region. Bloomberg
Television, available in more than 250 million homes globally,
provides 24-hour live coverage of business, economic and
political news with the strength of one of the largest news-
gathering operations in the world.  “Lara is a seasoned journalist with a strong understanding of
the important news stories coming out of the Gulf,” said Malcolm
Fried, Managing Editor, EMEA for Bloomberg Television. “Her on-
the-ground expertise and contacts will offer our global audience
a unique perspective on how the Middle East is impacting
politics and business worldwide.”  “I am elated to be joining Bloomberg Television and its
fantastic team of journalists,” said Setrakian. “It is a vital
moment for us to be ramping up coverage of geopolitics and the
global economy, and Dubai is an ideal perch.”  Setrakian joined ABC News in 2005 as a contributor to the
network’s legal and investigative coverage. She will continue to
make contributions to ABC News on television, radio and digital
platforms as part of her new role at Bloomberg Television.
Setrakian previously served worked as a business analyst with
McKinsey & Company. She graduated magna cum laude from  Harvard
College  with a degree in Government. Setrakian speaks Arabic,
Armenian, French and Spanish, and has studied Persian and
Portuguese.  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/  and follow us on Twitter at
( @BloombergTV ) or  Facebook .
For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about  and follow us on Twitter
( @BloombergLP ) and  Facebook .  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212 617 3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
