-- 
Hurd Letter in HP Lawsuit Must Be Unsealed, Judge Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-18T17:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mark-hurd-letter-on-hewlett-packard-departure-released-by-judge.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. was ordered by
a judge to release most of a letter about Chairman  Mark Hurd ’s
involvement with contractor Jodie Fisher, the relationship that
led to his departure from the company.    Delaware  Chancery Court JudgeDonald Parsons Jr. ruled
yesterday in Wilmington that Hurd hadn’t shown good cause why
the letter should be kept secret. HP has 10 days to file a
mostly public version of the letter, giving Hurd “ample time”
to appeal, Parsons said. Several narrow portions of the letter
will remain sealed, the judge said.  “Whether or not to seal a document allegedly containing
confidential information does not turn on whether its disclosure
would cause embarrassment,” Parsons said in the 70-page ruling
in a lawsuit by shareholder Ernesto Espinoza.  Hurd, 54, had argued that he should have a say in
Espinoza’s demand for company books and records because the
letter, sent by lawyer Gloria Allred on Fisher’s behalf, was
personal and his alone. Parsons said in his ruling that among
the letter’s allegations are claims that Hurd leaked non-public
information about HP to Fisher.  “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling and will
appeal the matter,” Hurd’s lawyer, Amy Wintersheimer, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We believe the letter, which was
clearly marked ‘confidential,’ should remain that way.”  Officials of  Palo Alto , California-based HP said they
intend to comply with Parsons’s order to release a modified
version of the letter.  ‘No Formal Position’  “HP took no formal position on this issue, which is a
matter between Mr. Hurd and a shareholder,”  Bill Wohl , a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hurd is now a co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
He resigned as HP’s chairman and chief executive officer on Aug.
6 after a company investigation determined that he violated its
standards of business conduct. HP officials said they didn’t
find that Hurd had violated the company’s sexual-harassment
policy.  HP’s decision to grant Hurd a severance package valued at
as much as $40 million prompted Espinoza to sue the computer
maker on Nov. 18. In his complaint, Espinoza seeks company books
and records as part of an investigation into possible wrongdoing
by directors.  The letter from Allred contains accusations of sexual
harassment and details of Hurd’s alleged advances toward Fisher
and her rejection of them, Parsons said in his ruling. It also
includes personal statements attributed to Hurd about his family
life, according to the decision.  ‘Many Inaccuracies’  “As has been admitted, the letter contains many
inaccuracies,” Wintersheimer said. “Mr. Hurd long ago resolved
the matter and has moved on.”  Allred’s letter contained allegations that Hurd misused
“corporate funds to wine and dine Fisher,” Parsons said. The
letter also accuses Hurd of the “leaking of potentially
material non-public information about HP to her, and other
matters relating to Hurd’s high corporate office,” according to
the decision.  That made the letter newsworthy, given Hurd’s former
position as head of HP, and made it ineligible for complete
privacy protections, Parsons ruled.  Because of the size of Hurd’s severance package, investors
and the public have an interest in material that sheds light on
his departure, Parsons said.  “These sorts of exit payments, especially those paid amid
suggestions of corporate misconduct or scandal, are of
particular interest to the public,” Parsons wrote. “Moreover,
as demonstrated by television shows like ‘Undercover Boss’ and
‘American Greed,’ the public has taken an interest in the inner
workings of major public corporations, their executives, and the
problems and scandals those executives face.”  The case is Espinoza v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , CA6000,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 