-- 
Asian Currencies Rise as G-7 Intervention Eases Flight to Yen After Quake

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-03-18T21:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/asian-currencies-head-for-weekly-rise-as-g-7-intervention-halts-yen-rally.html
  Thailand ’s baht and Indonesia’s
rupiah gained the most this week among Asian currencies as the
Group of Seven nations agreed to sell yen to calm currency
markets roiled in the aftermath of Japan’s biggest earthquake.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed for a
second day yesterday, trimming a loss for the week to 0.3
percent. The gauge sank to a three-week low on March 16 as
uncertainty caused by the temblor and ensuing tsunami and
nuclear crisis sapped demand for emerging-market assets. The yen
snapped a five-day rally yesterday that was fueled by
speculation Japanese investors and companies were repatriating
funds to cope with the disaster.  “Markets are reacting positively to the intervention news
and signs of support from the G-7 is reassuring investors,”
said Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank
of  Canada  in  Hong Kong . “We see risk appetite coming back, not
just in the currencies but in equities as well.”  Thailand’s baht strengthened 0.5 percent this week to 30.32
per dollar in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rupiah advanced 0.3 percent to 8,773 and  India ’s rupee rose
0.2 percent to 45.1425.  “At the request of the Japanese authorities, the U.S., the
U.K., Canada, and the  European Central Bank  will join with Japan,
on March 18, in concerted intervention in exchange markets,”
the G-7 said in a statement yesterday.  Thai Yield Premium  Thailand’s baht advanced as the nation’s yield premium over
developed economies spurred overseas investors to add to
holdings of its debt. Global funds bought $109 million more
local bonds than they sold this week through to March 17,
according to data from the Thai Bond Market Association. The
nation’s 2.5 percent benchmark interest rate compares with a
maximum of 0.25 percent in  Japan  and the U.S.  “Thailand’s yield premiums attracted fund inflows,
supporting the baht,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .  Indonesia’s rupiah climbed yesterday, trading near the
strongest level in almost four years, on speculation the central
bank will allow the currency to gain to tackle inflation.  Offshore funds increased holdings of Indonesia’s government
debt by 2.6 percent to 205.7 trillion rupiah ($23.4 billion)
this month through March 16, according to official data.
Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s largest economy increased
6.84 percent in February from a year earlier, compared with a
7.02 percent rise in January, the most since April 2009.  “The central bank has said it will allow currency
appreciation to help combat imported inflation,” said Wellian Wiranto, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore .  Middle East Concern  The Philippine peso dropped to a six-week low on March 17
on concern political tension in the Middle East will spur an
exodus of Filipino workers from the region, hurting remittances.
The currency declined for a second week.  Security forces clashed with anti-government protesters in  Bahrain  this week, leaving two demonstrators and two police
officers dead, and Libya’s air force bombed rebels. The United
Nations Security Council authorized the use of air attacks and a
no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians from forces loyal to
Qaddafi.  The Gulf region accounts for about 30 percent of overseas
remittances, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said this
month.  The peso declined 0.1 percent this week to 43.705 per
dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 44.01 on
March 17, the weakest level since Feb. 2.  Elsewhere,  Taiwan ’s dollar was little changed this week at
NT$29.60. South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit both dropped
0.2 percent to 1,126.65 and 3.0530 respectively.  China ’s yuan
gained 0.1 percent to 6.5691 and Singapore’s dollar retreated
0.2 percent to S$1.2766.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 