-- 
Asia’s Share of EU Bonds Declines by Almost 50% as Japanese Demand Weakens

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-18T10:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/asia-s-share-of-eu-bonds-sold-this-week-declines-japanese-demand-weakens.html
  Asia ’s share of the second tranche
of European Union bonds sold to help finance aid to Ireland
dropped by almost 50 percent, reflecting the securities’ longer
maturity and weaker Japanese demand, the EU said.  Asian buyers accounted for 11 percent of the 4.6 billion
euros ($6.5 billion) of seven-year securities issued to raise
money for Ireland and Romania, the European Commission said.
That compares with Asia’s 21.5 percent share of an EU sale of
five-year bonds in January. It’s still above Asia’s 4 percent
average for EU bond sales between December 2008 and this year.  The decline yesterday resulted from the inability of some
Asian central banks to buy bonds with maturities of more than
five years and from lower demand in earthquake-stricken  Japan ,
said Gerassimos Thomas, the Luxembourg-based director in charge
of the sale at the commission.  “The seven-year maturity is an odd maturity for a
benchmark issue and the situation in Japan is obviously
difficult,” Thomas said today by telephone. “Despite that, the
transaction was an overwhelming success.”  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, sold the
seven-year bonds at a yield of 8 basis points more than the mid-
swap rate. It said the books for the securities paying a coupon
of 3.25 percent were oversubscribed more than three times and
were closed in less than two hours.  AAA-Rated EFSM  As a result of the issue, the commission will disburse 3.4
billion euros to Ireland through the European Financial
Stabilization Mechanism and 1.2 billion euros to  Romania  under
the Balance of Payments facility, which is for EU nations
outside the euro area. The AAA-rated EFSM is responsible for
providing 22.5 billion euros of the Irish rescue package of 85
billion euros.  The U.K. represented 29 percent of yesterday’s allocation,
Germany and  Austria  a combined 16 percent and France 9 percent,
according to the commission. The Americas accounted for 6
percent and the Middle East and Africa a joint 4 percent, it
said.  Asset managers and banks were the “drivers” of the
transaction, each accounting for 36 percent, the commission
said. Central banks and other “official” institutions
represented 18 percent, while insurance and pension companies
took 8 percent, according to the commission.  The commission-run EFSM plans to raise as much as 17.6
billion euros this year and 4.9 billion euros in 2012 for
Ireland. This year, the EFSM intends to issue four to five
benchmark bonds worth 3 billion euros to 5 billion euros each.
Three of those sales, including the issues yesterday and in
early January, are due in the first half.  Japanese Government  The separate  European Financial Stability Facility , which
is overseen by euro-area governments, is providing 17.7 billion
euros to Ireland. In the EFSF’s inaugural bond sale in late
January -- 5 billion euros of five-year notes -- Asian investors
represented 38 percent of the allocation. The Japanese
government bought more than a fifth of the issue.  The EFSF plans to raise up to 16.5 billion euros this year
and 10 billion euros in 2012 to finance its share of the Irish
bailout. Because of buffers meant to ensure its AAA credit
rating, the EFSF is raising a total of almost 27 billion euros
this year and in 2012 in order to lend 17.7 billion euros to
Ireland.  The EFSF intends this year to sell a total of three
benchmark bonds worth 3 billion euros to 5 billion euros. The
second EFSF sale is due before July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  