-- 
Atomic Fuel Stored at U.S. Plants Poses Risks Similar to Japan Facilities

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-03-18T22:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/atomic-fuel-stored-at-u-s-plants-poses-risks-similar-to-japan-facilities.html
U.S. nuclear  power plants  are
storing thousands of tons of spent atomic fuel that pose risks
like those triggered in the Japan earthquake that has crews
battling a potential meltdown of stored fuel, nuclear safety
experts said.  U.S. nuclear plants had an estimated 63,000 metric tons
(138.9 million pounds) of spent fuel stored on site as of
January 2010, according to a  report  from the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission. About 2,000 metric tons a year is
expected to be added to that total, the NRC said.  The fuel, which contains uranium and radioactive
byproducts, is taken from reactors and stored at least five
years in water-filled cooling pools, then sometimes sealed in
steel-and-concrete casks for longer-term storage.  “In the U.S., we are worse off, said  David Lochbaum , a
nuclear engineer for the Union of Concerned Scientists who is a
former safety instructor for  the NRC . ‘‘Our spent-fuel pools are
more full than in  Japan .’’  Nuclear fuel storage has been a key sticking point in the
expansion of nuclear power in the U.S. as landowners and
environmental groups oppose plans for nuclear fuel dumps. A
storage site at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada  was canceled by the
Obama administration in 2009 after 20 years of planning and a
cost of $9 billion.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is working to contain damage at
its six-reactor Fukushima plant following this month’s
earthquake and tsunami that shut down power to its cooling
systems. The company is trying to keep the spent fuel stored in
cooling pools covered with water to prevent them from being
exposed to air. If exposed to air, the fuel would overheat and
melt down, releasing radiation.  Crisis in Japan  The crisis in Japan underscores why the U.S. must alter the
way it stores spent fuel at its power plants, said Robert
Alvarez, a senior scholar at the Washington-based Institute for
Policy Studies who has studied the risks of spent-fuel storage.  Thirty-five states  have facilities storing spent nuclear
fuel, including 31 with operating reactors, the NRC said in its
2010-2011 Information Digest. Illinois had the most fuel in
storage through 2009, followed by  Pennsylvania ,  South Carolina ,  New York  and  North Carolina , according to the NRC’s ranking.  ‘‘Unlike the Japanese reactors, in the  United States , the
spent-fuel pools are currently holding, on the average, four
times more than their designs intended,” Alvarez said. “They
are densely compacted.”  Radioactive material generates heat, so spent fuel rods
need to be cooled or their temperature will continue to rise
until they break or catch fire, releasing radiation into the
air, said Paul Padley, a physics professor at Rice University in
Houston.  Cooling the Fuel  Spent fuel removed from reactor cores must remain in a
cooling pool for at least five years, and generally stay there
longer in the U.S., said David McIntyre, a spokesman for the
NRC. Then, the fuel can be taken out and sealed in a solid cask,
although that is more expensive and labor intensive, he said.  Bryant Kinney, a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , said a little less than a quarter of the spent fuel
stored at U.S. nuclear power plants is in  dry casks . Nuclear
plants weren’t designed with the intention of storing their
spent fuel permanently, said Bozidar Stojadinovic, a professor
in the department of civil and environmental engineering at the  University of California , Berkeley.  “The plants have always been designed with the idea that
the fuel will be taken care of,” Stojadinovic said. “The government
promised to do that.”  Limited Protections  Most spent-fuel pools have only one system to circulate
coolant, even though they accumulate far more fuel than a
reactor core, Lochbaum said. Reactors, by comparison, are
required to have multiple backup systems such as diesel pumps
and batteries to keep their fuel cool in case of a shutdown.  There is typically more fuel stored in pools in the U.S.
compared with Japan, in part because Japanese plants reprocess
some of their spent fuel, Lochbaum said. U.S. operators
originally expected to ship spent fuel to a recycling plant or
store it at a collective site away from the plant -- plans that
never materialized.  U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  banned reprocessing of spent
commercial nuclear fuel in 1977 over concerns related to nuclear
weapons proliferation. Though President  Ronald Reagan  in 1981
lifted the ban on commercial reprocessing, there was little
investment in recycling capacity so most plants still store
their spent fuel on site.  Environmentalists and other opponents said the Yucca
Mountain site might be subject to earthquakes, and that
transporting the radioactive material to the site would be
hazardous. Washington state, home of a World War II-era plant
that built one of the first nuclear bombs, is suing along with
other states to force the federal government to reverse its
decision and allow storage to be built at Yucca.  Similar Scenarios  The possible dangers of spent-fuel pools were discussed in
a  report  from the National Academies Press in 2006 that looked
at potential terrorist attacks. One of the scenarios considered
was similar to the crisis spawned by the earthquake in Japan,
Padley, the  Rice University  professor, said.  Nuclear plants likely will face new requirements related to
spent fuel in order to obtain future license extensions, said  Kevin Book , a managing director at ClearView Energy Partners, a
Washington policy group. If those regulations prove too
expensive, some operators may consider shutting plants, he said.  Lochbaum said some safety improvements, such as better
fire-fighting systems, have been added to spent-fuel pools since
the terrorist attacks of September 2001. The U.S. still hasn’t
acted to fix the situation, by either finding a permanent home
for spent fuel or requiring that more of it be stored in casks,
he said.  “We know the hazard, we know what the fix is,” Lochbaum
said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Edward Klump in
Houston
at   eklump@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:  Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net . 