-- 
ATP Oil & Gas Wins Deep-Water Drilling Permit; Shares Surge

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-18T20:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/atp-oil-gas-wins-deep-water-drilling-permit-shares-surge-1-.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. won a U.S.
permit to drill in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, the
third company cleared to resume work halted last year after  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s oil spill. The company surged in New York trading.  ATP, based in Houston, will be able to restart work on a
well in 4,000 feet of water about 90 miles (145 kilometers)
south of Venice, Louisiana, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement  said today in a
statement.  “It certainly brings a lot more clarity to our production
profile for this year,” Chief Financial Officer Albert Reese
said in a phone interview after the announcement. “It’s a great
way to end Friday.”  President  Barack Obama  halted oil and natural-gas drilling
in waters deeper than 500 feet after the April 20 BP explosion,
which killed 11 workers and spewed crude for 87 days. Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  lifted the ban on Oct. 12, citing adoption
of safeguards intended to prevent future spills.  ATP rose 81 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $18.31 at 4:30 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading, after climbing as
much as 11 percent, the steepest intraday gain in seven months.    Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  won the first deep-water drilling permit
on Feb. 28, followed by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  on March 11. All three
companies are using  Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc. (HLX)  in case of
a well blowout, according to the regulator.  ‘Ready, Eager’  ATP will use a stationary drilling platform for its well,
while Noble and  BHP Billiton  won permits for mobile offshore
units, the company said in a statement.  “We are ready and eager to return to work,” Chief
Executive Officer T. Paul Bulmahn said in the statement. ATP’s
well was drilled to about 12,000 feet (3,658 meters) and casing
was set in 2009, the company said.  The bureau, part of the Interior Department, had said the
lack of equipment to plug damaged wells and collect spilled oil
was an obstacle that prevented the agency from issuing permits
until last month.  The Helix system competes with a process developed by  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest oil company, with BP,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   Helix advanced 68 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $15.39, the
biggest gain since Feb. 25.  ATP, which is the sole owner of the well, plans to resume
drilling within two days, using a  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  rig,
Reese said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  