-- 
Latvia ‘Not in Hurry’ to Sell Lattelecom, Dombrovskis Says

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-03-18T15:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/latvia-not-in-hurry-to-sell-lattelecom-dombrovskis-says-1-.html
Latvia is “not in a hurry” to
sell its stakes in two telephone companies should the price be
lower that what was offered in 2007, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  “If this offer is lower, we are not in a hurry,” he told
reporters in Vilnius today following a meeting with his
Lithuanian counterpart,  Andrius Kubilius . “In that case, we’d
rather wait for better market conditions to sell our property.”  The Latvian government rejected a bid in 2007 by  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest telephone company, to buy the
stakes it doesn’t own in fixed-line operator Lattelecom SIA and
Latvijas Mobilais Telefons SIA for 6.7 billion Swedish kronor
($1.1 billion). The government at the time also rejected a
separate offer by the  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for Lattelecom.  “If the offer is anywhere close to what we saw in 2007,
when the then-government missed a good opportunity, we will
seriously consider it,” Dombrovskis said.  “We’ve been interested in increasing our stake as we’ve
done with Eesti Telekom in Estonia and TEO in Lithuania,” said
TeliaSonera spokeswoman Cecilia Edstroem about Lattelecom. “So
far it hasn’t materialized but if they want to open up a process
on this it’s something we would welcome.”  TeliaSonera holds 49 percent in Lattelecom, while its
direct and indirect shareholding in LMT is 60.3 percent. It owns
all of  Estonia ’s biggest fixed-line operator, Elion, and largest
mobile company, EMT, and has a 68 percent stake in Lithuania’s
AB TEO LT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  