-- 
Tax-Writer Camp’s Push for Lower Rates Forces Tough Choices on Deductions

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-18T17:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tax-writer-camp-s-push-for-lower-rates-forces-choice-on-killing-deduction.html
Representative  Dave Camp ’s call to
lower U.S. corporate and individual tax rates to 25 percent
would require Congress to make the type of difficult choices
that have doomed tax overhaul plans for a quarter century.  Camp, a Michigan Republican who heads the House  Ways and
Means Committee , this week said he wants to lower the top
individual and corporate rates by 10 percentage points. His aim
would be to collect revenue totaling 18 percent to 19 percent of
gross domestic product, which is near the recent average.  A rate cut of this scope would require curbing expensive
deductions, said  Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy 
for Deloitte Tax LLP in  Washington . Chief among them would be
tax breaks for employer-provided health coverage and deductions
for mortgage interest and state and local taxes, he said.  “At 25 percent, virtually all of the sacred cows have to
go,” he said. “That will be the difficult thing.”  Such deductions and exclusions are popular and costly. The
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has said the health-
care exclusion will cost $659.4 billion between 2010 and 2014.
The mortgage interest deduction totals $484.1 billion. State and
local property tax deductions cost $120.9 billion, and other
state and local tax deductions are another $237.3 billion.  Investment Tax Breaks  Investments taxed at reduced rates, including  capital gains 
and dividends, would need to be reexamined to meet Camp’s
target, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , president of the American
Action Forum in Washington, a non-profit group that favors
smaller government.  “That is the biggest conceptual disagreement among
folks,” Holtz-Eakin said, referring to capital gains and
dividends, which are taxed at 15 percent for most individuals.  When Camp announced his 25 percent rate target March 16, he
didn’t provide details on how the forgone revenue to the
Treasury would be made up.  He said the rate target is a starting point that he hopes
will focus the debate on a potential tax code overhaul.  “It’s important to have a goal out there and try to get to
the goal,” he told reporters yesterday.  Democratic Reaction  Democrats were noncommittal on whether Camp’s goals could
be achieved. Representative Charles Rangel, a New York Democrat
who is a senior member of the Ways and Means panel, said debate
over eliminating deductions could be a political minefield.  “Any closing of the loopholes can be politicized by
calling it an increase in taxes,” he said.  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means panel, also was skeptical.  “It’s one thing to conceive a goal of a top tax rate of 25
percent for individuals and corporations,” he said. “It’s
another to see how it would work when Republicans are slashing
vital programs.”  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who has advanced a
tax overhaul plan that has a maximum 24 percent rate for
corporations and 35 percent for individuals, called Camp’s 25
percent rate goal a “heavy lift.”  “You’ve got to come up with a lot of revenue,” he said,
adding that he was open to hearing more of Camp’s ideas and
working with him.  Obama Position  A Treasury spokesman didn’t comment yesterday on Camp’s
proposed rate cut. In his State of the Union address Jan. 25,
President  Barack Obama  said he wants to lower the corporate tax
rate and broaden the base, and is open to discussions about the
individual tax code. He has said any cut in the corporate rate
must be accompanied by reducing or eliminating tax breaks.  Obama’s  fiscal commission  last year determined that
individual tax rates could fall to as low as 23 percent if all
deductions, including for home mortgage interest, were removed.
The panel said rates shouldn’t be higher than 29 percent.  Holtz-Eakin said a significant aspect of Camp’s
announcement was his commitment to rewriting both the individual
and corporate tax codes. Many business owners report corporate
income on their individual returns, so a corporate tax-rate drop
wouldn’t help them.  “This is one way to recognize that,” Holtz-Eakin said.
“We want to get the corporate rates down and we want to get
individuals rates down so we don’t have a mismatch.”  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said yesterday he supported a corporate rate cut
without specifying a target. He wouldn’t directly answer
questions about the individual rate, saying he was focusing on
the corporate code. He has said in the past that he is pursuing
changes to both the individual and corporate tax systems.  Camp’s idea will ultimately end up as little more than a
starting point, Deloitte’s Stretch predicted.  “This is positioning,” he said. “This is an effort to
frame the choice the country has.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at   ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  