-- 
Taylor Rule Signals Colombia Will Increase Benchmark Interest Rate to 3.5%

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-03-18T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/taylor-rule-signals-colombia-will-raise-benchmark-rate-to-3-5-.html
Few economists accurately predicted  Colombia ’s central bank interest rate increase last month. The
 Taylor Rule  did and points to a quarter-point increase today,
next month and in May, said Citigroup Inc.  Policy makers will raise the overnight rate to 3.5 percent
from 3.25 percent if their inflation and growth estimates are
applied to Stanford University economist  John B. Taylor ’s
 formula , said Citigroup. Twenty-two of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg agree, while five expect policy makers to pause.    South America ’s fourth-largest economy will grow as much as
6 percent this year after topping 4 percent in 2010, Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said March 16. Colombia’s credit
rating was raised one-step to BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  this
week, restoring the investment grade status lost in September
1999.  “We still don’t know the effect of the upgrade on the
economy or on monetary policy,” said Munir Jalil, chief
economist at Citigroup’s Colombia unit in telephone interview
from Bogota. “What we do know is that the effect will range
from zero to more investment, a faster economy and more
inflation which would usually be associated with an interest
rate increase.”  Taylor’s formula, which he devised to show the best
monetary policy level for spurring growth without stoking
inflation, says that a benchmark rate should be 1.5 times the
inflation rate, plus 0.5 times the gap between the economy’s
potential growth rate and the current pace, plus 1.  Late Start  “The bank’s policy decisions mimic the pure Taylor Rule
more often than not,” said Jalil. “The rule shows the
normalization process should have started earlier in the year
than most expected and that’s what the bank did. Regarding
interest rate movements, Taylor still rules.”  Policy makers, led by central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
last month surprised all but two of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg with a quarter-point increase to 3.25 percent.
According to Citigroup’s analysis of the Taylor Rule, the bank
will raise to 4 percent in May and to 4.5 percent by year-end.
Standard & Poor’s decision to raise Colombia to investment grade
bolsters those projections, Jalil said.  Over the last month, traders have pushed up yields on
Colombian bonds as prices and inflation expectations rose.  Benchmark Bonds  The yield on the Colombian government’s benchmark 11
percent bonds due July 2020 rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 8.15 percent yesterday, according to
Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price declined 0.334
centavo to 118.101 centavos per peso.  The gap between yields on TES UVR due 2013 and similar-
maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of annual consumer price
increase expectations known as the break-even rate, dropped to
360 basis points yesterday from 430 on Feb. 25.  The spread touched 473 on Jan. 7 amid concern deadly floods
in the fourth quarter that swamped crops and destroyed roads,
would stoke inflation.  The peso yesterday gained 0.7 percent to 1,880.00 per  U.S.
dollar .  The 64-year-old Taylor, who served under President  George
W. Bush  as a Treasury undersecretary, published the maxim in a
paper for a 1992 conference. Many central banks and economists
use a modified version of the Taylor Rule that adds currency
fluctuations or  capital controls  into the equation to assess
monetary policy.  ‘Worked Well’  “The original version has worked well in practice," said
Taylor, in response to e-mailed questions. "But any idea can be
improved on as we gain experience. For smaller, open economies,
some have found that including an  exchange rate  can help. But I
would advise against including asset prices like equities.”  The central bank uses a series of economic data each month,
including inflation expectations, economic growth, retail sales
and manufacturing as well as a series of monetary policy models
that include the Taylor Rule, said Jalil, a former member of the
bank’s technical team.  The bank said it would gradually remove monetary stimulus
if the economy continues to grow or inflation expectations
deviate from the bank’s target.  Policy makers at last month’s meeting  noted  their concern
about rising Colombian housing prices and the correlation
between extended periods of historically low  interest rates  and
“significant acceleration in the growth of credit.”  CPI Expectations  Last month’s unexpected rate increase and a government
report showing inflation unexpectedly slowed in February kept
inflation expectations within the central bank’s 2 percent to 4
percent target.  Consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in February from the
previous month, below the 1.03 percent forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, and 3.17 percent from the same month a
year earlier, the third-lowest annual rate in Latin America
after Chile and  Peru .  Economists lowered their predictions for year-end inflation
to 3.48 percent in a  central bank survey  published last week,
from 3.61 percent in the February survey.  “The inflation print last month gives the bank breathing
room to hold this month,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Bogota-based Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage, who
used a modified version of the Taylor Rule last month to predict
the increase. “There is also the  Japan  effect.”  Japan’s biggest earthquake on record and the subsequent
tsunami and nuclear crisis has raised concern economic growth
could slow. The world’s third-largest economy imported $511
million worth of goods from Colombia in 2010, more than double
imports a decade earlier, when it bought $230 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  