-- 
Bahrain Credit Rating Cut Two Levels at S&P on Protests

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-18T12:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bahrain-credit-rating-cut-two-levels-at-s-p-on-protests.html
Bahrain’s credit rating was cut two
levels by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern the economy will suffer
as the government struggles to quell more than a month of
protests that have left about a dozen people dead.  Bahrain’s long-term foreign-currency credit rating was
reduced to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from A-, S&P
said in a statement today. The outlook for the rating is
negative, indicating that more downgrades may follow. Bahrain
was cut to an equivalent level by  Fitch Ratings  on March 15.  “The heightened political turmoil is damaging Bahrain’s
economic model,” S&P analyst Mike Noone wrote in an e-mailed
report. “The Bahraini government has attempted to restore order
by inviting the deployment of Gulf Cooperation Council forces,
but this has angered Bahrain’s Shia population and has been
heavily criticized by  Iran .”  The country’s dollar bond maturing in March 2020 kept its
gain after the S&P announcement. The government declared a
three-month state of emergency on March 15 as troops from  Saudi
Arabia  and other Gulf Cooperation Council states arrived to
support the administration. The protests have fueled Saudi
concern that unrest may spread to the kingdom, which holds about
20 percent of global oil reserves.  2020 Bond  “I don’t think the downgrade has made much difference to
our view on the credit,” Anthony Simond, an investment analyst
at Aberdeen Asset Management in London, said in a telephone
interview. “Now that GCC forces have gone into the country we
expect things not to get any worse from here.”  Aberdeen holds Bahrain’s 5.5 percent dollar bond maturing
in 2020. The notes rose to 92.298 cents on the dollar at 12:05
p.m. in  London  from 91.563 yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 6.65 percent.  The yield, which has jumped from as low as 5.1 percent on
Jan. 19 before the protests began, will eventually return to
pre-unrest levels, although not “any time soon,” Simond said.  Credit-default swaps tied to Bahrain’s bonds rose to 345.25
basis points from as low as 337.75 basis points earlier in the
day, according data provider CMA. The contracts are down from
yesterday’s close of about 351 points.  S&P said Bahrain’s declaration of martial law may polarize
rather than stabilize a “highly charged political situation,”
and that the unrest will probably damage Bahrain as a financial
center and tourist destination.  Arrests  Bahrainis gathered in the village of Sitra today to mourn
the death of a protester, a day after security forces arrested
opposition leaders and accused them of having ties with foreign
countries.  Those arrested yesterday included Hassan Mushaima, a leader
of the Shiite Haq movement, and Ebrahim Sharif, a secular Sunni
and head of the opposition National Democratic Action Society,
according to a statement today from al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite
opposition party. Al-Wefaq said six people were arrested; the
state-run Bahrain News Agency gave no number.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 