-- 
Bahrain Shias Bury Protester, Vow to Continue as Government Tightens Grip

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-18T18:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bahrain-funeral-may-spark-more-protests-after-opposition-leaders-arrested.html
Bahrainis gathered for the funeral
of an anti-government protester today, while security forces
tightened their grip following the arrest of opposition leaders
and demolished the monument that came to symbolize the uprising.    Bahrain  has been struggling to quell more than a month of
protests led by Shiites calling for democracy and increased
civil rights in the Sunni-ruled country. The government declared
a three-month state of emergency on March 15 after troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf states arrived to support the
administration. About a dozen people have been killed.  “The last few days have been filled with violence against
the people,” Sheikh Isa Ahmed Qasim, a senior Shiite cleric,
said in his Friday sermon, condemning the clampdown by troops
and calling for the government to implement democratic reforms.
“The people won’t step back from their demands,” he said.  Protests in Bahrain, where the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet
guards Gulf oil supply, follow unrest across the Middle East and
North Africa that led to the ouster of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . The United Nations yesterday paved the way for possible
military strikes against  Libya  as Muammar Qaddafi’s regime
crushes a popular revolt.  Standard & Poor’s today cut Bahrain’s sovereign credit
rating by two levels to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade
and on a par with  Russia . The company said the “heightened
political turmoil” was damaging to the economy.  ‘Volatile Situation’  The government said that any force by the authorities was
aimed at keeping the peace.  “It’s a very volatile situation,” Bahraini Foreign
Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said today at a
press conference in Manama, the capital. “In volatile
situations, you do expect violence to happen. There is no
systematic violence against the people.”  Late last night, residents on the island village of Sitra
went to their rooftops and called out “God is great” over 15
minutes in protest of the government’s violent crackdown on the
demonstrators. The funeral for Ahmed Farhan, a protester, took
place with as many as 10,000 people in Sitra as police and
military personnel searched vehicles.  “What happened to my son, must happen to the King’s son
and family,” said Khadija Salman Ali, 52, the mother of Farhan,
in an interview from Sitra. “Look what they did to us.”  Mourners in Sitra  Earlier this month, a funeral in Sitra, which is a small
island off the Bahrain coast, drew tens of thousands of mourners
and developed into a protest.  Those arrested yesterday included Hassan Mushaima, a leader
of the Shiite Haq movement, and Ebrahim Sharif, a secular Sunni
and head of the opposition National Democratic Action Society,
according to a statement today from al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite
opposition party. Al-Wefaq said six people were arrested; the
state-run Bahrain News Agency gave no number.  King Hamad bin Isa  Al Khalifa  offered a national dialogue,
and Crown Prince Salman has said he’s committed to talks. The
arrested were accused of having ties with foreign countries.  Shiites make up about 70 percent of the population and many
retain cultural and family ties with Iran, as well as with
Shiites in Saudi Arabia, a minority of about 10 to 15 percent.
Earlier this week Iran withdrew its ambassador to protest
against the crackdown.  Pearl Roundabout  Riot police forced protesters from their main gathering
point at the Pearl Roundabout in Manama on March 16. Two members
of al-Wefaq were killed, the group said, while two policemen
died when they were hit by a car during the operation. After the
clashes, the military imposed a curfew on parts of the country
and banned protests and public gatherings.  Today, the government ordered the twisted white tower in
the center of the roundabout to be pulled down for a
 “facelift”  to “boost the flow of traffic,” according to the
official Bahrain News Agency. The foreign minister said it had
become a “bad memory.”  Riot police were deployed in Jidhafs, a Shiite village on
the outskirts of Manama, to break up a demonstration yesterday.
They used tear gas, sound bombs and rubber bullets to end a
rally of about 100 people, according to Ibrahim Ahmed, 34, a
witness to the protest.  “In times like this, you often go more extreme. The
elements of the opposition are becoming tougher because of the
use of violence,” Simon Henderson, director of the Gulf and
Energy Policy Program at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said in a telephone interview. “The leadership is being
arrested but there hasn’t been mass arrests of demonstrators,
and so there are still very many angry people out there.”  Saudi Fears  The protests have fueled Saudi fears that unrest may spread
to the kingdom, which holds 20 percent of global oil reserves.    Oil prices  are up 25 percent compared with a year ago.
Crude for April delivery fell 0.8 percent to $100.61 a barrel at
12:57 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today after
Qaddafi’s regime in Libya declared a ceasefire.  In Saudi Arabia, about 1,000 people in the eastern city of
al-Qatif defied a ban on rallies and protested peacefully March
15 to demand the country’s troops end their incursion. Almost
1,000 Kuwaiti Shiites demonstrated in  Kuwait City  yesterday in
solidarity with the Bahraini protests.  The Bahrain News Agency said the opposition leaders were
arrested for “contacting foreign countries.” “The General
Command of the Bahrain Defense Force will take all necessary
legal measures” against those arrested, it said.    Iran  recalled its ambassador to Bahrain, Mehdi Agha-Jafari,
March 16 to protest the crackdown, state-run Mehr news agency
reported. Bahrain earlier recalled its envoy to Tehran after
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  referred
to the deployment of Gulf troops as “meddling.”  Bahrain yesterday  called  on the UN, the 57-member
 Organization of the Islamic Conference  and the Arab league to
reject Iranian request for them to get involved, the Bahrain
News Agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 