-- 
Bain, Related Cos. Said to Lead Group Targeting U.S. Furniture Showrooms

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-03-18T17:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bain-related-cos-said-to-lead-group-targeting-u-s-furniture-showrooms.html
Bain Capital LLC and Related Cos.
are leading an investor group poised to snap up furniture
showrooms and capture part of the U.S. market for manufacturer
trade shows, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  The investment group is in talks to buy two showrooms in  North Carolina ’s High Point Market, which hosts the largest home
furnishing industry trade show in the world, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the buyers haven’t been made
public.  High Point Market , which features 180 buildings with 10
million square feet (929,000 square meters) of show space, hosts
two trade shows a year that each bring 80,000 attendees and
2,000 exhibitors, according to its website.  Bain and Related may also target two buildings at the  World
Market Center  in  Las Vegas , the people said. Lenders to those
properties, which are owned by another investor group that
includes Related, sued in Clark County District Court yesterday
seeking the appointment of a receiver to oversee the assets. The
center, which sits on 57 acres in downtown Las Vegas, hosts
about 50,000 people twice annually, its website says.  By taking stakes in the two U.S. furniture expos, Bain and
Related would have influence over the global merchandising
market. Consumer purchases of home furnishings totaled $83.5
billion last year, according to investment bank Mann, Armistead
& Epperson Ltd.  High Point Showrooms  The investment group is near an agreement to buy the
International Home Furnishings Center, High Point Market’s
largest showroom, for $275 million, one person said.  Bassett
Furniture Industries Inc. (BSET) , an owner of the showroom, said in a
Feb. 25 filing that Bain and Related had signed a
confidentiality agreement last year regarding the purchase.  The investor group is in talks to buy the other High Point
showroom from Merchandise Mart Properties Inc., a unit of
Vornado Realty Trust, the people said. The group may target a
third High Point property, Showplace, they said.  Related, developer of projects such as the Time Warner
Center in  New York , opened its first furniture showroom in Las
Vegas in 2005. In addition to developing real estate, Related
owns businesses including the Equinox fitness chain.  Bain, based in  Boston , manages $65 billion in assets across
strategies such as private equity,  hedge funds  and  venture
capital . Through its funds it owns companies such as doughnut
seller Dunkin Brands Inc., Toys R Us Inc. and Gymboree Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  