-- 
Bank Levy, Sovereign Debt, Stress Tests: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-21T18:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bank-levy-proposal-fdic-sues-ex-wamu-ceo-bank-risk-compliance.html
(Corrects second item of Courts section to remove H&R Block
from the first and fifth paragraphs and add Liberty Tax Services
in the fifth paragraph. The story was originally published on
March 18.)  U.S. House Democrats are looking to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  to pick up the tab for housing programs targeted
by Republican budget cuts.  Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, the top
Democrat on the  Financial Services Committee , introduced a
measure yesterday that would impose a $2.5 billion levy on
financial firms with more than $50 billion in assets and hedge
fund managers with more than $10 billion in assets. The money
would be collected through risk-based assessments.  Republicans have targeted four housing programs as they
attempt to cut back on federal spending, voting March 16 to
eliminate the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. They are also
scheduled to vote on eliminating the Obama administration’s
signature foreclosure-prevention effort, the Home Affordable
Modification Program.  Frank, as a member of the minority party, would need
Republicans to support the measure for it to move forward.  He proposed a similar levy last year to cover the cost of
the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, which didn’t succeed.  Compliance Policy  Banks Should Assess EU Debt-Restructure Risk, U.K. FSA Says  U.K. banks need to assess their preparedness for a
sovereign-debt restructuring by a European country with internal
stress tests, the  Financial Services Authority  said.  Lenders should look at how their balance sheets would
withstand “a prolonged period of austerity and possible
restructuring of bank and sovereign debt” by countries such as
Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the FSA said yesterday in a
report on risks to the British financial industry.  U.K. banks may face “indirect credit risks” from the EU
sovereign-debt crisis because their “exposures to German and
French banks totaled nearly 150 billion pounds” ($241 billion)
in 2010, according to the report.  Adam Farkas, the nominee to be the executive director of
the European Banking Authority, said regulators should
strengthen EU-wide stress tests to better examine lenders’
sovereign debt holdings.  The EBA, which is preparing the exams, could review whether
the tests should include the possibility of a sovereign default,
Farkas told the  European Parliament  in Brussels. That wasn’t
among draft test scenarios circulated earlier this month and
seen by Bloomberg News.  Stress Tests May Undermine Confidence, German Bank Group Says  The publication of bank stress tests planned by European
Union regulators may undermine confidence rather than boost
stability because the results can be misread, the Association of
German Banks said.  While the German banking association supports examining the
stability of the European financial system and “significantly
tougher” criteria, it says the results for individual banks
shouldn’t be published. In addition, the test shouldn’t include
minimum capital hurdles and tougher definitions for reserves,
Dirk Jaeger, managing director at the BdB lobby group, said in
Frankfurt yesterday.  EU regulators are considering lifting the minimum amount of
capital needed to pass the test and introducing a stricter
definition of what constitutes such reserves after criticism of
last year’s tests. A decision on the final hurdles hasn’t been
made, Jaeger said. The stress tests will cover 88 banks in
Europe, or about 65 percent of EU banking assets, according to
documents obtained by Bloomberg News earlier this month.  European Union regulators have yet to agree on which banks
to test as part of annual exams on capital, or what the passing
grade will be, a month before an April deadline for disclosure
of stress test methodology.  The stress tests will apply to a “wide sample of European
banks covering over 60 percent of total EU banking assets,” the
European Banking Authority, the agency carrying out the tests,
said in a statement yesterday that didn’t identify the banks to
be examined.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Action  Barclays, Citigroup Said to Be Subpoenaed in Libor Probe    Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among banks subpoenaed
by U.S. regulators investigating whether some firms manipulated
the setting of the London interbank offered rate, two people
with knowledge of the probes said.  Germany’s WestLB AG and London-based  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  are among the 16 banks on the panel that set Libor that have
been contacted by regulators requesting information, said two
people who declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak on the matter. Bank of America Corp., the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, also received subpoenas from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department ,
the Financial Times reported March 16.  Libor rates are set daily by the  British Bankers’
Association , based on data it gets from a panel of banks on what
it would cost them to borrow funds for various periods and in
different currencies. The validity of Libor, a benchmark for
more than $350 trillion of derivatives and corporate bonds, was
questioned during the credit crisis as banks became wary of
lending to one another because of mounting losses.  The SEC may examine whether banks misled their own
investors by making misstatements regarding the benchmark, said
Arthur Wilmarth, a professor at George Washington University Law
School. During the financial crisis, investors tracked firms’
ability to borrow money and remain liquid.  For more, click here.  Comparing CEO to Worker Pay Too Costly, Firms Tell SEC  As part of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, public
companies including those with global operations like  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  eventually will have to
work out what they pay each employee, across an international
variety of payroll systems, currencies and benefits, and find
the median compensation.  Some of the firms and trade groups have sent letters to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, urging the regulator to
revoke the rule and claiming that it costs too much money to
compile the data. Bloomberg’s Lizzie O’Leary reported on the
topic yesterday.  For the video, click here.  South Korean Regulator to Tighten Rules on Bond Sale  South Korea’s  Financial Services Commission  will tighten
rules on subordinated bonds sold by savings banks, the regulator
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The regulator also will apply stricter criteria on
calculating those savings banks’ capital adequacy ratio.  South Korea suspended eight savings banks this year because
of their poor finances.  RBS Reduced Taxpayer, Central Bank Funding Aid by 21% in 2010    Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the biggest U.K.
government-owned bank, said it reduced taxpayer-assisted funding
by 21 percent to 57.6 billion pounds ($93 billion) last year.  The Edinburgh-based lender had 41.5 billion pounds of loans
and guarantees from the government’s Credit Guarantee Scheme and
16.1 billion pounds from the Bank of England’s  Special Liquidity
Scheme . That is 15.3 billion pounds less than the total in 2009.  The government has injected 45.5 billion pounds into RBS to
bolster its capital and insures about 195 billion pounds of its
risky assets.  The U.K. financial authorities introduced the SLS at the
peak of the credit crisis to allow banks to swap hard-to-trade
mortgage-backed securities for government bonds.  Kraft, Unilever, Dr. Oetker Get German Antitrust Fines  German units of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Unilever NV (UNA) , and Dr.
August Oetker Nahrungsmittel KG, were fined a total of 38
million euros ($53 million) for anticompetitive behavior.  The companies took part in meetings where they shared data
about food, as well as information about negotiations and price
policies with retailers, the Federal Cartel Office, Germany’s
antitrust regulator, said in an e-mailed statement.  The companies agreed to the fines as part of a settlement,
the cartel office said yesterday.  Regarding Rotterdam-based Unilever, the investigation
focused on information exchanged in 2006, and doesn’t concern
ongoing operations, company spokesman Konstantin Bark said in an
e-mailed statement. The settlement is considered to be in the
best interests of Unilever, he said.  Silke Troesch, a German spokeswoman for Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft, confirmed the settlement. Dr. Oetker
spokesman Joerg Schillinger said he couldn’t comment beyond the
regulator’s statement.  Courts  FDIC Sues Ex-Washington Mutual CEO Killinger for Bank Losses  Former  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief Executive Officer Kerry
Killinger and Chief Operating Officer Stephen Rotella took
extreme risks with the bank’s home-loans portfolio, causing
billions of dollars in losses, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. said in a complaint.  Rotella, Killinger and David Schneider, Washington Mutual’s
home loans president, showed reckless disregard for the bank’s
long-term safety and instead focused on short-term gains to
increase their compensation and “should be held accountable,”
the FDIC said in the complaint filed March 16 in federal court
in Seattle. The agency seeks unspecified damages and an order
freezing the assets of Killinger and Rotella and their wives.  Federal regulators seized Washington Mutual, once the
nation’s biggest savings and loan, in September 2008 and sold it
to New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.  Bank executives blamed Killinger, who was CEO for 18 years,
during hearings before the U.S. Senate last year for ineffective
management controls and lax lending standards.  “This action runs counter to the facts about my relatively
short time at the company,” Rotella wrote in a letter e-mailed
to Bloomberg by his spokesman, Daniel Hilley. “As you might
imagine, I am angered by this abuse of power by the FDIC.”  JPMorgan spokesman Joseph Evangelisti declined to comment.
No phone number is listed for Kerry Killinger in Washington
State and Schneider couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Kentucky Bank Takes on FDIC in Last Stand for Tax Refund Loans  A Kentucky bank’s legal challenge to regulatory efforts to
banish “refund-anticipation loans” for taxpayers may be the
last stand for a product that has generated millions of dollars
for tax preparation firms including  Jackson Hewitt Tax Service
Inc. (JTX) , analysts said.  Republic Bancorp Inc., based in Louisville, sued the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. last month after the agency
subpoenaed tax preparers for “immediate access to and copies”
of files, customer disclosures and communications as part of a
probe of “unsafe or unsound banking practices” by the bank.  The requests, outlined in a confidential subpoena obtained
by Bloomberg News, followed efforts by the Internal Revenue
Service and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to
curb use of the tax-refund loans known as RALs.  A unit of the bank, Tax Refund Solutions, provides the
loans through Jackson Hewitt and Liberty Tax Service offices.  Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, said the agency is
scrutinizing whether RALs are “a safe and sound product and
comply with consumer protection laws.” He declined to comment
on the Republic case, citing an FDIC prohibition on discussing
active litigation or confidential supervisory information.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Massad Says Treasury Opposes Ending of U.S. Housing Aid  Tim Massad, acting assistant secretary for financial
stability at the U.S. Treasury; Neil Barofsky, special inspector
general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program; Ted Kaufman,
former U.S. Senator from Delaware; and Thomas McCool, director
of the Government Accountability Office’s Center for Economics,
Applied Research and Methods, testified before the  Senate
Banking Committee  about TARP.  They spoke at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee in
Washington yesterday. Their testimony included comments about
costs of the TARP program, TARP oversight, regulation, and use
of taxpayer funds.  For the video, click here and for more, click here.  Burns Says Rajaratnam Defense Arguing Tips Were Public  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam and the strategy of his defense team.  Burns discussed possible defense strategies with Erik
Schatzker and Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.” He also talked about the administrative
proceeding against Rajat K. Gupta.  For the video, click here.  Deficit Fight Doesn’t Justify Shortchanging CFTC, Gensler Says  Congressional efforts to reduce the federal deficit
shouldn’t restrict funding for the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , which needs more money to avert a repeat of the
credit crisis, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  “We recognize that the budget deficit presents significant
challenges to Congress and the American public,” Gensler said
yesterday in remarks prepared for a House Appropriations
Committee hearing in Washington. “But we cannot forget that the
2008 financial crisis was very real.”  The CFTC budget has been frozen at its fiscal 2010 level --
along with those of other federal agencies -- by a stalemate
between Republicans aiming to cut spending and Democrats looking
to fund implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFTC and the
Securities and Exchange Commission are responsible for expanding
oversight of derivatives under the regulatory overhaul.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Goldman Sachs Hires U.K. Lawyers to Prepare for Bribery Act    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and U.S. law firms are luring
lawyers away from the U.K. fraud prosecutor as companies prepare
to comply with the world’s “most draconian” anti-bribery law.  The U.K.  Ministry of Justice  has said it will introduce new
proposals as soon as next week. Under the law, U.K. companies
without adequate controls to prevent corruption may be
prosecuted if a bribe is paid by third parties on their behalf
anywhere in the world, even if officials didn’t know.  The Ministry of Justice may weaken some parts of the law
initially put forward by former Prime Minister Gordon Brown’s
Labour government last year, SFO officials said. The proposal
was criticized over clauses that would have classified fancy
dinners or sports tickets for foreign officials as bribes.  Chris Walker, the SFO policy chief, told a defense industry
conference in January that the revised law may allow a company
to fund a factory visit and hospitality for a public official. A
month’s stay on a private yacht after the trip would “raise red
flags,” he said.  British business groups pressed the ministry to make the
law more business-friendly and clarify provisions that may be
too vague to defend in a prosecution.  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Board Member Scott to Leave After Review  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said board member H. Lee Scott,
who helped review the bank’s business practices when the firm
was sued by U.S. regulators, will quit after one year because of
other commitments.  Scott, 62, a former  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  chief executive
officer, was elected to the board at the annual shareholder
meeting in May. He won’t seek re-election at this year’s
meeting, the firm said yesterday in a statement. Goldman Sachs,
the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is seeking a replacement,
a person familiar with the matter said.  Scott was nominated to the board on March 19 last year, the
same day the firm said Rajat K. Gupta, who joined the board in
2006, wouldn’t stand for re-election. Gupta was later sued by
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Gary Naftalis , an attorney
for Gupta, has called the SEC’s allegations “totally
baseless.”  Draghi Backed by Hedge Fund Managers to Become ECB Chief  Italy’s Mario Draghi should succeed Jean-Claude Trichet as
president of the European Central Bank when the incumbent’s term
ends in October, a panel of hedge fund managers said.  Draghi’s experience as head of the  Financial Stability
Board , where he helped to rewrite global financial rules, makes
him the most qualified candidate to succeed Trichet, investors
from  RAB Capital Plc (RAB) , Sturgeon Capital LLP and Signet Group said
at the  Bloomberg Link Hedge Funds  conference in London
yesterday.  European leaders are looking for a Trichet successor just
as they try to persuade voters to offer more financial support
to debt-strapped nations across the euro region’s periphery.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 