-- 
BOE’s Bean Says He Favors Delaying Rate Increases, Times Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-18T10:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/boe-s-bean-says-he-favors-delaying-rate-increases-times-says.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said he favors delaying interest-rate increases to
tame inflation while the economic recovery remains fragile.  “I would not strive to get inflation back to target as
soon as I possibly could, because that would mean, if  interest
rates  were higher, slowing the recovery,” Bean said in an
interview with The  Times newspaper  in London published today.
“I would be willing to accept a slightly longer period of
inflation running a little bit above target in order to match
that margin of unused resources.”  The U.K. economy shrank 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter,
while inflation accelerated in January to 4 percent, twice the
central bank’s target. That’s split officials on the outlook for
policy, with three of the nine-member committee calling for an
increase to the benchmark interest rate.  “Upside risks to inflation are not the only thing we have
to worry about,” Bean said. “We are in an economy which is
recovering from a very deep recession indeed, where there is
still a substantial margin of spare capacity, where unemployment
is elevated.”  Bean also said there is a potential impact on executive and
consumer confidence from the turmoil in the Middle East and the
earthquake in  Japan . Initially there will probably be a
“depressing effect” on the Japanese economy.  “The power situation, with the prospect of regular power
outages, will have more widespread implications,” Bean said.
“A bit further down the road is when the rebuilding process
gets underway; then you might see a bounce.”  Oil-Price Risk  Bean said the oil-price impact from the uprising in  Libya 
“should be relatively modest,” though the spread of unrest in
the region “could lead to a further substantial rise.”  That’s one of the “upside risks” to inflation, he said.
Overall, it’s “reasonable to expect the rate of commodity-price
inflation to ease back.”  He said the movement in U.K. longer-term inflation
expectations remains “acceptable” and it may be the third
quarter before policy makers have a clear picture of the
sustainability of the recovery.  “If there is a strong first-quarter number you wouldn’t
know if it’s just a temporary bounce because of people
undertaking expenditure that they weren’t able to do when the
snow was around or whether it indicates greater underlying
strength,” he said. “You can solve that by waiting until we
get the second-quarter data.”  Bean said policy makers are assessing whether the fourth-
quarter slump “might indicate a more durable slowing, possibly
connected with people becoming more concerned about the impact
of the fiscal consolidation.”  “It is appropriate to wait until we have got a better
handle on what the underlying strength of the recovery is and
therefore a better handle on the prospect for the economy
further down the road,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  