-- 
Bon Yayi Wins Benin Election Over Opposition’s Houngbedji Avoiding Runoff

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-18T20:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bon-yayi-wins-benin-s-presidential-vote-over-opposition-leader-houngbedji.html
Benin  President Thomas Boni Yayi
defeated veteran opposition leader Adrien Houngbedji and avoided
a runoff as the results of the March 13 election were released,
the electoral board said.  Boni Yayi won 53.1 percent of the vote and Houngbedji won
35.6 percent, according to the chief of the electoral
commission.  The announcement follows a tense post-election period in
the West African nation. Opposition party members loyal to
Houngbedji blocked the doors to  Benin ’s electoral commission in
Cotonou, the commercial capital, on March 16 in protest at the
ruling party’s claim of victory before the commission’s official
announcement of the results.  Houngbedji’s supporters allege widespread vote fraud in the
north, Boni Yayi’s stronghold.  Nine privately owned newspapers were barred from publishing
from March 14 to March 20 by the Higher Authority for
Audiovisual Communication for allegedly violating a directive
barring media from printing insults and false information, the
Ghana-based Media Foundation for West Africa  said  on its website
March 16.  Ponzi Scheme  Boni Yayi’s bid for a second term has been marred by the
collapse of a 156 billion-CFA-franc ($327 million) Ponzi scheme
and opposition threats to boycott the twice-delayed election.
Boni Yayi, who fired Interior Minister Armand Zinzindohoue for
his role in the scheme, has denied any wrongdoing.  During the campaign, Houngbedji, a former prime minister
who also ran unsuccessfully for president in 1991, 1996 and
2001, criticized the government for failing to protect
depositors, calling the scheme a “crime against the people.”  The Pennsylvania-sized country, which borders  Nigeria ,
Niger, Togo and  Burkina Faso , was inundated by heavy rains in
September and October. The floods cut the outlook for growth
this year to 3.4 percent from 4.4 percent, Finance Minister
Idriss Daouda told the Washington-based IMF in a letter
published on the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Growth in 2010 was 2.5 percent, hindered by a slow recovery
from the global economic crisis, the fund said. Inflation was
“subdued” at an average 2.1 percent last year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Porto Novo at 
 zsergedavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Emily Bowers  at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net . 