-- 
Barry Bonds Trial May Hinge on Giambi Testifying Trainer Supplied Steroids

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bonds-perjury-trial-turns-on-players-fingering-trainer-as-steroid-supplier.html
The perjury trial of  Barry Bonds 
may hinge on whether jurors believe the baseball home run king,
who claims he didn’t know his trainer was giving him steroids,
or Jason Giambi, the former New York Yankee expected to testify
he was given the muscle-building drugs by the same trainer.  The trial, which begins March 21 in federal court in San
Francisco with jury selection, may also feature testimony by
Bonds’s ex-teammate on the  San Francisco Giants , Benito Santiago. If called, he’s expected to say that he also got
steroids from trainer  Greg Anderson , prosecutors have said.
Anderson, who pleaded guilty in 2005 to distributing
performance-enhancing drugs, will refuse to take the stand at
the trial, his lawyer has said.  With testimony from Giambi, Santiago and possibly other
players who have admitted receiving steroids, prosecutors will
seek to show Anderson played a key role in supplying the drugs
at the time they allege Bonds was taking them, said  Richard
Cutler , a former federal prosecutor not involved in the case.  “They are going to show what Anderson’s practice was, and
try to convince the jury that there’s no reason to believe that
he did anything different with Bonds than he did with the other
players,” said Cutler. “It’s building a circumstantial case.”  Bonds, 46, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, faces four counts of perjury and one count
of obstruction of justice for telling a grand jury in 2003 that
he didn’t knowingly take steroids. The maximum sentence for each
of the counts is 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Bonds,
who was first charged in November 2007, has pleaded not guilty.  Urine Samples  When asked whether Anderson ever gave him anything he knew
to be a steroid, Bonds said, “I don’t think Greg would do
anything like that to me,” according to an indictment.
Responding to a question about whether he ever took any steroids
Anderson gave him, Bonds answered: “Not that I know of.”  Bonds’s lawyers won a ruling barring prosecutors from
showing jurors urine-sample log sheets marked “Barry B” as
well as drug tests and other documents they say show that Bonds
tested positive for the substances.  Some of the documents were seized during the investigation
of Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative, the Burlingame, California,
lab at the center of a federal steroids in sports investigation.
The lab’s owners pleaded guilty to steroid distribution.
Prosecutors say other documents were created by Anderson.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  ruled that without the
testimony of Anderson linking the information to Bonds, the
documents are “hearsay” and not admissible as evidence.  Giambi, Anderson  Giambi will testify that he met Anderson through Bonds and
began working with the trainer in November 2002, prosecutors
said. Jurors will hear him talk about receiving steroids from
Anderson, along with the trainer’s instructions and schedule
about how to administer them, court documents show.  Giambi may also be asked about his grand jury testimony
that Anderson told him the substances were undetectable on
tests.  Bonds holds the Major League Baseball career record with
762 home runs and the single-season record with 73 home runs in
2001. He played 22 seasons in the major leagues, the first seven
with the Pittsburgh Pirates before moving to the  San Francisco 
Giants in 1993 as a free agent. He won a record seven National
League Most Valuable Player awards, including four straight from
2001 through 2004. He hasn’t played since the 2007 season.    Colorado Rockies   Giambi, 40, a first baseman for the Colorado Rockies, is
about to start his 17th major league season. He played for the
Yankees from 2002 to 2008 and also played for the  Oakland
Athletics , where he was the  American League ’s Most Valuable
Player in 2000.  Santiago, 46, retired from the MLB in 2005 after spending
20 years with nine teams. He was a five-time All-Star catcher.
He played with Bonds on the Giants from 2001 to 2003.  Other government witnesses include Kimberly Bell, Bonds’s
former mistress, who may testify that Bonds told her he was
taking steroids prior to the 2000 season, according to court
documents. She may also describe physical changes she saw in
Bonds, including bloating, acne, sexual dysfunction and
testicular shrinkage, that prosecutors say are tied to steroids
use, the documents show.  Bonds’s business associates may testify about conversations
they had with Anderson about providing Bonds with steroids and
seeing Anderson injecting Bonds with a substance, court records
show.  Civil Contempt Charges  Prosecutors and defense lawyers have agreed that Anderson
won’t be called to testify at the trial. Illston said March 1
that she intends to jail Anderson when the trial starts; he has
previously been jailed for more than a year on civil contempt
charges after refusing to testify about his dealings with Bonds.  The government’s evidence filings include photos of Bonds
depicting him as trim, then heftier through the years.
Prosecutors also say evidence will show that Bonds tested
positive for steroids in June 2003 in connection with baseball’s
drug testing program.  Jeffrey Nedrow, an assistant U.S. attorney, declined to
comment.  Bonds’s attorneys may call government investigators as
witnesses to question them about their tactics. A trainer for
the Giants and an expert in steroids are also on Bonds’s witness
list, according to court documents.  Allen Ruby, Bonds’s attorney, declined to comment.  ‘We Don’t Care’  “The biggest defense that the Bonds team has is jury
nullification -- that even if prosecutors prove their case, the
jury shrugs and says, ‘We don’t care,’ and decides not to
convict,” said Cutler, of Philadelphia-based Dechert LLP.  Jurors selected for the trial must agree in writing to an
order not to talk, e-mail or text about the case on Facebook,
Twitter or on their iPhones, according to a questionnaire
distributed to prospective jurors March 17.  Chris St. Hilaire, president of Jury Impact, a consulting
company based in  Costa Mesa ,  California , said he’s never seen
such a restriction on jurors and that it’s a recognition that
the lawyers in the case “know how influential social media is
now.”  The Giants won their first  World Series  in 56 years in
November, defeating the Texas Rangers three years after Bonds
left the team.  The trial, expected to last at least two weeks, begins 10
days before the MLB season starts.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 