-- 
Brazil’s Sugar-Cane Harvest May Be Delayed by Rains, ICAP Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-18T17:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/brazil-s-sugar-cane-harvest-may-be-delayed-by-rains-icap-says.html
Sugar-cane harvesting in the main
growing region in Brazil, the world’s biggest sugar producer,
may be delayed after above-average rainfall in the first weeks
of March, according to ICAP Brasil.  “Rains in the first half of March were almost double the
average of the last 10 years,” Marcos Mine, head of the sugar
and ethanol desk at ICAP Brasil, said by phone from  Sao Paulo 
today. “This has already delayed the start in some mills.”  The bulk of Brazil’s cane crop is usually harvested between
March and December in Center South, which accounts for about 90
percent of the country’s output. Rainfall may also hamper sugar
production at the beginning of the harvest, leading processors
to make ethanol instead, according to Mine.  “It’s impossible to produce sugar when the cane is wet, so
when crushing starts, millers will have to make ethanol,” he
said.  A shortage of the biofuel in the Brazilian domestic market
may also help to delay sugar production as the government tries
to ensure ethanol supplies, Mine said.  The Brazilian Sugarcane Industry Association, known as
Unica, urged mills to start crushing as quickly as possible to
help avert a domestic shortage of ethanol, Marcos Jank, the
industry group’s president, told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday.  This month’s rains caused landslides and destroyed three
bridges on the BR 277 federal road that runs to the port of
Paranagua, a press officer for toll-road operator Ecovia said by
phone March 14.  A press official at Paranagua,  Brazil ’s second-biggest
port, said March 14 that while trucks were unable to make
deliveries, the port was keeping up with scheduled shipments
using stored grains. The official asked to remain anonymous,
citing company policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 