-- 
Bristol-Myers Bribed Doctors in Drug Scheme, California Commissioner Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T19:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/bristol-myers-bribed-doctors-in-drug-scheme-california-commissioner-says.html
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  bribed
doctors to prescribe the pharmaceutical company’s drugs,
according to a whistle-blower lawsuit being pursued by the
California insurance commissioner.  Commissioner Dave Jones said at a press conference today in
Los Angeles that the drugmaker’s sales people in California
provided physicians with trips to basketball camps and other
kickbacks to boost prescriptions of its drugs, including Plavix
and Pravachol. The lawsuit is the largest health-insurance fraud
case pursued by a California agency, Jones said.  California insurance companies spent $3.5 billion to cover
the costs of the drugs involved in the lawsuit, according to the
commissioner. The lawsuit seeks $10,000 for each fraudulent
insurance claim caused by the alleged kickbacks, disgorgement of
illegal profits, and triple the amount of damages.  “This sort of fraud has long plagued our health-insurance
system, leading to billions of dollars annually in added health-
care costs nationally,” Jones said today in a statement.  Three former employees of New York-based Bristol-Myers
filed the whistle-blower action under seal in 2007 in Superior
Court in  Los Angeles . The suit was unsealed last week. The so-
called qui tam lawsuit was taken over by the commissioner, who
will share any recoveries with the employees.  Kickbacks Alleged  The lawsuit claims that the company provided illegal
kickbacks to doctors in order to increase pharmaceutical sales
in California. Bristol-Myers in 2007 agreed to pay $515 million
to settle U.S. allegations it overcharged the government for
drugs and promoted medicines for unapproved uses.  “Bristol-Myers Squibb believes this lawsuit has no merit
and the company will defend itself vigorously,” company
spokeswoman Laura Hortas said today in an interview.  The complaint alleges that Bristol-Myers sales
representatives, with permission from management, held happy
hours with members of the  Los Angeles Lakers  and that “high
prescribing” physicians were routinely invited to watch Lakers
home games at a luxury suite.  The drugmaker also paid for golf outings, samba dance
events for Hispanic doctors, tickets to the Los Angeles
Philharmonic, and bought liquor for physicians to induce them to
increase their prescriptions and to reward them for doing so,
according to the complaint.  If a physician didn’t increase his prescriptions of the
company’s drugs, Bristol-Myers used a tactic called “shaking
the doctors down,” whereby sales representatives would warn the
physicians he wouldn’t be getting free samples or invited to
dinner events and resort events, according to the complaint.  Jones said at today’s news conference that  California 
prosecutors had opted not to intervene in the case.  The case is California and Michael Wilson v. Bristol Myers
Squibb Inc., BC 367873, California Superior Court (Los Angeles
County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  