-- 
Brown Focuses on Pursuit of Four Republican Votes as Taxes Question Hangs

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-18T05:40:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/brown-focuses-pursuit-on-four-republicans-as-california-tax-question-hangs.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
said he’ll work through the weekend to coax at least four
Republican lawmakers to break ranks and put $9.3 billion in tax
extensions to a referendum, to stave off further sweeping cuts.  Brown persuaded the Democratic majorities in the Senate and
Assembly to slash $12.5 billion from the budget yesterday,
overcoming Republicans who united against the key spending
bills.  The 72-year-old Democrat campaigned on a pledge to restore
fiscal stability to the nation’s most populous and most indebted
state, even as it faces a $26.6 billion deficit through June
2012. He needs four Republican votes to authorize a special
election on the taxes. Without that revenue, Brown has said,
another $10 billion will have to be chopped, much of it from
schools and public safety.  “The Republicans know we are in a state of fiscal
crisis,” Brown said after the bills passed, over Republican
opposition. “I’m hoping Californians will rally around our flag
and make the tough decisions that are needed and exercise the
discipline necessary to stabilize our very shaky finances.”  As they headed into the  California Republican Party’s
annual convention  this weekend, Brown’s opponents showed few
signs of budging. Democrats said potentially sympathetic
Republican lawmakers fear defying their leaders before the
conclave.  “Convention or no convention, our principles are the same
with regard to taxes,” said Connie Conway, the leader of the
Assembly Republican caucus. “We’re not going along with it.”  Conservative Caucus  A conservative caucus at the convention in Sacramento is
pushing to publicly censure any lawmaker who votes to put the
tax measure on the ballot.  The Assembly and Senate could take up the tax plan as early
as March 21. Brown has been meeting privately with Republicans
for weeks in an effort to strike a deal before time runs out for
setting the ballot.  The cuts completed yesterday are part of a budget package
that included limiting Medicaid recipients to seven doctor’s
visits a year without a physician’s certification, ending
sponsorship of day care and pre-school for 60,000 lower-income
children, reducing subsidies for  community college  and shifting
about 28,000 prison inmates to county jails over the next year.  Remaining to be resolved are the tax question, a proposal
to abolish redevelopment agencies and enterprise zones, a plan
to require California businesses to switch to a single-sales
factor income-tax plan.  Redevelopment Agencies  A key component of Brown’s budget plan, to shut down 400
local redevelopment agencies and enterprise zones, fell one vote
short of passing the Assembly and remains in doubt. Brown wants
to divert their property-tax revenue to schools and local
governments.  Brown would use $2.2 billion of redevelopment money to pay
debt and devote the rest, almost $3 billion freed up by shutting
the agencies, to education, health care and the courts. The
state ordinarily sends $1.7 billion to schools to make up for
property taxes given to development agencies.  Republicans have said voters should be given the choice to
reduce pensions for government workers and to put a cap on
spending with a formula tied to inflation and population
changes. Brown and Democrats have so far turned a deaf ear.  The fight over the tax measure comes after a poll was
released March 16 showing that a majority of  California  voters
support Brown’s plan. The approach is backed by 52 percent of
voters, according to a statewide survey by the  University of
California , Berkeley, and The Field Poll. His proposal to extend
the taxes won support from 58 percent.  Billions in Deficits  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has fought
through a combined $100 billion of shortfalls in the past three
years. U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $113
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-
based Center on Budget & Policy Priorities.  If the ballot measure is approved, voters would be asked to
retain a 0.25 percentage-point increase in personal income-tax
rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the retail-sales tax rate,
to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate for auto-registration
fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s
value; and a reduction of the state’s child tax credit to $99
from $309.  Brown has said he wants to know the outcome of that vote
before June 15, the constitutional deadline for the Legislature
to send him a budget. Last year’s financial plan was passed a
record 100 days into the fiscal year, which begins July 1.  California shares with Illinois the lowest credit rating of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities.  The extra yield buyers want a California bond maturing in
March 2040 compared with an average for top-rated debt declined
9 basis points yesterday to 0.83 percent, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. That’s down 121 basis points since
Jan. 20. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  