-- 
California Will Screen Milk for Radiation Contamination Amid Japan Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-18T22:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/california-will-monitor-milk-for-radiation-contamination-after-japan-quake.html
(Corrects name of U.S. agency in fifth paragraph.)    California  officials will screen
milk produced in the state for signs of radiation contamination
transmitted by grass-eating cows, Howard Backer, interim
director of the California Department of  Public Health , said
yesterday in a press conference.  California authorities are reassuring residents that any
radiation drifting across the ocean from  Japan ’s earthquake-
damaged nuclear reactors would not pose any health threat.
Officials are monitoring radiation levels and had not detected
any rise as of yesterday, Backer said.    Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. dairy processor, has not
been directly affected by the situation in Japan, company
spokeswoman Liliana Esposito said in an e-mail statement. Dean
Foods, based in Dallas, is in close contact with dairy
organizations working with U.S. government agencies to make sure
the  dairy industry  is taking “all appropriate action,”
Esposito said.  California is the biggest U.S. milk-producing state in the
U.S., according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
Dean Foods gets a “significant” amount of milk from
California, Esposito said.  Ensuring Safe Milk  Harmful levels of radiation are not expected to affect
growing regions in the U.S., according to a  statement  posted on
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. The dairy
industry “continues to work closely with federal and state
government agencies to ensure a safe milk supply,” Peggy
Armstrong, a spokeswoman for the Washington D.C.-based
International Dairy Foods Association, said in an e-mail
statement.  An estimated 4,000 children and adolescents developed
thyroid cancer after consuming milk contaminated with
radioactive iodine after an explosion and  meltdown  at a nuclear
plant in Chernobyl, Ukraine in 1986, according to the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  