-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as Mild U.S. Weather Pares Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-18T16:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-mild-u-s-weather-pares-demand.html
Canadian natural gas fell amid
forecasts that mild U.S. weather will pare furnace use in the
largest consuming regions for  Canada ’s gas exports.  Heating demand across the U.S. will trail normal by 12
percent for the next week, according to Weather Derivatives.
Temperatures will be about 2 degrees Fahrenheit (1 Celsius)
below normal through March 25, the Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster said.  “We’re seeing warm weather lasting into next week,” said
Bob Haas, a forecaster with MDA Federal’s EarthSat Energy
Weather in Rockville,  Maryland .  Alberta gas for April was little changed at C$3.5225 per
gigajoule ($3.39 per million British thermal units) as of 12:13
p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. Northeast, Midwest and West Coast and is priced on
TransCanada’s  Alberta  system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 1.8 cents to $4.14 per million Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.3
billion cubic feet as of 10 a.m. in New York, about 28 million
below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, rose 430
million cubic feet in the past 24 hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.69 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.56 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.31 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.58 billion cubic feet today, about 54
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.83
billion cubic feet at 10:35 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 