-- 
Canada February Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-18T11:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/canada-february-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of  Canada 's consumer price index report for February released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 2.2% in the 12 months to February,
following the 2.3% increase posted in January.  Energy prices rose 10.6% during the 12 months to
February, after posting a 9.0% increase the previous
month. Gasoline prices continued to increase in February,
rising 15.7%, after recording a 13.0% increase in the 12
months to January.  Excluding gasoline, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose
1.6% in the 12 months to February, compared with a 1.8%
increase in January.  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices
held steady from January to February, after a period of
seven consecutive monthly increases. The transportation
index, which includes gasoline, increased 0.2% in
February, a slower rate of growth than the 1.0% increase
observed in the previous month. The food index rose 0.2%
in February, following a 0.4% increase in January. The
clothing and footwear index posted a decline of 0.1%,
after falling 1.2% in January.  12-month change: Increases in six of the eight major
components  On a year-over-year basis, prices increased in six of
the eight major components of the CPI in the 12 months to
February.  The largest increase occurred in the transportation
component, where prices rose 5.1% in the 12 months to
February, after a 4.8% increase in January.  In addition to higher gasoline prices in the 12 months
to February, consumers paid 4.0% more in passenger vehicle
insurance premiums. They also paid more for air
transportation but less for the purchase of passenger
vehicles.  Shelter costs rose 2.2% in February, matching the
increase in January. Homeowners' replacement cost
increased 3.5% in the 12 months to February. Consumers
paid more for electricity as well as for  fuel oil  and
other fuels.  However, the mortgage interest cost index, which
measures the change in the interest portion of payments on
outstanding mortgage debt, continued to decrease.
Consumers also paid less for natural gas.  Food prices went up 2.1% in the 12 months to February,
identical to the increase in January. Food purchased from
stores increased 2.0% in February. Prices rose for bread,
unsweetened rolls and buns as well as for confectionery.
Consumers paid 2.6% more for food purchased from
restaurants.  Prices for household operations, furnishings and
equipment increased 1.7% between February 2010 and
February 2011. Within this component, higher prices were
recorded for several items, notably for child care,
domestic services and  Internet access .  Prices for health and personal care advanced 2.0% in
February, on the heels of a 1.8% rise in January.
Consumers paid more for dental care and non-prescribed
medicines, while prices for prescribed medicines fell.  For clothing and footwear, prices declined 2.0% in
February, following a 2.4% decrease in January. Consumers
paid less for women's clothing and children's clothing.  The recreation, education and reading price index
decreased 0.3% in the 12 months to February, after
increasing 1.6% in the previous month. Traveller
accommodation was among the main contributors to this
decrease. In February 2010, when  Vancouver  was hosting the
Winter Olympics, prices for hotel rooms were much higher
than they were in the same month this year. Consumers also
paid less for travel tours in February 2011 compared with
February 2010.  The provinces  Consumer prices rose in every province between February
2010 and February 2011. Drivers faced double-digit price
increases for gasoline in all provinces except Manitoba.  In the 12 months to February, the largest increases in
consumer prices were observed in Nova Scotia and
Newfoundland and Labrador. In those provinces, fuel oil
and other fuels are used more extensively for home
heating.  In Ontario, consumer prices rose 2.5% in the 12 months
to February, after advancing 2.9% in January. More than
half of the 0.4 percentage point decrease can be
attributed to a smaller year-over-year increase in
electricity prices in February compared with January.
Electricity prices increased 1.1% in February, much less
than the 10.4% increase recorded the month before.  Gasoline prices rose 18.3% in Ontario following a 15.6%
increase in January. Consumers in Ontario also paid more
for passenger vehicle insurance premiums.  Consumer prices in  Quebec  increased 2.2% in the 12
months to February, following a 2.1% increase in January.
Prices for gasoline rose 15.8%. Prices for fuel oil and
other fuels also increased.  Prices in British Columbia went up 1.8% in the 12
months to February, following a 2.3% increase in January.
Consumers paid 12.6% more for gasoline and 7.8% more for
food purchased from restaurants. Conversely, consumers
paid less for traveller accommodation.  In  Alberta , prices rose 1.2% in February, following a
1.0% increase in January. Consumers in Alberta paid 15.3%
more for gasoline. Electricity prices also rose.  The Bank of Canada's core index  The Bank of Canada's core index advanced 0.9% in the 12
months to February, following a 1.4% rise in January.  The seasonally adjusted monthly core index fell 0.1% in
February, following a 0.1% increase the previous month.  Note to readers  The Bank of Canada's core index excludes eight of the  Consumer Price Index 's most volatile components (fruit,
fruit preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable
preparations; mortgage interest cost; natural gas; heating
oil and other fuels; gasoline; inter-city transportation;
and tobacco products and smokers' supplies) as well as the
effects of changes in indirect taxes on the remaining
components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  