-- 
Canadian Currency Advances Most in 10 Months Versus Yen After Intervention

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-18T21:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/canadian-currency-advances-most-in-10-months-versus-yen-amid-intervention.html
The Canadian dollar gained the most
against the yen in 10 months as the Group of Seven nations,
including  Canada , intervened in the foreign-exchange markets to
stabilize the Japanese currency.  Canada’s dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, had its biggest weekly loss in
four months versus the greenback after a nuclear power-plant
crisis caused by  Japan ’s worst earthquake damped investor
appetite for higher-yielding currencies. Data showed Canada’s
core inflation rate slowed to a record low.  “When we see such a coordinated effort, the markets
listen,” said  Darren Richardson , senior corporate dealer in
Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online currency firm. “The
Canadian dollar is not the focus of the market right now.”  Canada’s currency strengthened as much as 4.3 percent
against the yen, the biggest intraday jump since May, to 83.52
before trading at 81.86 yen at 5 p.m. in Toronto, up 2.2
percent. The loonie rose 0.1 percent to 98.43 cents per U.S.
dollar, compared with 98.48 cents yesterday. It lost 1.1 percent
for the week. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0159.  The American dollar fell against most of its major
counterparts as investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets
improved. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  The G-7 nations agreed in a conference call yesterday to
move jointly to intervene in the  currency market , the first
coordinated effort since 2000, after a soaring yen threatened
Japan’s recovery from the earthquake on March 11. Central banks
intervene by selling or buying currencies to influence prices.  Military Intervention  The loonie erased gains versus the U.S. dollar as crude oil
reversed an advance after  Libya ’s foreign minister, Moussa Koussa, said in a televised news conference the North African
nation is ceasing all military action and will start talks with
rebels. The  United Nations Security Council  approved military
intervention to protect civilians in Libya. Oil, Canada’s
biggest export, had climbed to a one-week high on concern the
turmoil would disrupt supplies.  Crude for April delivery increased as much as 2.2 percent
to $103.66 per barrel in  New York  before trading at $101.62.  The loonie dropped 1 percent over the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen gained
2.3 percent, while the greenback lost 1.3 percent.  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.17
percent. It fell to 3.12 percent on March 15, the lowest level
since Jan. 4. The price of the benchmark 3.5 percent note
maturing in June 2020 increased 12 cents to C$102.65.  Loonie Pares Gain  The Canadian dollar trimmed gains against the yen after the  Bank of Canada  said in a statement on its website that it had
participated in the coordinated intervention, selling an
undisclosed amount of the Japanese currency.  “The market may have gotten a bit ahead of itself in the
Canadian market,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for
foreign-exchange trading in Toronto. “Traders waited for a bit
more intervention, didn’t get it and some of the Canadian
dollars that were picked up in a run are now being sold off.”  Canada held $252 million worth of yen, or 0.4 percent of
the country’s total international reserves, the finance
department said March 3.  The inflation rate in Canada, excluding volatile items such
as gasoline, slowed to a record low on a drop in prices for
hotels and cars, the nation’s statistics agency said today.  Lowest on Record  The core inflation index, which excludes eight volatile
items, rose 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier, after a
1.4 percent gain in January,  Statistics Canada  reported. That’s
the lowest rate since records for the core rate began in 1984. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 1.1 percent rise.  The Bank of Canada has kept its benchmark rate at 1 percent
since September after raising it three times last year. Policy
makers reiterated on March 1 that underlying inflation pressures
are “subdued” and “considerable slack” remains in the
economy. The central bank said it will carefully consider future
increases in an economic recovery that’s “slightly faster”
than they forecast.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  