-- 
Canada’s Core Inflation Rate Slows to Lowest in Records Dating From 1984

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-18T13:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/canada-s-core-inflation-rate-slows-to-lowest-in-records-dating-from-1984.html
  Canada ’s inflation rate excluding
volatile items like gasoline slowed in February to a record low
on a drop in prices for hotels following last year’s  Vancouver 
Olympics, government figures showed.  The so-called core inflation index, which excludes eight
volatile items, rose 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier
after a 1.4 percent gain in January,  Statistics Canada said 
today. That’s the lowest rate on record for the index that the
government agency began tracking in 1984.  The figures suggest Canada has been bucking the global
trend of rising inflation amid soaring food and energy costs,
even as temporary factors are likely to make the drop in the
core rate short-lived,  Doug Porter  of BMO Capital Markets said.
It also keeps the pressure off the  Bank of Canada  to resume
interest rate increases. Governor Mark Carney has kept the
central bank’s benchmark policy rate at 1 percent since last
September, saying increases from this level would be “carefully
considered.”  “Canada is going in the opposite direction of much of the
rest of the world,” Porter said in a note to investors. “The
moderation is set to reverse next month, as Canada gets with the
global program, but the low starting point is very favorable.”  Bank of Canada policy makers  forecast  in January the core
rate will accelerate to 1.7 percent by the end of this year and
reach 2 percent by the end of 2012. Economists anticipate the
central will begin raising  interest rates  in the second quarter
of this year, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Dollar Rises  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 98.32
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 9:03 a.m. in Toronto, from 98.48 cents
yesterday. The yield on the September 2011 Bankers’ Acceptance
contract rose one basis point to 1.51 percent.  The index for recreation, education and reading fell 0.3
percent over the previous 12 months, after a 1.6 percent gain in
January, on lower hotel prices following the Winter Olympics in
Vancouver last year. Hotel accommodation fell 10.7 percent in
February from a year earlier after increasing 3.4 percent the
previous month.  Costs of hotel accommodations in British Columbia, where
the Olympics were held, fell 38.1 percent in February from a
year earlier. Other factors slowing the core rate was a 0.9
percent annual decline in vehicle prices and a slowing in
electricity rate increases to 4.3 percent in February, from 6.4
percent in January.  Not ‘Truly Indicative’  “I don’t think this is truly indicative of the
inflationary pressures in the economy,” said David Tulk, chief
Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
Inc.  The overall  consumer price index  rose 2.2 percent from a
year earlier after a 2.3 percent January gain. Economists
forecast the core rate would be 1.1 percent and the overall
inflation rate 2.3 percent, according to the median of 24
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The cost of living in the U.S. accelerated to 2.1 percent
in the 12 months ended February, compared with a 1.6 percent
year-over-year gain the prior month. The core CPI rose 1.1
percent in the U.S., the Labor Department reported yesterday.  Energy prices rose 10.6 in February from a year earlier,
compared with a 9 percent pace in January,  Statistics Canada 
said. Gasoline prices jumped 15.7 percent during the month, from
a 13 percent annual pace in January.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.3
percent in February, the same increase as in January. The core
rate was 0.2 percent, after being unchanged in January.
Economists predicted that the indexes for both categories would
rise 0.4 percent on a monthly basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 