-- 
Cantaloupe’s Seed Device Means Fewer Trips to Vending Machines

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-03-18T15:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/cantaloupe-s-seed-device-keeps-vending-machines-well-stocked.html
In the fall of 2002, two entrepreneurs fresh from the  University
of California , Los Angeles, tried to convince John Sowell, founder of North County
Vending, that they had a wireless gadget that could dramatically boost his vending
machine business. Sowell, who had been burnt using similar systems during 25 years in
business, was skeptical. Nevertheless, he took a chance on the startup -- known as
Cantaloupe Systems -- on the recommendation of a Frito-Lay rep. “I just remember him
saying he likes seeing people that are hungry,” one of Cantaloupe’s founders, Mandeep
Arora, says of Sowell. “And he saw that hunger.”  Today Cantaloupe’s devices track sales in 65,000 vending machines across the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico , and  Australia , including one-third of the machines Sowell’s company
operates. Arora and co-founder Anant Agrawal, both 30, started the company 10 years
ago with $60,000 in  student loans  and their own savings. They’ve since raised more
than $17 million in private investment. With 37 employees, the  San Francisco  company
expects to double the number machines using its technology by the end of this year,
increasing revenue to $13 million in 2011, up from $8 million last year. Arora and
Agrawal say they expect to become profitable within the next 12 months.  Their innovation, called the Seed, is a miniature device that fits easily into vending
machines and transmits sales data to a remote server, which slices and dices the
information into online reports that vending companies can use to replenish their
machines more efficiently. The system also sends alerts to a PC or mobile phone when
a machine is jammed, loses power, or is out of whatever candies, chips, or other snacks
it sells. “Those are all major advancements that other companies were working on but
did not deliver as quickly or as efficiently or as reliably to the marketplace as
Cantaloupe Systems did,” says Michael L. Kasavana, a Michigan State University
professor who has researched the vending machine industry.  TWO DECADES OF WIRELESS MISSES  Vending machines have been able to transfer sales data electronically to handheld
devices carried by route drivers since Coca-Cola introduced the technology in the early
1980s. Over the next two decades, several companies that attempted to move such
data over cellular networks failed because their devices were unreliable or required
expensive modifications to the machines, Kasavana says.  The roughly seven million vending machines in the U.S. generated almost $20 billion in
revenue in 2009, according to the latest “State of the Vending Industry Report”
published by the trade magazine “Automatic Merchandiser.” Kasavana estimates that
only 3 percent to 5 percent of vending machines have wireless technology from
Cantaloupe or one of its competitors, which include InOne Technology, USA
Technologies, and Crane Merchandising Systems.  Kasavana says Cantaloupe’s software was the first to use daily sales data to calculate
the routes and number of drivers needed to replenish machines the next day, an
approach known as “dynamic routing.” The advance means that customers no longer
have to depend on experience, intuition, and historical data to decide which machines
need to be restocked. Removing the guesswork means fewer drivers and trucks, less
spoiled food, and better-stocked columns of popular snacks.  North County Vending, which operates in seven Western states, has cut the truck and
labor costs of servicing its machines by more than one-third, boosting its profit margin
from 1 percent to 3 percent, Sowell says. The efficiency gains were slow to materialize:
Sowell spent five years testing the Seed device and didn’t see concrete improvements
until last year, when he had enough machines wired to use dynamic routing in  Los
Angeles  and San Francisco. (The cost during testing is partially subsidized by snack
suppliers such as Frito-Lay.)  SMALLER VENDORS INTEGRATE MOST EASILY  Most of Cantaloupe’s customers are small and medium-sized companies that typically
operate in a handful of states. Such vending machine operators are seldom
technologically advanced, so the benefits from using Cantaloupe’s service, which costs
roughly $150 per machine annually, can be dramatic, the company says. Large
companies with tens of thousands of machines and their own vending management
systems find the benefits of Cantaloupe’s service more difficult to calculate. Integrating
Cantaloupe data into existing systems can be a Herculean task. “It’s not a matter of just
putting on a piece of hardware and start collecting the data,” Nasim Salimi, senior vice-
president for Sodexo’s U.S. vending business.  Sodexo, the world’s second-largest catering company, has about 3,000 vending
machines equipped with Cantaloupe technology. Based in Issy-les-Moulineaux,  France ,
Sodexo has been a customer for more than two years, yet Salimi says the company is
still in the “early stages” of using the service. (He declined to say how many vending
machines Sodexo operates.) The company uses Cantaloupe mostly in workplaces
where employers want to track sales of healthy foods to identify popular items and
entice employees to choose them.  Sowell has worked with Cantaloupe for nearly 10 years and says he’s fascinated by how
the company takes the raw data from his vending machines and turns it into useful
information. “Any schmuck can go to RadioShack and build a wireless system,” he
says, “but what are you going to do with that information once you get it? That’s the
key.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net  