-- 
McConaughey Keeps Shirt On; Rogen’s Alien Curses, Smokes: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mcconaughey-keeps-his-shirt-on-rogen-s-alien-curses-smokes-rick-warner.html
Matthew McConaughey keeps his shirt
on in “ The Lincoln Lawyer ,” no small achievement for an actor
who’s spent more time bare-chested on screen than some porn
stars.  He’s usually dressed in a sharply tailored suit for his
role as Mick Haller, a slick  Los Angeles  defense attorney who
works out of the backseat of a chauffeured Lincoln Town Car with
the vanity plate “NTGUILTY.”  Haller, who specializes in plea bargains for petty
criminals, steps up in class when he’s hired to defend Louis
Roulet (Ryan Phillippe), a rich playboy charged with attempted
rape and murder. Haller is looking for a quick, easy payday, but
the case gets complicated and he’s forced to make some sticky
decisions.  The film, based on a novel by Michael Connelly, is a glib
thriller that’s enjoyable as long as you don’t require logic or
realism.  Even if you buy the idea that Haller’s car doubles as his
office and that he’s the top choice of a wealthy client facing a
long prison sentence, you may have a hard time buying all the
bizarre twists delivered by director Brad Furman and
screenwriter John Romano.  Haller, played by McConaughey with oily charm, is an
ethically flexible lawyer who takes cash-stuffed envelopes from
a biker gang, bribes a bailiff to move up his case and hires
thugs to beat up his own client. He does have a moral code,
though, which he backs up with actions more associated with  Clint Eastwood  than Clarence Darrow.  The supporting cast includes sexy Marisa Tomei as Haller’s
ex-wife, William H. Macy as a long-haired private investigator
and John Leguizamo as the bail bondsman who hooks Haller up with
the preppy defendant.  “The Lincoln Lawyer,” from  Lions Gate , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Paul’  Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, who cleverly spoofed the buddy-
cop and zombie genres in “Hot Fuzz” and “Shaun of the Dead,”
aren’t so sharp with their alien-movie satire “ Paul .”  Voiced by Seth Rogen, Paul is the CGI space creature picked
up by two British comic-book geeks (Pegg and Frost) in the
Nevada desert after escaping from the military base where he was
held captive for 60 years.  The comic premise -- that Paul now curses, smokes and jokes
like a human -- has some initial shock value. Yet it quickly
loses steam and is replaced by punning references to “Close
Encounters,” “E.T.” and even “Lorenzo’s Oil,” which as far
as I can recall had nothing to do with Martians.  Federal Agent  The two British tourists, the bug-eyed, flat-nosed alien
(who looks like a composite made by UFO buffs) and a young woman
they’ve taken hostage (Kristen Wiig) are chased by the girl’s
God-fearing father and a federal posse led by a dogged special
agent (Jason Bateman).  Sigourney Weaver , Blythe Danner and Jane Lynch have memorable cameos.  The film, directed by Greg Mottola (“Superbad”) from a
script by Pegg and Frost, ends with a spaceship taking off. By
then, it’s too late for liftoff.  “Paul,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **  ‘Win Win’  Nobody plays Everyman better than Paul Giamatti, the pudgy,
balding star of “Sideways” and “American Splendor.” His
latest version is Mike Flaherty, a struggling lawyer, part-time
wrestling coach and suburban father who desperately wants to be
a winner at something.  Flaherty, the flawed protagonist in Tom McCarthy’s
eccentric drama “ Win Win ,” gets his chance when the grandson
of an elderly client (Burt Young) that he snookered into a
nursing home shows up out of the blue and turns out to be a
wrestling phenom.  Kyle (Alex Shaffer), a bleach-blond runaway with a deadpan
expression, gives an immediate lift to the sad-sack high-school
team ineptly coached by Flaherty and his pal Stephen (Jeffrey Tambor). As the teen rockets toward a state championship,
Flaherty is forced to deal with the corrupt behavior that
brought Kyle into his life.  “Win Win” is slow and subtle. But writer/director
McCarthy, whose first two films were the critically acclaimed
“The Station Agent” and “The Visitor,” makes the wait
worthwhile.  “Win Win,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , is playing in  New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 