-- 
Champions League Final Tickets Are Too Expensive, UEFA’s Platini Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-18T17:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/champions-league-final-tickets-are-too-expensive-uefa-s-platini-says.html
The head of European soccer’s
governing body,  UEFA , said ticket prices for his organization’s
top club event are too expensive.  The prices for the Champions league final to be played at
London’s Wembley Stadium on May 28 are the highest in the
competition’s history, with the most costly public seat going
for 350 euros ($496), 17 percent more than a comparable ticket
last year in  Madrid .  Second-tier prices are up 16 percent to 260 euros, and the
third category costs 175 euros, or 13 percent more. Only fans of
the two finalists will be able to buy the cheapest 95-euro seats.
A special adult-child combined ticket costs 400 euros. Each
ticket also carries a 30-euro booking charge.  “It’s good that we have been alerted about it and we are
going to look at it again in the future,”  Michel Platini  said
in an interview with French sports daily L’Equipe.  The Champions League final is the most-watched annual
sports event, according to UEFA. Last season’s game, the first
since it was moved to a Saturday, peaked at more than 140
million viewers worldwide. Platini justified the move from the
game’s traditional Wednesday night slot by saying it would allow
more children to attend.  The UEFA president said future family tickets should cost
“half” of the price this season. The match will gross 14
million euros, 3 million more than the 2010 final between Inter
Milan and  Bayern Munich  at Madrid’s Santiago Bernabeu Stadium.  In February, UEFA’s competitions director, Giorgio
Marchetti, said the prices were the same as those for comparable
events. Still, several U.K. newspapers criticized the cost.
Platini said the pricing “isn’t brilliant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net  