-- 
Chelsea to Play Manchester United in Champions League Quarterfinal Round

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-18T14:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/chelsea-to-play-manchester-united-in-champions-league-quarterfinal-round.html
Premier League rivals Chelsea and  Manchester United  will meet in the quarterfinals of soccer’s
Champions League, while Tottenham takes on Real Madrid.  Defending champion Inter Milan faces Schalke and Barcelona
plays Shakhtar Donetsk after today’s draw in Nyon,  Switzerland .
The first round of matches will be played April 5 and 6, with
the second games April 12 and 13.  The pairing of Chelsea and Manchester United is a rematch
of the 2008 final won by the Red Devils in a penalty shootout.
The Blues will host the first game, with the second match at Old
Trafford.  “Playing anyone at this point in the world’s top club
competition is always a challenge,” Chelsea executive Ron Gourlay said on the club’s website. “If we want to succeed in
getting to the final at Wembley and winning this trophy then we
have to beat the best  Europe  has to offer.”  Chelsea has never won Europe’s top club competition, while
United has captured three titles. United won the shootout 6-5 in
the final three years ago after the teams drew 1-1.  Tottenham’s reward for beating seven-time champion A.C.
Milan in the last round is a meeting with Real Madrid, the
record nine-time winner.  ‘Great Days’  Spurs have reached the final eight in their first
appearance in the Champions League. Real, led by manager  Jose Mourinho , are into the quarterfinals for the first time since
2004.  “What a game to look forward to against one of the
greatest clubs in world football,” Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said on the club’s website. “These are the great days
in your life and great days in Tottenham’s history.”  Barcelona, the favorite with U.K. bookmakers to lift the
trophy for a fourth time, will take on  Shakhtar Donetsk . The
teams met in the group stage two seasons ago, with the away team
winning each game.  Inter Milan will face its second straight German club team
after beating  Bayern Munich  in a rematch of last year’s final.
Schalke fired manager Felix Magath two days ago and named Ralf Rangnick as his replacement.  “We have to show respect for Schalke because it will be a
tough game like all the others,” Inter’s Javier Zanetti told
the club’s website. “We must be careful because nobody reaches
the quarterfinals through luck.”  The semifinal draw was also held with the Inter-Schalke
winner set to face Chelsea or Manchester United and Real  Madrid 
or Tottenham taking on the Barcelona-Shakhtar winner. Those
matches will be played April 26-27 and May 3-4. The final will
be at London’s Wembley Stadium on May 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 