-- 
Chile’s Peso, Swap Yields Surge After Bigger-Than-Forecast Rate Increase

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-18T17:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/chile-signals-more-rate-rises-after-unexpectedly-accelerating-tightening.html
Chile’s interest-rate swap yields
soared the most in nine months, the peso rallied and inflation
expectations plummeted after the central bank unexpectedly
quickened the pace of rate increases to curb inflation.  The peso snapped a four-day losing streak to strengthen 1.1
percent to 481.35 per  U.S. dollar  from 486.5 yesterday, the
biggest gain since Jan. 12. The one-year interest-rate swap rate
rose 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, the most since
June, to a two-year high of 5.35 percent.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, raised the overnight rate by a half-point to 4 percent
yesterday, surprising 19 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
who expected a quarter-point increase for the second straight
month. The decision bolsters forecasts that the bank will raise
the benchmark rate the same amount next month to tame inflation
expectations that reached a two-year high this month.  “This is a central bank that is showing its inflation-
fighting credentials through forceful action,” said  Siobhan Morden , chief Latin American strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “ The full brunt
of it should be felt in shorter maturities. The next survey of
economists will show lower inflation expectations and this
should reduce the inflation-risk premium throughout the curve.”  The peso interest-rate swap curve flattened as rates rose
faster in short maturities. The three-month rate increased 49
basis points as of 1:44 a.m., the six-month by 42 basis points
and the two-year by three basis points. Inflation-linked swap
rates also jumped as traders priced in slower price rises.  Implied Inflation Falls  Two-year breakeven inflation fell 23 basis points to 3.88
percent, indicating that traders now expect the central bank to
meet its target of keeping price rises below 4 percent over a
two-year horizon. It reached a two-year high of 4.46 percent on
March 7. The bank targets inflation of 3 percent with a one
percentage point margin of error over a 24-month horizon.  Three-year breakeven dropped 17 basis points to 3.68
percent, the lowest since Jan. 6.  “The swaps market has priced in another 50 basis point
rise already and is starting to factor in a third,” said German Fritsch, head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG in  Chile . “It’s
not just adjusting to the one increase we had yesterday.”  Bond yields have not reflected changing inflation
expectations, raising the probability that the bank will keep
raising rates until they do, Fritsch said. Five-year breakeven
inflation in the  bond market  fell just three basis points to
3.92 percent as of 1:48 p.m., compared with a 12 basis point
fall in breakeven inflation as measured in the swaps market to
3.64 percent.  Japan Concerns  “What really bothers the bank is breakevens,” Fritsch
said. “If the market continues pricing in high inflation, the
bank will keep raising at 50 basis points.”  Economists surveyed by the bank March 9 forecast a 25 basis
point increase in the overnight rate next month.  Chile has raised  interest rates  more aggressively than any
country in the world as policy makers forecast the economy may
grow at the fastest pace in more than a decade this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  None of the 40 major rate-setting institutions tracked by
Bloomberg has raised its benchmark rate more than Chile in the
last six months. The bank will continue to reduce monetary
stimulus at a pace that depends on economic conditions, policy
makers said in a statement accompanying yesterday’s decision.  Exceed Target  Chilean traders and investors estimated this month that
inflation would exceed the central bank’s target. Annual
inflation will reach 4.48 percent in 12 months, according to the
median estimate in the March 9 survey, up from the 4 percent
forecast in the Feb. 23 survey.  Policy makers stepped up the pace of rate increases even as
concerns mount that  Japan , the second-biggest buyer of Chile’s
exports, could enter recession after its deadly earthquake.  “They are making inflation expectations a priority,”  Jimena Zuniga , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York ,
said yesterday. “They made this decision in the middle of a
very uncertain global environment.”  Zuniga, who had forecast a quarter-point increase, said she
expects one or two 50 basis point increases to come if the
global economy doesn’t deteriorate further.  Inflation expectations soared after the bank announced its
$12 billion plan to weaken the peso on Jan. 3, and continued
rising as unrest in the Middle East pushed the price of oil to
two-year highs. The bank today bought $50 million of U.S.
currency at an average of 481.75 pesos per dollar.  Increased Foreign Bets  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had
increased bets against the currency to $2.8 billion on March 16
from $2.7 billion a day earlier, according to central bank data.  Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the mean of
commodity indexes including energy, grains, food, precious
metals and livestock, has risen 4.7 percent since Jan. 3 while
the peso has depreciated 3.5 percent over the same period.  The economy could grow as fast as 6.5 percent this year
after expanding 5.2 percent in 2010, according to central bank
forecasts. Economic activity expanded a faster-than-forecast 6.8
percent in January from the previous year, the quickest pace of
monthly growth since August, the central bank reported March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  