-- 
Chile Says Nuclear Energy Is Decision for Future Governments

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-18T16:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/chile-says-nuclear-energy-is-decision-for-future-governments-1-.html
A decision on whether to build
nuclear energy plants in  Chile  won’t be made in the current
government’s term, Foreign Affairs Minister Alfredo Moreno said
after signing a nuclear cooperation agreement with the U.S.  Chile isn’t in a position to develop nuclear energy, Moreno
told reporters today in images transmitted by state-owned
television station TVN, echoing comments earlier today by Deputy
Finance Minister Rodrigo Alvarez.  Chilean and U.S. officials signed a nuclear accord in
Santiago three days before U.S. President  Barack Obama  is due to
arrive in the country as part of his first trip to Central and  South America . Chile’s nuclear program won’t be redirected or
halted as a result of Japan’s nuclear crisis, Moreno said.  “Today we are developing in scientific, medical and
agricultural areas and what happened in  Japan  doesn’t do
anything other than ratify this situation,” Moreno said. Any
decision on nuclear reactors “would have to be taken by another
government given the time period involved,” he said.  The agreement signed today covers the exchange of
scientific information and training personnel on nuclear
technologies, Ena Von Baer, a Chilean government spokeswoman,
told reporters March 16.  A magnitude 9 earthquake and tsunami in Japan a week ago
knocked out back-up generators at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
complex, pitching workers into a battle to keep the plant cool
and stem radiation from the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl 25 years ago.  Chile, which has two test nuclear reactors for research
purposes, last year suffered an 8.8-magnitude earthquake that
killed an estimated 500 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  