-- 
China’s Smaller Cities Lead Home Price Gain as Beijing, Shanghai Add Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-18T07:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/china-s-new-home-prices-gain-in-68-out-of-70-cities-defying-housing-curbs.html
China’s smaller cities led gains in  home prices  last month as Beijing, Shanghai and other larger
metropolitan areas introduced local housing measures following
new curbs from the central government.  New home prices in the central city of Yueyang surged the
most among 70 cities monitored by the government, rising 12
percent from a year earlier, while the western city of Lanzhou
jumped 11 percent, the statistics bureau said on its website
today. Prices in the capital Beijing climbed 6.8 percent. In
Shanghai, they rose 2.3 percent, lower than more than 80 percent
of the cities tracked, the data showed.  China raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year as the government focused on policies aimed
at speculators, who are mainly targeting homes in major cities.  Shanghai  and Chongqing also imposed taxes on residential
properties, while affluent cities including Beijing and
Guangzhou imposed restrictions on housing purchases last month.  “Strict property measures in major cities have driven
buyers to smaller cities,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “That
raised inflation pressure in those cities.”  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index rose 1.6 percent at the 3 p.m. local time close,
the biggest gain in two weeks. It was the most among five
industry groups on the benchmark gauge as high home prices might
boost developers’ sales.  ‘Severely Punish’  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that  China  will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a pledge to keep housing
affordable after imposing new measures in January. The
government will also “severely punish” irregularities in the
real-estate market and implement tax policies.  New home prices rose in February in all but two of the 70
cities from a year earlier, matching the data in January, and
only nine posted declines from the previous month, the
statistics bureau said.  “The number of cities that have monthly declines is still
not big enough to show the government curbs are working,” said
Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research Pte. “With the restrictions on purchases in
place late last month, it will still take some time for the
policy to show effect.”  New home prices in Beijing rose 0.4 percent last month from
January, and 0.9 percent in Shanghai. Existing home prices in
Beijing rose 2.9 percent in February from a year earlier and 0.4
from January, while those in Shanghai jumped 2 percent and 0.4
percent, respectively.  Hardest Hit  Chinese developers are building more homes in cities other
than the affluent ones such as Shanghai or Beijing as they may
be the hardest hit by government property curbs.  China Vanke Co., the biggest publicly traded Chinese
developer, said an expansion into central and western China,
including in Wuhan and Chengdu, helped 2010 contract sales
exceed 100 billion yuan ($15 billion), a target it had set for
2014, while Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. counted on towns
in the nation’s interior to boost revenue.  “The government’s purchase restrictions restrained a lot
of demand in big cities,” said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based
property analyst for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets who estimated
home prices to remain little changed this year.  About 74.4 percent of Chinese households think property
prices are too high in the first quarter, the second-highest
level since the central bank started tracking real estate as
part of the survey in the first quarter of 2009, according to a
report released on March 16. Those surveyed are not optimistic
about the effectiveness of the government’s property measures,
the central bank said, without giving a figure.  Rising Sales Value  China’s home sales value rose 26 percent to 447.1 billion
yuan in the first two months of the year from 2010, driving all
property transactions 27 percent higher to 524.2 billion yuan,
the statistics bureau reported last week.  Today’s figures came after private data showed signs of a
weakening market. China’s home prices rose 0.5 percent in
February, the slowest monthly gain since August, SouFun Holdings
Ltd., China’s biggest real estate website, said March 1.  Developers may have already cut home prices “implicitly”
after the government expanded measures to control the risks of
asset bubbles, such as giving free space and furniture, said  Sun Mingchun , chief economist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .  “These types of cuts are difficult to be identified in the
officially released property price data,” Sun said. “In my
view, the government’s measures have already started working.”  China Vanke said last week the outlook for demand for its
homes will withstand government measures. Poly Real Estate Group
Co., the second-biggest developer, said on Feb. 28 the measures
didn’t change its bullish outlook in the medium to long term.  China stopped releasing national average property prices
and changed methodology of the survey starting this year, the
statistics bureau announced on Feb. 17, as the government is
facing pressure to rein in rising property prices.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  