-- 
China’s Stocks Rise as G-7 Intervenes to Support Japan; Sany Heavy Jumps

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-18T08:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/china-s-stocks-rise-on-profit-outlook-g-7-intervention-petrochina-climbs.html
  China ’s stocks rose, paring a
weekly loss, as the Group of Seven nations intervened in the
foreign exchange market to support  Japan  and reconstruction
spending prospects lifted the profit outlook of metal companies.  Sany Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest maker of machinery
for handling concrete, jumped 7.6 percent after profit more than
doubled last year. Jiangxi Copper Co. paced gains for copper
producers as a Bloomberg survey showed metal prices may rally
after Japan’s March 11 earthquake.  Shanghai  Electric Group Co.
led a rebound for power-equipment makers as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said a selloff on nuclear power concerns was “overdone.”  “The impact of the Japan nuclear leaks on China shouldn’t
be played up and the declines were sentiment-driven over the
past few days,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at Shanghai
River Fund Management Co. “Still, China has inflationary
pressure and the tightening is supposed to run through the whole
year, holding back valuations.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 9.59 points, or 0.3 percent, to
2,906.89 at the 3 p.m. close. It retreated 0.9 percent this
week. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  climbed 0.6 percent to 3,215.69 today.  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 3.2 percent from this
year’s high set on March 9 on concern the Japanese earthquake
will hamper a global recovery and the Chinese central bank will
raise interest rates after inflation rate breached the
government’s annual target of 4 percent last month. The gauge is
still up 3.5 percent this year.  Currency Intervention  Sany Heavy surged 7.6 percent to 27.80 yuan, the most in
three weeks, after saying net income for 2010 jumped 113 percent
to 5.6 billion yuan ($851.7 million). China’s machinery exports
will likely strengthen as the Japanese temblor reduces
competition while imports will slow from Japan on supply
constraints, Citigroup Inc. said March 14.  The G-7 will jointly intervene in the foreign exchange
market for the first time in more than a decade after Japan’s
currency soared, threatening its recovery from the March 11
earthquake. Each of the G-7 members would sell yen as their
markets open and Japan had started the effort, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in  Tokyo  today. The yen tumbled
the most in more than two years against the dollar today while
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average jumped 2.7 percent.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said efforts to use water cannons
and helicopters to cool its damaged Fukushima nuclear plant may
have had some success as workers try to stop radioactive
pollution spreading. A bid to spray water onto the No. 3 reactor
may have worked, a Tokyo Electric official said. The company is
trying to connect a power cable to the plant.  ‘Relatively Stable’  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said the situation
at three loaded reactor cores in Japan’s Fukushima nuclear
complex has been “relatively stable” in the last 24 hours. All
of the units are damaged and don’t have cooling, IAEA Director
Graham Andrew said at a press briefing in Vienna.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
climbed 0.6 percent to 39.26 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals
Group Co., the second largest, added 0.5 percent to 28.45 yuan.
Copper jumped 3.5 percent in  New York  yesterday, the most in 10
months. Seven of 15 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 47 percent, said prices will rise next week. [bn:WBTKR=601088:CH]   China Shenhua Energy Co. [], the largest coal producer, rose
1.1 percent to 28.38 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the listed
unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal miner, gained 1.2 percent to
31.69 yuan. Crude for April delivery gained as much as 2.2
percent to $103.66 a barrel in after-hours trading in New York.  Selling ‘Overdone’  Shanghai Electric climbed 0.8 percent to 8.01 yuan after
sliding 4.3 percent yesterday. Dongfang Electric Corp., China’s
second-biggest maker of power equipment, rose 1.6 percent to
28.88 yuan. The stock slumped 7.6 percent yesterday.  “Negative sentiment towards nuclear power has put pressure
on Chinese power equipment stocks, but we think the sell-off may
be overdone in some cases,” Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a
note to clients.  Nuclear power-related stocks plunged yesterday after the
Chinese government said it has suspended approval of all new
nuclear projects for inspection in the wake of Japan’s leakage.  Jihua Group Corp., a manufacturer of protective uniforms
against radiation, tumbled 4.7 percent to 4.71 yuan, trimming
its weekly gain to 10 percent.  Chinese  home prices  rose faster in smaller cities than in
the major ones from a year ago, defying government curb
measures. New home prices in Beijing rose 6.8 percent last month
from a year earlier, while they climbed 2.3 percent in Shanghai,
the statistics bureau said on its website. Only nine cities out
of 70 declined in February from the previous month.  The People’s Bank of China has raise reserve-ratio
requirement eight times and boosted  interest rates  three times
since the start of 2010 to rein in inflation.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  