-- 
Christie’s Wins Dismissal of Koch’s Counterfeit Wine Suit

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-18T23:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/christie-s-wins-dismissal-of-koch-s-counterfeit-wine-suit.html
Christie’s International Plc won
dismissal of a lawsuit filed by billionaire collector William Koch that claimed the auction house “induced” him into buying
counterfeit wine.  The complaint was filed last year in  Manhattan  federal
court. Koch, who lives in  Florida , claimed London-based
Christie’s has sold counterfeit wine “for many years.”  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones, in New York, today
granted Christie’s motion to dismiss Koch’s suit, which included
claims of fraud, civil conspiracy and aiding and abetting.  Jones said in her ruling that while Koch said he was
injured by Christie’s “misrepresentations,” she concluded he
also knew that the bottle “was counterfeit prior to making the
purchase.”  “Here the cause of his injuries was not Christie’s’
misleading statements but plaintiff’s desire to gather evidence
against Christie’s,” Jones said.  Koch alleged in his suit that he bought a bottle of 1870
Lafite for $4,200 at a Christie’s auction in order to prove that
it was counterfeit. The judge rejected Koch’s arguments in his
lawsuit. Koch has filed lawsuits against others claiming they
sold him counterfeit wine that allegedly belonged to Jefferson
was marked “Th.J.”  “Plaintiff alleges that Christie’s knowingly sold him a
counterfeit bottle of wine in 2008,” Jones said in her ruling.
“He alleges because Christie’s held a public auction and
published catalogues, the act is sufficiently consumer-
oriented.”  German Dealer  While Koch didn’t claim in this lawsuit that Christie’s had
sold him the counterfeit Jefferson wines, he alleged that
Christie’s “had previously auctioned other Th.J. bottles”
owned by German wine dealer and former pop music manager Hardy Rodenstock. Koch claimed he was “induced” into buying them
from Rodenstock because Christie’s had described the wines
“positively” in auction catalogues when the wines were sold in
the 1980s.  Koch also sued Rodenstock in 2006 over the wines. A default
judgment was entered against Rodenstock in that case last year.  Jones rejected Koch’s claim that if Christie’s had
disclosed that the bottle was counterfeit “Koch would never
have needed to spend $4,200 to purchase the bottle,” saying he
was no longer acting as a reasonable consumer.  “He was acting as an investigator who chose to pay $4,200
despite knowledge that the wine was worth far less,” the judge
said.  Many Inspections  “We have great respect for Mr. Koch but have always
believed his claims were without merit and are therefore
grateful for the court’s decision affirming this,” Christie’s
spokesman Toby Usnik said in an e-mail statement.  In the lawsuit, Koch claimed that because Christie’s has
inspected so many wine cellars and bottles of wine, it knew how
to identify counterfeit wine.  “Christie’s also has unique access to facts and
circumstances that might call into question the authenticity of
specific wines it handles,” Koch alleged in the complaint.  Koch said in his complaint that auction houses like
Christie’s may “look the other way” and offer counterfeit wine
for sale so as not to decrease the consigner’s expected return
and risk losing the entire consignment to a competitor. He also
claimed that Christie’s employs boilerplate warnings in its
catalogs telling buyers that the wine is sold “as is.”  Wine-Related Suits  “Because of such disclaimers, when sued, auction houses
such as Christie’s routinely argue that no buyer should rely on
anything in their catalogs as truthful,” Koch alleged.  Koch has filed other wine-related suits. In 2007, he sued
Scarsdale, New York-based Zachys Wine Auctions. In 2008, he sued
the Chicago Wine Co. and Chicago-based Julienne Importing Co.
and  New York  auction house Acker Merrall & Condit, accusing them
of selling him fakes.  The case is Koch v. Christie’s, 10-cv-2804, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 