-- 
Christie’s Atlantic City Revival Seeks Halt to 30% Casino Plunge

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/christie-s-atlantic-city-revival-wager-fights-30-plunge-in-casino-revenue.html
  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
is bucking voter skepticism and pushing ahead with his plan to
revive the Atlantic City gambling resort, where casino revenue
has plunged the most since the first one opened in 1978.  Christie, a first-term Republican, took control of the
tourism district in the 48-block-long coastal city of 40,000
last month and relieved the 11 casinos there of some
regulations. He redirected gaming fees to clean up and promote
the area, and provided tax breaks to help restart construction
of the $2.5 billion Revel casino that stalled in 2009.  The intervention may come too late, even with Revel opening
in 2012, said Dennis Forst, a gaming analyst at KeyBanc Capital
Markets. Gambling revenue in  Atlantic City , the second-largest
U.S. casino market, is down 30 percent from 2006. Older betting
parlors may close as Sands Casino Resort in  Pennsylvania , Dover
Downs in  Delaware  and other rivals draw gamblers from
Philadelphia and New York, he said.  “Outside competition is only going to increase,” he said
during an interview in New York. “Atlantic City had 30 years to
work this out, to make themselves indestructible, and they’ve
wasted all of those years,” said Forst, who has covered the
industry for 40 years. He received top rankings of analyst polls
in the Wall Street Journal and Institutional Investor and Forbes
magazines, according to KeyBanc.  Tax Collections  New Jersey is seeking to halt a drop in the  8 percent tax 
on casino revenue that funds programs for seniors and the
disabled. The industry gives another 1.25 percent of revenue to
the  Casino Reinvestment Development Authority , which helped fund
$1.8 billion of projects since 1984, including airport expansion
and housing for casino workers.  Atlantic City’s gambling houses employed 33,272 as of last
month, down from more than 45,000 in 2004, according to state
data. The 8 percent gaming tax netted the state $260.9 million
in 2010, down from more than $400 million in 2006.  Amid the slump, car traffic into Atlantic City has fallen
so sharply that Moody’s Investors Service this week downgraded
the toll-revenue bonds of the South Jersey Transportation
Authority, which operates the 44-mile (71-kilometer) Atlantic
City Expressway. The municipality itself, which relies on
casinos for 74 percent of its taxes, had its  credit rating  cut
by Moody’s in November.  ‘Crisis Level’  Christie, 48, announced the planned takeover of the casino
district last July, six months after he took office. Standing on
the 50-yard line of the New Meadowlands Stadium in northern New
Jersey, the governor said the state needed to make a “new, bold
commitment to Atlantic City” by taking control of policing,  land use  and business development in the area.  “It wasn’t a selection done philosophically,” Christie
said during a March 15 press conference in Trenton. “Atlantic
City, given the continued declines in gaming revenue and the
continued loss of employment in the southern part of the state,
was at a crisis level. We decided to deal with that crisis.”  Christie’s decision has yet to win over  taxpayers . In a
February poll by Fairleigh Dickinson University’s PublicMind,
voters opposed the takeover, 43 percent to 29 percent.
Republicans were more likely than Democrats to disapprove, with
48 percent of respondents in Christie’s party opposed.  “Many voters want to curb state government spending, not
expand its functions,” said  Peter Woolley , the poll director.
“They’re simply not confident the state can run things well.”  Neither is Lorenzo Langford, the city’s Democratic mayor.
While Christie’s plan may help the casino district, Langford
said it won’t help the rest of the city, which suffers from 16.4
percent  unemployment . The statewide rate is 9.1 percent.  ‘Big Brother’  “All of the predominantly white neighborhoods and the
commercial district are in it, and the historically black
neighborhoods are left out,” Langford, who is black, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s Big Brother wanting to come in and
control Atlantic City.”  Atlantic City was a decaying resort area until New Jersey
legalized casino gambling in 1976 and limited it to one
location. The first casino, Resorts International, opened in
1978. Revenues rose steadily each year, reaching a peak of $5.2
billion in 2006.  Wagering then tumbled for four straight years, to $3.6
billion in 2010, after nearby states including Pennsylvania,  New
York  and Delaware allowed  slot machines . Six of the 11 Atlantic
City casinos went through bankruptcy or restructuring.  “New Jersey is one of the more stressed states in the
country, and any revenue flow is important,” said Alan Schankel, a fixed-income analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
a Philadelphia-based money-management firm. “He has more to
work with in Atlantic City and there is no comparable revenue
stream outside of it.”  ‘Las Vegas East’  Keeping the casinos profitable and hiring is Christie’s
best shot for reversing the state’s economic slide, said  James
Hughes , dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and
Public Policy at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick . There is
also little or no up-front investment, he said.  “You have an entity that was once known as Las Vegas East,
and through many years all of a sudden it’s in peril,” Hughes
said in an interview. “This was a situation he had to address.
Given the position we’re in right now, the best shot was at
retention.”  Christie’s changes, lobbied for by companies including
Caesars Entertainment Corp., which has four Atlantic City
resorts, improve the city’s prospects, according to Chief
Executive Officer Gary Loveman.  “We don’t have high aspirations for things being
especially dynamic,” Loveman said on Caesars’ Feb. 25 earnings
call. “But I do think we’re in a period now where we could see
some stabilization in that market, improving margins as we
manage these businesses more efficiently, and over time, the
reinvigoration of the market.”  Revel Construction  The half-built hulk of Revel bears witness to the challenge
Christie faces. The governor has said he’s counting on the
casino, the only new one under construction there, to add jobs
and inject new life into the city’s gambling industry.  Revel last month raised $1.15 billion to restart
construction after some investors were reassured by the
government’s decision to provide $261 million of incentives by
reimbursing state taxes the resort is expected to generate over
20 years. The arrangement includes $125 million to upgrade the
boardwalk and other parts of Revel’s neighborhood. The project
is estimated to create 5,500 permanent jobs.  The risk, analysts say, is that Revel will woo customers
from other Atlantic City casinos rather than lure new visitors,
hastening the demise of older, struggling resorts.  “New and refurbished casino resorts will likely take share
from their dated peer group,” said Dennis Farrell, a casino-
debt analyst with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in New York at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at  
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  