-- 
Cisco Declares First-Ever Cash Dividend of 6 Cents a Share

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/cisco-systems-declares-first-ever-quarterly-cash-payout-of-6-cents-a-share.html
  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, said its first cash
dividend ever will be 6 cents a share, aiming to give a boost to
investors after the shares fell 35 percent in the past year.  The dividend will be paid April 20 to shareholders of
record on March 31, the company said today in a statement. The
indicated dividend yield is 1.4 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. Cisco said in September it plans to start a dividend with
a potential yield of 1 percent to 2 percent.  Cisco, founded in 1984, is returning cash to investors as
its sales growth lags behind its long-term target of 12 percent
to 17 percent amid competition from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  Cisco had about $40 billion in cash and
short-term investments as of January.  “We like that Cisco is increasing its commitment to
enhancing  shareholder value  and putting some of its large $40
billion cash stockpile and strong free cash flow generation to
better use,” Ari Bensinger, an equity analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  in  New York , said in a note to clients. Bensinger advises
investors to buy the shares.  Cisco rose 14 cents to $17.14 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m. New York time.  Flush With Cash  The fastest economic expansion in six years is prompting
U.S. companies to reward shareholders with payouts. At least 95
companies have raised dividends so far this year, partly due to
increasing profitability. Profit margins in 2011 will climb to
the highest level in at least 18 years, giving businesses a
stockpile of cash, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cisco was the only company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  that didn’t pay a dividend. The average yield for the 30
companies in the index is 2.6 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. With more than 5.53 billion shares outstanding as of Feb.
17, the payout will cost Cisco $331.7 million a quarter.  Last month, Cisco posted a profit margin that missed
analysts’ estimates after it spent more to develop products and
competitors undercut it on prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  