-- 
Clemens Subpoena of DLA Piper in Perjury Case Should Be Tossed, Firm Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-18T20:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/clemens-subpoena-of-dla-piper-in-perjury-case-should-be-tossed-firm-says.html
The law firm hired to investigate
steroid use in  Major League Baseball  said ex-New York Yankees
pitcher  Roger Clemens  shouldn’t have access to handwritten notes
of witness interviews and other materials for use at his trial
on perjury and obstruction charges.  DLA Piper LLP asked U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  today to quash a subpoena from Clemens, arguing the
documents he’s seeking are protected by attorney confidentiality
rules. The steroid report, published in 2007, was written by
former U.S. Senator George Mitchell, who was a partner at
Chicago-based DLA at the time.  “These documents were prepared in anticipation of
litigation, they are ‘opinion’ work product of the sort that is
virtually immune from production,” DLA said in court papers.  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and  Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career,
pleaded not guilty.  He faces a $1.5 million fine and a maximum of 30 years in
prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is scheduled
to begin July 6.  DLA Piper turned over five documents in response to
Clemens’s demand; he is seeking 20 more, according to the firm’s
court filing.  Congressional Committee  Clemens also sent a subpoena to the House of
Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
The subpoena seeks “interview summaries, notes and memorandum”
related to the February 2008 hearing on steroids and names 20
individuals it said is covered by the subpoena, including former
baseball players Jose Canseco, Andrew Pettitte and Chuck Knoblauch.  Clemens’s lawyer, Michael Attanasio, declined to comment,
citing the judge’s gag order in the case.  David Clarke of  DLA Piper  didn’t immediately return a
telephone message and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 