-- 
Clinton Says Obama Latin America Trip Key to U.S. Recovery

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/clinton-says-obama-latin-america-trip-key-to-u-s-recovery-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking as President  Barack Obama  departs for a trip
to Latin America, said cooperation and trade with the region is
vital to economic recovery and job creation in the U.S.  “Enhancing our competitiveness, accelerating innovation,
achieving energy security, and expanding our exports -- all of
these require robust engagement with Latin America,” Clinton
said in Washington today in a speech delivered at the  Center for
Strategic and International Studies .  Obama leaves today for a five-day trip to Brazil, Chile and
El Salvador, a mission focused on his goal to double U.S.
exports by 2015.  “It’s not only the developing economies of  Asia  that are
aiding the global recovery today. It’s also the economies of our
neighbors,” Clinton said. “It is the power of proximity.”  The top U.S. diplomat cited  Brazil ’s 8 percent growth rate
last year and a recent offshore oil find that she said puts the
biggest country in  South America  in position to become a top
U.S. oil supplier. Latin America currently supplies a third of
U.S. imported oil, she said.  “These are opportunities that we cannot afford to pass up
or to let them pass us by,” she said. “There is no part of the
world that is more closely linked” to the U.S. than Latin
America.  The U.S. is also working with  Mexico , Brazil, the Caribbean
region and other countries on renewable energy technology, she
said.  Nuclear Energy Agreement  Today in Santiago, Chilean Foreign Minister Alfredo Moreno
and U.S. Ambassador Alejandro Wolff signed a long-planned
nuclear energy accord, as Chilean officials said their nuclear
energy program wouldn’t be halted by fears over radiation
leakage from Japanese nuclear reactors following last week’s
9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami.  The White House originally said the agreement would be
signed by Obama and Chilean President Sebastian Pinera during
Obama’s visit next week. Chilean officials said the goal was to
promote scientific cooperation and not to build a nuclear
reactor.    Chile  suffered an 8.8-magnitude earthquake last year, and
Chilean environmental groups have urged caution at a time when
countries including Germany and  Venezuela  have announced a
review of nuclear plants or suspension of planned deals
following the disaster in  Japan .  Four Cities  Obama’s five-day visit to Brazil, Chile and El Salvador
will be his first presidential trip to Central and South
America, with stops set for Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Santiago
and San Salvador.  It’s an opportunity to forge strong relations with the new
Brazilian president,  Dilma Rousseff , and Chilean President
Sebastian Pinera as competitors are “knocking on the door,”
said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the New York-based
 Council of the Americas .  “We can no longer assume we are the only game in town,”
Farnsworth said during a March 10 panel discussion at the
 Heritage Foundation  in  Washington . “We cannot ignore the
Western Hemisphere, nor can we take it for granted.”  The U.S. delegation will include Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Trade Representative Ron Kirk, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Export-Import Bank
President Fred Hochberg, according to the White House.  Trade with Brazil  The U.S. in 2008 was Brazil’s biggest trade partner, with
imports of $27 billion compared with China’s $16 billion,
according to the Inter-American Development Bank. China’s total
increased to $20 billion in 2009, surpassing $16 billion for the
U.S., on demand for iron, soy beans and oil.  China overtook the U.S. as Brazil’s biggest trading partner
in 2009 after becoming Chile’s leading export market in 2007.
Chinese exports to Chile have more than tripled in the past five
years, while U.S. sales almost doubled, according to data from
Chile’s  central bank .  Brazilian officials have said they want to reduce their
nation’s commercial dependence on  China , whose trade policy is
driven by growing demand for raw materials.  The Obama administration also plans to revise trade
agreements with Colombia and Panama this year and submit them
for approval to Congress, Trade Representative Kirk said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  