-- 
Clinton Says ‘No Other Choice’ Than Planning for Action in Libya

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/clinton-says-no-other-choice-than-planning-for-action-in-libya.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has given the world
“no other choice” than to begin enforcing the United Nations
Security Council resolution authorizing military action against
his regime.  Clinton said the U.S. and its allies will work “to
operationalize” the resolution approved yesterday, which calls
for taking “all necessary measures” to protect Libyan
civilians. She dismissed a reported cease-fire offer by Qaddafi,
saying the U.S. won’t be “impressed by words -- we would have
to see action.”  “Colonel Qaddafi’s refusal to hear the repeated calls, up
until now, to halt the violence against his own people, has left
us with no other choice but to pursue this course of action,”
Clinton said in a joint news conference at the State Department
in  Washington  with Eamon Gilmore, Ireland’s deputy prime
minister.  The Libyan ambassador to the U.S. who broke with the
Qaddafi regime, Ali Suleiman Aujali, rejected a Qaddafi cease-
fire in a separate news conference at the  National Press Club  in
Washington  “We don’t want to live under the cease-fire,” Aujali
said. “The situation has to end as soon as possible.”  Clinton didn’t specify what military steps the U.S. might
take or when any action would begin.  Ending Violence  “The first and overwhelmingly urgent action is to end the
violence,” Clinton said. She said Qaddafi’s forces would need
“to move physically a significant distance away from the east,
where they have been pursuing their campaign against the
opposition.”  Crude oil retreated, dropping more than $2 a barrel from
the day’s highs, after  Libya  said it would ceasing all military
action and start talks with the opposition. Crude oil for April
delivery fell 49 cents to $100.93 a barrel at 12:45 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The month-long uprising in Libya has left the North African
country divided, with Qaddafi controlling much of the west,
including the capital of Tripoli, and rebels holding some of the
east, with the city of Benghazi as their base.  The UN Security Council voted 10-0, with five abstentions,
yesterday to establish a no-fly zone over Libya and allow “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians, “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”  After the UN vote, Libyan Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled
Kaaim said at a press conference in Tripoli the regime is ready
to negotiate a cease-fire, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Qaddafi Must Leave  “We do believe a final result of any negotiations would
have to be a decision by Colonel Qaddafi to leave” Libya,
Clinton said.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, signaled after the
passage of the UN resolution that Libyan troops won’t try to
enter Benghazi, though they will encircle it, Agence France-
Presse reported.  “The Libyan people have called for international
assistance, and this resolution paves the way for that call to
be answered,” Clinton said today.  Indicating the complex planning that lies ahead, Clinton
said, “We just passed this resolution last night, and I think
now we’re going to be working to operationalize it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  