-- 
Clout of G-7 Validated as Yen Selloff Bolsters Its Relevance Against G-20

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-03-18T16:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/clout-of-g-7-validated-as-yen-selloff-bolsters-its-relevance-against-g-20.html
The Group of Seven may have been
counted out too soon.  Almost two years after ceding control of international
economic policy making to the G-20, the club of seven rich
nations yesterday reminded financial markets of its power. By
throwing what analyst  Ashraf Laidi  called a “no buy zone”
around the surging yen, the G-7 triggered the Japanese
currency’s biggest drop in more than two years.  The response to the group’s first intervention in foreign
exchange markets since 2000 proves it still carries clout with
investors at a time when the ability of the G-20 to find common
ground on policies is being questioned.  “The action shows the commitment to cooperation and
coordinated action that has been the hallmark of the G-7 in
times of great stress or volatility,” said Daniel Price, a
former G-20 adviser to President  George W. Bush  and now a
partner at law firm Sidley Austin LLP in  Washington . “It also
underscores the continued vitality of the G-7 and the crucial
role it plays even as many important global economic policy
issues are taken up by the G-20.”  The G-7 comprises the U.S.,  Japan , Germany, the U.K.,
France, Canada and Italy. Each sold yen yesterday when their
markets opened in a bid to reverse its surge to a post-war
record against the dollar, which threatened Japan’s efforts to
revive its economy after last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Conference Call  The nations acted after their finance chiefs spoke for
about an hour via conference call from about 7 a.m. Tokyo time
yesterday, Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said
in an interview. They made their decision known in a statement
that promised to “provide any needed cooperation” with Japan,
which is also tackling a stricken nuclear power plant.  Officials from Japan’s Ministry of Finance initially
contemplated asking the G-7 to warn against market volatility
before Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  decided to seek joint
intervention, Igarashi said. Noda told reporters he had won
prior approval from Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to make the
decision on what to do.  In the hours leading up to the call, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  spoke with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet to discuss
how they wanted to show their support for Japan. Geithner also
spoke with Noda and briefed President  Barack Obama .  Yen’s Decline  The yen, which had climbed for five days on speculation
insurance companies and investors will repatriate assets to pay
for damages, traded as low as 81.99 per dollar yesterday,
compared with the high of 76.25 the previous day.  “If there’s ever a time for coordinated G-7 intervention,
it’s now,” said Laidi, an independent currency strategist in  London .  Yesterday’s action shows the G-7 still has relevance after
a September 2009 decision to have the G-20 serve as the main
forum for international economic coordination, said  Jim O’Neill ,
London-based chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, which
oversees about $840 billion.  “The G-20 just can’t act as decisively and quickly as the
G-7 has just done,” said O’Neill. “In a strange way this has
all given the G-7 a rationale for existence for the first time
in years.”  G-20 Unity  While G-7 leaders and their finance chiefs still gather for
informal talks, it is the G-20 summits at which common policies
are now agreed and communiqués released. The G-20 showed early
success by uniting to fight the credit crisis and subsequent
recession with bank bailouts, tax cuts and lower  interest rates .  Since then, divisions have appeared, most recently at a
November summit of leaders in  Seoul , which was marked by clashes
over trade imbalances,  China ’s management of the yuan and the
U.S.’s easy monetary policy.  Other splits have opened up over how soon governments
should reverse record stimulus, whether to tax financial
speculation and how to re-write the rules governing global
banks.  Any success stemming from the G-7’s latest move may give
impetus to a proposal from French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
establish a smaller forum within the G-20 to address currency
issues because he views the larger body as too unwieldy. Sarkozy
is convening a seminar on March 31 in Beijing to discuss the
monetary system.  Global Imbalances    Julian Jessop , chief international economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, said the need to solve disparities in
international trade and investment means the G-7 will remain
junior to the G-20.  “The big problem facing the world is global imbalances and
it has to be solved by the G-20 because that includes emerging
markets,” said Jessop, a former U.K. Treasury official.  The practice of key economies meeting to set economic
policy began in 1975 following the end to the Bretton Woods
currency system, when French President Valery Giscard d’Estaing
invited the leaders of West  Germany , Italy, Japan, the U.K. and
the U.S. to a summit in Rambouillet, France.  The smaller group’s influence reached its zenith in the
mid-1980s when it agreed the Plaza Accord to weaken the dollar
in 1985 and the Louvre Accord to buoy it two years later. A 2008
study by ECB economist Marcel Fratzcher found the G-7 was
successful in moving currencies within a year on 80 percent of
the 29 occasions it tried since 1974.  Economic Fundamentals  This week’s intervention was the G-7’s first since
September 2000’s effort to boost the euro after it slumped in
only its second year of existence.  In the past decade the group has shied away from attempting
to directly move currencies, choosing instead to use so-called
verbal intervention. At a 2003 meeting in Dubai, the G-7 started
saying that exchange rates “should reflect economic
fundamentals.”  The G-20 began echoing the G-7’s stance when finance
ministers and central bankers said after October talks in  South
Korea  that they would “move towards more market determined
exchange rate systems that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals.”  Continued intervention from the G-7 may be limited given it
could “raise some eyebrows” in China, which is under pressure
from the U.S. to allow the yuan to appreciate more, UBS AG
currency strategists including  Geoffrey Yu  wrote in a report.  “The earthquake has triggered the latest round of yen
strength, so China will probably let it rest for now,” the UBS
strategists said. “But if G-7 action is sustained, tension
could rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  