-- 
Cocky Crudup Upends Stoppard’s Fragile ‘Arcadia’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/cocky-crudup-upends-stoppard-s-fragile-arcadia-jeremy-gerard.html
When a preternaturally intelligent
girl asks her scrumptious tutor to define “carnal embrace,” he
replies, unfazed, “the practice of throwing one’s arms around a
side of beef.”  With that exchange, Tom Stoppard’s time-tripping
“Arcadia” begins. It works equally well as a play about sex
with a lot of highbrow talk thrown in and as a play about
highbrow matters with plenty of sex.  It’s not, however, about star turns. This may be news to
Billy Crudup, whose career was launched as that tutor in the
1995 Broadway premiere. Returning in an overripe performance as
a pop historian hot on the scent of another best-seller, he
upends a show already unbalanced by an uneven cast. They’re
further hampered by diffuse sound that turns a thrilling mystery
into a challenge for the most alert audience member.  That’s the bad news and frankly I hope you’ll ignore it.
Stoppard’s dazzling 1993 meditation on lust, thermodynamics and
horticulture couldn’t be timelier or more poignant: His young
genius considers the breakdown of the universe from a child’s
point of view with the same wide-eyed horror we may be feeling
as we watch events unfold in  Japan .  Chaos Theory  Shifting between the first years of the 19th century and
the end of the 20th, “Arcadia” is set on a British country
estate. In the earlier period, the rakish young tutor Septimus
Hodge has long since been outdistanced by Thomasina Coverly, a
math prodigy just shy of her 14th birthday. She has produced a
rudimentary blueprint for quantum physics that may help predict
how the universe will end.  Septimus is lusted after by the estate’s various residents
and hangers-on, including Ezra Chater, a buffoonish writer of
doggerel whom Septimus has brazenly cuckolded. He’s also a pal
of the unseen Lord Byron, who occasionally hunts there.
Thomasina’s mother has engaged an eccentric landscape architect
to remake the formal gardens in the trendier Romantic fashion,
complete with unruly woods, fallen obelisks and a crumbling
hermitage.  In 1995 historian Hannah Jarvis is researching the changes
that took place at Sidley Park. She is joined unexpectedly by
glib, flashy Bernard Nightingale (Crudup), a climber from
academe drawn by rumors of Byron’s role in a scandal at the
estate.  Nature in Numbers  In six scenes that alternate between the two time periods,
we see what actually took place and how clues are then
interpreted by the historians. With the yearning of a girl on
the verge of womanhood, Thomasina hunts for nature in her
numbers and though the formulas defy her, she persists.  “If there is an equation for a curve like a bell, there
must be an equation for one like a bluebell,” she asks
Septimus, “and if a bluebell, why not a rose?”  The exchange is echoed in one between Bernard and Valentine
Coverly, the present-day scion of the estate and a mathematician
who has discovered Thomasina’s notebooks and their prescient
revelations.  Valentine and his sister Chloe (Grace Gummer, the image of
her mother,  Meryl Streep ) realize that the unknown in the
scientific formulas is sex, what the precocious Thomasina, 17 in
her later scenes, calls “the attraction Newton forgot.”  Imperfect Pilgrims  A palpable hunger for meaning and discovery ultimately
links the two halves of “Arcadia” in a final scene
interweaving these imperfect pilgrims in a mesmerizing tableau
vivant. David Leveaux’s staging heightens the differences
between the centuries when we want to see them ineffably knit
together.  Hildegard Bechtler’s set, suggesting the grandest of
manors, lit with an almost liquid sunlight by Donald Holder,
take us to this place as confidently as Gregory Gale’s
fashionable costumes take us to those times.  The charm Crudup brought to Septimus 16 years ago is
replaced by mugging as Bernard; perhaps he is feeling the need
to juice Leveaux’s meticulous but somewhat disengaged
production.  As Septimus, Tom Riley is youthfully appealing. Bel Powley
gives us Thomasina’s voracious mind but not, until the final
moments, her tragic soul. Byron Jennings does his usual high-
level best as the architect. Better still are Lia Williams,
smashing as the thorny Hannah, and especially Raul Esparza as
Valentine.  Watch this extraordinary actor fall under Thomasina’s spell
across the distance of nearly two centuries. Thomasina is the
brain of “Arcadia.” Valentine, caught up in the nature-versus-
science tumble, is its heart.  At the Barrymore Theatre, 243 W. 47th St. Information: +1-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 