-- 
Colombia Says Greystar’s Planned $1 Billion Gold Mine Won’t Receive Permit

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-03-18T20:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/colombia-says-greystar-s-planned-gold-silver-mine-won-t-receive-permit.html
  Colombia  planned to reject  Greystar
Resources Ltd. (GSL) ’s proposed $1 billion gold and silver mine, which
lacked “viability” because of environmental concerns, said
Mines and Energy Minister Carlos Rodado.  The company said today in a statement it will meet with
regulators next week to discuss “alternative options.”
Vancouver-based Greystar withdrew its permit applications
yesterday for the Angostura deposit in northeastern Colombia,
according to Rodado.  The project in a watershed area of Colombia had “technical
and environmental difficulties,” Rodado said today on Bogota-
based W Radio. “There was no possibility that it passed.”  The decision is a blow to Greystar’s efforts to start its
first gold production and end losses, said Juan Felipe Mejia, an
analyst at brokerage Interbolsa SA in Medellin. Greystar needed
environmental approval by the end of June to start output in
2013. The company had said Angostura would produce about 2
million ounces of silver and 500,000 ounces of gold annually.  “Clearly there will be a delay to anticipated first
production,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Kesler said in the
statement. A new plan under study would produce 200,000 ounces
of gold annually, the company said.  Greystar rose 1.9 percent to C$2.75 in Canadian trading at
4 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier, it dropped as much as 16 percent.  The company has a market capitalization of C$231.6 million
($234.9 million).  Revising Proposal  Greystar said it doesn’t plan to withdraw from the project.  “The intent is simply to desist from ongoing environmental
licensing to allow for a future refiling in the terms that
reflect concerns,” the company said. “There is a need to
reconfigure it.”  Greystar has been studying the possibility of an
underground mine at the site, where it had been planning an
open-pit mine.  Greystar had a net loss of C$24.6 million in the first nine
months of 2010, according to its website. The company has
reported losses every year since an initial public offering in
August 2004, according to Bloomberg data.  The decision may hamper efforts by President  Juan Manuel
Santos  to draw foreign investors to Colombia because of concern
about environmental regulations, Interbolsa’s Mejia said in a
phone interview. Increased security has prompted billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista  to plan investments to tap energy
and metals reserves.  Repelling FARC  Foreign direct investment in Colombia more than tripled to
$7.2 billion in 2009 from $2.1 billion in 2002, when former
President  Alvaro Uribe  took office with pledges to repel
guerrilla forces, including the Revolutionary Armed Force of
Colombia, or FARC.  Opponents to the Angostura project said it endangered water
supplies to the nearby city of Bucaramanga. Greystar has the
option of ending its development plans or redesigning the
project, which might take one to two years, Mejia said.  The stock has declined 55 percent in the past year,
compared with a 25 percent gain for the S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Smallcap Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  