-- 
Corn Surges Most Since October as Flooding May Delay Planting in Midwest

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/corn-surges-most-since-october-as-flooding-may-delay-planting-in-midwest.html
Corn rose the most since October as
adverse weather threatens to delay planting in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower and exporter.  Almost half the U.S. has an above-average risk of flooding
through April, with some of the highest threats in corn-growing
states including  North Dakota , South Dakota and  Minnesota , the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said yesterday.
Drought also may affect other areas, including fields from
Colorado to  North Carolina , the  agency  said.  “There is a significant risk for a delayed planting
season,” said Jim Gerlach, the president of A/C Trading Inc. in
Fowler,  Indiana . “We may trade in a very wide range until we
get a better idea about U.S. planted acreage and growing-season
weather.”  Corn futures for May delivery rose 37 cents, or 5.7
percent, to close at $6.835 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active contract
since Oct. 8. The price surged 11 percent in two days and is up
82 percent in the past year. The grain advanced 2.9 percent this
week, the sixth gain in seven weeks.  U.S. exporters reported corn sales more than doubled in the
week ended March 10 from a week earlier, the government said
yesterday. It was the sixth time in seven weeks that sales
topped 1 million metric tons. The country is the world’s biggest
producer and shipper of corn.  “Export demand is unlikely to slow and should improve with
growing world populations and rising incomes,” Gerlach said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, government figures show. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  on March 31 will release a survey-based estimate of
planted acreage for corn and other major crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  