-- 
Bank of America Gets Tentative Court Approval of Countrywide Settlement

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/countrywide-wins-preliminary-approval-of-34-million-settlement.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide
unit won preliminary court approval of a $34 million settlement
of a lawsuit claiming the company overcharged for mortgage
insurance.  U.S. District Judge Juan R. Sanchez in Philadelphia granted
tentative approval to the agreement today. A final hearing is
scheduled for Aug. 23.  Three Pennsylvania homeowners alleged in their 2007 lawsuit
that Countrywide, once the biggest home lender, required
homebuyers who took out mortgages with a down payment of less
than 20 percent to obtain private mortgage insurance from a
preselected group of providers.  Those providers agreed, in turn, to reinsure the policies
with a Countrywide affiliate, Balboa Reinsurance Co. The
homeowners alleged that Balboa collected more than $892 million
in reinsurance premiums since 1999 and paid nothing in claims.
Countrywide was accused of accepting a portion of the premiums
and providing no services in return.  “Countrywide denies any wrongdoing and liability and is
settling to avoid the cost and uncertainty of further
litigation,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed message.  Revised Settlement  The settlement, reached in November and revised last month,
covers borrowers with residential  mortgage loans  that were taken
out from Dec. 22, 2005, through Dec. 31, 2008, and reinsured by
Balboa or its subsidiaries, according to court documents.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  revived the suit in October 2009
after ruling that the district court had erred in dismissing the
claims.  Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, acquired
Countrywide in July 2008 as the lender faced bankruptcy amid
payment defaults and foreclosures tied to subprime mortgages.
Bank of America booked a $2.2 billion net loss in 2010, fueled
by writedowns at Countrywide and losses tied to repurchasing
faulty mortgages.  The bank said last month that it will sell Balboa for at
least $700 million to Australia’s QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  The case is Alston v. Countrywide Financial Corp.,
07CV03508, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  