-- 
Credit-Card Rules Amended by Fed to Avoid Issuance to People Who Can’t Pay

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-03-18T20:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/credit-card-rules-amended-by-fed-to-avoid-issuance-to-those-who-can-t-pay.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve approved a
rule that would require credit-card issuers to consider
consumers’ individual incomes before extending credit.  Credit-card applications generally can’t request
  household income ” because that term is too vague for issuers
to evaluate whether customers will be able to make the required
payments on the accounts, according to a statement from the Fed
today. The rule is needed to prevent making credit available to
consumers who lack the ability to pay, the Fed said.  The change is supposed to limit issuers from giving cards
to college students, yet some lawmakers are concerned that stay-
at-home spouses will suffer.  “We will be studying the implementation of the Fed’s final
rule and if there are problems in the way it is implemented, we
will take them to  Elizabeth Warren  and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which will have the authority to write new
rules beginning in July,” Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New
York Democrat who sponsored the credit-card bill and
Representative Louise Slaughter, also a New York Democrat, said
in a joint statement today.  The two lawmakers sent a  letter  to the Fed in January
saying “the proposed regulations ignore their demonstrated
credit-worthiness because of their lack of current market
income.”  Card issuers can allow spouses to apply jointly for credit,
the Fed said.  Application Fees  The Fed also specified that promotional programs that waive
interest charges for a specific period of time are subject to
the same protections as reduced rate programs. Under this
clarification, a card issuer that offers to waive interest
charges for six months would be prohibited from revoking the
waiver and charging interest unless the cardholder becomes more
than 60 days delinquent.  Application fees that a consumer is required to pay are
also covered by rules that apply to overall fees charged during
the first year after the account is opened, the Fed said. Since
the total amount of fees is capped at 25 percent of the initial
credit limit, a card issuer that charges a $75 application fee
with a $400 limit would be banned from charging more than $25 in
additional fees during the first year after the account is
opened.  President  Barack Obama  signed credit-card legislation in
May 2009, describing its provisions as “common-sense reforms”
that would “protect consumers.” The law was implemented in
three stages, with the last of the rules taking effect Aug. 22,
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at  rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 