-- 
Curbside Cash Helps Cities From NYC to Seattle With Budgets

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/curbside-cash-helps-cities-from-nyc-to-seattle-with-budgets-1-.html
Cities from  New York  to Seattle,
desperate for revenue to plug budget gaps, have resorted to
finding ways to squeeze money out of one of their most coveted
and fought-over resources, curbside parking spaces.  New York City officials asked for investment bankers’ ideas
to net more revenue from parking spaces. Pittsburgh’s city
council and mayor agreed to raise rates yet can’t agree on how
to do it. In Seattle a compromise among government, merchants
and residents made parking more expensive downtown and cheaper
in neighborhoods. Indianapolis got money upfront from a Xerox
Co. subsidiary that will manage its meters and share the income
for 50 years.  Municipal revenue this year is running below 2008  levels 
while costs of pensions, health care and operations continue to
rise, making 2011 “the toughest year yet for local
governments,” Moody’s Investors Service said March 16 in a
report. The fiscal pressure has rippled through the $2.93
trillion municipal  bond market , where investors have pulled
money from mutual funds each week since mid-November. In a
political climate that discourages taxation, governments are
eyeing street curbs as assets.  “Desperation on the financial side of most of the nation’s
cities is driving it,” said Stephen Goldsmith, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s deputy for operations. “Governments see
value locked up in hard assets including streets. These can be
good deals or not, depending on the details.”  First Parking Meter  Cities have monetized street curbs ever since 1935, when
Carl Magee, an Oklahoma City newspaper publisher,  invented  the
parking meter to prevent oil-company workers from hogging spots
in front of downtown stores.  Technology that enables meters to measure parking demand,
identify vacant spaces, communicate with a central operator and
notify drivers with cell phone applications will improve their
efficiency for motorists and government, according to the
 International Parking Institute , a trade group.  Los Angeles officials said they expect parking meter
revenue to increase 29 percent in the fiscal year that ends June
30, compared with two years ago, after the city began replacing
most of its 40,000 meters with solar-powered devices that read
credit cards last year, said Bruce Gillman, a spokesman for the
city Department of Transportation.  Less Vandalism  “While meter rates throughout the city increased in July
2008, the newer meters replaced many that were non-functioning,
and with the easier payment choices, less vandalism and no
breakdowns, revenue has increased,” Gillman said.  At the same time, officials weighing deals to raise parking
fees or place private companies in charge of collecting the
money face political and fiscal risks if they give up too much
future revenue, install unwieldy devices or set rates so high it
hurts businesses, Goldsmith said. It’s a balance among
merchants, shoppers, tourists and residents, said Goldsmith, who
served as mayor of Indianapolis in 1992 through 1999.    New York City  received 12 responses from a February request
to investment bankers for advice on how to extract more revenue
from parking assets, the mayor’s office said. It collected about
$140 million from meters and $570 million in violation  fines 
last year, the budget office reported. What the city doesn’t
know is how much it costs to operate and maintain its 50,000
parking meters and 49,000 credit card-reading “MuniMeters,”
the deputy mayor said.  Parking Lots  Bloomberg’s proposed 2012 budget includes rate increases to
$3 an hour from $2.50 in commercial zones, and to $1 an hour
from 75 cents in some residential areas. Six city-owned vacant
lots would be converted into “ privately run parking lots ,”
according to the plan. He’s grappling with a $4.9 billion
deficit in the $71.5 billion budget projected for 2013. The
mayor is the founder and principal owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  “There are plenty of operational efficiencies that a
private company can help us with,” Goldsmith said. “The
average time for meter repairs in  Chicago  went from a month to
about 45 minutes.”  While Chicago’s meter repairs may have become more
efficient after Mayor Richard Daley sold control of the system
and its revenue to a private group led by Morgan Stanley for 75
years, the deal may have cost the city $9.58 billion through
2084, according to a document filed by Chicago Parking Meters
LLP, the new private parking operator, as it sought to borrow
$500 million earlier this year.  ‘Pay the Price’  “The next couple of generations will pay the price,” said
 Scott Waguespack , 40, one of five who voted against it among
Chicago’s 50 alderman.  Bloomberg has said he wouldn’t agree to any deal that gave
up New York City’s power to set meter rates.  The Chicago experience led the Pittsburgh City Council last
year to reject a similar deal proposed by Mayor Luke Ravenstahl
in which  Morgan Stanley (MS)  would have paid the city $452 million
upfront in return for 50 years of parking income. Of the total,
$220 million would have gone into underfunded pensions for city
employees.  “It would be a one-time infusion of money that over a 50-
year period would lose us billions of dollars,” said Council
President Darlene Harris. “I didn’t want to cede control of a
valuable city asset.”  Pittsburgh Budget Bind  The council agreed the city needed to increase meter rates
to raise revenue and approved a jump on downtown curbs to $3
from $2, and doubling rates in some residential neighborhoods to
$1, Harris said.  Pittsburgh remains in a budget bind because its retirement
funds contain just 30 percent of the $1 billion needed to pay
future obligations to 8,000 current and former employees,
according to Cathy Qureshi, the city’s deputy finance director.
Unless officials can get funding over 50 percent, state law may
force the city to devote a third of its 2014 budget to pensions.  Indianapolis did approve a 50-year agreement last November,
placing Xerox Co.’s Affiliated Computer Services in charge of
managing and collecting revenue from its 3,600 parking meters.
The city accepted a smaller upfront payment so that it could
retain a 30 percent stake in future revenue and also has the
right to buy itself out, said Michael Huber, deputy mayor for
economic development.  Indianapolis Rate Increase  Indianapolis  meter rates  are going up for the first time
since 1975 on March 28, to $1 from 75 cents an hour downtown,
with an extra three hours of metered parking in parts of the
city and on Saturdays, which had been free.  Officials expect the new meters and rates to create street
turnover in commercial districts and generate $1 million this
year for infrastructure, Huber said. The city now averages about
$750,000 from parking fees, said Kurt Fullbeck, a manager at the
 Indianapolis Bond Bank , a public agency that worked on the
transaction.  In  Seattle , Mayor Mike McGinn last September proposed
doubling downtown parking meter rates to as much as $5 an hour
to help close a $67 million shortfall in the city’s $900 million
budget.  Merchants expressed alarm and ignited a civic debate. The
city hired  Transpo Group , a Kirkland, Washington, consulting
firm, to draw up a new parking-fee structure based on demand. As
a result, the city council adopted a system increasing rates
downtown and in other congested areas to as much as $4 an hour
while cutting charges as low as $1 from $1.50 in residential
areas.  ‘Not an ATM’  “We told the mayor and council that downtown parking is
not an ATM,” said Kate Joncas, president of the  Downtown
Seattle Association , in an interview. “It’s a complex, dynamic
system, and you need to manage it strategically or you could
wind up hurting business and hurting future revenue.”  Most of the changes have taken effect, and extended hours
start next month. The city is using solar-powered devices that
accept credit cards and issue time-stamped receipts to stick
inside vehicle windows.  “We would have had to cut cops, libraries and other
services, and that’s why a lot of cities are looking to
parking,” Joncas said. “Even though it’s very difficult in
this economy to tell the public parking will be more expensive,
at least in this instance, the city made the decision based on
data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or  Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  