-- 
Czech Ministry Sees Tax, Pension Revamp Cutting State Income

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-18T16:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/czech-ministry-sees-tax-pension-revamp-cutting-state-income-1-.html
The Czech Finance Ministry proposed
changes to the tax system it said will cut the effective income
taxation rate for most people and reduce revenue for the state
in 2013 and 2014.  The proposal, which has yet to be debated by leaders and
experts of the three coalition parties, envisages abolition of
the so-called “supergross” wage tax base, unifying the income
tax rate with the corporate tax at 19 percent and offering
deductions for companies for paying taxes on dividends, Finance
Minister Miroslav Kalousek said.  “The overall tax burden will decrease in terms of income
tax,” Kalousek told reporters in  Prague  today. “For
businesses, the direct taxation remains the same, while the
accompanying cost of labor will decline.”  The ministry wants to introduce one payroll tax of 32
percent of an employee’s salary, which will replace the current
mandatory social and health insurance payments. The cost of
labor would decline by two percentage points on the change,
Kalousek said.  The ministry estimates the tax changes, combined with the
overhaul of the pension system strengthening private savings for
retirement, will reduce state budget revenue by 31.6 billion
koruna ($1.8 billion) in 2013 and 2014, compared with budget
projections for 2011, Kalousek said.  The ministry’s plan is aimed to streamline the tax system,
Kalousek said. The government, in power since July, plans to
overhaul public finances and the pension and health-care systems
as it seeks to reduce the public finance deficit to within the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output by 2013,
from a preliminary 4.8 percent in 2010.  The income tax rate calculated from the supergross wage,
which represents a worker’s pre-tax salary plus all social
security taxes paid by an employer, is currently 15 percent.  The proposed changes will bring “some benefits” for
employees with lower and medium salaries, while increasing
taxation of high-earners, Jan Linhart, a tax partner at KPMG  Czech Republic , said in an e-mailed note.  “Companies employing top experts with high salaries will
see an increase in costs,” Linhart said. “The motivation to
locate projects requiring a highly qualified workforce in the
Czech Republic will decline noticeably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  