-- 
Daimler Forecasts Growing Truck Demand as Fuso Targets Restart in Japan

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-18T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/daimler-forecasts-growing-truck-demand-as-fuso-targets-restart-in-japan.html
  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest
maker of heavy-duty vehicles, booked more truck orders than
anticipated in the first two months of 2011, underscoring its
forecast of “significant” market growth this year.  Truck sales in January and February rose 28 percent, while
orders from  Europe  and  North America  exceeded growth
expectations,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s commercial-
vehicles division, said today. Even amid questions of how the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan will affect markets,
Daimler aims to outpace competitors such as  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  MAN SE. (MAN)   “The best months are still to come,” Renschler told
reporters at a briefing near the company’s headquarters in
Stuttgart, Germany. “The upswing is global and it’s robust. We
have the clear goal of developing faster than the market.”  Daimler forecasts industrywide North American heavy-truck
demand climbing 20 percent to 25 percent this year, while the
European market may grow 15 percent to 20 percent. The
manufacturer may raise its projections as long as current
“positive” trends continue, Renschler said.  The automaker’s Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus division in
Japan plans to resume operations on March 23 after shutting
factories and setting up a temporary headquarters in Osaka
following the quake. The Kawasaki-based unit, which makes the
Canter light commercial vehicle, accounted for 40 percent of
Daimler’s 355,300 truck sales last year.  “Before the earthquake, we counted on moderate growth for
Japan,” Renschler said. “Whether that’s still doable can’t yet
be determined. I’m wholeheartedly convinced that the country
will recover from this disaster.”  A joint bid with  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  for German
manufacturer  Tognum AG (TGM)  offers “many growth opportunities,”
Renschler said, adding that the offer price of 24 euros per
share for the maker of heavy-duty engines for ships, tanks and
power generators, is “appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Stuttgart via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  