-- 
DMT Is Said to Discuss Sale of Broadcast Towers With Berlusconi's Mediaset

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-18T14:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/dmt-is-said-to-discuss-sale-of-broadcast-towers-with-berlusconi-s-mediaset.html
  Digital Multimedia Technologies
SpA (DMT)  discussed selling its broadcast-transmission towers with
potential buyers including  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the television company
controlled by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , two
people with knowledge of the talks said.  DMT’s assets are luring suitors as digital broadcasting
expands in  Italy , said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The talks may
not lead to an offer and DMT may pursue a partnership agreement
instead, the people said.  Officials for DMT, based in Lissone, Italy, declined to
comment. A Mediaset spokeswoman said the company doesn’t comment
on speculation involving other businesses.  DMT said in December it was reviewing options including
splitting the business into three parts: a telecommunications-
tower unit, a broadcast-tower unit and a real-estate business.
Lazard Ltd. is advising DMT on its strategic review. Officials
for Lazard declined to comment.  “The company’s asset split could allow it to take part in
a possible M&A in the broadcasting industry,” UniCredit SpA
analysts led by Giovanni D’Amico said in a note to clients on
March 14. “The upcoming auction for digital frequencies,
expected in 2011, could open the broadcasting market up to new
entrants and make tower assets more appealing.”  Market Share  DMT has a 24 percent share of the Italian broadcast
tower market, with about 1,100 towers, according to UniCredit.
Combined with Mediaset, it would rival Rai Way SpA, the current
leader with a 42 percent share.  DMT also owns telecommunication towers, which aren’t part
of the Mediaset talks, according to the person.  DMT shares declined 10 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
18.70 euros as of 1:23 p.m. in Milan, giving the company a
market value of 211 million euros ($298 million). Mediaset
slipped 0.2 percent to 4.41 euros, reducing its market value
to 5.2 billion euros.  DMT has a unique position in the market that can and
should result in significant corporate opportunities if they
are explored and the company is managed correctly, shareholder
Wyser-Pratte Management Co. said in an e-mailed statement today.  In September 2007, DMT made an unsolicited offer to buy the
tower business of Mediaset’s Elettronica Industriale SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  