-- 
Dot-XXX Domain for Adult-Content Websites Wins Approval Despite Opposition

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-03-18T23:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/dot-xxx-domain-for-adult-content-websites-wins-approval.html
The .xxx domain for adult-content
websites was approved for use today, overcoming opposition from
porn stars and publisher Hustler, which said the move would make
them susceptible to censorship.  The  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ,
the group that manages Web addresses worldwide, gave the green
light to the .xxx domain at a meeting in San Francisco. While
the address isn’t mandated for adult content, a flurry of sites
are expected to register their brands to prevent them from being
stolen.  ICM Registry  proposed the .xxx change and will sell
addresses to website owners for $60 annually, said Chief
Executive Officer Stuart Lawley. He said tens of thousands have
already applied to reserve more than 200,000 domain names, and
London-based advertising firm M&C Saatchi will begin a campaign
to promote it.  “For the first time, there will be a clearly defined Web
address for adult entertainment, out of the reach of minors and
as free as possible from fraud or malicious computer viruses,”
Lawley said in a statement.  Porn stars and businesses including Vivid Entertainment LLC
-- the company behind sex tapes of  Paris Hilton  and reality TV
stars Kendra Wilkinson and Kim Kardashian -- have said .xxx
would create an online ghetto, opening the industry to future
regulation. Lawley said the domain would give parents more
control and allow  Internet users  to filter unwanted material.  Independence Threatened  The  Free Speech Coalition , an adult-industry trade
association with more than 1,000 members, held a news conference
this week to argue against .xxx’s endorsement, saying ICM is
only looking to make money and the domain threatens the
industry’s independence. The approval also drew condemnation
from the U.S. Commerce Department.  “This decision goes against the global public interest, and
it will open the door to more Internet blocking by governments,”
Lawrence Strickling, assistant secretary for communications and
information, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are skeptical
that the addition of the new .xxx domain will provide any
additional protection for children; rather, it is likely to
encourage confusion globally.”  Lawley had said Jupiter, Florida-based ICM could earn $200
million a year from .xxx and he’s planning a “PayPal for porn”
online system that could handle $1 billion a year in
transactions.  The .xxx domain will likely be live by September, Lawley
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 