-- 
Duke, Ohio State, Kansas, Michigan Win in NCAA Basketball Tournament

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-19T03:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/duke-ohio-state-notre-dame-michigan-win-in-ncaa-basketball-tournament.html
Kyrie Irving returned to score 14
points and lead defending national champion  Duke University  to
an 87-45 defeat of Hampton University in the men’s college
basketball tournament.  Regional top seeds Ohio State University and the
University of Kansas, as well as the  University of Notre Dame ,
George Mason University and the University of  Michigan , won
today on the second full day of National Collegiate Athletic
Association play. The University of North Carolina and Purdue
University also advanced.  Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski got his 899th career victory to
pull within three wins of his mentor, Naismith Memorial
Basketball Hall of Famer Bob Knight, as freshman point guard
Irving played for the first time since injuring a toe on Dec.
4.  “I thought our team was sharp and I thought Kyrie was
sharp,” Krzyzewski said in a news conference. “I thought he
was very confident as it moved along.”  William Buford scored 18 points and the Ohio State
Buckeyes, the tournament’s top overall seed and No. 1 in the
East Region, hit 57 percent of their shots in a 75-46 win
against the University of Texas-San Antonio.    Kansas , the top seed in the Southwest Region, won 72-53
against Boston University at the Bank of Oklahoma Center in
Tulsa. Duke is the top seed in the West Region. The University
of Pittsburgh, No. 1 in the Southeast Region, won its opening
game yesterday.  Kansas next will play the University of  Illinois , which
became the fifth Big Ten conference team to reach the Round of
32 by defeating the University of Nevada-Las Vegas 73-62.  Notre Dame Wins  Notre Dame topped the University of Akron 69-56. The
second-seeded Fighting Irish got 15 points from Ben Hansbrough,
14 from Tim Abromaitis and 11 from Scott Martin in its win
against the 15th-seeded Zips in a Southwest Region matchup at
the United Center in  Chicago . Quincy Diggs had 11 points to
lead Akron.  George Mason used a 13-3 game-ending run to beat Villanova
University 61-57. Luke Hancock’s 3-pointer with 20 seconds
remaining put No. 8 seed George Mason ahead for good in its
East Region win over No. 9 Villanova at Quicken Loans Arena in  Cleveland .  The Wildcats, with 20 points from guard Corey Fisher, led
by as many as 10 points during the game and by six as it headed
into the final two minutes.  Michigan Beats Tennessee  In a West Region matchup at the Time Warner Cable Arena in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , eighth-seeded Michigan trailed the
ninth-seeded University of Tennessee Volunteers 23-17 during
the first half before taking over for a 30-point victory.  Zack Novak’s 14 points led five Wolverines scoring in
double figures. Michigan went 0-for-1 from the free-throw line,
becoming the first team in tournament history to win a game
without converting a foul shot.  North Carolina, the No. 2 seed in the East, won 102-87
against the Long Island University Blackbirds. Tyler Zeller had
32 points for the Tar Heels and John Henson added 28.  Purdue, the third seed in the Southwest, defeated St.
Peter’s College 65-43. Marquette University became the sixth
team from the Big East conference to advance to the Round of 32
when it won 66-55 against Xavier University, which shot 2-for-
13 on 3-pointers.  The University of  Texas  beat Oakland University 85-81, and
West Region fifth seed  Arizona  beat Memphis 77-75.  Texas Advances  Sophomore guard J’Covan Brown scored 21 points to lead
Texas past Oakland in a West Region game. The fourth-seeded
Longhorns got 19 points and 11 rebounds from Jordan Hamilton,
while teammate Tristan Thompson added 17 points, 10 rebounds
and 7 blocks.  Texas next faces Arizona. Michigan will meet Duke.  Notre
Dame ’s next opponent is Florida State University, which won 57-
50 against Texas A&M University. George Mason will take on Ohio
State.  The tournament, which this year was expanded to 68 teams
from 65, concludes April 4 in Houston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  