-- 
Dune Said to Be Buying Mortgage on Manhattan’s Mark Hotel From Anglo Irish

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-03-18T20:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/dune-said-to-buy-mortgage-on-new-york-city-s-mark-hotel-for-190-million.html
Dune Real Estate Partners agreed to
buy the mortgage for  New York’s Mark hotel  for about $190
million as the  Manhattan  lodging market continues to recover, a
person with knowledge of the transaction said.    Anglo Irish Bank  is selling the loan on the Upper East Side
luxury hotel, where rooms start at about $450 a night, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because negotiations are
private.  Dune, based in  New York  and led by Daniel Neidich, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  real estate executive, plans to work
with Alexico Group, the hotel’s developer, the person said. The
deal’s closing date is unknown, the person said. The Wall Street
Journal reported the transaction earlier today.  New York City hotel sales probably will double to as much
as $2.4 billion this year as Manhattan is the most active U.S.
market for lodging transactions, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said
last month. Increasing financing availability and plans by
investors to sell assets before loans expire next year are
likely to boost sales in the city to at least $1.9 billion in
2011, according to the London-based investment-services company.  Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels is a unit of Chicago-based Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc., the largest publicly traded commercial
property broker after Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis Inc.  Dune Real Estate Partners oversees funds that have more
than $1.5 billion under management and target distressed,
underperforming and undervalued assets, according to a March 4
company statement.  The Mark , located on Madison Avenue at 77th Street,
features a restaurant run by chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  