-- 
East Europe Day Ahead: Nissan in Talks to Buy 25% AvtoVAZ Stake

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z
-- 
2011-03-18T06:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/east-europe-day-ahead-nissan-in-talks-to-buy-25-avtovaz-stake.html
Following are the top stories on
central and eastern  Europe .  Top Central/Eastern Europe and Top Emerging Markets  Lowest Swaps to Inflation Since ‘08 on Dovish Bet: Russia Credit  Money-market investors are growing more confident Russia
will avoid having to accelerate interest rate increases as the
ruble’s rally helps curb inflation.  Nissan in Talks to Buy 25% of Russia’s AvtoVAZ to Gain Control  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third- largest carmaker, is in
talks to buy more than 25 percent of OAO AvtoVAZ in a bid to
secure control of the Russian carmaker with partner Renault SA.  Alrosa, Biggest Diamond Producer, Plans $3 Billion IPO for 2012  Alrosa, the world’s biggest diamond company by production
last year, plans to raise as much as $3 billion in an initial
public offering in 2012, according to Chief Executive Officer
Fyodor Andreev.  Eastern European Stock Markets    Poland ’s WIG20 rose 1.6 percent, the Czech PX Index climbed
0.4 percent and  Hungary ’s BUX Index gained 1.7 percent. The 30-
stock Micex Index rose to 1,737.6 in Moscow.    Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA (LWB)  , Poland’s only
publicly traded coal producer, and Kernel Holding SA  (KER PW)
of Ukraine will join Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index after the
March 18 session, the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  said on Feb. 11.    Cyfrowy Polsat SA (CPS)  , Poland’s biggest satellite
television broadcaster, and Polimex-Mostostal SA  (PXM PW), the
country’s largest construction company, will be dropped from the
WIG20 Index to make room for Bogdanka and Kernel.    Trakcja Polska SA (TRK)  : Poland’s largest railway
builder is scheduled to report 2010 earnings. Trakcja rose 3
percent to 3.46 zloty.  OAO AvtoVAZ  (AVAZ RX):  Japan ’s Nissan Motor Co. is in
talks about buying more than 25 percent of OAO AvtoVAZ, Russia’s
largest carmaker, in a bid to secure control of it with partner
Renault SA, which holds another 25 percent. AvtoVAZ fell 0.2
percent to 28.168 rubles.  OAO Gazprom Neft (SIBN RX): The oil arm of Russia’s
natural-gas monopoly is among bidders for Poland’s second-
largest refinery Grupa Lotos SA, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people it didn’t identify. Gazprom Neft
advanced 1.1 percent to 146.84 rubles.  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel  (MAGN RX): Russian
billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s steelmaker is seeking to sell
Eurobonds for the first time since 2003, according to three
bankers vying for a role in the sale. Magnitogorsk added 4.8
percent to 29.639 rubles.  World Markets  G-7 Sells Yen in Its First Joint Intervention Since 2000 (2)  The Group of Seven agreed to jointly intervene in the
foreign exchange market for the first time in more than a decade
after Japan’s currency soared, threatening its recovery from the
March 11 earthquake.  Yen Plunges Most in Two Years After G-7 Agrees to Intervene  The yen tumbled the most in more than two years against the
dollar as the Group of Seven nations said they will jointly
intervene in foreign-exchange markets for the first time in more
than a decade.  Treasuries Decline as G-7 Yen Intervention Damps Safety Demand  Treasuries fell for a second day after the Group of Seven
nations said it would jointly intervene in the  currency market 
to weaken the yen, helping boost Japanese stocks and reduce
demand for safer assets.  Japan’s Wagyu Beef Exports, Rice Output Threatened by Radiation  Agricultural production and exports by Japan, including
wagyu beef and rice, are under threat of radioactive
contamination as the nation struggles to stem pollution from the
damaged Fukushima nuclear plant.  Newspaper Highlights  Rosneft, CNPC in Price Dispute Over Oil Supply, Kommersant Says  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company, and  China 
National Petroleum Corp. are in a dispute over the price of
Russian oil deliveries to China, Kommersant reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Raczko Says Forecast Polish Wage Gains Support Rate Increases  Poland’s monetary policy should focus on forecasts that
rising food prices will spur wage pressures, which in the
opinion of most policy makers justifies higher  interest rates ,
Andrzej Raczko of the Polish central bank’s management board was
quoted yesterday as saying in an interview with PAP newswire.  VTB Expands $1.5 Billion Dinamo Stadium Revamp, Vedomosti Says  VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest bank, plans to invest
$1.5 billion in reconstruction of the Stalin-era Dinamo soccer
stadium in Moscow ahead of 2018  World Cup , adding more
facilities, Vedomosti said today, citing the bank’s Senior Vice
President Andrei Peregudov.  Polish Ministry Sees First-Quarter GDP Above 4.2%, PAP Reports  Poland’s gross domestic product growth should exceed 4.2
percent on the year in the first quarter, PAP newswire reported
today, citing a forecast by the Warsaw-based Economy Ministry.  Kazmierczak Won’t Rule Out Polish April Rate Increase, PAP Says  Poland’s central bank doesn’t yet face a “definite
necessity” to increase interest rates in April though
tightening next month can’t be ruled out, Andrzej Kazmierczak of
the Monetary Policy Council was quoted today as saying by PAP
Newswires.  Boni Sees Polish GDP Growth Above 4% After Output Data, PAP Says  Michal Boni, senior adviser to Polish Prime Minister  Donald
Tusk , said he would “definitely” expect first-quarter economic
growth to be above 4 percent on a yearly basis after the  Central
Statistical Office  announced today that February industrial
output had risen an annual 10.7 percent, PAP newswire cited him
as saying.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle in Prague 1 at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  