-- 
Technology Companies Lobby U.S. Lawmakers for Lower Corporate Taxe Rates

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/technology-companies-lobby-u-s-lawmakers-for-lower-corporate-taxe-rates.html
A group of Silicon Valley corporate
leaders ventured to  Capitol Hill  this week with a message for
U.S. lawmakers: If you don’t lower our taxes, plenty of other
countries will.  The 18 CEOs and other executives met with dozens of
legislators March 16 and yesterday with the aim of also
protecting  government spending  on scientific studies and  tax
deductions  for corporate research and development while pushing
for changes they say will make their companies more competitive.  It was the  Semiconductor Industry Association ’s first
lobbying tour since moving its headquarters from San Jose,
California, to Washington last September, and a bid by the
industry to flex its muscle as one of the country’s biggest
exporters.  “The U.S. is competing with countries that want to build a
semiconductor industry,” said John Daane, chief executive of  San Jose , California-based Altera Corp., which designs
programmable semiconductors. “Malaysia is offering a tax
holiday to lure the businesses, and it’s basically a zero
percent tax rate.”  Altera, whose devices are key components of products such
as mobile phone base stations, already outsources much of its
business to low-cost countries. The company has two research
centers in the U.S., along with several sales offices. All of
its chips, though, are made by Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co.  The industry as a whole employs 182,200 people in the U.S.
at an average salary of almost $100,000 a year, and it spends
$20 billion a year on research, according to SIA. It exports
more than any other U.S. industry, and its products are at the
heart of dozens of other items as varied as computers, cell
phones and automobiles.  Lobbying Efforts  The SIA spent about $655,000 on lobbying last year to push
for a lower corporate tax rate, more federal funding for
scientific research, increased spending on science education,
and a revamp of immigration laws so that more foreign graduates
of U.S. universities could remain in the U.S.  The group scored a victory when Congress passed, and
President  Barack Obama  signed, legislation reauthorizing the
 America Competes Act , which provides federal money for
scientific research and education.  On immigration, the industry has had less to celebrate.
“The national politics were against us on this issue,” said
Brian Toohey, a former pharmaceutical industry lobbyist hired
last year as SIA’s president. He replaced George Scalise, who
had come from the tech industry.  Overhaul Proposals  An overhaul of the tax system remains a pressing matter,
with Obama calling for changes and Representative  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican who heads the House Ways and Means
Committee, proposing his own plan.  What the semiconductor executives want, above all, is for
the U.S. to leave their foreign earnings alone.  The U.S. taxes companies on their worldwide income, though
only when they bring those earnings home. That structure was
created at a time when most companies did the bulk of their
business exclusively in the  United States  and “semiconductor”
was a word most people had never heard. The industry wants
Congress to cut the 35 percent corporate  tax rate  -- among the
highest in the world -- and to stop taxing income businesses
earn outside the U.S.  Many companies are able to lower their actual taxes by
keeping income outside the U.S.  Analog Devices, a Norwood, Massachusetts-based manufacturer
of integrated circuits used in digital signal processing, paid
an effective rate of 23 percent last year on sales of $2.7
billion. Its founder, Ray Stata, is chairman of SIA’s board.  Camp Plan  Camp this week called for lowering the corporate rate to 25
percent, and his committee has begun holding hearings on
reducing corporate taxes.  Cutting the tax to that degree would require curbing some
deductions, said  Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy 
at Deloitte Tax LLP in  Washington . Camp hasn’t said which tax
break he would favor eliminating.  Obama has proposed cutting the corporate rate and ending
many of the special preferences companies enjoy. His goal is to
simplify the  tax code  while keeping it “revenue-neutral,”
meaning it doesn’t increase the federal  budget deficit .  Industries are attached to their tax preferences, and, like
the semiconductor executives, their leaders seek to persuade
lawmakers to keep them in place even if the overall corporate
rate is lowered.  “The scary part of this is the revenue-neutral part,”
Stata said in an interview. “We’re trying to figure out how not
to end up worse off.”  Tax Credit  Toohey said the SIA doesn’t want lawmakers to touch the
research tax credit -- unless they boost it to make R&D even
cheaper.  He also said the companies would defend the current system
that taxes their foreign profits only when they bring those
earnings back into the U.S. The industry would like to see the
U.S. move to a territorial tax system, where foreign-earned
profits are never taxed by the  Internal Revenue Service . That
would give companies the freedom to reinvest inside the U.S.  “We have huge gobs of money sitting out there looking to
be invested,” Stata said.  Short of a comprehensive overhaul, Stata and the other
executives are looking for a one-time amnesty that would allow
them to bring their money home and pay a lower tax rate.
Representative Brian Bilbray, a  California  Republican, has
introduced a bill to grant the holiday to companies that use the
money for research and development. Obama administration
officials oppose the idea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  