-- 
Citibank Sued by Lehman Brokerage Trustee Seeking Recovery of $1.3 Billion

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/lehman-brothers-trustee-sues-citibank-seeking-recovery-of-1-3-billion.html
A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit was sued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s brokerage trustee, who is
seeking $1.3 billion for the bankrupt company’s creditors.  More than $1.3 billion in cash and other assets now held by
Citibank and affiliates should go to creditors, said the
trustee, James Giddens, in a lawsuit filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court yesterday. Citibank has no right to keep a
$1 billion deposit, given to it for foreign exchange settlement
services, the trustee said.  Another $700 million was given to Citibank as a pledge by
Barclays Bank Plc as security for the same foreign exchange
settlements the week the Lehman parent filed for bankruptcy,
Giddens said. Lehman filed Sept. 15, 2008 and the brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc ., liquidated four days later on Sept. 19.  The trustee asked a judge to rule that Citibank willfully
violated the “automatic stay” provision of the bankruptcy law
when it seized the $1 billion deposit on Sept. 19, 2008, which
forbids such transfers, Giddens said.  The brokerage trustee’s suit is one of many in bankruptcy
courts, after creditors seize deposits to compensate them for
pending losses on their loans. The banks argue that under
commercial banking laws they had a right to set off the deposits
against money still owed. Using bankruptcy law, debtors try to
take back the deposits.  Seized Amount    Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost such a lawsuit in November when
the judge ordered it to return $500 million in deposits to the
Lehman parent. The bank has said it will appeal his ruling.  Lehman’s brokerage owed Citibank over $15 billion,
accumulated between Sept. 15, 2008, and Sept. 19, 2008, and
Citibank seized the amount to reduce the obligations, Giddens
said in the complaint.  Citigroup said earlier this month it could face demands by
Lehman for $3 billion in funds taken around the time of the
Lehman brokerage’s liquidation.  “The Trustee’s effort to recover these monies is
unjustified and without merit, and Citi will vigorously defend
its right to recover its losses,” said Citigroup spokeswoman
Danielle Romero-Apsilos.  Lehman benefited from Citibank’s extension of credit to it
amid panic provoked by its bankruptcy filing, and Citibank
suffered more than $1 billion in losses for helping Lehman, she
said. The money that the Lehman brokerage trustee wants to claw
back was used by Citibank to partly cover losses, she said.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). Giddens’s suit is Lehman Brothers Inc. v.  Citibank
NA , 11-01681, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 