-- 
Heirs’ Claim for Hitler’s Vermeer Rejected by Austrian Panel

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-18T15:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/heirs-claim-for-hitler-s-vermeer-painting-is-rejected-by-austrian-panel.html
An Austrian panel today rejected
a claim for a Johannes Vermeer painting by the heirs of a man
who sold it to  Adolf Hitler , saying there was no evidence the
sale was forced or that the seller was persecuted.  “The Art of Painting” is the most valuable picture in
Vienna’s public collections and the only work by Vermeer in
Austria. It’s housed in the  Kunsthistorisches Museum .
Austria’s art restitution panel threw out the argument by the
heirs of Jaromir Czernin that Hitler’s acquisition amounted to
a “sale under duress” and should be nullified. The panel
instead recommended that Austria keeps the painting.  “There is no reason to assume that the sale of ‘The Art
of Painting’ by Jaromir Czernin to Adolf Hitler was an invalid
transaction,” the panel said in a  statement  on its website.  Only about 34 paintings that most scholars attribute to
Vermeer exist today. They’re all in museums, including the
Louvre,  London ’s National Gallery, the Metropolitan in  New
York , Dresden’s Gemaeldegalerie and Amsterdam’s Rijksmuseum.  “The Art of Painting,” dated between 1665 and 1668, is
considered by many scholars to be the most important of these.
It shows the artist in his studio, dressed in a stylish
doublet, studying a demure model robed in blue, her eyes
downcast. He is beginning to paint a wreath of blue laurel
leaves on her head. A thick leather-bound book in one hand and
a trumpet in the other reveal her identity as Clio, the Muse
of History.  ‘Half-Breed’  The heirs said that Czernin, who spent 15 years in
lawsuits to get it back after World War II and lost, had no
choice but to sell it as his family was under threat. They
said his wife, Alix Czernin, was persecuted as a “second-
degree ‘Mischling,’” or person with a Jewish grandparent.  The panel said there was no evidence Alix Czernin’s
ancestry played a role in the terms of the sale. It also
rejected arguments that Czernin, who was a member of the Nazi
Party, was targeted because he belonged to the resistance, and
said he had wanted to sell the painting since 1933.  Czernin had negotiated with other potential buyers before
selling the painting to Hitler in 1940. The price was 1.7
million Reichsmarks, the highest Hitler paid for any work for
his planned museum in Linz,  Austria . Czernin wrote thanking
him for his purchase and wishing him joy with the painting.  “We can conclude that Adolf Hitler did not actively
pursue the acquisition of the painting; rather that the sale
was actively pushed by Jaromir Czernin’s lawyers,” the panel
said.  Two Vermeers  Hitler had two Vermeers -- the other was “The
Astronomer,” seized from the Rothschilds -- yet his
preference was for German 19th-century painters such as Hans
Makart, Arnold Boecklin and Anselm Feuerbach.  Many of the works assembled by his adviser on the
project, Hans Posse, were looted from Jews in Austria. Others
were acquired through forced sales in the Netherlands. They
were stored in Hitler’s Fuehrerbau in Munich, where the Nazi
leader would pay regular visits to inspect them.  By the end of World War II, his collection comprised
about 4,700 works, yet the Linz museum was never built.  “The Art of Painting” was returned to Vienna after U.S.
troops discovered it in a stash of masterpieces intended for
the museum in a salt mine.  It has hung in the Kunsthistorisches Museum since 1945.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  