-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance, Paring Weekly Decline, on G-7 Move, Libya

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-03-18T16:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/emerging-market-stocks-advance-paring-weekly-decline-on-g-7-intervention.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
a weekly decline, as the Group of Seven nations moved to shore
up  Japan ’s economy and Libya declared a cease-fire.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.8 percent to
1,099.61 at 12:38 p.m. in  New York , bringing its retreat this
week to 0.8 percent. Hungarian forint and the South African rand
led currencies higher against the dollar, while the extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market debt over Treasuries
fell 7 basis points to 274, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  Benchmark equity indexes in Brazil,  South Korea  and  Taiwan 
rose more than 1 percent after G-7 nations jointly intervened in
the foreign exchange market for the first time in a decade,
aiming to weaken the yen to bolster Japan’s recovery from the
March 11 earthquake.  Libya  is ceasing all military action and
will start talks with the opposition, Libyan Foreign Minister
Moussa Koussa said in a televised news conference carried by Al
Arabiya TV.  “This intervention in the yen gives breathing room in the
currency and equity markets,”  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based
senior strategist with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “It gives a
floor under the markets.”  G-7 Intervention  The MSCI emerging-market index has fallen 1.4 percent since
March 10, the day before an earthquake struck Japan, the world’s
third-largest economy. Engineers plan to work into the night to
restore power to two of the crippled reactors at Japan’s damaged
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, a step that may improve the odds
that a nuclear meltdown can be averted. Japan’s  Nikkei-225 (NKY)  Stock
Average rallied 2.7 percent today, paring its retreat since
March 10 to 12 percent.  The yen fell 2.8 percent against the dollar and weakened
4.3 percent against the rand. G-7 finance chiefs said in a joint
statement they will “provide any needed cooperation” with
Japan. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.1 percent as the won
strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar, while Taiwan’s
Taiex Index increased 1.4 percent.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 0.6 percent,
reversing an earlier decline of as much as 1.4 percent. Oil fell
as much as 1.1 percent after the announcement by Libya, holder
of Africa’s largest crude reserves, and was up 0.1 percent to
$101.50 per barrel. Russia’s ruble climbed 0.6 percent against
the dollar.  China Reserve Hike  France and Britain had begun preparing for strikes against
Libya after the UN Security Council authorized the use of force
to protect civilians.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , an exchange-traded
fund that holds Chinese stocks, fell 0.3 percent in New York
trading. The proportion of Chinese lenders’ deposits that must
be parked with the central bank will increase half a percentage
point from March 25, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website today. The requirement will rise to 20 percent for the
nation’s biggest banks, excluding any extra limits for
individual lenders.  Bahrain’s credit rating was cut two levels at  Standard &
Poor’s  as the government struggles to quell more than a month of
protests that have left about a dozen people dead.  The country’s long-term foreign-currency credit rating was
reduced to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from A-, S&P
said in a statement today. The outlook for the rating is
negative, indicating that more downgrades may follow. Bahrain
was cut to an equivalent level by  Fitch Ratings  on March 15.  Mexico Downgrade  Credit-default swaps tied to Bahrain’s bonds rose to 345.25
basis points from as low as 337.75 basis points earlier in the
day, according data provider CMA. The contracts are down from
yesterday’s close of about 351 points.  Mexican stocks were downgraded to “underweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co., which cited “poor”
earnings and fewer positive surprises from U.S. economic growth.
The country’s benchmark IPC Index dropped 0.2 percent.  Argentina was removed from JPMorgan’s recommended Latin
America stock portfolio on “fading” economic growth and
political change, Ben Laidler, JPMorgan’s New York-based Latin
America strategist, wrote in a research report today.  Brazil 
remain’s the “top pick” in the region, Laidler wrote.  Chile’s benchmark IPSA Index fell 0.9 percent and the peso
rallied after the five-member policy board, led by bank
President Jose De Gregorio, raised the overnight rate by a half-
point to 4 percent yesterday, surprising 19 of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg who expected a quarter-point increase for
the second straight month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  