-- 
Treasury Notes Fluctuate on Libyan Cease-Fire, Group of Seven Intervention

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-18T21:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ten-year-treasury-notes-erase-decline-yield-falls-1-basis-point-to-3-25-.html
Treasury notes fluctuated as  Libya 
said it’s ceasing all military action after the  United Nations
Security Council  authorized a no-fly zone and the Group of Seven
nations intervened in  currency markets  to stabilize the yen.  Benchmark 10-year notes pared losses after President Barack Obama said in remarks that  Muammar Qaddafi  must stop violence
and repression against the Libyan people or face a military
response by an international coalition.  U.S. debt  had a weekly
gain as North African and Mideast turmoil and Japan’s nuclear
crisis, described by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as “very grave,”
spurred demand for a refuge.  “ There are too many geopolitical issues out there,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “ The main catalyst for today’s move is news out of
Libya, but everyone is watching  Japan . It’s tough for traders to
want to be short into this weekend.” A short is a bet the price
of a security will fall.  The 10-year note yield increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.27 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent security due in February 2021 dropped 3/32, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 103.  Weekly Yield Drop  The benchmark note yield slid 14 basis points this week,
the most since the five days ended Feb. 25. The yield touched
3.14 percent yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 8, as investors
sought the safest and most easily traded securities. The 30-year
bond yield dropped one basis point to 4.44 percent today,
extending its weekly decline to 12 basis points.  “No one can afford to go home short right now,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “If something comes
out dramatically bad, you’ll have a big problem.”  Yields rose earlier after Libya said it will start talks
with the opposition. Al Jazeera television, citing witnesses,
reported that forces loyal to Qaddafi continued shelling.  The  Federal Reserve  joined other central banks in selling
the yen following a surge in the currency to a record high,
threatening Japan’s economy in the aftermath of its worst
earthquake on record. It’s the G-7’s first joint currency
intervention since 2000.  Weather forecasts indicated a change in the wind’s
direction may start moving radiation closer to  Tokyo  by the end
of the weekend.  Nuclear Emissions  By March 20, the weather may take emissions toward the
capital, 135 miles (220 kilometers) south of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Austria’s meteorological  center  said,
using data from the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
At current levels, the radiation isn’t dangerous beyond the
immediate vicinity of the plant, the center said.  The yen declined the most in more than two years against
the dollar, depreciating as much as 3.7 percent to 81.99 after
rallying to 76.25 yesterday, the strongest level since World War
II.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose as much as 3.5 percent as
the weaker yen boosted the outlook for Japanese exporters and
encouraged investors to buy higher-yielding assets. U.S. stocks
rose for a second day, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
up 0.2 percent.  Libya declared a cease-fire after a UN vote cleared the way
for strikes against Qaddafi’s regime. Libyan Foreign Minister
Moussa Koussa made the announcement in a televised news
conference carried by Al Arabiya TV today, adding that the
resolution authorizing a no-fly zone violates the UN’s charter.  G-7 Intervention  Japan began the G-7 intervention effort, with  Europe ’s
central banks, the Fed and the  Bank of Canada  following up in
their markets. Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi
said in an interview that he hoped the action would put a floor
under the dollar-yen rate.  As part of the Fed’s plan to use asset purchases to keep
borrowing costs low and support the economy, the central bank
 bought  $1.568 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, maturing from July 2020 to February 2041.  The U.S. government will sell $11 billion in 10-year
inflation-indexed notes on March 24, the Treasury Department
announced yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  