-- 
Menthol Cigarette Ban May Aid Public Health, Panel Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/menthol-may-worsen-smoking-s-risks-to-public-health-panel-says.html
Removing menthol cigarettes from
sale in the U.S. would benefit public health, members of an
advisory panel said in a report that urged more studies.  A yearlong analysis shows the menthol flavor harms the
public by luring more people to start smoking and making it
harder to quit, outside Food and Drug Administration advisers
said in a  draft report  that must be submitted to the agency by
March 23.  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , maker of the top-selling menthol brand
Newport, rose the most in more than two years after analysts
predicted that regulators will ultimately reject a ban.  The FDA advisers’ non-binding report is required by a  2009
law  that restricts tobacco marketing and bars cigarette makers
from adding flavors such as clove or strawberry. An FDA
conclusion that menthol cigarettes are more dangerous than
unflavored versions may lead to a ban.  While panelists favored a ban, the report “doesn’t paint
the FDA into a corner,” Patrick Hughes, an analyst with Height
Analytics in Washington, said today in an interview. “It has
certainly laid out an array of issues for FDA to address before
they’re in any position to advance a rulemaking,” he said.  Analysts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  urged
investors to buy Lorillard shares, saying the committee’s report
probably won’t persuade the FDA to pull menthol cigarettes off
the market.  ‘Legal Challenges’  The recommendations are based on scant scientific evidence
and the agency “may not want to face any serious legal
challenges,” Judy Hong, an analyst at Goldman Sachs in New
York, said today in a research note.  Menthol products account for about  30 percent  of the $85
billion in annual U.S. cigarette sales. Newport generates $5
billion a year in revenue for Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard, followed by Marlboro Menthol from  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s
Philip Morris USA unit and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s Camel
Menthol, Kool and Salem, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lorillard, Reynolds and Altria are the three biggest
U.S. tobacco companies.  Lorillard rose $8.33, or 11 percent, to $87.11 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, its biggest
single-day gain since Oct. 28, 2008. Reynolds, based in Winston-
Salem,  North Carolina , gained 62 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
$33.47, while Richmond, Virginia-based Altria advanced 36 cents,
or 1.5 percent, to $24.80.  ‘Exhaustive Review’  Panelists held their final meeting on the menthol report
today and said substantive changes are unlikely. Five public-
health groups supported the findings, saying the recommendations
are based on an “exhaustive review” of the scientific
evidence.  “The committee’s conclusions leave no doubt that menthol
cigarettes have had a profound adverse impact on public health
in the  United States , resulting in more smoking and more death
and disease from tobacco use,” the  American Cancer Society , the
Cancer Action Network, The  American Heart Association , the
American Lung Association, and the Campaign for Tobacco-Free
Kids said today in a joint statement.  While a draft chapter released Feb. 28 found that menthol
smokers don’t face more risks of tobacco-related disease than
people who use regular cigarettes, the panel said disease risks
aren’t the only indicator of menthol cigarettes’ effect on  public health .  ‘Adverse Impact’  “The availability of menthol cigarettes has an adverse
impact on public health by increasing the number of smokers with
resulting premature death and avoidable mortalities,” advisory
panel member  Mark Clanton , chief medical officer at the American
Cancer Society, said at today’s meeting. Clanton was lead author
of the chapter assessing the public-health effects of menthol.  The panel urged more FDA studies on whether certain
concentrations of the additive make cigarettes more addictive,
and whether banning sales would increase demand on the illegal
market.  “Depending on what directions or actions the FDA may
choose to take, then they would need to consider the potential
for contraband under those scenarios,” Jonathan Samet, the
committee’s chairman and a professor at the  University of
California ’s Keck School of Medicine in  Los Angeles , told
reporters after the meeting. “There may be strategies other
than a full removal” of menthol from the market.  Panelists don’t plan to change the report other than
correcting “typos and other editorial problems” before
submitting it to the agency, Samet said.  ‘Unsubstantiated Conclusion’  Lorillard disagreed with the panel’s “unsubstantiated
conclusion” that removing menthol cigarettes would benefit
public health.  The report “is just the first step in what we believe will
be a very long process that ultimately does not result in the
removal of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace, especially
when contraband and other unintended consequences are seriously
considered,” Chief Executive Officer Murray Kessler said today
in a statement.  “Any final decision by the agency should be based on sound
science,” Jeffery Gentry, executive vice president and chief
scientific officer of Reynolds, said in a statement. “We look
forward to continuing to provide information and our
perspectives on this issue to the agency as it undertakes this
process.”  The FDA will issue an initial report on its review of the
advisory panel’s findings in about 90 days, said Lawrence Deyton, director of the agency’s  Center for Tobacco Products .
The agency doesn’t have a timeline for deciding whether to
restrict menthol sales, he said.  The advisory committee’s report “does not set FDA policy,
does not set FDA actions, and FDA’s receipt of the final report
will not have a direct and immediate effect on availability of
menthol products,” Deyton said at today’s meeting.  Tax Implications  Tax implications are among the reasons the FDA probably
will decide against a ban on menthol, UBS analyst Nik Modi said
today in a note. Removal of menthol from the market would reduce
U.S. cigarette  tax revenue  by $5 billion a year while costing
states $8 billion in annual tax revenue and $3 billion in yearly
tobacco settlement payments, Modi said.  The FDA’s Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee
reviewed decades of published studies and FDA research, along
with marketing data submitted by Altria, Reynolds American and
Lorillard.  Lorillard and Reynolds have sued the FDA to block the
agency from “receiving or relying on” the advisory panel’s
recommendations. Three of the eight panel members have conflicts
of interest, according to the complaint filed Feb. 25 in federal
court in  Washington .  The three panelists have served as paid witnesses in
lawsuits against the tobacco industry and take money from drug
companies that make smoking-cessation aids, Lorillard and
Reynolds said in the complaint. Altria isn’t part of the suit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  