-- 
Tepco Ignored Warnings About Tsunami Risk, Ex-Lawmaker Says

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-03-18T08:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tepco-ignored-warnings-about-tsunami-risk-ex-lawmaker-says.html
  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which
operates the plant at the center of the worst nuclear calamity
since Chernobyl, ignored warnings about the tsunami risks that
caused the crisis, a former parliamentarian said.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was designed to withstand a
5.7-meter tsunami, according to Tepco. It wasn’t built to resist
the 7-meter wall of water generated by last week’s earthquake or
the 6.4-meter tsunami that struck neighboring Miyagi prefecture
after the Valdiva earthquake in 1960, Tatsuya Ito, who
represented Fukushima prefecture in the national Diet from 1991
to 2003, said in a March 16 telephone interview.  The dangers posed by a tsunami the size of the one created
by the 9.5-magnitude Valdiva temblor off  Chile  are described in
a 2002 report by the  Japan Society of Civil Engineers , Ito said.
A 1990 report from the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  also
foretold the events that led to the current crisis, warnings
Tepco ignored, Jun Tateno, a former researcher at the Japan
Atomic Energy Agency, said this week.  “Tokyo Electric brought this upon itself,” said Ito, who
heads the National Center for the Citizens’ Movement Against the
Nuclear Threat, based in Tokyo. “This accident unfolded as
expected.”  Ito has met Tepco employees to discuss his concerns at
least 20 times since 2003 and sent a formal letter to then-
president Tsunehisa Katsumata in 2005, he said.  ‘Prioritizing Safety’  “We are prioritizing the safety of the plant and are not
at a point where we can reflect upon and properly assess the
root causes,” said Naoki Tsunoda, a Tepco spokesman in Tokyo.
He said he couldn’t immediately confirm the exchanges made
between Ito and the company.  The 40-year-old Fukushima plant, built when  Japan ’s first
wave of nuclear construction began, stood up to the country’s
worst earthquake on record March 11 only to have its power and
back-up generators knocked out by the tsunami that followed.  The  report  by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an
independent agency responsible for safety at U.S. plants,
identified earthquake-induced backup diesel generator failure
and power outage leading to failure of cooling systems as one of
the “most likely causes” of nuclear accidents from an external
event.  The report was cited in a 2004 statement by Japan’s Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency, a government-run regulatory body.  Japanese soldiers and firefighters from Tokyo, using 30
fire engines, today began dousing sea water on reactor No. 3,
site of an explosion earlier this week. Tepco said it may finish
reconnecting a power line today to the cooling system of the No.
2 reactor. The power link would be used to restart pumps needed
to pour cooling water on overheating fuel rods.  The U.S. military, which is flying unmanned surveillance
drones over the station about 135 miles (220 kilometers) north
of Tokyo at Japan’s request, said it is “cautiously
optimistic” that the damage to the reactors can be contained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Osaka at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  