-- 
Tepco Debt Ratings Cut by Moody’s, May Face Further Downgrade

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-18T11:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tepco-debt-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-may-face-further-downgrade.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. had its
credit ratings cut by Moody’s Japan K.K. and put on review for
further downgrades because of the “potentially massive costs”
of rebuilding after last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  Both the senior secured and long-term issuer ratings were
lowered two steps to A1 from Aa2, according to a statement by
Moody’s today.  “The downgrade reflects the serious impact of last week’s
devastating earthquake and tsunami on Tepco’s operations and
reliability,” Moody’s said in the statement.  Engineers are struggling to restore power to two of the
crippled reactors at the company’s damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, a step that may improve the odds that a nuclear
meltdown can be averted. A total of 25 percent of the utility’s
generating capacity may be down, Moody’s said.  The cost of credit default swaps insuring Tepco debt rose 2
basis points to 302, after surging to an all-time high of 387 on
March 15. Tepco shares have fallen 55 percent since the March 11
earthquake.  “Tepco’s generation capacity has been severely
constrained,” Moody’s said. The company’s nearby Fukushima Dai-
ni station and several other thermal generating plants also
remain offline, according to the note.  Repairing damage caused by the earthquake, building new  power plants  and paying for replacement power while new stations
are constructed will add substantially to the company’s
financial needs, Moody’s said.  “Although Tepco’s liquidity was solid before this crisis,
it could be severely compromised if the full recovery of these
costs is delayed and borrowing is not readily available,” the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  