-- 
Mercator Jumps Most Since 2009 as Bidders Fight for Control

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-03-18T14:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mercator-jumps-most-since-2009-as-bidders-fight-for-control-1-.html
  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. rose
the most in more than two years amid speculation that a tug-of-
war between three bidders for a minority stake in the Balkans’
biggest supermarket chain may drive up the price.  The Slovenian company increased 11 percent to 180 euros by
3:15 p.m. in Ljubljana, its biggest intraday gain since February
2009, valuing Mercator at 677.8 million euros (958 million).  Agrokor d.d., Mercator’s Croatian competitor, and Warburg
Pincus LLC and Mid Europa Partners Ltd. investment companies
placed bids for a 23.3 percent stake in the chain,  Pivovarna
Lasko (PILR)  Group d.d., the seller of the stake, said on March 10.  The rally “has definitely to do with the bids by Agrokor
and the two private-equity groups,” Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst
at Abanka Vipa d.d., said by phone from Nova Gorica, Slovenia.
“It seems buyers have been attracted by rumors that bidders may
offer about 206 euros per share.” Ljubljana-based Abanka Vipa
is a Mercator shareholder.  Agrokor and Mercator are embroiled in a battle for control
of the retail market in the Balkans as new players including  Belgium ’s Delhaize Group SA enter the region to take advantage
of the improving economy and  consumer confidence .  A group of Slovenian banks, including a unit of  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , want to sell another 16 percent of Mercator, consulting
company Arkas d.o.o. said on March 15. The banks seek to pool
their offer with other shareholders to attract a higher price
for their holdings, said Arkas, which is managing the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  