-- 
Mersch Urges ‘Exceptionally Strong Vigilance’ on Inflation

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mersch-urges-exceptionally-strong-vigilance-on-inflation.html
European Central Bank council
member  Yves Mersch  said “exceptionally strong vigilance” is
needed on inflation and upside risks persist,  Belgium ’s De Tijd
and L’Echo newspapers reported, citing an interview.  “There are plenty of elements that make us re-examine the
balance of risks and to consider that there are upside risks to
inflation,” Mersch said in the interview. “Therefore we have
said that exceptionally strong vigilance is necessary.”  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month
and has been above the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  earlier this month said policy
makers may raise the benchmark rate from a record low of 1
percent when they convene in April. The ECB in its monthly
bulletin on March 10 said “strong vigilance” is warranted to
contain inflation.  “Our responsibility is to keep inflationary expectations
well anchored in the  euro zone ,” Mersch said in the interview.
“We see a very strong increase in the expectations of the sales
and import prices which seems to indicate, at least for prices
of industrial production, that there will be increases in the
months to come,” he said, adding that “it’s an indicator that
we take seriously.”  Speaking about the financial aid to banks, Mersch told the
two newspapers that “a number of banks, though they’re fewer
and fewer, remain problem banks.” It’s the responsibility of
the governments and “no longer the duty of the ECB to ensure
the survival of every bank in the euro zone,” he said.  Normal Environment  “There comes a time when one needs to ask whether the
banks’ business model can survive in a normal environment,”
Mersch said, according to the newspapers. “Banks can’t continue
to depend on public authorities.”  Mersch said the stress tests conducted on banks last year
should have been “a lesson.”  “Monetary authorities are convinced that these stress
tests play an important role in regaining credibility in the
European banking systems,” said Mersch. “More importantly,
this time the results of the tests should be followed by
concrete recapitalization measures, or even the sale or
downsizing of certain banks.”  Speaking about  Greece , Mersch said “what’s important is to
keep one’s promises and to take the necessary measures.”  “To describe the Greek situation as completely
inextricable and to say that the Greeks can’t get out of it, and
that the IMF, the European Commission and the ECB are perfect
idiots by submitting an exit strategy from the crisis that’s
moreover endorsed by the Greek parliament, that leaves me
dumbfounded,” said Mersch in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  