-- 
Mets Owners Should Pay $1 Billion for Ignoring Madoff Fraud, Trustee Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mets-owners-face-more-than-1-billion-of-claims-from-madoff-trustee-picard.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm filed new claims against the owners of the  New York  Mets, saying they “chose to look the other way” and
invest with the con man after repeated warnings of fraud.  Trustee Irving Picard revised a $1 billion lawsuit filed in
December to add a claim that the baseball team’s owner, Sterling
Equities Inc., and Madoff created a fraudulent letter agreement,
as part of Sterling’s purchase of the Mets’ broadcast rights
from  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  in 2004, according to a filing
yesterday in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “The amended complaint sheds more light on the deep
dependency of the Sterling business organization on the
continuation of the Madoff fraud and certain knowledge of
indicia of fraud by the Sterling partners,”  David Sheehan ,
counsel to Picard, said in a statement yesterday.  Picard claims that after Madoff’s fraud was disclosed
publicly in December 2008, Sterling Equities restructured its
debt in a manner that attempted to block the trustee from
recovering assets on behalf of Madoff victims, according to the
statement.  The new complaint, at 373 pages, adds eight pages to the
original complaint, which was filed, under seal, in December.
The original complaint was made public in February.  “The amended complaint is the latest chapter in the work
of fiction created by the trustee,” team Chairman Fred Wilpon
and President Saul Katz said in a statement. “We will pursue a
vigorous legal defense that will set the record straight and
vindicate us.”  Never Suspected Madoff  The Sterling Equities partners had more than $500 million
in their Madoff accounts at the time of his failure, their
lawyers said in February. They claim they never suspected Madoff
was running a fraud.  Also yesterday, Picard sued a consultant he had hired in
his investigation of Bank  Austria , alleging the Vienna-based
retired attorney was a “faithless servant” who may have
disclosed confidential information and told people they wouldn’t
be sued if they agreed to speak to the trustee.  Picard’s lawsuit seeks $810,000 in fees paid to Ewald
Weninger since March 2010 for assisting in a probe of
individuals and entities in Austria connected with Madoff’s
firm, according to documents filed in bankruptcy court.  Bank Austria, now known as UniCredit Bank Austria AG, was
named in Picard’s $19.6 billion lawsuit filed in December
against 20.20 Medici AG, formerly Bank Medici, Sonja Kohn, the
bank’s founder, and other defendants.  Alleged Phony Profits  In the Mets case, Picard is seeking $300 million in alleged
phony profits from Madoff’s scheme and $700 million in principal
from Sterling Equities, Katz, Wilpon, Chief Operating Officer  Jeff Wilpon  and almost 100 related parties.  In yesterday’s complaint, Picard claims that, as the
deadline for closing the Cablevision Systems broadcast rights
buyout deal approached, Sterling took a $54 million, no-interest
bridge loan from Madoff, creating a fraudulent letter agreement
falsely characterizing it as an investment by Madoff’s wife,  Ruth Madoff .    David Cohen , general counsel for the Mets, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday the $54 million “represented funds
the Sterling partners had invested with Madoff, as the trustee
acknowledges. As the trustee also acknowledges, that money was
never used -- and in fact was returned the next day -- because
the necessary funds were received from Sterling’s lenders by the
buyout deadline, and were used to fund the buyout.”  Katz Family Foundation  Picard also added an allegation that the Sterling
defendants in 2000 helped Madoff conceal his role in investing
money for the Iris & Saul Katz Family Foundation Inc. and the
Judy &  Fred Wilpon  Family Foundation.  The trustee repeated his allegation that the Mets used $90
million in Madoff profits to help fund the team’s day-to-day
operations.  Sterling also used Madoff profits to meet capital
commitments for its real estate funds, according to Picard.
Madoff profits also provided  cash flow  for Sterling’s internal
bank, “a clearing house” for funds and obligations among
Sterling partners, their families and trusts, he said.  Picard claimed that the Wilpon and Katz families had a
“close friendship” with Madoff and his family that began in
the late 1970s, often inviting him to weddings and bar mitzvahs.  Fred Wilpon, Saul Katz and Sterling Equities were
“sophisticated investors” who should have known the returns
they were getting from Madoff were impossible to sustain,
according to Picard. They turned a blind eye to warnings of
fraud and opened 483 accounts with Madoff. The Sterling
partners’ family, trusts and other related entities held about
300 accounts, making them one of the biggest beneficiaries of
Madoff’s fraud, Picard claimed.  1,000 Companies  Picard has sued about 1,000 companies, organizations and
individuals to recover money they allegedly made from Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme. Picard claims he is entitled to recover the $700
million principal from the Sterling parties because they knew or
should have known that the money they were withdrawing was part
of a fraud.    Mario Cuomo , the former New York governor and father of the
state’s current governor,  Andrew Cuomo , was appointed Feb. 10 to
mediate the dispute between Picard and the Sterling defendants.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to masterminding the fraud in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. At the
time of his arrest in December 2008, his account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances of $68 billion.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-AP-5287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drvoella@bloomberg.net . 