-- 
EU Allows CO2 Registries in Four States to Reopen March 21

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-18T17:47:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/eu-allows-co2-registries-in-four-states-to-reopen-march-21-1-.html
The European Union allowed carbon
registries in  Finland , Romania, Slovenia and  Sweden  to reopen on
March 21, lifting a suspension imposed after computer-hacking
attacks in January.  The four registries got approval to resume after they
demonstrated that their systems are secure, the European
Commission, the EU regulator, said in a statement today. The
decision means that 19 out of 30 national registries in the
region will be fully operational as of next week, and their
users will have access to all transactions.  The commission shut all registries in the European
emissions-trading system, the world’s largest, on Jan. 19
following a series of computer-hacking attacks involving more
than 2 million permits valued at around 37 million euros ($52
million) at today’s prices. The closure drove spot carbon
markets to a halt for 15 days before the first registries were
allowed to reopen.  The four registries will resume normal operations at 8 a.m.
on Monday, the commission said today. In previously allowed the
reopening of carbon centers in  Austria , Belgium, Bulgaria,
Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia,  Spain  and the U.K. Europe’s
emissions trading system includes the 27 EU nations as well as
Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.  During the suspension period, registries can’t record
transactions except for the surrender and allocation of permits,
effectively blocking spot trading. The closures didn’t affect
trading of carbon futures.  Rising Carbon Prices  EU permits for delivery in December rose 2.7 percent to
17.24 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of 5 p.m. They touched 17.76 euros on March 16, the
highest price since December 2008, on speculation that the
nuclear crisis in  Japan  and temporary halts of seven reactors in  Germany  will boost the use of fossil fuels and increase demand
for emission allowances.  Suspended registries are required to file reports showing
they meet minimum security requirements before they can resume.
The commission said it will continue announcing the reopening of
registries with at least 24-hour notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  