-- 
Most European Stocks Gain on G-7 Intervention, Libya Cease-Fire

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-03-18T17:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/european-u-s-stock-futures-rise-on-g-7-yen-intervention-total-may-gain.html
Most European stocks climbed as
Libya declared an immediate cease-fire and the Group of Seven
nations sold yen to ease concern that Japan will sink into
recession following the March 11 earthquake.    Parmalat SpA (PLT)  advanced 4 percent after Groupe Lactalis said
it has a direct holding of 7.28 percent in the company.  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  jumped 3 percent after CA Cheuvreux raised its
recommendation on the world’s biggest water utility.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index increased 0.2 percent to 267.63
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , as three stocks rose for every
one that fell. The benchmark declined 2.8 percent this past week
after the Japanese tremor and ensuing tsunami caused the
country’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station to discharge
radioactive vapor into the atmosphere.  “The gains are because of the news out of Libya,” said
Guillaume Chaloin, a  fund manager  at Meeschaert Asset Management
in Paris, which oversees $3.5 billion in assets. “This gives
stocks a breath of air. The market has been alternating between
all that has been happening in  Japan  and Libya.”  The G-7 jointly intervened in the foreign-exchange market
for the first time in more than a decade, selling yen as their
markets opened. The strong yen had threatened to hamper Japan’s
recovery from its worst postwar crisis by curtailing the
earnings of its exporters. Japan began the effort, with Europe’s
central banks following up in their markets, sending the
currency down the most against the dollar since 2008.  Japan’s Nuclear Plant  Workers may restore power to one of the tsunami-struck
reactors at the crippled atomic plant, improving the odds that
the utility’s owner Tokyo Electric Power Co. can prevent a
meltdown and further radiation leaks.  “The situation in Japan is being followed closely and it
looks like they are containing the problem,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $11 billion at Banque Martin Maurel
in Marseille. “The Japanese central bank intervention is
breaking speculation on the yen and will prevent the
competitiveness of Japanese exporters from being hurt. That’s
favorable for stocks.”  Stocks extended earlier gains after  Libya ’s Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa said that the government in Tripoli has
ceased all military action. Yesterday, the  United Nations
Security Council  authorized the U.S., the U.K.,  France  and
certain Arab nations to “take all necessary measures” other
than putting “a foreign occupation force of any form on any
part of Libyan territory.”  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets except  Greece  and Ireland. France’s CAC 40
Index advanced 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index increased
0.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index rose 0.1 percent.  Parmalat, Veolia  Parmalat gained 4 percent to 2.60 euros after Lactalis, the
maker of President butter, said it has a direct holding of 7.28
percent in the Italian food company and an additional 4.14
percent under an equity swap contract. Lactalis said it plans to
submit a list of candidates for Parmalat’s board at the
company’s shareholder meeting on April 12 and April 14.  Veolia increased 3 percent to 21.75 euros after Cheuvreux
raised its recommendation on the world’s biggest water utility
to “outperform” from “underperform.”    SAP AG (SAP)  gained 1.6 percent to 40.73 euros after the world’s
largest maker of business-management software proposed a 20
percent increase in its annual dividend to 60 euro cents a
share.    Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , whose shareholder Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd.
is trying to remove management, climbed 2.9 percent to 49.60
Swiss francs, after Vontobel AG predicted that the shares have
further to rise.  “We see potential for the share price to climb up to 72
francs,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Vontobel, wrote in a note
to customers.  Voestalpine, PubliGroupe    Voestalpine AG (VOE)  soared 2.3 percent to 31.81 euros. Austria’s
biggest steelmaker was raised to “buy” from “hold” at BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.  PubliGroupe SA surged 6.4 percent to 114.90 francs after  Switzerland ’s largest advertising company confirmed its return
to profitability. PubliGroupe reported 2010 net income of 42.6
million francs ($47.3 million).    Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the U.K.’s second-largest
homebuilder by market value, gained 3.6 percent to 1,040 pence
after forecasting that its full-year profit will climb to the
top of its previous range of predictions.  FLSmidth & Co. A/S, the world’s biggest maker of cement
kilns, gained 4.9 percent to 454.30 kroner, the largest gain on
the Stoxx 600. Jyske Bank A/S raised its recommendation on the
shares to “buy” from “reduce.”  Titan Cement Co. SA slumped 6.3 percent to 16.26 euros.
Greece’s largest cement producer said that demand for the
building material slumped 30 percent in the first two months of
this year from the same period in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  