-- 
European Exports Jumped in January, Adding to Signs of Recovery

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-18T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/european-exports-jumped-in-january-adding-to-signs-of-recovery.html
European exports jumped in January,
adding to signs that the economy is gathering strength as
companies boost output to meet surging demand.  Exports rose 3.6 percent from December, when they fell 0.2
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said in an e-mailed statement today. Imports increased 5.3
percent from the previous month, when they slipped 0.9 percent,
and the seasonally adjusted trade deficit widened to 3.3 billion
euros ($4.6 billion) from 1.1 billion euros.  European exporters have relied on faster-growing markets
including China and Brazil to boost sales as governments across
the euro region struggle to lower budget deficits. Euro-region
manufacturing growth accelerated last month and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles,
said on March 15 it aims to beat 2010’s record earnings.  “The global economic dynamic is hardly showing any
weakening,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in
Frankfurt. “Exports should remain a growth pillar in the first
quarter.”  Reviving exports and faster output growth have driven the
region’s expansion as budget cuts and the highest unemployment
in more than 12 years prompted consumers to cut spending. The  European Central Bank  on March 3 raised its growth forecast for
this year to 1.7 percent from 1.4 percent. In 2012, the economy
may grow 1.8 percent, it said.    Japan  Impact  Shipments to the U.S. rose 19 percent in 2010 from a year
earlier. Exports to the U.K., the region’s largest market,
increased 12 percent, while sales to  China  and Russia surged 38
percent and 28 percent, respectively. Exports to Japan advanced
20 percent. Detailed data are published with a one-month lag.  Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami have clouded the
global growth outlook and sparked a slump in equities. In
Germany, Europe’s largest economy, investor confidence
unexpectedly fell in March, reflecting concern about the
possible consequences of the disaster.  “Estimating precisely the implications for economic
activity in Asia and elsewhere of what is happening in Japan is
very difficult at this stage,”  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in an e-mailed note.
“But what we can say with some certainty is that the greater
the impact on global trade, the more adverse the consequences
for the eurozone and in particular” for  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  