-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop Since July After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-19T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-since-july-after-japan-earthquake.html
European stocks tumbled by the most
in eight months this week after Japan’s March 11 earthquake
damaged cooling systems at an atomic power plant, causing the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. and  Munich Re  led insurers lower for
a second week amid concern the industry may face claims of as
much as 2.8 trillion yen ($35 billion) from the Asian nation’s
biggest quake on record. E.ON AG and RWE AG sank more than 9
percent after the crisis prompted Germany to reconsider
extending the life of its nuclear plants. Areva SA, the world’s
largest builder of atomic reactors, slid the most since 2001.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index plunged 2.8 percent to 267.63
this past week, the biggest drop since July, as the temblor and
ensuing tsunami killed more than 6,000 people and caused
radioactive vapor to leak from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power station. The gauge has fallen for four straight weeks, the
longest losing streak since May.  The nuclear crisis was a “critical issue for the market,”
said  Mike Lenhoff , London-based chief strategist at Brewin
Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose parent company oversees about $33
billion. “Given the lead role that Asia and  China  have played
in the economic recovery, the overall impact was clearly very
unwelcome and tragic.”  G-7 Intervention  Stocks pared their weekly losses as Group of Seven nations
jointly intervened in the foreign-exchange market yesterday for
the first time in more than a decade after the yen soared to a
post-World War II high against the dollar, threatening Japan’s
recovery. The country’s central bank added 38 trillion yen to
the financial system this week as policy makers sought to
support the world’s third-largest economy.  Engineers worked to restore power to two reactors at the
crippled power plant in a bid to get cooling systems running
again and avoid a meltdown. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said  Japan ’s nuclear crisis remained “very grave” as forecasts
indicated changing winds could start moving radiation closer to  Tokyo  by the end of the weekend.  Since reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 17, the Stoxx 600
has retreated 8.1 percent as oil surged amid increasing
political unrest in the Middle East and fighting between Libyan
rebels and forces loyal to their leader for the last 41 years,  Muammar Qaddafi .  Crude fell at 1:55 p.m. in New York yesterday after Libya
declared a cease-fire in response to United Nations Security
Council approval for military action to ground the regime’s air
force. Western allies pressed on with plans for a no-fly zone to
protect civilians, with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  saying
he would judge Qaddafi by his actions and not his words.  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western  Europe  markets this past week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 1.9
percent, Germany’s DAX lost 4.5 percent and France’s CAC 40
retreated 3 percent. Greece’s ASE Index gained 0.8 percent after
the European Union agreed on a retooled bailout plan for the
region’s most indebted nations, two weeks sooner than investors
anticipated.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, dropped 3.3
percent, while Munich Re, the largest, lost 3.6 percent. Allianz
SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, tumbled 5.9 percent as a measure
of insurance companies in the Stoxx 600 slid 3.9 percent, the
largest weekly decline since November.  AIR Worldwide said Japanese insurers and global reinsurance
companies may face claims of as much as much as 2.8 trillion
yen, not including damage caused by the tsunami that followed
the earthquake.  Standard & Poor’s  warned that Munich Re, Swiss
Re and smaller reinsurers face what may be record catastrophe
losses worldwide in the first quarter.  Power Plant Operators  E.ON and RWE,  Germany ’s largest nuclear power plant
operators, lost 9.3 percent and 9.2 percent respectively after
the German government said it will halt its seven oldest nuclear
reactors as part of a safety review.    Chancellor Angela Merkel  had previously extended the lives
of the country’s 17 atomic power plants by an average of 12
years in 2010 to help maintain  energy security  and cut carbon
emissions.  Areva tumbled 13 percent as officials in China and  India 
and U.S. lawmakers called for a review of nuclear energy plans.  Clean-energy shares rose as investors speculated the
companies will benefit from increased demand following the
nuclear crisis. Solarworld AG soared 32 percent in Frankfurt,
Norway’s Renewable Energy Corp. ASA climbed 13 percent and
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA, Spain’s largest wind-turbine maker,
gained 5.9 percent.    National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  rallied 4.9 percent as euro-area
leaders struck a deal during the early hours of March 12 to ease
the terms of Greek rescue loans. Shares of EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA rose 7.7 percent and Piraeus Bank SA gained 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 