-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Japan’s Wagyu Beef, Rice Threatened

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-18T07:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/europe-commodity-day-ahead-japan-s-wagyu-beef-rice-threatened.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:    Japan ’s Wagyu Beef Exports, Rice Output Threatened by Radiation  Agricultural production and exports by Japan, including
wagyu beef and rice, are under threat of radioactive
contamination as the nation struggles to stem pollution from the
damaged Fukushima nuclear plant.  Record Beef Price Gains as Corn Cost Slows Feedlot Cattle Buying  U.S. feedlots probably bought fewer cattle to fatten for
slaughter last month as surging corn costs spurred losses,
signaling smaller herds this year and further gains in beef
prices that already are the highest ever.  Japan to Start Testing Domestic Foods for Radioactivity (1)  Japan will start testing of agricultural and marine food
products as early as today for possible contamination by
radioactivity, as the nation struggles to stem pollution from
the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant.  Global Commodities Sold Grains, Energy on Japan, Mideast Concern  Global Commodities Ltd. has sold grains, softs and natural
gas to raise cash to protect against uncertainties sparked by
Japan’s strongest recorded earthquake and Middle East unrest,
its founder and fund manager said.  Rubber May Extend Rebound on Export-Curb Plan, Quake Rebuilding  Rubber may extend a rebound from a four-month low as
exporting nations said they may curb shipments and demand from
the  auto industry  in China, the largest consumer, and rebuilding
efforts in quake-hit Japan spur buying.  Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel Said to Seek Return to Eurobond Market  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire Victor
Rashnikov’s steelmaker, is seeking to sell Eurobonds for the
first time since 2003, according to three bankers vying for a
role in the sale.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Commodities Head for Weekly Gain as Oil-Supply Concerns Linger  Commodities gained to a one-week high as Middle East unrest
boosted  oil prices  and after the Group of Seven intervened in
the currency market to help Japan cope with the impact of last
week’s earthquake.  Shanghai to Start Large-Contract Lead Futures From March 24 (1)  The  Shanghai  Futures Exchange will start trading in lead
futures, its first base metals product in a large-contract size,
from March 24, the bourse said.  Copper May Climb on Prospects for Steady Demand, Survey Shows  Copper may rise on speculation that demand will maintain
its pace even after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan,
a survey showed.  Copper Set for Best Week in Six on G-7, Japan Rebuilding Outlook  Copper headed for its best weekly gain in six weeks after
the Group of Seven agreed to intervene in the foreign-exchange
market for the first time in a decade, easing concerns the
economic recovery will be protracted.  Pacific Metals Doesn’t Know When Hachinohe Plant May Restart  Pacific Metals Co., Japan’s top ferro-nickel producer, said
it doesn’t know when it will resume operations at its Hachinohe
plant after an earthquake and tsunami damaged some facilities
and cut power supply.  MINING:  Posco Leads Asian Steel Stocks After Japan Quake: Chart of Day    South Korea ’s Posco is leading  Asia ’s biggest steelmakers
in emerging from a year-long share slump, after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami damaged competitors in Japan.  Vale Venture Beyond Iron Propels Bonds Past Rio:  Brazil  Credit  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron- ore producer, is beating
rival Rio Tinto Group in the bond market as a two-fold increase
in its copper and nickel output helps the Rio de Janeiro-based
company cut debt ratios.  Nuclear Fallout Sinks Uranium Mergers 28% Below Offers: Real M&A  Japan’s worst crisis since World War II is making takeovers
of uranium miners the most likely to fail, and that has enabled
some traders to anticipate returns approaching 40 percent.  Vale to Raise Capitalization Without Selling Shares (1)  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron ore producer, will raise
its share capitalization by 25 billion reais ($15 billion)
without selling new stock.  Greystar Pulls Environmental License Bid for Colombian Mine (1)  Greystar Resources Ltd. withdrew its application for a
technical and environmental license to mine at a $1-billion gold
and silver project in Colombia, Mines and Energy Minister Carlos
Rodado said today, according to a statement from the president’s
office.  Paladin, ERA Face ‘Extreme’ Volatility on Quake, JPMorgan Says  Paladin Energy Ltd. and Energy Resources of Australia Ltd.,
whose shares fell more than 20 percent in Sydney in four days,
face “extreme volatility” after Japan’s nuclear crisis,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Nuclear Fallout Sinks Uranium Mergers 28% Below Offers: Real M&A  Japan’s worst crisis since World War II is making takeovers
of uranium miners the most likely to fail, and that has enabled
some traders to anticipate returns approaching 40 percent.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances on Escalating Middle East Risk, Crisis in Japan  Gold advanced for a third day as unrest in the Middle East
and Japan’s nuclear crisis boosted demand for the metal as a
store of value. Silver, palladium and platinum also climbed.  Gold May Gain on Japan Crisis, Middle East Concern, Survey Shows  Gold may advance as investors seek a protection of wealth
from the crisis in Japan and tension in the Middle East and
North Africa, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Wheat Surge to Highest in Week After U.S. Exports Climb  Corn and wheat jumped for a second day to the highest level
in a week as importer demand for U.S. grain surged, spurred by
the plunge in prices in the wake of the earthquake in Japan, the
biggest corn buyer.  Palm Oil Advances as Rainfall Threatens Soybean Crop in Brazil  Palm oil advanced, tracking a surge in soybeans on concern
that rain in Brazil would damage the oilseed crop, and as crude
jumped on continued unrest in Libya.  Rice Planting May Be Disrupted in Tsunami-Hit Japan Areas (1)  Farmers in some rice -growing areas in northern Japan,
northeast Asia’s biggest importer, may be unable to plant the
crop after the March 11 tsunami swept salt water six miles
inland, according to the USA Rice Federation.  Coffee to Stay ‘Firm’ on Demand, Record Low Stockpiles, ICO Says  The price of coffee will remain “firm” at least until the
end of the year as demand outpaces supply and stockpiles of
beans drop to the lowest level since records began, the  International Coffee Organization  said.  Rubber Gains as G-7 Weakens Yen, Producers Weigh Export Curbs  Rubber in  Tokyo  climbed as a weaker yen made prices
denominated in the Japanese currency more attractive and Asian
producers said that they may curb shipments.  Palm Oil Advances 1.5% to 3,389 Ringgit Per Metric Ton  Palm oil gained as much as 1.5 percent to 3,389 ringgit a
metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange and traded at
3,384 ringgit a ton at 10:35 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  SHIPPING:    Vietnam  Bets $21 Billion on Ports to Beat  China : Freight Markets  Vietnam is pouring billions of dollars into building ports
for the world’s largest container ships in a drive to draw
export industries from China.  ECONOMIES:  China’s Smaller Cities Lead Gains in February’s Home Prices  China’s smaller cities led gains in home prices last month
as Beijing, Shanghai and other larger metropolitan areas
introduced local housing measures following new curbs from the
central government.  China February Home Prices Rise in Most Cities, Defy Curbs  China’s home prices rose in all but two of 70 cities
monitored by the government in February, defying government
efforts to keep housing affordable.  G-7 Statement on Currencies, ‘Concerted Intervention’ (Text)  The following is a joint statement released today by
officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations. The G-7
includes the U.S., Japan,  Germany ,  France , the U.K., Italy and
Canada.  G-7 Sells Yen in Its First Joint Intervention Since 2000 (2)  The Group of Seven agreed to jointly intervene in the
foreign exchange market for the first time in more than a decade
after Japan’s currency soared, threatening its recovery from the
March 11 earthquake.  Quake Spurs More BOJ Stimulus as ECB Signals Move: Japan Credit  Japan’s worst earthquake may force the  Bank of Japan  to add
more monetary stimulus to support the economy even as the  European Central Bank  signals it’s ready to raise  interest rates 
to contain inflation.    India  Braces for Inflation Risks From Oil After Rate Rise (1)  India faces pressure to step up its battle against price
gains even after the steepest interest-rate increases among
Asia’s major economies, as oil costs rise and consumer demand
strengthens.  OTHER MARKETS:  Most Asian Stocks Rise as Radiation Concern Eases, Yen Weakens  Most Asian stocks rose as concern eased over nuclear
radiation following last week’s earthquake in Japan, and as
Group of Seven nations began intervening in the foreign-exchange
market for the first time in more than a decade.  Record Rate Paid by Banks for Government Deposits: China Credit  China’s banks paid record interest rates for deposits from
the government this week as curbs on cash in the financial
system drive up borrowing costs.  Japan Markets Restraint May Force Tougher Response as G-7 Meets  Japanese policy makers, battling their country’s worst
crisis since World War II, may need to move faster to weaken the
yen and shore up stocks if they are to avoid a deeper economic
slump.  Yen Drops on G-7 Intervention as UN Libya No-Fly Vote Spurs Oil  The yen fell the most since 2008 against the dollar, the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average pared its weekly drop and U.S. index
futures climbed after central banks intervened to weaken Japan’s
currency. Oil rallied.  G-7 Interventions Marked Currency Turning Points: Chart of Day  Joint intervention helped mark turning points for
currencies targeted on three occasions during the Clinton
administration, a history that may today encourage bets against
the yen as the Group of Seven acts.  Japan Stocks Climb as BOJ, G-7 Begin Intervention on Yen  Japanese stocks climbed, paring their worst weekly
performance since 2008, as the yen tumbled after the Bank of
Japan and some Group of Seven countries said they began
intervening in currency markets as the country battles to
control a nuclear accident.  Nikkei Futures Fail as Signal for Japanese Stocks: Chart of Day  Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures have failed as a proxy for
how the benchmark measure of Japanese equities will perform in
Tokyo since last week’s earthquake.  Oil Surges on Libya Action; Credit Suisse Raises Brent Forecast  Oil surged in  New York  after the United Nations Security
Council voted to ground Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s air
force as continuing unrest in the region renewed concerns the
turmoil may spread and disrupt supply.  Trouble at Sugar Mills as Price Controls Backfire: India Credit  Indian government measures to control prices of food and
fuel for the nation’s 1.2 billion people are increasing losses
for producers and driving up their borrowing costs.  Malaysia, Dubai Sukuk Rally on Safety Demand: Islamic Finance  Islamic  government bonds  in Malaysia and Dubai rallied this
week, driving yields to their lowest levels in at least two
months amid escalating conflict in Bahrain and Libya.  Treasuries Decline as G-7 Yen Intervention Damps Safety Demand  Treasuries fell for a second day after the Group of Seven
nations said it would jointly intervene in the  currency market 
to weaken the yen, helping boost Japanese stocks and reduce
demand for safer assets.  ISS, Lenzing Delay Europe Share Sales on Market Gyrations (1)  ISS A/S and Lenzing AG postponed share sales yesterday,
taking the number of offerings scrapped worldwide this week to
at least 10 after Japan’s earthquake and unrest in the Middle
East roiled equities markets.  India’s Stocks Drop as Oil Surges; Reliance Shares Lead Retreat  India’s stocks declined, with the benchmark index poised
for its second weekly drop, as surging oil prices raised
concerns about faster inflation higher interest rates.  UN Approves Military Action to Protect Civilians From Qaddafi  The United Nations Security Council authorized the use of
air attacks and a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians
from forces loyal to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi trying to end
a monthlong uprising.  Asian Currencies Rise as G-7 Intervention Eases Flight to Yen  Most Asian currencies were poised for weekly gains as the
Group of Seven nations agreed to buy yen to calm currency
markets roiled in the aftermath of Japan’s biggest earthquake on
record.  SPORTS:  Porto, Benfica Advance in Europa League; Liverpool Eliminated  Portuguese clubs Porto, Benfica and Braga last night
advanced to the quarterfinals of soccer’s Europa League, as
Liverpool and Manchester City were eliminated.  PSV, Porto Advance in Europa League; Liverpool Eliminated  Portuguese clubs Porto, Benfica and Braga advanced to the
quarterfinals of soccer’s Europa League, as Liverpool and
Manchester City were eliminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  