-- 
Ex-British Airways Worker Gets 30 Years for Plane-Bomb Plot

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-18T15:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ex-british-airways-worker-gets-30-years-for-plane-bomb-plot.html
A former British Airways Plc
software engineer was sentenced to 30 years in prison for
plotting to blow up a passenger plane with Yemeni-American
cleric Anwar al-Awlaki.  Rajib Karim, 31, was sentenced at a London court today
after being found guilty at a  jury trial  in London last month of
preparing to commit terrorism, the Metropolitan Police said in
an e-mailed statement.  “ Rajib Karim  was providing information that could help
fulfill Anwar al-Awlaki’s intention of attacking the U.S. or
finding ways to get packages or people with explosive devices
onto aircraft,” said Stuart Osborne, deputy assistant
commissioner of the Metropolitan Police.  Karim joined BA in its information-technology department in
Newcastle,  England , a year after arriving in the U.K. from  Bangladesh  in 2006. He started with the intent to plan attacks,
prosecutors said. Karim contacted Al-Awlaki, who supports
violence against U.S. targets, in late 2009 and the two began
plotting to blow up a plane or to sabotage BA servers to disrupt
flights.  “The significance of that could have been quite immense,
and could potentially have led to loss of life,” Osborne said.  300 Messages  “We treat all security issues extremely seriously, and
have given our full cooperation to the authorities throughout
their investigation,” British Airways said in an e-mailed
statement. British Airways merged with  Spain ’s Iberia to form
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA in January.  Police spent nine months breaking the encryption on 300
coded messages found on Karim’s computer. He pleaded guilty
before the trial began to fundraising for the purposes of
terrorism.  Al-Awlaki wrote to Karim to be patient, and that their
“highest priority is the U.S,” police said.  Karim “kept a low-profile” at British Airways, while at
home he was making violent propaganda videos for a terrorist
group in Bangladesh, police said.  He worked with his younger brother, Tehzeeb Karim, and two
others to raise money for al-Qaeda and other terrorist
organizations involved in Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen.  Karim and Al-Awlaki “contemplated how they could exploit
Rajib’s position within the airline company to launch a
terrorist attack,” police said. Al-Awlaki encouraged Karim to
take up a position as a cabin crew member, which he thought may
have been available to him because of a strike by other British
Airways employees.  “Karim was not eligible to train as volunteer cabin crew
and at no stage was in possession of an airside pass,”
according to the statement from the airline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 