-- 
Fewer Californians Rate State ‘Best’ Place to Live, Poll Shows

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-03-18T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/fewer-californians-rate-state-best-place-to-live-poll-shows.html
A majority of  California  voters
don’t view it as “one of the best places to live” as tougher
economic times sour the quality of life in the Golden State, a
Field Poll showed.  Favorable sentiments toward the state are shared by 39
percent of voters, down from 41 percent two years earlier,
according to the statewide survey released today by the  University of California , Berkeley, and Field Research Corp. The
rating was the second-lowest since the polling company began
asking in 1967, and only higher than a 1992 result.  “Times of economic hardship and dislocation have often
coincided with negative assessments of California as a place to
live,” Mark DiCamillo and Mervin Field, both of Field Research,
said in a statement. They said the 1992 rating of 33 percent who
put the state among the best places came during a recession.  California, the nation’s most-populous state, had a 12.4
percent jobless rate in January, the 18th month at 12 percent or
more, and faces a $26.6 billion deficit through June 2012,
according to government estimates. Much of the U.S. is still
feeling the pinch of the longest recession since the 1930s that
has cost many workers their jobs and residents their homes.  Among those surveyed, 39 percent believe immigration has
lowered California’s quality of life, while 10 percent said it
made life better, according to the results.  “Voters whose personal financial fortunes have declined in
the past year are more apt to view recent immigration as having
a negative impact,” DiCamillo and Field said.  The telephone survey of 898 registered voters was conducted
in English and Spanish Feb. 28-March 14, and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points. Field Research is
based in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 