-- 
Fukushima Power Won’t Guarantee Cooling, France’s ASN Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-18T13:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/fukushima-power-won-t-guarantee-cooling-france-s-asn-says-1-.html
Getting power supply to the
crippled Fukushima atomic plant in  Japan  is the first of several
steps needed to restore cooling systems and is no guarantee of
success, according to France’s nuclear regulator.  “We must avoid being overly optimistic,” Philippe Jamet,
a commissioner at the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, said at a
briefing in Paris today. Many tests are needed to find out if
the pumps will work, he said.  “This will likely take human intervention, like going into
control rooms to reconnect valves,” he said. Potentially high
radiation levels in areas within the reactor site could make
these tasks difficult.  Engineers plan to work into the night to restore power to
two reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s tsunami-damaged
plant, a step that may improve the odds that a nuclear meltdown
can be averted. Tepco said it may finish reconnecting a power
line to the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors by tomorrow morning. The
electrical link would be used to restart pumps needed to protect
fuel rods from overheating.  “One can’t exclude the possibility” that water circuits
could be blocked or damaged, Olivier Gupta, a deputy head of the
ASN, said at the same briefing. “The situation isn’t yet
stabilized. For us, that will happen when there is a lasting
cooling system in place. We are still a long way off.”  ‘Largely Avoidable’  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
caused explosions in at least three of the structures
surrounding the station’s six reactors, as well as a fire in a
pond containing spent fuel rods. Water canons, fire engines and
helicopters were used to drench the plant yesterday.  “We have to examine how this drama happened, how it was
managed and how we could have avoided it,” Bernard Bigot, head
of the Commissariat a l’Energie Atomique, said today on RTL
radio. “It was largely avoidable if the cooling means had been
immediately available on the site” after the earthquake and
subsequent tsunami struck.    France  has 58 nuclear reactors operated by state-controlled
Electricite de France SA. The government has announced safety
checks at each reactor while retaining the country’s policy of
relying on nuclear power.  “Many specialists were surprised that they could lose
power and coolant at the same time,” Jamet said of the Japanese
accident. “It’s disastrous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  