-- 
Full-Panel Review of Obama’s Health Care Appeal Not Needed, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-18T16:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/full-panel-review-of-obama-s-health-care-appeal-not-needed-u-s-says.html
The Obama administration, appealing
a court ruling striking down its health-care legislation, told a
U.S. appeals court that a full-panel review of the decision,
requested by the 26 plaintiff states, is unnecessary.  The Atlanta appeals court on March 11 granted a Justice
Department request to speed consideration of the
administration’s bid to reverse U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson’s Jan. 31 ruling in the lawsuit brought by the states.
The court hasn’t ruled on a request by some of the states to
argue the appeal before its entire active roster of judges,
known as “en banc” review, rather than a three-judge panel.  “The federal government stands ready to proceed before the
en banc court or before a panel of the court as the court deems
appropriate,” the U.S. said today in a court filing. “We do not
believe that the case warrants the extraordinary procedure of
initial en banc.”  Vinson, based in  Pensacola ,  Florida , decided that a
provision in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
requiring almost every American to have some form of medical
insurance starting in 2014 was unconstitutional. Deeming that
mandate inseparable from the legislation, he declared the entire
measure invalid.  Twenty five states joined in the lawsuit filed by then-
Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum . The states have told the
court they will challenge rulings by Vinson narrowing the issues
in the case.  The appellate case is Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021 and 11-11067, U.S. 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  