-- 
G-7 Sells Yen in First Joint Intervention Since 2000 to Ease Japan Crisis

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-18T12:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/g-7-intervenes-to-weaken-yen-as-surging-currency-threathens-quake-recovery.html
The Group of Seven jointly
intervened in the foreign exchange market for the first time in
more than a decade after  Japan ’s currency soared, threatening
its recovery from the March 11 earthquake.  Japan began the effort, with  Europe ’s central banks
following up in their markets, sending the currency down the
most against the dollar since 2008. Japan’s Vice Finance
Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said in an interview that he hoped
the action would put a floor under the dollar-yen rate. G-7
finance chiefs said in a joint statement after a conference call
they will “provide any needed cooperation” with Japan.  Japan’s central bank repeated its pledge to pursue
“powerful monetary easing” as policy makers sought to reduce
the threat of the world’s third-largest economy sinking into a
recession. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained after the
announcements, paring losses to 10 percent since the quake and
ensuing tsunami killed thousands and led to rolling blackouts
and radiation leaks at a nuclear plant.  “It will be supportive for the economy if they can manage
to stabilize the yen,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head
of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at Standard Chartered Plc.
“You will have better chance of succeeding when you have the
joint intervention rather than just Bank of Japan.”  An official told reporters that today’s intervention
totaled less than 2 trillion yen ($25 billion).  Japan Asked  The G-7 said in its statement that “in response to recent
movements in the exchange rate of the yen associated with the
tragic events in Japan, and at the request of the Japanese
authorities” it will intervene in the currency market today.
“We will monitor exchange markets closely and will cooperate as
appropriate,” the statement said.  Against the dollar, the yen fell 3.1 percent to 81.36 at
12:36 p.m. in  London , compared with the postwar high of 76.25
reached yesterday. It slid 4 percent versus the euro to 115.04.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  rose 2.7 percent at the close.  Japan’s intervention today was its first since September,
when it acted on its own after the yen had climbed to 82.88, the
strongest at that time since 1995. The BOJ sold 2 trillion yen
in that effort, which was the first such move since 2004.  ‘Won’t Manipulate’  “We won’t manipulate it, but I hope that the yen goes back
to where it was before the earthquake,” Igarashi said in an
interview today in Tokyo.  He added that the government at the
same time wants to avert any “abrupt weakening” in the
currency. Because the aftermath of the earthquake has “hurt the
economy and fiscal situation, it won’t be a surprise” if bond
yields go up and the yen weakens. “That’s naturally the biggest
fear for the government.”  The  Federal Reserve ,  European Central Bank ,  Bank of
England , Bank of  Canada , Bank of  France ,  Germany ’s Bundesbank
and the Italian central bank all said they’re participating in
the yen sales today. The central bank of  China , which isn’t a G-
7 member and belongs to the larger Group of 20, didn’t respond
to a request for comment on yen sales.  The People’s Bank of China separately today raised the
nation’s banks’ required reserve ratios for the third time this
year. Premier Wen Jiabao’s government is seeking to rein in
inflation in the economy that last year surpassed Japan’s as the
world’s second-largest.  Currency Volatility  G-7 members hadn’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence. The U.S. Treasury’s
participation was its first since September 2000, ending the
longest period of American inaction in foreign-exchange markets
since at least 1973, according to department figures.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner was instrumental in
helping arrange the intervention after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  requested the operation, according to Igarashi.
Geithner was Treasury undersecretary for international affairs
during the 2000 intervention.  Japan’s officials had considered seeking a G-7 statement
warning against currency volatility, and then monitoring the
effect on the market, according to Igarashi. In the end, Noda
decided to send a strong message to the market, he said.  This month’s catastrophe hit Japan just as it began
emerging from a fourth-quarter economic contraction. With
companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to electronics-maker  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and the  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501)  beer company suspending
operations, economists predict gross domestic product may shrink
in April to June.  Outlook ‘Improves’  A stronger exchange rate threatened to hamper Japan’s
recovery from its worst postwar crisis by curtailing the
earnings of its exporters.  Every one yen the currency appreciates against the dollar
erodes about 30 billion yen from Toyota’s earnings, according to
the company. Honda Motor Co., which produces over 70 percent of
its vehicles outside Japan, loses 17 billion yen for each one
yen the currency strengthens against the dollar.  “Today’s operation obviously improves our forecast for the
Japanese economy in the near-term,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., wrote
in a note. “The key question is whether they can make the
dollar’s new level stick” against the yen, he wrote.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , whose nation
chairs the group, has said she wants to hold G-7 talks on the
financial response to the catastrophe, including possibly buying
Japanese bonds. The G-7 is made up of the U.S., Germany, France,
Canada, Italy, the U.K. and Japan.  BOJ Efforts  In the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., the G-7 pledged to mount “exceptional action”
to unfreeze money markets. The Fed on Oct. 13, 2008, coordinated
with counterparts to provide unlimited dollar funds.  The BOJ has been pouring cash into the financial system to
stabilize money markets and on March 14 doubled an asset-
purchase fund to 10 trillion yen, pledging to step up purchases
of securities including government debt, exchange-traded funds
and real-estate investment trusts.  Noda and Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
sought to quell speculation driving the yen higher yesterday.
Noda said markets were nervous and Yosano said there was no
basis for an argument that the nation’s insurance companies were
repatriating foreign assets to pay for earthquake damage.  “The speculation was that Japanese life and casualty
insurers will repatriate dollar-denominated assets to secure
funds in the wake of the earthquake,” Yosano told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday. “But they have ample cash, deposits and other
liquid assets,” he said, adding that the Financial Services
Agency and BOJ have confirmed insurers aren’t selling their
dollar assets.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on March 13 that he was
prepared to unleash “massive” liquidity to secure stability, a
commitment followed up the next day with a record 15 trillion
yen in one-day cash, with injections diminishing since then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  