-- 
Gasoline Futures Slip on U.N. No-Fly Zone, Libya Cease-Fire

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-18T19:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gasoline-futures-slip-on-u-n-no-fly-zone-libya-cease-fire.html
Gasoline slipped after  Libya  said
it would halt military action against rebels and the United
Nations authorized a no-fly zone in Africa’s third-largest oil
producer.  Futures traded in a 7.5-cent-per-gallon range after Libyan
Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa announced the government would
cease fighting and start talks with the opposition, in a
televised news conference carried by Al Arabiya TV. North
Atlantic Treaty Organization members including Britain, France
and the U.S. have pledged planes to a mission over Libya,
according to government statements and press reports.  “We’ve got a lot of volatility because of the uncertainty
that’s going on in the world,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The
question is, are we going to see a capitulation on the part of
Qaddafi? In the meantime, there will be tighter supplies.”  Gasoline futures for April lost 0.12 cent to settle at
$2.9494 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
gained as much as 1.6 percent before Koussa’s announcement.  The United Nations Security Council authorized the use of
air attacks and a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians
from forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  trying to end a monthlong
uprising. The resolution, approved yesterday 10-0 with five
abstentions, allows the U.S., the U.K., France and Arab nations
to “take all necessary measures” to protect civilians.  U.K. Warplanes  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron told lawmakers the U.K.
would “in the coming hours” deploy Tornado and Typhoon
warplanes, air-to-air refueling craft and surveillance aircraft
to enforce the no-fly zone.  Gasoline outperformed crude and heating oil after Sunoco
Inc. shut an alkylation unit yesterday at its Philadelphia
refinery after a fire, increasing concern that local supply may
be constrained. The plant provides fuel to the  New York  Harbor
market, the delivery point for the Nymex gasoline and heating
oil futures contracts.  “The gasoline market strength is coming from the fire at
Sunoco,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply
at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  The 355,000-barrel-a-day refinery will also shut a crude
unit for repairs that are expected to last about a month,
according to a person familiar with the plant’s operations.  Demand for gasoline could increase if economic factors
continue to improve, said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida. “The  U.S. economy  looks
like it is turning up and if the stock market can continue doing
that, there may be more activity going into the U.S. Memorial
Day holiday,” the traditional start to the nation’s driving
season.  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline demand, as measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
slipped 3.9 percent to an average 8.83 million barrels a day
last week, a four-week low, according to the Energy Department.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1281.17
points at 2:43 p.m.  Heating oil for April delivery fell 4.06 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $3.0243 a gallon.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
0.6 cent to $3.54 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 