-- 
General Electric Said to Be Interested in ING’s Online Bank

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-18T22:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ge-said-to-be-interested-in-ing-s-u-s-online-bank-to-add-to-capital-unit.html
  General Electric Co. (GE)  is among
companies that have expressed interest to  ING Groep NV (INGA)  about a
takeover or merger with the Dutch firm’s U.S. online bank, said
a person with knowledge of the matter.  GE has had an initial discussion with Amsterdam-based ING
about buying parts of ING Direct to add to the  GE Capital  unit,
said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because
the talks are private.  ING is seeking to merge ING Direct with a lending operation
and has talked with  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private-
label credit-card business, people with knowledge of the matter
said last week. ING is under European Union orders to sell the  U.S. bank  by the end of 2013.  ING Direct’s consumer deposits may help diversify GE
Capital’s funding sources, which include long- and short-term
debt. While GE has sold consumer banks outside the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is keeping the consumer-finance
unit and bought $1.6 billion of Citigroup assets in October.  GE Capital has been growing its deposit base, ending 2010
with $37.3 billion compared with $9.8 billion in 2006, according
to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The
division of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE owns an industrial
bank and a thrift, which allows it to take deposits.  $77.7 Billion  ING Direct had $77.7 billion in deposits at the end of
2010, of which $69.9 billion was held in money market deposit
accounts, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data.
Those accounts tend to be sensitive to  interest rates .  The bank’s $40 billion in net loans and leases gave it a
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 26.8
percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of 12.7
percent for all banks, according to FDIC figures. The return on
assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half the industry
average of almost 0.7 percent, according to the FDIC.  Anne Eisele, a GE spokeswoman, declined to comment, as did
Cathy MacFarlane, a spokeswoman for ING Direct.  GE Capital sold its subprime residential mortgage business
WMC in 2007 ahead of the financial crisis and isn’t likely to
return to that business, executives have said, making it
unlikely the company would be interested in ING’s mortgage
portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  