-- 
General Mills in Talks to Buy Yoplait Stake From PAI Partners

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-18T09:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/general-mills-in-talks-to-buy-yoplait-stake-from-pai-partners.html
  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of
Cheerios cereal, is in exclusive talks to buy 50 percent of
Yoplait, strengthening ties to the French yogurt maker to expand
its line of dairy products.  The purchase values the entire yogurt maker at 1.6 billion
euros ($2.3 billion), Paris-based private equity firm PAI
Partners, owner of the stake, said today in a joint e-mailed
statement with partner Sodiaal. The Minneapolis-based company
has had the U.S. license for Yoplait products since 1977.
Sodiaal, the founder of the yogurt brand, owns the rest.  General Mills plans to build Yoplait’s market share in
western  Europe  and accelerate expansion in emerging markets
including China and  India . The purchase also prevents a rival
from possibly contesting its U.S. rights, according to analysts
including Jonathan Feeney of Janney Montgomery Scott. General
Mills had jockeyed for Yoplait with competitors including Nestle
SA, people familiar with the matter have said.  “The price is a bit higher than expected, but it settles
an ongoing question mark,” Feeney said in a report yesterday.
“Keeping the U.S. rights with no additional terms was the
optimal outcome, so it is fair to see this partially as a
payment to take some risk off the table.” The Philadelphia-
based analyst rates the shares “neutral.”  Ebitda Multiples  The talks are the latest in a string of dairy
consolidation. PepsiCo Inc. in December agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Russian dairy company Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods
OJSC to become the biggest food-and-beverage company in  Russia .
Groupe Lactalis yesterday disclosed a stake in Italian dairy
company Parmalat SpA and said it may buy more shares.  The median multiple paid for dairy assets in the last
decade is about 10 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to Bloomberg data.
Yoplait had 2010 Ebitda of 128 million euros and is projected to
have 2011 earnings on that basis of 153 million euros, a person
familiar with the matter said. PAI, which manages a 2.7 billion-
euro buyout fund, bought the stake in 2002 in a purchase that
valued the company at 400 million euros, the person said.  “Yoplait is an interesting investment as the yogurt market
is growing strongly, which may justify the high price,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , a consumer-industry analyst at Silvia Quandt &
Cie. in  Frankfurt .  Sodiaal and PAI last month said nine companies had made
indicative offers for the asset. Nestle,  Mexico ’s Grupo Lala and
China’s Bright Food Group Co. were among the bidders for the
stake, four people familiar with the process said this month.  Joint Ownership  Sodiaal will jointly own the Yoplait brand worldwide and
will be a core shareholder in the operating company, PAI and
Sodiaal said today. The consultation process with employees will
begin shortly, the companies said.  General Mills Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell faces
increasing pressure as prices for raw materials rise, forcing
General Mills and rivals like  Kellogg Co. (K)  to raise food prices.
Raw sugar prices reached their highest level in 30 years last
month, while milk prices have risen more than 50 percent from a
year earlier.  The shares rose 8 cents to $36.13 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange trading. They had fallen 1.2 percent in the past
12 months before today, compared with a 9.2 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Yoplait’s history dates back to 1964, when French farmers
joined together to sell their products nationally, according to
Yoplait’s website. The name derives from “Yola” and
“Coplait,” two brands operated by some of the farmers. In
1967, Yoplait’s first fruit yogurt debuted in French stores.  Sodiaal and PAI had said they would examine suitors’ plans
to further the Yoplait brand in areas where it currently has
little or no presence, such as  China , India and Latin America.  Rothschild advised PAI while HSBC Holdings Plc advised
Sodiaal. Morgan Stanley and  Societe Generale  were advising both
shareholders. Barclays advised General Mills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  