-- 
Georgia Suburb Drawing Minorities 24 Years After Oprah Fought Against KKK

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-03-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/georgia-suburb-drawing-minorities-24-years-after-oprah-fought-against-kkk.html
Alanda Waller admits she had some
explaining to do three years ago when telling friends she moved
her black family to a  Georgia  suburb once known as the picture
of Southern racism.  Twenty-four years ago, Forsyth County introduced itself to
the world as Ku Klux Klan-led protesters hurled rocks and racial
epithets during a civil rights march, just after the Martin Luther King Jr. federal holiday. The  New York  Times headlined
the clash and Oprah Winfrey came to town to tape an episode on
race relations.  “People still ask to this day, ‘I can’t believe that you
live in Cumming,’” said Waller, 33, a retail sales consultant
for  AT&T Inc. (T)  “I say, ‘I can’t believe you still think it’s
like that after all these years. I’ve never run across anything
that’s made me feel uncomfortable.”  Today, the community 30 miles north of Atlanta is one of
Georgia’s most rapidly diversifying counties. Forsyth, with a
population of 175,511, saw the fastest growth of blacks in the
state with a nine-fold increase to 4,287 in 2010, compared with
426 a decade earlier, 2010 Census figures released yesterday
show.  Blacks in Suburbs  Suburbs in the south of the U.S., and among the region’s 34
largest metropolitan areas in particular, experienced a
migration in black population over the past decade. An analysis
of census estimates through 2009 show that 58 percent of blacks
lived in suburbs in 2009 compared with 52 percent in 2000, said  William Frey , a demographer at the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution .  “We have new generations of middle-class blacks who want
the community school systems and resources available in the
suburbs,” Frey said in a telephone interview. “The suburbs
still have this aura about them of having achieved the American
Dream.”  Georgia, the ninth largest state, saw its population grow
to 9,687,653, an 18.3 percent during the decade, compared with
9.7 percent in the U.S., census data show. Its black population
rose to 2,910,800, a 24.8 percent increase from 2000. Blacks now
account for 30 percent of the state’s population, compared with
28.5 percent in 2000.  The percentage of blacks in Southeastern states held
relatively steady over the last decade, according to census
data.  Forsyth’s Newcomers  Although they still make up less than 2.4 percent of
Forsyth’s population, blacks like Waller were among a flood of
newcomers since 2000 attracted by inexpensive real estate, a
vibrant job market and good school test scores. Forsyth’s total
population surged 78.4 percent from 2000 to 2010, census data
show.  Asians increased rapidly in Forsyth to 10,875 in 2010,
compared with 771 in 2000. The number of people who identified
themselves as mixed race grew to 2,124 from 653 in 2000. The
Hispanic population grew to 16,550 in 2010 from 5,477 a decade
earlier. The white non-Hispanic population rose to 140,943 from
90,820 in 2000.  “Forsyth is open to all and everybody knows it,” said
Brian Tam, chairman of the all-white county commission.  In 1987, the year of Forsyth’s infamous race march, whites
made up 99 percent of the county’s population, according to a
U.S. Supreme Court case stemming from the event.  ‘Brotherhood March’  The “Brotherhood March” through Forsyth was organized by
Atlanta City Councilman  Hosea Williams , who was with  Martin Luther King Jr . when the civil rights leader was assassinated in
1968. Williams led dozens of black and white activists to
Cumming, the county seat, to recognize the King holiday.  Counter-demonstrators threw rocks and beer bottles, turning
back the group. Williams returned a week later with 20,000
marchers carrying signs saying “Ain’t Gonna Let Nobody Turn Us
Around.” Jeering opponents waved Confederate flags. Police
arrested sixty people and this time, the marchers reached
Cumming.  The controversy drew television talk show host Oprah Winfrey to Forsyth to film a town hall meeting on race
relations. One man in the audience used racial slurs and said he
feared blacks coming to the county.  In the years since, Forsyth’s old guard has been diluted by
tens of thousands of newcomers who may not know the county’s
racial history, said Charles Bullock, a political scientist at
the  University of Georgia  in  Athens . Still others have died off,
he said.  Racial Attitudes  “Racial attitudes there now are pretty much in line with
any place else in the metropolitan area,” said Bullock, who
has written more than a dozen books including some on the
politics of race. “When you get out there you don’t see Klan
crosses or anything, even though you may have heard terrible
things happened.”  Waller said she was loosely aware of Forsyth’s inglorious
past when she moved to Atlanta eight years ago from Buffalo, New
York, to take advantage of the region’s robust job market.  More than 40 international companies have operations in
Forsyth, including Paris-based concrete maker  LaFarge  SA and
Germany-based  Siemens  AG, which manufactures power plant control
systems in the county.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , based in  Arkansas ,
processes chicken in Cumming.  An even bigger draw to Forsyth was the school system’s high
test scores, said Waller, who has three children from age 6 to
11. Still, the schools’ low percentage of black students -- less
than 3 percent -- held her back. After a few years in nearby
counties, Waller said couldn’t resist Forsyth’s attractions:
inexpensive housing and progressive schools.  State Standards  In the 2009/2010 school year, 97 percent of Forsyth schools
met state progress standards based on how students performed on
yearly achievement tests. That compared with a statewide average
of 77 percent. Waller said the schools remain a drawing card.  “Little things happen because kids are kids,” said Waller
when asked about how her children have adapted. She recalled her
daughters mentioning white classmates who said they wouldn’t
vote for President  Barack Obama  because he is black. “That’s
the worst that they have experienced,” she said.  Travis Taylor, another black resident, said he sees few
signs of Forsyth’s racist past, save the occasional Confederate
flag bumper sticker.  ‘Everything Changes’  “With time, everything changes,” said the 31-year-old
renovator, whose Cumming neighborhood is home to Africans,
Indians and Muslims. “Forsyth still has that stigma as a racist
county, unless you spend time here.”  The  Oprah Winfrey Show  took a look back at Forsyth on the
King holiday this year. The show noted that “residents there --
both black and white -- say it’s a great place to live and raise
a family,” according to the  Oprah Winfrey  website.  Both Taylor and Waller say they still hear remarks from
friends visiting from Atlanta, who tease them about returning
home before dark. It’s a reference to past threats by whites
that blacks shouldn’t be caught in Forsyth for fear of
harassment, Taylor and Waller said. These residents say they
know better.  “I am the treasurer of the PTA,” Waller said. “Come on,
that should tell you something. They’ve come a long way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe in Atlanta at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net  