-- 
German Two-Year Bonds Drop After Libya Cease-Fire; Portuguese Debt Rises

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/german-government-bonds-fall-10-year-yields-rise-2-basis-points-to-3-18-.html
German  government bonds  fell after
Libya said it would halt military action against anti-government
forces, reducing concern that conflict in North Africa would add
to market volatility caused by Japan’s nuclear crisis.  Ten-year bunds reversed gains after Libyan Foreign Minister
Moussa Koussa said the government would begin talks with the
opposition. The announcement came after the United Nations
authorized imposing a no-fly zone to protect civilians from
leader Muammar Qaddafi’s air force following a month-long
uprising against his rule. German two-year notes extended losses
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
indicated he still favors raising  interest rates  next month.  “Headlines on Libya are boosting sentiment,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.
“We’re seeing a reversal of safe-haven flows.”  Yields on two-year notes increased seven basis points to
1.63 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in London, reversing an earlier
decline to as low as 1.54 percent. The 1.5 percent security due
March 2013 fell 0.125, or 1.25 euro per 1,000 euro ($1,413) face
amount to 99.74. Ten-year bund yields rose two basis points to
3.19 percent.  German bonds posted a rally for the week, pushing 10-year
yields to a two-month low, after investors boosted purchases of
the safest assets on concern  Japan  may suffer a nuclear
disaster. Japan said today it would start testing agricultural
and marine food products for radioactive contamination from the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant north of  Tokyo .  ‘Flight to Quality’  “What we’ve seen is a flight to quality from all the risk
events like the earthquake and nuclear disaster in Japan,” said
Thomas Meissner, head of fixed-income research at DZ Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “The reason bunds aren’t doing even better is
because of the worries about the deep-rooted global inflationary
pressures. The market is very concerned about  oil prices .”  Crude for April delivery surged as high as $103.66 a barrel
in  New York  on concern conflict in  Libya  may disrupt supplies
from the holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves. Oil erased
gains after Libya’s cease-fire, though it remained above $100.  German bonds also fell today after a report showed producer
inflation quickened to 6.4 percent in February from a year
earlier, up from 5.7 percent the previous month, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That was above the
6.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘No New Message’  “I have nothing to add, nothing to withdraw,” Trichet
told reporters today in Frankfurt when asked if policy makers
still favored strong vigilance on inflation. “No new message at
all,” he said.  Trichet surprised investors on March 3 when he said policy
makers must exercise “strong vigilance” on inflation and that
the key rate may rise from a record low 1 percent in April.  Debt from  Portugal  rose as the  European Central Bank  bought
the bonds, according to two people with knowledge of the
transactions who declined to be identified because the deals are
confidential. Yields on 10-year Portuguese bonds sank 25 basis
points to 7.32 percent, while 10-year Spanish yields declined
eight basis points to 5.16 percent.  An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment, when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Greek 10-year bonds rose for a third day, lowering yields
by 11 basis points to 12.18 percent. The Greek economy shrank
6.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the same
period a year earlier, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  