-- 
Government Bonds Increase as Libya No-Fly Zone Sparks Flight to Safety

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T09:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/german-two-year-notes-fall-as-producer-inflation-in-country-accelerates.html
German  government bonds  rose after
the United Nations Security Council authorized the imposition of
a no-fly zone over Libya, sending  oil prices  higher and stoking
investors’ demand for assets perceived as being the safest.  Ten-year bunds headed for a second weekly advance after the
UN backed the use of air attacks to protect civilians from
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force following a month-long
uprising against his rule. Global stocks rose after Group of
Seven nations agreed to jointly sell yen today to weaken the
currency after it soared to a post-World War II high this week,
alleviating concern Japan’s export-driven economy may be hurt.  “There’s concern about Libya and the very strong increase
in the oil price,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “This might be a reason
for support in the bund market. All other factors argue for
higher yields.”  Bund yields declined three basis points to 3.14 percent as
of 9:45 a.m. in London, within seven basis points of the 3.07
percent level reached March 16, which was the lowest since Jan.
18. The 2.5 percent security due January 2021 added 0.265, or
2.65 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,408) face amount, to 94.70. Yields
on two-year notes dropped two basis points to 1.55 percent.  Crude oil for April delivery surged as high as $103.66 a
barrel in  New York  on concern conflict in  Libya  may disrupt
supply. Military action against Libya may start within “several
hours,” French government spokesman Francois Baroin said in an
interview on RTL radio.  ‘Bid for Safety’  “The situation in Libya could add to some bid for safety,
and the price of government bonds should remain very solid near
term,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, France’s most active primary-market
dealer for bonds last year.  French 10-year bonds also rose, reducing yields by four
basis points to 3.48 percent, while yields on Dutch securities
due July 2021 also declined by four basis points to 3.42
percent. Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell two basis points to
3.24 percent.  German bunds rallied this week, pushing yields to a two-
month low, as investors fled to the safest assets on concern  Japan  may suffer a nuclear disaster as workers battled to
contain radiation leaks at a power plant damaged by a March 11
earthquake.  Power may be restored to one of the crippled reactors at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of Tokyo, possibly today,
improving the odds of avoiding a meltdown, officials said.  Producer inflation in  Germany  quickened to 6.4 percent in
February from a year earlier, up from 5.7 percent the previous
month, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
That was above the 6.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  A separate report today is expected to show Greece’s
economy shrank 6.6 percent in the final quarter from the
previous year, in line with earlier calculations by the European
Union’s statistics office released Feb. 15, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  