-- 
German Antitrust Regulator Rejects RTL-ProSiebenSat.1 Plan

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-18T10:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/german-antitrust-regulator-rejects-rtl-prosiebensat-1-plan-1-.html
  Germany ’s antitrust regulator said
it won’t approve Bertelsmann AG’s RTL Group and  ProSiebenSat.1
Media AG (PSM) ’s joint online-video platform, saying the service would
help the companies increase their local media-market dominance.  The potential benefits of the new video-on-demand service
don’t outweigh the risk that the venture may be “harmful to
competition” in Germany,  Andreas Mundt , the Federal Cartel
Office president, said today in a statement.  “The establishment of a common platform would strengthen
the dominant duopoly of the two broadcasting groups in the
television advertising market,” Mundt said.  RTL and ProSiebenSat.1 said in August that the Internet
platform would be open for public and private channels in
Germany and  Austria  to put content online, against payment for
use of the technical infrastructure. The companies have a month
to appeal the antitrust office’s decision, and both said they’re
considering such a move.  The idea of a “duopoly” isn’t applicable when it comes to
the Internet, where video-on-demand is dominated by
international companies, RTL’s German division said today.  “The cartel office fails to recognize that the proposed
joint venture would be a purely technical service provider, as
opposed to the U.S. platform Hulu,” and wouldn’t include
marketing activities, Cologne-based RTL Deutschland said in a
statement. “Any marketing would be done separately by each of
the participating broadcasters.”  RTL Group is  Europe ’s biggest broadcaster, with 40
television channels and 33  radio stations  in 10 countries.
ProSiebenSat1 is Germany’s largest private broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  