-- 
Glam Media Expands Online-Mom Empire With Acquisition of Canadian Startup

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/glam-media-expands-online-mom-empire-with-canadian-acquisition.html
Glam Media Inc., a provider of
Internet-advertising services targeting women, has acquired
Canadian ad company  BBS Media , expanding its business into new
international markets.  Glam is paying $10 million to $20 million, according to
people with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be named
because the terms haven’t been made public. With the purchase,
Brisbane, California-based  Glam  will begin selling ads on behalf
of Web publishers catering to Canadian women. They include
Rodale Inc. brand Women’s Health and Toronto-based site Yummy
Mummy Club, said  Samir Arora , Glam’s chief executive officer.  Glam aims to stake out new territories in the $26.4 billion
global market for display ads, the banner and video-marketing
messages placed on Web pages whose sales may grow 32 percent to
$34.9 billion by 2014, according to EMarketer Inc., which cited
JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates. In the past year, Glam has
acquired companies or set up offices in Paris,  London  and
Berlin, and countries outside the U.S. now make up more than a
fifth of sales, Arora said.  “They have had success in the States, so it makes sense to
see if they can transplant it to other markets,” said Karsten Weide, an analyst at researcher IDC in  San Mateo ,  California .  Paul Loeffler, a spokesman for Glam, declined to comment on
the terms of the BBS acquisition.  Targeted Ads  Founded in 2004, Glam has benefited from advertisers’
willingness to pay higher rates to reach narrowly targeted
audiences, Weide said. Glam has relationships with more than
2,000 publishers, including female-focused blogs such as  Hostess
With the Mostess  and  StyleBakery , and shares the revenue from
sales of ads on those sites.  Glam has recently held preliminary talks with bankers about
a potential initial public offering, according to people with
knowledge of the discussions, who asked not to be named because
the talks were private.  When Glam weighs which new geographical markets to enter,
the company first makes sure there is a large audience of women
online, CEO Arora said in an interview last week.  “We look at country size, then we look at the audience of
women that are online in that country, then at  consumer
spending ” and how it’s split between genders, said Arora, who
co-founded Glam after helping start  software company  NetObjects
Inc. and working at  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for nine years.  Arora saw that  Canada ’s audience had a similar Internet
demographic to the U.S., which could be better linked to premium
brands working with Glam. Buying BBS Media gives Glam
relationships with publishers representing a combined audience
of more than 9.5 million people in Canada.  “In Canada, there are really big conglomerates that are
owned under one roof, then there are a whole bunch of small,
grassroots blogs run by women,” said Erica Ehm, publisher of
the  Yummy Mummy Club . Her site, which runs articles, polls and
videos for women, had sold ads through BBS and will now share ad
revenue with Glam. “I now have an entree into one of the
largest media companies in the world,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  