-- 
GM Looks ‘Pre-Owned’ After Going Below IPO Price: Chart of Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T15:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gm-looks-pre-owned-after-going-below-ipo-price-chart-of-the-day.html
  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s stock-market
honeymoon is over, and the latest Wall Street analyst to start
covering the automaker says it looks more “pre-owned” than
new.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the performance of GM and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since Nov. 17, when the shares were
sold at $33 apiece as part of an initial public offering. The
sale of common and preferred stock totaled $23.1 billion.  Since the beginning of last week, GM has changed hands for
less than its IPO price. The stock reached bottom three days ago
at $30.65, down 22 percent from its peak on Jan. 6.  “GM needs to earn back investors’ trust,” H. Peter Nesvold, an analyst at Jefferies & Co., wrote today in a report.
Buyer incentives rose in January and February, causing concern
that the automaker may be like “a ‘yo-yo dieter’ falling back
into bad habits.”  Nesvold, who made Zacks Investment Research’s All-Star
Analyst Survey list while at Bear Stearns Cos., began coverage
with a “hold” rating. He sees the stock ending the year at
$34, the lowest price estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The stock is likely to remain a show-me story until the
company sustainably demonstrates that it truly is ‘new’ and not
simply ‘pre-owned,’” he wrote.  GM’s IPO followed a bankruptcy reorganization with $49.5
billion in government aid. The  U.S. Treasury  owns 33 percent of
the automaker’s shares and needs to sell them for an average of
$53.07 each to break even, according to a GM regulatory filing
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  