-- 
GM’s Ammann Pushes to Expand Lending Operations He Dismantled

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gm-s-ammann-pushes-to-expand-lending-operations-he-dismantled.html
As a Morgan Stanley banker in 2006,
Dan Ammann helped General Motors Corp. dismantle its lending
business. When he takes over as the automaker’s chief financial
officer April 1, he’s going to try to build it back up.  GM is considering ways to expand into offering dealers
loans for purchases of new inventory and will turn its GM
Financial unit into a captive lending operation, Ammann said in
an interview March 17.  “We are looking at that,” said Ammann, 38. “There is a
range of ways to go about it. There is a whole set of
alternatives we are looking at.”  The largest U.S. automaker hasn’t run a full-scale lending
operation since it sold control of GMAC Inc. to a group led by
Cerberus Capital Management in 2006, a sale Ammann helped lead
as Detroit-based GM’s main banker at Morgan Stanley.  The sale was meant to raise cash for GM amid $82 billion in
losses from 2005 to 2008 and protect the lender’s credit rating.
The company now may be concerned that rivals such as  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  will have an advantage by owning lending units, said Nick Colas, who worked with Ammann at  Credit Suisse First Boston  in
the 1990s and now is chief market strategist for BNY ConvergEx
Group LLC in  New York .  GM began its expansion back into lending by buying  Fort
Worth , Texas-based AmeriCredit Inc. in October for $3.5 billion
to write loans for subprime consumers and boost car sales. Since
December, GM has used the unit, renamed GM Financial, to expand
leasing options for car buyers.  Subprime Lending  While the company will boost its subprime and leasing
businesses through GM Financial, GM has no current plans to get
into lending to consumers with prime credit records, Ammann
said. Ally Financial Inc., formerly GM’s GMAC finance arm,
handled 38 percent of retail lending to GM buyers last year and
82 percent of floor-plan lending to GM dealers in the fourth
quarter, the lender said in a statement.  Prime lending “is well-served by Ally and the banks,”
Ammann said. For wholesale lending, “we could use some
competition there.”  Ammann will face stiff challenges in expanding into dealer
financing, also known as floor-plan lending, said  Maryann Keller , principal of a self-titled consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Those obstacles including being able to borrow
funds cheaply enough to offer dealers attractive rates and
getting them to leave lenders they already know, she said.  “Floor-plan lending is about building an individual
relationship with a lender,” Keller said. “To get them to
switch, you need to get people on the ground and get out and
talk to dealers and build those relationships.”  GM Leasing  GM Financial started a leasing program in  Ohio  late last
year that has expanded into 20 other states through March, said  Don Johnson , vice president for U.S. sales. GM expects to have
leasing across the country by midyear, Johnson said last month.  Ammann echoed outgoing CFO  Chris Liddell ’s concern that
moving too far into lending could pose a risk to GM’s balance
sheet.  “We don’t need to run a $100 billion finance business,”
Ammann said. The auto business “is a relatively high risk
business. You don’t want to overlay more leverage on top of that
risk.”  Ammann said he plans to pay off GM’s $10.1 billion in debt
and preferred stock and make up its $11.5 billion pension
shortfall. Ammann’s history with GM showed him the risk of
carrying too much debt, BNY ConvergEx’s Colas said.  ‘Cataclysmic Worst’  “What the last three years have taught us is that if you
don’t have a balance sheet that prepares you for a dramatic
change in the economy, you won’t survive,” Colas said. “Dan
has seen the industry at its best and its cataclysmic worst.”  GM needs to be run without distractions after the
tumultuous years that included the 2009 bankruptcy that created
the new  General Motors Co. (GM)  and the November initial public
offering, Ammann said.  “It’s getting everything settled down and getting the deal
mindset behind us,” Ammann said. “Looking forward, it will be
all about having the opportunity to run this business and use
our assets in ways that we haven’t before.”  Ammann said he plans to be at GM “for the long term” to
help the company work through its challenges. Since emerging
from bankruptcy, the company has had three chief executive
officers and Ammann will be its third CFO.  When Liddell announced his departure as CFO on March 10,  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital analyst in  Chicago , wrote that
the news adds “to GM’s near-term pressures and further
underscores investors’ comfort around the management team at
Ford.”  Decade of Experience  Ammann has at least has a decade of experience with the
automaker’s ills to guide him, said former GM CEO Fritz Henderson.  “Dan has a lot of experience with GM, both the good and
the bad,” Henderson said in an interview. “He is unflappable
and logical and greatly respected.”  That experience was part of why Liddell picked Ammann as
treasurer in March 2010 and CEO Dan Akerson promoted him to the
top finance position last week. Liddell resigned because he had
sought the CEO job that was awarded to Akerson in August, a
person familiar with the situation said the day of the
announcement.  Ammann, who owns a 1961 Cadillac, said he never had planned
to join GM during his days as an investment banker. He knew GM
Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, who was an analyst at Morgan
Stanley, and worked with Liddell at Credit Suisse in  New
Zealand , where they both were raised.  “It hadn’t been part of the long-term plan,” Ammann said.
“It was a convergence of a few factors that led me to be
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  