-- 
GM’s Ammann Considers Expanding Into Dealer-Inventory Financing

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-18T13:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gm-s-ammann-considers-expanding-into-dealer-inventory-financing.html
  General Motors Co. (GM)  Treasurer Dan Ammann, who takes over as chief financial officer on April 1,
said the company is considering ways to expand into offering
dealers loans for purchases of new inventory.  The largest U.S. automaker providing wholesale lending,
also called floor-plan financing, would give dealers more
borrowing options and better rates, Ammann said. Ally Financial
Inc., formerly GM’s GMAC Inc. finance arm, provided 82 percent
of floor-plan lending to GM’s dealers in the fourth quarter.  “We are looking at that,” Ammann said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “There is a range of ways to go about it.
There is a whole set of alternatives we are looking at.”  GM acquired  Fort Worth , Texas-based subprime lender
AmeriCredit Inc. in October for $3.5 billion to write loans for
subprime consumers and boost car sales. Since December, GM has
used the unit, renamed GM Financial, to expand leasing options
for car buyers.  The automaker could use GM Financial to begin wholesale
lending or expand into the business in other ways, Ammann said,
without specifying the options.  “It’s something they certainly need to consider for their
dealers so that they can keep healthy levels of inventory,”
said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS Automotive in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “When consumers are ready to buy,
they’re ready to buy right now. Every consumer that walks out
that door without a car is a sale lost.”  Captive Lending  GM Financial will be used to create the automaker’s own
captive lending operation, he said. While the company will boost
its subprime and leasing businesses, GM has no current plans to
get into lending to consumers with prime credit records, Ammann
said.  Prime lending “is well-served by Ally and the banks,”
Ammann said. For wholesale lending, “we could use some
competition there.”  GM Financial started a trial leasing program in Ohio late
last year that has expanded into 20 other states through March,
said  Don Johnson , vice president for U.S. sales. GM expects to
have leasing across the country by midyear, Johnson said last
month.  Ammann also said GM will continue the balance sheet
strategy put in place by outgoing CFO  Chris Liddell , who had
said he wanted to get GM’s debt paid off and its  pension plan 
fully funded.  Liddell is leaving GM and has said he has “a number of
interesting ideas” for his next job, without specifying any.  GM rose 24 cents to $31.68 at 9:37 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 4 percent
since their initial public offering in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 