-- 
Goldman, Law Firms Hire in U.K. to Prepare for Bribery Act

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-18T13:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/goldman-law-firms-hire-u-k-lawyers-to-prepare-for-bribery-act.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and U.S.
law firms are luring lawyers away from the U.K. fraud prosecutor
as companies prepare to comply with the world’s “most
draconian” anti-bribery law.  The U.K. Ministry of Justice has said it will introduce new
proposals as soon as next week, leaving companies scrambling to
hire lawyers to help prepare compliance plans. Under the law,
U.K. companies without adequate controls to prevent corruption
may be prosecuted if a bribe is paid by third parties on their
behalf anywhere in the world, even if officials didn’t know.  Kwadjo Adjepong, who worked on the  Serious Fraud Office ’s
probe into the collapse of London hedge fund Weavering Capital,
joined Goldman Sachs as a vice president in its compliance
department last month, SFO spokesman  David Jones  said. Covington
& Burling LLP, White & Case LLP and  Arnold & Porter  LLP have
also hired lawyers from the SFO as the Bribery Act creates work
for firms preparing compliance plans.  “There is a real thirst for knowledge on the Bribery Act,
a thirst for having the right kind of advice from someone who’s
been on the other side,” said Robert Amaee, the former head of
anti-corruption at the SFO who joined Washington-based Covington
& Burling, in January. “A good deal of my time is spent in
helping clients understand the Bribery Act.”  Washington-based Arnold & Porter in February said it  hired 
Kathleen Harris, the former head of the SFO fraud business
group, as a partner in its London office. Charlie Monteith, a
senior policy adviser and the head of assurance at the agency,
left for New York-based White & Case.  Skadden Arps  Another former SFO prosecutor, Matthew Cowie, who oversaw
an investigation of BAE Systems Plc, left in June to join the
U.S. law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.  The Ministry of Justice may weaken some parts of the law
initially put forward by former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s
Labour government last year, SFO officials said. The proposal
was criticized over clauses that would have classified fancy
dinners or sports tickets for foreign officials as bribes.    Chris Walker , the SFO policy chief, told a defense industry
conference in January that the revised law may allow a company
to fund a factory visit and hospitality for a public official. A
month’s stay on a private yacht after the trip would “raise red
flags,” he said.  British business groups pressed the ministry to make the
law more business-friendly and clarify provisions that may be
too vague to defend in a prosecution.  ‘Fuzzy Edges’  Jim Bligh, a policy adviser at the  Confederation of British
Industry , said the Justice Ministry should clarify rules on
corporate hospitality and how much due diligence a company must
conduct on its suppliers, affiliates and joint ventures.  “There’s a lot of fuzzy edges,” Bligh said. “You’ve got
to know what people are going to prosecute.”  The ministry said that the act would allow prosecutors to
charge U.K. companies and foreign firms which carry “on a
business or part of a business in the U.K.”  “The mere fact that a company is listed for  London  Stock
Exchange purposes may not, in itself, be enough to amount to
carrying on a business or part of a business in the U.K.,” the
ministry said in a statement. “It will always be for the courts
to decide in individual cases.”  SFO Probes  The SFO, which prosecutes white-collar crime, is
investigating allegations of overseas bribery at companies
including Johnson & Johnson’s DePuy International unit and at
Alstom SA’s U.K. division. Last month, KBR Inc.’s M.W. Kellogg
Ltd. subsidiary agreed to pay 7 million pounds ($11 million) to
the SFO to end a four-year probe into bribes paid to Nigerian
officials.  The SFO’s budget continues to shrink. Since Richard Alderman, the agency’s director, took the post in 2008, the
government has cut its operating budget to about 34 million
pounds ($55 million) from 52 million pounds, according to the
SFO’s annual report.  Vivian Robinson, the SFO’s general counsel, who has called
the new law one of the most world’s “most draconian,” said
earlier this month that the agency would take a “common-sense”
approach to policing hospitality functions at sporting events
like Wimbledon.  The guidance may also allow “facilitation payments” made
to foreign officials to expedite a routine procedure in some
circumstances.  The “paramount question” regarding facilitation payments
is whether a prosecution is “in the public interest,” Robinson
said at a conference organized by the Clyde & Co. law firm this
month in London.  The SFO might not be the agency to enforce the law. Under
separate government proposals, it may be split up, with its
lawyers joining the  Crown Prosecution Service  and investigators
becoming part of a National Crime Agency.  “There will always be a prosecutor, it doesn’t really make
a difference at this stage,” Bligh said. “The crucial thing is
that the right guidance comes out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 