-- 
Goldman Sachs Will Pay $5.65 Billion to Repay Buffett for 2008 Investment

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-18T18:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/goldman-sachs-will-buy-back-buffett-s-5-billion-preferred-stake.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, will pay $5.65 billion to
redeem preferred stock sold to Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  at the depth of the 2008 financial crisis.  The purchase includes a 10 percent premium on Buffett’s
original $5 billion investment, a $125 million first-quarter
dividend, and $24 million in accelerated dividends, said  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for the New York-based company. The
redemption will cut first-quarter earnings per share by $2.84,
the bank said in a statement today.  “Berkshire Hathaway’s 2008 investment in Goldman Sachs was
a major vote of confidence in our firm and we are very
appreciative of it,” Cohen said.  Goldman Sachs had been awaiting  Federal Reserve  approval to
buy back Buffett’s investment, which gave him $500 million a
year in dividends. In his  annual letter  to shareholders last
month, Buffett said he expected the regulator “will likely give
Goldman the green light before long.”  The Federal Reserve also approved a plan for Goldman Sachs
to buy back company stock and potentially increase the common
stock dividend, the firm said in today’s statement. Cohen
declined to comment on the buyback or dividend plans.  Unlike other banks that reduced their dividends after the
financial crisis, Goldman Sachs never changed its 35-cent a
share quarterly payout to shareholders. David A. Viniar, Goldman
Sachs’s chief financial officer, told analysts on Oct. 19 that
the firm prefers repurchasing stock to raising its dividend.  ‘Better Way’  “Buying back shares is a better way to give it back to our
shareholders,” Viniar said at the time. “But that’s not to say
that we wouldn’t raise our dividend going forward.”  Buffett, the second-richest American and a cult figure in
the investing world, helped Goldman Sachs shore up the
investment bank’s capital and restore market confidence after
its stock tumbled and borrowing costs jumped following the Sept.
15, 2008, collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   News of Berkshire’s investment on Sept. 23, 2008, also
helped Goldman Sachs raise $5.75 billion from a stock offering a
day later.  On March 1, the SEC accused former Goldman Sachs board
member Rajat K. Gupta of passing confidential information about
the firm, including Buffett’s planned investment, to Galleon
Group founder  Raj Rajaratnam . Gupta, the former worldwide
managing director of consulting firm McKinsey & Co., served on
Goldman Sachs’s board from 2006 until last year.  Gary Naftalis ,
Gupta’s attorney, has called the SEC’s allegations “totally
baseless.”  SEC Case  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56,
has repeatedly invoked the deal with Buffett as evidence that
Goldman Sachs wasn’t relying on government funds received from
the U.S. Treasury Department a few weeks later. Buffett, 80, has
praised Blankfein’s leadership after Goldman Sachs was sued for
fraud by the SEC in April. The case was settled in July for $550
million.  The repayment to Buffett will also free Goldman Sachs’s top
executives from a requirement that they retain 90 percent of
their stock.  Under the terms of Berkshire’s investment, Blankfein, Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar and Co-Presidents  Gary Cohn  and
Jon Winkelried were named in the “material definitive
agreement” that prevents them, their families and their estates
from selling more than 10 percent of the common stock they own
until Oct. 1, 2011, or until Berkshire redeems its $5 billion in
preferred stock, whichever comes soonest. Winkelried left
Goldman Sachs in March 2009.  The agreement pertained to stock owned by the executives as
of Sept. 28, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 