-- 
Greek Economy Shrank in Fourth Quarter; Data May Be Revised

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-03-18T14:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/greek-economy-shrank-in-fourth-quarter-data-may-be-revised-2-.html
  Greece ’s economy shrank 6.6 percent
in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier, according to
the statistics office, which said the figures may be revised
because of new calculation methods.  The contraction is based on non-seasonally adjusted data,
the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical Authority, or ELSTAT, said
in an e-mailed statement today. It didn’t provide seasonally
adjusted figures or quarter-on-quarter data.  ELSTAT said the comparison of quarterly data between the
years 2000 and 2008 and the years 2009 and 2010 should be
treated with “caution” because quarterly general government
data are being calculated in a different way. The agency
previously reported on Feb. 15 that gross domestic product on a
seasonally-adjusted basis shrank 1.4 percent from the third
quarter and declined 6.6 percent from a year earlier, for a
full-year contraction of 4.5 percent.  Georgiou said the agency was in consultation with Eurostat,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, over the
existing method for the seasonal adjustment of the data, which
doesn’t provide satisfactory results.  “The only reason we are doing this is to absolutely not
create any liabilities regarding the credibility of our data,”
said Andreas Georgiou, president of the Hellenic Statistical
Authority appointed by the government to lead the overhaul at
the statistics service, in a phone interview. “If we find a
technical solution that stands up to peer review we may be able
to publish the seasonally-adjusted data the next time we publish
quarterly accounts.”  Doubt over the reliability of Greek statistics sparked a
revision upwards of Greece’s budget shortfall to 15.4 percent of
GDP in 2009 and led to soaring borrowing costs. Greece received
a 110 billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout from the EU and
International Monetary Fund in May in return for spending curbs,
tax increases and other changes, including a promise to overhaul
the way it calculates its data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  