-- 
Gupta Tapes Not Enough for Charges in Galleon Case, Lawyers Say

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-18T01:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gupta-can-t-be-charged-for-his-goldman-chat-with-rajaratnam-lawyers-say.html
A 2008 conversation between then-  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta and Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about the bank’s talks on buying
Wachovia Corp. or AIG Inc. isn’t enough to support prosecuting
Gupta for  insider trading , several lawyers said.  Prosecutors in the trial of Rajaratnam this week played a
tape of the call in which the former Goldman Sachs board member
chatted casually with the hedge  fund manager  about the
discussions. It’s the only tape the government will use in court
that includes Gupta, said a person familiar with the case.  The exchange, along with additional government allegations
divulged in recent weeks, isn’t a smoking gun that shows Gupta
meant to break the law, said Tom Dewey, a lawyer at  New York ’s
Dewey Pegno & Kramarsky LLP. Gupta is the subject of an
administrative action by the Securities and Exchange Commission;
the SEC hasn’t sued him in district court and no criminal
charges have been brought against him.  “If they were interested in criminally charging him, they
would have done it by now,” said Richard Scheff, chairman of
Philadelphia-based Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads LLP.
Scheff, who practices criminal law and isn’t involved in the
case, called the prospect of charges “unlikely.”  The SEC action filed March 1 accused Gupta of leaking stock
tips to Rajaratnam.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in New York, and Anne Granfield, a spokeswoman for
Gupta, declined to comment on the prospect of criminal charges
against him.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Criminal Charges ‘Unlikely’  “Usually, the fact that the SEC was allowed to proceed
with its case means there won’t be criminal charges,” said
Dewey, a defense lawyer who isn’t involved in the case. He also
said criminal charges are “unlikely.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan, who oversees a
related SEC lawsuit against former Galleon trader  Adam Smith ,
said March 16 that the agency’s decision to file only an
administrative action, and not a civil suit, was “bizarre.”  Gupta’s name has been mentioned almost daily at the
Rajaratnam trial since it started March 8. Rajaratnam is accused
of earning $45 million by using illegal tips from traders,
corporate insiders, and others including Gupta, the former
worldwide director of McKinsey & Co. He faces as many as 20
years in prison if convicted on the most serious charges.  Early in the trial, prosecutors displayed a photograph of
Gupta on a video screen while Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told jurors he was a “co-conspirator” who leaked tips
about Goldman Sachs’ earnings and a 2008 investment in the bank
by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Gupta has denied
wrongdoing.  Two Board Meetings  Within minutes of attending two board meetings, Gupta, 62,
called Rajaratnam, 53, who traded on the tips, Streeter said.  Prosecutors on March 15 played a wiretap recording of the
July 29, 2008, telephone call between Gupta and Rajaratnam. In
it, Rajaratnam asked about a “rumor that Goldman may look to
buy a commercial bank.” In response, Gupta said, “Yeah, this
is being discussed” and that the board was “divided” on
suggestions that it purchase Wachovia, now part of San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , or New York-based insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Goldman bought neither.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  Streeter said the government also has an October 2008
wiretap recording of Rajaratnam in which the fund manager tells
“employees” that “he was told by a Goldman Sachs board member
that the investment bank was losing $2 a share,” Streeter said.  ‘No Allegation’  Gupta hasn’t filed a response to the SEC administrative
action. In a March 1 statement, his lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said
there was “no allegation” that Gupta traded in securities at
issue “or shared in any profits as part of any quid pro quo.”  “Gupta had lost his entire $10 million investment in the
GB Voyager Fund managed by Rajaratnam at the time of these
events, negating any motive to deviate from a lifetime of
honesty and integrity,” Naftalis said.  The government is unlikely to bring criminal charges
against Gupta because the proof against him appears
“circumstantial,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC lawyer who
is now a partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in
Potomac,  Maryland .  The government has presented no evidence that Rajaratnam
traded on Gupta’s wiretapped comments about the deliberations of
the Goldman Sachs board, and there’s no evidence so far that
Gupta knew Rajaratnam traded on other leaks, Frenkel said.  ‘Is Not Clear’  “The language on the recording is not clear,” said
Frenkel, who isn’t involved in the case.  News reports in July 2008 included speculation by analyst  Richard Bove  that Goldman Sachs may acquire Wachovia. Regulators
were aware of these reports before bringing their case against
Gupta, said the person familiar with the case, who declined to
be identified because the person wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the case.  Washington lawyer Jeff Ifrah, who co-wrote “Federal
Sentencing for Business Crimes,” said prosecutors considering a
criminal case against Gupta may lack enough evidence to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that he intended to engage in an
insider scheme with Rajaratnam.  “Intent is hard to prove,” he said. “The disclosure of
the information in and of itself is not a crime.”  Rajaratnam’s defense lawyers have sought to show that there
were legitimate reasons for communications between Rajaratnam
and Gupta, who defense attorney  John Dowd  said may be called to
the stand as a defense witness later in the trial.  Lawful Insights  Just as Galleon hired former McKinsey partner Anil Kumar to
provide lawful insights on business in South Asia, Dowd used his
questioning of Kumar to suggest that Gupta also had legitimate
business with the Galleon co-founder.  At the trial, prosecutors have tried to explain why each
source leaked confidential tips to the hedge fund manager.
Kumar, who concluded his testimony for the government this week,
said he tipped Rajaratnam after the hedge fund co-founder paid
him $2.6 million, a charge Rajaratnam denies. Kumar has pleaded
guilty in the case and is cooperating with the government.  Separately, the government offered evidence that  Hector Ruiz , then the chief executive officer of  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) , gave tips to stock trader  Danielle Chiesi  because they
were having an “intimate relationship.” Ruiz denies that he
had such a relationship with Chiesi, his spokesman, Andrew
Merrill, said this week. Ruiz hasn’t been formally accused of
any wrongdoing or charged with a crime.  Motive to Leak  As for Gupta, the government has sought to show that his
longtime business relationship with Rajaratnam gave him a motive
to leak information. The two co-founded and invested in the firm
New Silk Route; Rajaratnam wanted Gupta to be chairman of a fund
called Galleon International; and Gupta had investments in at
least two other Galleon funds, prosecutors have said.  Ifrah isn’t convinced by the evidence.  “You don’t necessarily see the profiting, you don’t
necessarily see the scheming” between Rajaratnam and Gupta,
said Ifrah. “The totality of circumstances of what we’ve seen
so far with Kumar is far more outrageous.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  