-- 
Gupta Sues SEC, Says Insider Case Deprives Him of Rights

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-18T19:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/gupta-sues-sec-seeks-injunction-in-galleon-insider-trading-suit.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Director  Rajat Gupta  sued the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, claiming an administrative action it filed for
insider trading bars him from a  jury trial .  Gupta, 62, said the regulator should have filed a lawsuit
instead. He denied the agency’s claims that he gave tips to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is on trial in
New York for insider trading. Prosecutors have called Gupta a
co-conspirator, though he isn’t charged with a crime.  The SEC filed the action March 1, alleging Gupta gave
information to the hedge fund manager about Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs, about the New
York-based bank’s quarterly earnings and those of  Procter &
Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also a director.  “Gupta denies all allegations of wrongdoing and stands
ready to mount a defense against each and every one of the
commission’s charges,” his lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said in the
complaint filed today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Gupta seeks a jury trial and to have the SEC barred from
asking for civil penalties. He is also seeking a court order
keeping the agency from pursuing its administrative claims.  Under SEC rules, Gupta isn’t allowed a jury trial in an
administrative action, or the right to use federal court rules
on discovery, which require the exchange of evidence with the
government, Naftalis said.  Jed Rakoff  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff was appointed to preside
over Gupta’s lawsuit. At a hearing March 16, Rakoff, 67, who
presides over SEC lawsuits related to New York-based Galleon,
said he thought it was “bizarre” that the agency had filed an
administrative action, and not a lawsuit, against Gupta.  Prosecutors have told the jury in Rajaratnam’s case that,
on at least two occasions, Gupta called Rajaratnam within
minutes of attending Goldman Sachs board meetings.  Gupta’s tips allegedly spurred Rajaratnam to buy Goldman
Sachs stock, earning $1 million in two minutes, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Streeter told the jury March 9. Streeter said
another tip by Gupta about Goldman Sachs losses prompted Galleon
to sell shares and avoid losing millions of dollars  “The Commission is unfairly and unconstitutionally
singling out Mr. Gupta,” Naftalis said in his complaint.  Galleon Cases  Gupta said the SEC has filed “all of its Galleon-related
cases against at least 27 other defendants” in federal court in  New York , not by administrative actions.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, and  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined
to comment.  Gupta’s name has been mentioned almost daily at the trial
of Rajaratnam, which began March 8. The hedge fund manager is
accused of earning $45 million by using illegal tips from
traders, corporate insiders, and others including Gupta, the
former worldwide director of McKinsey & Co.  Rajaratnam, 53, faces as many as 20 years in prison if
convicted on the most serious charges.  This week, prosecutors played a recording of a wiretapped
conversation in which Gupta told Rajaratnam about the Goldman
Sachs board’s talks about purchasing Wachovia Corp. or AIG Inc.  Baseless Claims  Naftalis has called the regulator’s claims against his
client baseless and said there is no allegation that Gupta made
any illegal trades or shared in any profits from them.  SEC administrative proceedings have some advantages for the
agency, including limited discovery and a hearing before an
administrative judge employed by the regulator. Defendants can
subpoena documents from third parties but aren’t allowed to take
their own depositions.  In such proceedings, the judge is allowed to consider
hearsay, or evidence that may only be indirect or speculative.  That may help the SEC, which in its administrative order
cited an October 2008 telephone call in which Rajaratnam said
that he heard inside information from a member of the Goldman
Sachs board, without specifically naming Gupta.  In the administrative action, the SEC also said the former
Goldman Sachs director and Rajaratnam “very likely had a
telephone conversation” following a bank board meeting in which
Buffett’s investment was discussed.  Gupta said in court papers that the SEC cited the Dodd-
Frank Act, which allows the regulator to bring such actions.  Gupta argued in his filing that the alleged  insider trading 
cited by the SEC took place between June 2008 and January 2009,
“at least 1 1/2 to 2 years before Dodd-Frank.”  He added that the SEC deprived him of protections owed to
him when its enforcement division invited him to make a “Wells
submission,” in which he set out his defenses. At the time, he
said, the SEC didn’t inform him they’d seek an administrative
proceeding instead of a federal court action.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-1900, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  