-- 
IBM Agrees to Pay $10 Million to Settle SEC Bribery Claims

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-03-18T19:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ibm-is-said-to-pay-10-million-to-settle-sec-foreign-bribery-allegations.html
  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, agreed to
pay $10 million to settle U.S. regulators’ accusations that it
gave cash and gifts to Chinese and South Korean officials in
connection with about $54 million in government contracts.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing, will
pay $5.3 million in disgorgement, $2.7 million in interest and a
penalty of $2 million to settle a lawsuit filed today by the
Securities and Exchange Commission in  Washington  federal court,
according to court papers.  The SEC alleged the bribes, which included travel and
entertainment, occurred from 1998 through 2009 in violation of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “Deficient internal controls allowed employees of IBM’s
subsidiaries and joint venture to use local business partners
and travel agencies as conduits for bribes or other improper
payments to South Korean and Chinese government officials over
long periods of time,” the SEC said in the complaint.  The improper payments were made by employees at three
subsidiaries of Armonk, New York-based IBM, as well as LG IBM PC
Co., a joint venture between the company and LG Electronics
Inc., according to the lawsuit.  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000. The payments were connected to
contracts worth almost $54 million, the SEC said.  Bags of Money  Some of the money paid to Korean officials was delivered in
shopping bags at specific drop-off locations, such as restaurant
or apartment parking lots.  In  China , the IBM employees created “slush funds” at
local travel agencies that were used to pay for overseas
excursions by Chinese government officials. IBM employees also
gave gifts, such as cameras and  laptop computers , to Chinese
government officials, the SEC said.  “The misconduct in China involved several key IBM-China
employees and more than 100 IBM China employees overall,” the
SEC said.  The SEC lawsuit doesn’t say what IBM received from China in
return.  “IBM insists on the highest ethical standards in the
conduct of its business and requires all employees to follow its
policies and procedures for conducting business,” Doug Shelton,
an IBM spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The settlement agreement, filed in court today, was signed
by IBM’s general counsel on Jan. 6.  No Insurance  IBM agreed in the settlement, which requires approval from
a federal judge, not to pay the monetary penalties from any
insurance policy.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on whether there’s a criminal investigation of the
matter.  IBM expects that revenue from geographic growth markets,
including China and  South Korea , will be about 30 percent of
total sales in 2015, up from 21 percent last year, according to
company executives.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 