-- 
Libya’s Qaddafi Under Threat From Allied Military Forces

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/libya-s-qaddafi-is-under-threat-from-allied-military-forces.html
Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi is facing a
growing force of advanced Western aircraft and missiles intended
to make him stop killing his opponents.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization members the U.K.,  France ,  Denmark ,  Spain  and  Canada , along with the U.S., have
pledged planes to a mission to enforce the UN Security Council’s
latest Libya resolution, according to government statements and
press reports, and Qatar said it also would participate in the
plan.  The U.K. is deploying Tornado and BAE Systems Plc
Eurofighter Typhoon jets. France has the aircraft carrier  Charles de Gaulle , at the port of Toulon on the Mediterranean
Sea, prepared to deploy, Laurent Teisseire, a spokesman for the
defense ministry, said in a telephone interview.  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, commenting on military
deployments, told reporters in Paris, “We are ready but I
can’t” provide a “precise timetable.”    Italy ’s cabinet approved the use of as many as seven air
bases for the operation. Italy will do all it can to enforce a
United Nations no-fly zone over  Libya  “without any limits,”
said Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa.  “Our forces will join an international operation to
enforce the resolution if Qaddafi fails to comply” with the UN
demand “that he ends attacks on civilians,” U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers in Parliament in  London 
yesterday. “Britain will deploy Tornados and Typhoons as well
as air-to air refueling and surveillance aircraft.”  Terms Not Negotiable  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that “all attacks
against civilians must stop” and Qaddafi must pull back his
troops from cities where they have attacked anti-government
forces.  “These terms are not negotiable,” Obama said yesterday in
his first remarks since the UN vote March 17.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in  Washington 
that the U.S. and its allies are working to “operationalize”
the UN Security Council resolution authorizing “all necessary
measures,” including a no-fly zone, to end the violence and
protect civilians in Libya.  Defining the Objectives  A no-fly zone over Libya could be set up in matter of days,
as soon as political leaders define the objective of air
interdiction and the rules of engagement, a retired senior U.S.  Air Force  general said.  “You can set it up in a few days, but it’s not going to be
24 hours a day,” retired U.S. Air Force Lieutenant General
Michael M. Dunn said in an interview this week. “If you want a
comprehensive no-fly zone, it’d take a week.”  “This is an act of war,” said Dunn, noting that Libyans
likely would be killed if the U.S. and allies destroy the
country’s air defenses.  At least 200 planes would be needed to keep up 24-hour
coverage of Libyan air space, though given the country’s limited
air force, fewer aircraft might be effective in the short run,
said Dunn, the president of the  Air Force Association , a non-
governmental group that promotes air power and the interests of
former service members.  “You don’t have to cover the whole country, just the
places where there are bases,” he said. “The objective is
keeping Libya’s air force grounded, not taking it out.”  Missiles, Radar Threat  Libya has about 30 sites with surface-to-air (SAM)
missiles, linked to 15 early warning radar, that pose a
“significant threat” to foreign warplanes over or near Libyan
airspace, according to information provided by the Pentagon.  The Pentagon, in a detailed, unclassified listing of
Libya’s air defense and air force provided by U.S. Navy
Commander Robert Mehal, said the majority of Qaddafi’s surface-
to-air missile batteries are along the Mediterranean coast. The
missiles include Russian-made SA-2, SA-3, SA-5, SA-6 and SA-13
systems, the Pentagon said.  The SA-5, at its longest range of 300 kilometers, provides
Libya with “significant standoff capability,” said the
statement. Libya has about 50 SA-6 missiles of the type used by
Bosnian Serbs to shoot down U.S. Air Force Captain Scott O’Grady’s F-16 in 1995.  Libya has a limited air force, with about 80 percent of its
aircraft “non-operational,” according to the Pentagon. Libyan
pilot training levels and air combat tactics “have remained far
inferior to those of U.S. pilots and well-trained Middle Eastern
pilots,” such as those from  Egypt  and  Saudi Arabia , according
to the Pentagon.  Fighter Planes  Denmark has committed to sending six  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-16 fighter planes to help back the no-fly zone, Copenhagen-
based newswire Ritzau reported, citing Defense Minister Gitte Lillelund Bech. Canada will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets,
Postmedia News reported, citing unidentified people.  Qatar plans to take part in the mission to protect Libyan
civilians under the UN resolution, the state-run Qatar News
Agency.  The U.S. has not announced what, if any, of its military
assets are being deployed beyond those previously announced.  The U.S. sent as many as 1,200 Marines and two Navy
vessels, including the amphibious assault ship  USS Kearsarge , to
the Mediterranean off the Libyan coast, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said March 1. The U.S. is also monitoring Libyan airspace.  At the time, Gates said the ships were sent to help with
evacuations and for humanitarian relief. For offensive
operations, the Kearsarge carries Harrier vertical-takeoff
attack jets and AH-1 Cobra attack helicopters.  U.S. Destroyers, Submarines  Several destroyers and submarines in the Mediterranean are
“available for tasking as required,” Admiral Gary Roughead,
the Pentagon’s chief of naval operations, told a Senate
subcommittee March 16. Submarines carry  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  tactical
Tomahawk cruise missiles able to strike Libyan air defenses or
other targets.  NATO leaders were meeting in Brussels yesterday to discuss
the organization’s role.  Germany  said it supports the goals of
the UN resolution but won’t participate in military action.  Imposing a no-fly zone over Libya may take “upwards of a
week,” U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz
told the Senate Armed Services Committee at a budget hearing
March 17.  Schwartz dismissed as “overly optimistic” public
estimates that setting up a zone might be accomplished in a few
days. “But it is clear we could establish a no-fly zone if that
was the mission,” he said.  Libyan Air Defenses  Libyan air defenses need to be knocked out first, said
Rebecca Grant, director of the  General Billy Mitchell Institute
for Airpower Studies , affiliated with the Air Force Association.
Libya’s SA-6 missiles may not be well-maintained, she said in an
interview earlier this week.  Dunn, of the Air Force Association, said one of the
quickest options would be to start patrols over Libya with land-
based Lockheed Martin F-22 fighters, since their radar-evading
stealth technology makes them the only U.S. fighter able to
effectively avoid the SA-6 missiles.  Another is to use a Navy carrier group, though it may not
have the capacity to maintain a 24-hour presence over Libya.  Grant said airborne warning and control system planes, or
AWACS, would fly over the Mediterranean Sea off Libya’s coast to
monitor the airspace and coordinate the missions, while the U.S.
could choose from a variety of attack aircraft, including F-22s
and F-16s flying from U.S. and NATO airbases in Italy, Cyprus
and elsewhere in the region, as well as the Navy’s carrier-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  F/A-18s.  “I think it’s possible for a no-fly zone to take the
Libyan air force out of the picture. To what extent that affects
the balance of power on the ground in Libya, that’s hard to
say,” Grant said.  Air power can also be effective against ground forces, she
said, as long as its objectives are clear.  “We’ve seen in Iraq and Kosovo that air power can be very
effective against moving armor, but we have to know what the
political objective is,” Grant said.  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ; 
Tony Capaccio in Washington at  
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  