-- 
India Said to Start Next Year With $7.3 Billion Cash Surplus

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-03-18T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/india-said-to-start-next-year-with-7-3-billion-cash-surplus.html
The Indian government is likely to
open the year starting April 1 with a minimum cash surplus of
330 billion rupees ($7.3 billion), a  finance ministry  official
said yesterday, bolstering its effort to slash the  budget
deficit  to the lowest in four years.  The government won’t borrow substantially in the second-
half of the next financial year to avoid competing for funds in
a period when demand for loans from the private sector typically
rises, said the official, who declined to be identified as the
budget information was confidential.  India’s bonds have rallied in the past two months as higher
revenue collections enable the government to cut its budget
deficit. Oil prices, which have surged 23 percent in the past
year, could derail plans as government subsidizes state-run
firms for selling fuel at lower than market prices.  The surplus “is positive but the risk of borrowings
overshooting next year remains because of food and fuel
subsidies,” Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes
Bank Ltd. said in an interview yesterday. “The surge in  oil
prices  is clearly worrying.”  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee forecast Feb. 28 the
deficit will narrow to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in
the 12 months through March 2012, the lowest since 2008. The
deficit is pegged at 5.1 percent in the current financial year.  Borrowing Calendar  The government and central bank officials are scheduled to
meet on March 25 to fix the borrowing calendar for the first six
months of next fiscal year, the official said. Borrowings for
the year ending March 31 may be lower than forecast in
Mukherjee’s Feb. 28 budget, as the cash surplus may allow the
government to refrain from selling more debt, the official said.  The yield on the 8.08 percent bond due in August 2022 has
dropped 13 basis points over the past two months.  India  plans to
borrow 4.17 trillion rupees next fiscal, from 4.47 trillion
rupees this year, according to Mukherjee’s February budget
proposal.  Faster economic activity has boosted revenue  collections  by
28 percent to 4.2 trillion rupees in the ten months to January
from a year ago, meeting about 80 percent of the target,
according to the latest government data.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April from 8.6 percent in the
previous year, the finance ministry forecast last month. The
central bank raised  interest rates  on March 17 to control
inflation and said higher global oil prices could derail growth.  The  Reserve Bank of India  raised its inflation forecast for
the second time since late January as it lifted the benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 6.75 percent, the eighth
move in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  