-- 
Ireland Said to Weigh Allowing Banks to Set Up Asset Warehouse

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ireland-said-to-weigh-allowing-banks-to-set-up-asset-warehouse.html
Irish authorities are considering
allowing the country’s debt-laden lenders to set up a company to
warehouse more than 60 billion euros ($84.8 billion) of loans
that would be wound down or sold over time, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Some banks have sought to convince the central bank and
government officials that this would be preferable to splitting
their operations into core and non-core units, which is also
being weighed, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. It would need approval from the
 European Central Bank , which would be the most likely initial
provider of funding to a warehouse vehicle, they said.  “Consideration of a range of options is ongoing in terms
of reorganization of the banking sector in conjunction with the
domestic and external authorities,” the Dublin-based  central
bank  said in an e-mailed response to questions today. It
declined to comment further.  Ireland agreed as part of its bailout in November to  shrink 
its banks, as deposit outflows last year drove up their reliance
on funding from the ECB. While Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the ECB wanted to accelerate deleveraging,
Ireland has “put in the condition of no fire-sale losses
because the state cannot afford it,” he said.  Viable Banks  A decision on the approach to shrinking banks’ balance
sheets will be made before the results of capital and  liquidity
stress  tests are revealed on March 31. So-called viable lenders,
including Bank of Ireland Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ,  Irish
Life  & Permanent Plc and EBS Building Society, need to cut their
loan-to-deposit ratios to 122.5 percent, “which is acceptable
to  Europe ,” Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said March 14. The
average loan-to-deposit ratio is currently about 170 percent.  Irish-based lenders’ had 116.9 billion euros of ECB
borrowings at the end of February and were relying on the Irish
central bank for a further 70.1 billion euros.  The central bank and  National Treasury Management Agency ,
which is overseeing bank restructuring for the government,
previously said that splitting banks into core and non-core
units is an option under consideration. Allied Irish Executive
Chairman David Hodgkinson signaled in a staff e-mail in December
the bank was establishing a non-core division.  Still, a single warehouse company, or special purpose
vehicle, which can be separate from the banks’ balance sheets is
the “preferred and most realistic route” to deleveraging the
banks, analysts including Fergal O’Leary and  Michael Cummins  of
Glas Securities, the Dublin-based fixed-income firm, said in a
note to clients on March 9. It would be “a more robust,
transparent and market-friendly vehicle, than individual SPVs
set up by each bank,” it said.  Foreign Assets  Officials from the NTMA,  Finance Ministry , Bank of Ireland,
Irish Life, Allied Irish and EBS declined to comment.  Banks’ foreign assets and some residential home-loans that
are priced to track the ECB’s key rate, would most likely be
transferred to any such vehicle, said three of the people. Bank
of Ireland, Allied Irish and Irish Life have more than 60
billion euros of U.K. loans.  None of the banks would own more than 50 percent of the new
company, allowing them to remove it from their balance sheets,
according to the people.  Assets would be transferred at book value, avoiding initial
capital losses, they said. Still, they would have to be
sufficiently stress-tested and the vehicle properly capitalized
to convince investors that future losses will not ultimately end
up back with the banks, they said.  The central bank is stress-testing against a 60 percent
drop in  house prices  from their peak in 2007, an economic
contraction and rising unemployment for this year and next.  Depositors and wholesale markets would have more confidence
in funding the core banks as a result, they said, adding that
this would lower lenders’ reliance on central banks.  Irish banks have already sold 72.3 billion euros of risky
commercial real-estate loans in the past year to the state-run
National Asset Management Agency, the nation’s so-called bad
bank. The loans were sold at an average discount of 58 percent,
contributing to the country’s need to inject up 46.3 billion
euros into absorb soaring losses in the banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 