-- 
Ivory Coast Market Shelling Leaves 30 People Dead; At Least 60 Are Wounded

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-18T16:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/ivory-coast-market-shelling-leaves-30-people-dead-at-least-60-are-wounded.html
As many as 30 people were killed
when forces loyal to  Ivory Coast ’s incumbent leader,  Laurent Gbagbo , shelled a market in the suburb of Abobo in Abidjan, the
commercial capital, according to the  United Nations .  Al least six 81 millimeter (3.2 inch) mortar shells were
fired from a military camp, the  UN Mission in Ivory Coast  said
in e-mailed statements today and late yesterday. Between 25 and
30 people were killed and as many as 60 injured, the UN said.
Abobo is a stronghold of  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of the Nov. 28 presidential election.  “Such an act, perpetrated against civilians, could
constitute a crime against humanity,” the UN said.  The world’s top cocoa producer has been gripped by a
political crisis since the electoral commission named Ouattara
the election winner and Gbagbo refused to cede power. Clashes
between forces loyal to the rival leaders have intensified in
recent weeks, bringing the West African nation to the brink of
civil war. At least 435 people have died since mid-December,
according to the UN.  “Since this morning, security forces supported by four
tanks and armored vehicles have been trying to enter Abobo, but
insurgents have blocked them,” Malick Diaby, a resident of the
area, said by phone.  Women and Children  A number of those killed in the shelling were women and
children,  Amnesty International  said in an e-mailed statement,
citing unidentified people it said were eyewitnesses.  “The security forces responsible for this appalling
shelling must immediately end the use of force that causes the
deaths and injuries of people going about their daily lives,”
said Veronique Aubert, deputy director for  Africa  at the London-
based rights group, according to the statement.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  condemned the attack
as “abhorrent” and called for Ouattara to take up “his
rightful position” as president, according to an e-mailed
statement today.  Ouattara yesterday recognized former rebels who back him as
part of  Ivory Coast ’s army, he said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 