-- 
J&J, U.S. Sue Teva to Block Generic Version of Prezista HIV Drug

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-18T19:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/j-j-u-s-sue-teva-to-block-generic-version-of-prezista-hiv-drug.html
The U.S. government and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  each filed patent-infringement lawsuits against  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to block sales of a generic
version of the HIV medicine Prezista.  Teva is seeking permission from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to market a copy of Prezista, which is sold by
J&J’s Tibotec unit. The government wants to block approval until
a patent it owns and licenses to J&J expires in 2019, according
to a complaint filed March 15 in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey. Tibotec sued on March 16 in the same court, claiming
infringement of two patents expiring in 2015 and 2026.  Prezista, known by the chemical name darunavir and first
approved by regulators in 2006, is a protease inhibitor given
with other HIV medicines. It’s designed to block sick cells from
making new copies of the virus. U.S. sales of Prezista rose 32
percent to $401 million last year, making it New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J’s fastest-growing pharmaceutical product.  The government patent, issued to the  National Institutes of
Health  and the University of Illinois, is licensed to Tibotec
and covers a way to use Prezista so there is less likelihood
that drug resistance will develop.  The proposed generic versions, “if utilized in treatment
according to their proposed indications, will infringe” the
patent, the U.S. and university said in their lawsuit.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, said the company had no comment. Such lawsuits are common
to clarify patent rights while the FDA separately considers the
generic-drug applications.  Tibotec sued  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  and Mylan Inc. in November,
claiming infringement of the 2026 patent and seeking a court
order to prevent them from selling copies of the medicine.  The government case is U.S. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
11cv1461, and the Tibotec case is Tibotec Inc. v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 11-cv1509, both U.S. District Court
for the District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  