-- 
J&J CEO Weldon Has ‘No Plans’ to Retire, Focuses on Recalls

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-18T20:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/j-j-ceo-weldon-has-no-plans-to-retire-focuses-on-fixing-manufacturing.html
  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  Chief Executive
Officer William Weldon said he has “no plans right now” to
retire and is focused on fixing manufacturing problems that led
the company to recall more than 40 consumer brands last year.  Weldon, 62, promoted the heads of his drug and medical-
device divisions to corporate vice-chairmen in December. While
analysts have described that as a prelude to Weldon’s departure,
the CEO said in an interview that he has no timetable for
leaving while the company grapples with its recalls and added
scrutiny from U.S. regulators.  “That’s to me what is first and foremost in my mind,”
Weldon, J&J’s chairman and CEO since 2002, said in the interview
at company headquarters in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . “People
that know me said I’ll fix this problem and, you know, I will
fix it.”  As for retirement, “It will be the right time” at some
point, Weldon said. “When it is, I don’t know. I have no plans
right now.”  J&J, the world’s second-biggest maker of health-care
products, said March 11 that it had reached a consent decree
with the  Food and Drug Administration  increasing agency
oversight at three manufacturing plants that made recalled
Tylenol, Rolaids, Motrin and other over-the-counter products.
Recalls and plant shutdowns last year cost the company $900
million in lost sales, J&J’s vice-president for  investor
relations , Louise Mehrotra, said on a Jan. 25 conference call.  Plant Closed  In the interview yesterday, Weldon said he doesn’t know
when he will reopen a  Fort Washington ,  Pennsylvania , plant
closed in April, when the company pulled 136 million bottles of
over-the-counter children’s medicines. Under the consent decree,
the FDA and an outside quality consultant must approve upgrades
at the plant before it can restart.  “We’ve basically torn everything down from that facility
and we’re renovating,” Weldon said. “The important question
is: ‘When will patients have their products?’ We expect that we
will have all the products, we’re hoping, into the market by the
end of this year.”  J&J rose 44 cents to $58.57 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 10 percent in
the past 12 months. New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is the world’s
largest maker of medical products by sales.  J&J announced the promotion of Alex Gorsky, 50, who leads
the devices business, and Sheri McCoy, 52, chief of
pharmaceuticals, in a Dec. 16 statement that said they would
lead remediation efforts tied to the recalls. McCoy will
supervise the consumer business, and Gorsky the supply chain.  Succession Contest  Gorsky and McCoy’s ascension sets up a contest to succeed
Weldon, said Glenn Novarro, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in
New York, in a March 2 interview. If J&J follows the timetable
it did with Weldon’s appointment, a new CEO will be announced by
early next year, he said.  J&J cut Weldon’s 2010 bonus by 45 percent, to $1.98
million, according to a March 16 company  filing  that cited the
damage to sales and reputation caused by the recalls. Including
a 3 percent salary increase and stock compensation, the CEO’s
total pay for 2010 was valued at $28.7 million, a 7 percent drop
from the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  