-- 
Japan’s Wagyu Beef Exports, Rice Output Threatened by Radiation From Plant

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-18T07:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-wagyu-beef-exports-rice-crop-threatened-by-radiation-contamination.html
Agricultural production and exports
by  Japan , including premium “wagyu” beef and rice, are under
threat of radioactive contamination as the nation struggles to
stem pollution from the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant.  The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has asked each
prefectural governor to start testing agricultural and marine
products along with drinking water for possible contamination in
order to keep tainted food including grains, milk, vegetables,
meat and eggs from the market, said Kumiko Tanaka at the
ministry’s policy planning and communication division.  The action highlights the severity of the radiation leak
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, about 220 kilometers
(140 miles) north of Tokyo, after Japan’s biggest earthquake on
record and tsunami hit the area on March 11. Workers resumed
dousing the damaged reactor structures with seawater from fire
trucks today, as they try to stem radioactive pollution from the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  “I’m concerned about excessive reaction by consumers,”
Tetsurou Shimizu, chief researcher at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. in  Tokyo , said today in a phone interview.
“Farmers in the area face the risk that their products will be
shunned by consumers, even without scientific evidence.”  Farmers in Fukushima produce rice, vegetables, fruits, beef,
pork, chicken and eggs, according to the prefecture’s  website .
Neighboring Ibaraki prefecture is the largest supplier of
vegetables to consumers in Tokyo, Shimizu said.  Japan exported 677 metric tons of beef, including “wagyu”
meat, in the year ended March 31, 2010, the government data show.  Vietnam  was the largest buyer with 433 tons, followed by Hong
Kong with 119 tons and the U.S. with 81 tons.  Tolerable Levels  The Health Ministry has tentatively set tolerable  levels  of
radioactivity for each product. For drinking water, the level is
set at 300 becquerel per kilogram of radioactive iodine. For
milk, 200 becquerel per kilogram of radioactive cesium.  If contaminated foods are discovered through testing, the
health ministry will order their producers to suspend output and
shipments immediately, Tanaka said.  Pollution from the nuclear plant has also dealt a blow to
Japan’s agriculture ministry as it aims to boost rice exports to  China  and beef exports to  Hong Kong  as premium products.  “We have not received any report of an import ban on
Japanese food products because of a radiation leak from the
Fukushima plant,” said Toshinori Mitsunaga at the export
promotion office of the ministry. “We’ll ensure that foods
tested for contamination will never be shipped out of Japan.”  More Controls  Japan exported 1,898 tons of rice last year, according to
the ministry. Hong Kong was the biggest importer with 654 tons,
followed by  Singapore  with 334 tons. Fukushima represented 4.5
percent of Japan’s total rice production last year.  The European Union recommended more controls on
agricultural products from Japan following the radiation leaks
from the Fukushima nuclear-power plant, European Commission
spokesman Frederic Vincent told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Asian countries have started to screen food imports from
Japan following explosions at the nuclear plant that raised
radiation levels at the complex to harmful levels.    South Korea ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,  Malaysia , Singapore and
the Philippines all took steps to check fruit, vegetables, meat
and seafood from Japan for nuclear material. A radiation dose of
100 millisieverts a year is the lowest level at which any
increase in cancer is evident, the  World Nuclear Association 
said on its website.  Radiation levels in the Fukushima plant showed a consistent
decline from the early hours of March 17 to today,  Kyodo News 
reported, citing data compiled by Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
March 15 radiation at Fukushima’s No. 3 reactor reached 400
millisieverts per hour.  International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano said his organization would begin taking radiation
readings in Tokyo on Friday night, and may begin readings near
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s damaged power plant in Fukushima in a
few days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  