-- 
Tourism Drop in Japan Leaves Asian Hotels Counting on Chinese for Business

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-03-18T04:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-tourism-drop-leaves-chinese-to-fill-asia-s-empty-rooms.html
  Asia ’s holiday resorts may see
fewer Japanese tourists as the tsunami and nuclear scare keeps
some of the region’s wealthiest travelers at home, leaving
countries more reliant on Chinese travelers to fill the gap.  Government officials and lawmakers in  Thailand ,  Taiwan ,  Vietnam , Malaysia and  South Korea  have predicted drops in
tourist revenue in the past week. Japanese nationals  spent  $25
billion on travel in 2009, compared with $44 billion in
expenditures from China, according to the latest available data
from the United Nations  World Tourism Organization .  “The Japanese outbound market has been in decline the past
few years,” said Kris Lim, a director at the Pacific Asia
Travel Association, an industry group. “For the next few months,
the drop will be much more severe.”  Canceled travel plans after the world’s fourth-strongest
earthquake since 1900 and resulting tsunami hit  Japan  a week ago
crimped travel-related stocks around the region. The disaster
will accelerate a trend that has seen countries in the region
court more visitors from  China , which may have eclipsed Japan as
Asia’s biggest economy last year, Lim said.  Japanese tourists to the Asia-Pacific region declined for
three straight years before rising to 17.5 million last year,
still below 2006 levels,  PATA  data shows. By comparison, Chinese
tourists surged to 48 million last year, five times more than a
decade ago, with most heading to Hong Kong or Macau.  “The volume of Chinese visitors actually makes up a lot
for some of those countries that have Japan as the number one
source market,” Lim said by phone. “Most destinations in the
region may not be experiencing a very huge decline.”    Hawaii  Decline  The U.S. state of Hawaii, where Japanese visitors accounted
for 17 percent of  7.1 million tourists  last year, may see fewer
arrivals, Sandra Carvao, a spokeswoman for the UNWTO, said in an
e-mail today. The agency has maintained its forecast of global
tourism growth at 5 percent after the Japan earthquake and
uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa, she wrote.  “We expect that the proven dynamism and resilience of the
tourism sector, particularly in Asia, will contribute to limit
the medium- and long-term impact,” Carvao said.  Taiwan, where Japanese tourists comprised 19 percent of
 arrivals  last year, may see its travel industry hurt due to the
crisis, central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said at a session of
parliament in Taipei yesterday. China overtook Japan as Taiwan’s
largest source of tourist arrivals in 2010 with 1.64 million
visitors, a 68 percent rise from a year earlier.  Tourism Stocks Fall    Formosa International Hotels Corp. (2707) , Taiwan’s largest listed
hotel chain, has dropped 12 percent as of 9 a.m. local time
today since the March 11 earthquake that killed 5,692 people.  EVA Airways Corp. (2618) , the island’s second-biggest airline, has
fallen 10 percent in that time, fifth-most among the 31-member
Bloomberg World Airlines Index, which declined 5.8 percent.  South Korea’s tourism industry may be hurt because of a
possible drop in the number of Japanese visitors after the quake,
the  Finance Ministry  said March 12. In January alone, 1.9
million Japanese visited South Korea, comprising 33 percent of
all arrivals, according to the Korea Tourism Organization.  “Even though there is no assessment yet on how much the
number of Japan tourists coming to Thailand will fall, we
believe Japan will focus on rebuilding their country more than
traveling outside for a while,” Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said March 14.  Little Japanese Growth    Minor International Pcl (MINT) , Thailand’s biggest operator of
hotel resorts and fast-food restaurants, hasn’t seen a
“material cancelation” of Japanese tour groups so far, Ririnda
Tangtatswas, senior investor relations manager, said in an e-
mail. Japanese tourists, who accounted for 6.2 percent of the
Thailand’s 15.8 million arrivals last year, are responsible for
about 5 percent of the company’s hotel revenue, she said.  “Japanese volume has been flat in 2010 compared to 2009,
so it’s not one of our growth markets,” Ririnda said, adding
that visitors from China increased 20 percent last year.  Malaysian travel-related companies may suffer with the rest
of the region, Lee Heng Guie, chief economist at CIMB Investment
Bank in  Kuala Lumpur , said in a March 15 report. Japanese
tourists accounted for 1.7 percent of visitors to  Malaysia  last
year, it said.  “We expect a more visible impact on the services and
tourism sectors as the Japanese may avoid travelling abroad
given dampened consumer sentiment,” the report said. “Likewise,
Malaysians will refrain from travelling to Japan for fear of
radiation leaks.”  Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index has fallen in four straight
trading sessions since the earthquake on concerns Japanese
visitors would decline and investors would leave the country.  “The earthquake will definitely affect the number of
tourists,” Nguyen Manh Cuong, deputy head of  Vietnam National
Administration of Tourism , said by phone March 15. “They will
have to prioritize spending to rebuild their lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  