-- 
Threat of Japan Recession Lessens Following G-7 Joint Intervention on Yen

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-19T02:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-s-recession-threat-lessens-with-g-7-joint-intervention.html
  Japan ’s risk of becoming the first
Group of Seven member to return to a recession after the global
financial crisis eased as the G-7 intervened to halt the yen’s
appreciation.  The G-7’s yen sales sent the currency down the most since
September, to 80.58 per dollar at the close yesterday in  New
York , compared with the postwar high of 76.25 reached March 17.
Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said in an
interview “we confirmed” further intervention could be done.  “The risks to the downside for Japan’s economy were
reduced significantly by the G-7 intervention,” said Takuji Aida, a senior economist at UBS AG in Tokyo. “This coordinated
action may help corporate sentiment to recover, a key factor in
reviving growth, along with public spending.”  Reduced scope for yen gains would limit damage to
exporters’ earnings once companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to
Sony Corp. restart factories. Focus now turns to the duration of
electricity cuts in the aftermath of the nation’s record
earthquake. At the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, engineers worked to restore power used for pumps needed
to protect fuel rods from overheating and releasing radiation.  Paring Loss  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average closed 2.7 percent higher
yesterday, paring its slide since the disaster to 12 percent.
The tumble in equities in the aftermath of the quake, in
conjunction with the rising yen, threatened to impair companies’
balance sheets ahead of the March 31 close to the fiscal year.  To aid companies with fund-raising concerns, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government may provide more than 10 trillion yen
($124 billion) of loans, the Nikkei newspaper reported without
saying where it obtained the information.  Japan’s economy, the world’s third biggest, may skirt a
contraction and grow about 1 percent this year as the nation
rebuilds after the March 11 temblor and tsunami, according to
UBS and Nomura Holdings Inc.  The  Federal Reserve ,  European Central Bank ,  Bank of England ,  Germany ’s Bundesbank, the Bank of  France , the Bank of  Canada  and
the Italian central bank said they joined the yen sales. A
Japanese government official said on condition of anonymity that
his country probably sold less than 2 trillion yen, the amount
it used in its last intervention. Yesterday’s drop in the yen
was the biggest since Japan’s unilateral sales on Sept. 15.  ‘Very Problematic’  “The risk of the yen rising unchallenged to uncompetitive
levels would have been very problematic in an economy where,
outside of export dynamism, there’s really been very little
dynamic for growth,” said  Richard Jerram , head of Asian
economics at Macquarie Securities Ltd. in  Singapore . The
intervention is “a significant help” to the economy, he said.  Japan’s economy had already shrunk in the fourth quarter of
2010 as government stimulus measures adopted during the global
financial crisis were phased out. The nation has suffered
limited growth and sustained declines in consumer prices as an
aging and shrinking population undercut domestic demand.  Every one yen that the currency appreciates against the
dollar erodes about 30 billion yen from Toyota’s earnings,
according to the company. Honda Motor Co., which produces more
than 70 percent of its vehicles outside Japan, loses 17 billion
yen for each yen the currency strengthens.  “We won’t manipulate it, but I hope that the yen goes back
to where it was before the earthquake,” Igarashi said in the
interview in  Tokyo  March 18. He added that he hoped the G-7
action would put a floor under the currency.  Yen’s Climb  The yen has appreciated 3 percent against the dollar since
the close the day before the magnitude-9 quake. The currency,
which has now strengthened 19 percent in the past two years,
rose in recent days on speculation Japan’s insurers would
repatriate overseas assets. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  has said there was no basis for such speculation.  Nomura analysts see the economy expanding 1.1 percent this
year, 0.4 percentage point less than their estimate before the
disaster struck. The earthquake and tsunami ripped apart
northeastern towns, killing thousands and damaging nuclear
reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
Almost 400,000 people remained in evacuation shelters yesterday.  Soldiers and firefighters from Tokyo, using dozens of fire
engines, doused sea water on reactor No. 3 yesterday, after an
explosion this week. TEPCO also said it may finish reconnecting
a power line to the No. 2 reactor.  U.S. Optimistic  Admiral Robert Willard, head of the U.S. Pacific Command,
said he was cautiously optimistic that the damage can be
contained and a “worst-case scenario will never be
encountered.”  The risks to an economic recovery include an uncertain
power supply, with the nation facing rolling blackouts and
Citigroup Inc. warning this week that the nation may face an
“irreversible” blow to capacity. Household sentiment has also
suffered.  “Japan has little choice but to rely on exports as  consumer spending  will likely stay weak,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities. “Service consumption will
likely slump even in the Tokyo area as consumers may be
discouraged from going out because of the confusion resulting
from the earthquake, such as the power shortage,” she said.  Before the quake, Japan’s economy was showing signs of a
revival, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year.  The central bank yesterday repeated its pledge to pursue
“powerful monetary easing” and added 3 trillion yen to the
financial system, bringing its total emergency fund injections
this week to 37 trillion yen. On March 14, it doubled an asset-
purchase fund to 10 trillion yen, pledging to step up purchases
of securities including government debt, exchange-traded funds
and real-estate investment trusts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  