-- 
Japan’s Prime Minister Says Crisis Remains ‘Very Grave’

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-18T23:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-nuclear-crisis-remains-very-grave-as-forecasts-show-shifting-winds.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
Japan’s nuclear crisis remained “very grave” as forecasts
indicated changing winds could start moving radiation closer to
Tokyo by the end of the weekend.  Engineers worked overnight to restore power to two reactors
at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in a bid to get cooling
systems running again. By March 20, the weather may take
emissions toward the capital, 135 miles (220 kilometers) south
of the station,  Austria ’s meteorological center  said , using data
from the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty Organization. At current
levels, the radiation isn’t dangerous beyond the immediate
vicinity of the plant, the center said.  “The situation at the power plant is still
unpredictable,” Kan said at a press conference in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “But we’re making our utmost effort to control it,
and we’ll surely overcome this crisis.”  Japan faces a “battle with time,” International Atomic
Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano said after meeting
ministers in Tokyo. A magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami March
11 knocked out Fukushima’s back-up generators, pitching workers
into a battle to keep the plant cool and stem radiation from the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it may finish reconnecting a
power line to the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors by this morning. The
electrical link would be used to restart pumps needed to protect
fuel rods from overheating. It’s possible the water pumps,
damaged in the tsunami, might not work even with power, said an
official from Tepco, as the company is known.  Fire Engines  “We must avoid being overly optimistic,” Philippe Jamet,
a commissioner at the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire,  France ’s
nuclear regulator, said at a briefing in Paris yesterday. “This
will likely take human intervention like going into control
rooms to reconnect valves.”  Japanese soldiers used fire engines yesterday to dump sea
water on reactor No. 3, site of an explosion earlier this week.
The dousing was stopped in the afternoon as the effort
replenished some water to the spent-fuel pools at the reactor,
Air Self Defense Force Chief of Staff Shigeru Iwasaki said.  “On Sunday, a frontal system is crossing the region with
heavy rain,” Austria’s Meteorological and Geophysics Center
said in a statement. “Behind the front, northerly winds are
predicted, increasing the risk for the region around Tokyo.”    Russia , California  Radiation has been detected in eastern Russia at levels
that pose no risk to human health, said the center, which was
set up in 1996 to detect nuclear-test explosions. A “minuscule”
amount of radiation that probably came from the damaged Japanese
reactors was picked up at a California monitoring station
yesterday, the U.S. government said.  Images posted on the Austrian center’s website show intense
radionuclide concentrations around the reactors. Wind currents
take the plume in a winding pattern over the  Pacific Ocean ,
setting the particles adrift in north- and south-easterly
patterns.  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
forced the venting of gas that caused explosions in at least
three of the buildings surrounding Fukushima’s six reactors. A
fire also started in a pond containing spent fuel rods from
reactor No. 4.  Prime Minister Kan said the government is being as
transparent as possible about the crisis, rebutting criticism
that it had held back information.  Warning Upgraded  “Everything has been disclosed to the Japanese public,”
Kan said. “We have shared what we know with the international
community.”    Japan   upgraded  its warning for some parts of the plant from
a four to a five on a seven-level international scale, the IAEA
said yesterday. The five  rating  is for accidents with wider
consequences. The worst nuclear accident, Chernobyl in 1986,
rated seven.  Tepco acknowledged its No. 1, 2 and 3 reactors at the site
had been changed to a level five rating, according to a
 statement  on the company’s website.  If the power cable can be linked successfully, power may be
restored to reactors 3 and 4 on Sunday, Kaoru Yoshida, a Tokyo
Electric spokesman, said in a briefing to reporters. Still,
there is a potential risk of an explosion if the power is
reconnected to the reactor, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency said. The agency didn’t provide details.  The greatest risks at Fukushima may still come from the
spent fuel pools that sit on the top of the six reactors.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said March 17
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s spent-
fuel cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay,
catch fire and spew radioactive materials into the air.  As of 2 p.m. yesterday in Tokyo, the  National Police Agency 
said 6,539 were killed in last week’s disasters, 10,354 are
reported missing, 2,513 were injured and 382,613 people have
been evacuated. More than 536 aftershocks have been recorded by
the  U.S. Geological Survey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  