-- 
Japan Unit-4 Pool’s Heat Exceeded Three-Times Normal, IAEA Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-18T09:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-unit-4-pool-s-heat-exceeded-three-times-normal-iaea-says.html
Temperatures in a cooling pool at
the crippled Japanese nuclear plant have exceeded three times
normal values, causing radiation to leak directly into the
atmosphere and complicating efforts to stop three reactors from
melting down, the UN Atomic Energy Agency reported.  The pond at reactor No. 4 covering uranium fuel rods at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant heated to 84 degrees Celsius
(183 Fahrenheit) the last time data was available on March 13,
the IAEA said today on its website. Temperatures normally should
be kept below 25 degrees Celsius, according to the agency.  Authorities have said the cooling pool at the No. 4
reactor, hit by fire and explosion, is perhaps the most critical
element of the atomic disaster.  “Unit-4 remains a major safety concern,” the Vienna-based
agency said late yesterday in a statement. There was no
information available on the level of water in the spent fuel
pond, the agency said.    Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
there is a possibility there’s no water at the cooling pool. If
exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay, catch fire and spew
radioactive materials into the air.  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
said in Congressional testimony March 16 that unit had no water
in its cooling pool, which sits in a side chamber above the
reactor’s core. A hydrogen explosion inside the core’s
containment chamber may have drained the pool, which is supposed
to keep radiation in check by covering the rods with 15 meters
of water.  “We believe that radiation levels are extremely high,
which could possibly impact the ability to take corrective
measures,” Jaczko said.  Other Ponds Hot  Temperatures in fuel ponds at units No. 5 and 6, also
loaded with uranium fuel assemblies, exceeded two-times normal
values, the IAEA said. Unit 5’s temperature rose to 65.5 degrees
Celsius from 64.2 degrees Celsius yesterday afternoon. Unit 6’s
temperature fell 0.5 degree to 62 Celsius.  Accidents may cause water in pools to leak, evaporate or
boil away. Cooling and water circulation systems inside pool No.
4 weren’t working, the IAEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  