-- 
Japan Plant’s Plume to Determine Food Risk, N.Z. Scientist Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-18T05:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-plant-s-plume-to-determine-food-risk-n-z-scientist-says.html
Peter Roberts, a former senior
scientist at  New Zealand ’s Institute for Geological and Nuclear
Sciences, comments on the effects that radiation leaks from a
damaged nuclear plant in  Japan  may have on food. Roberts
specialized in radiation.  On the area that may be affected:  “The extent of the problem is the extent of the plume and
where that gets to. You’d be talking radiuses from the plant of
tens of miles where you could get contamination that was bad
enough to be of serious concern for the food.  “You could get radioactive contamination relatively near
the plant that would be quite high. But here, the chances of
them producing any food for tens of miles around that plant at
the moment seem to be pretty remote.”  On determining the extent of contamination:  “As more data comes out as to how extensive the release
was, people will look at the weather patterns of the time and
they’ll be able to see where there may be radioactivity getting
beyond the immediate area.  “There will be time to deal with this. It’s not something
we’re going to have to worry about in the next few days.”  On the types of radioactive materials released:  “In the early days, there’s quite a bit of radioactive
iodine, which can end up in cows and then into their milk. The
problem with iodine in the milk is it targets the thyroid and
young children will be particularly vulnerable, that’s the
short-term problem. The longer-term problem is cesium 137.”  “Unless it’s a far larger release than the information
that’s drifting out at the moment, it would have to be a very
major release to get iodine far enough to be of concern in areas
where we might be getting any milk from. In the close areas, by
the time they’ve sorted it out, that iodine’s gone because it’s
gone within two to three months. Cesium 137, that’s a long-term
problem, that’s going to hang around, get into the soil and be a
major problem.”  On how long radioactive materials can last:  “We talk in terms of half-lives, when the radioactivity
decreases to half the original level. Iodine 131 has a half-life
of about 8 days, so within a couple of months of the event, all
the radioactive iodine is essentially gone. Cesium 137 has a
half-life of 30 years, so you’re talking 300 to 500 years before
that’s all gone. It’s a very long-term problem.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 