-- 
Expatriates Say ‘Japan at Its Best’ as Nation Endures Disaster

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-03-18T01:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-at-its-best-deepens-expatriates-respect-as-nation-endures-disaster.html
As the scenes of devastation from  Japan ’s  strongest earthquake  on record and the resulting tsunami
hit television screens around the world, Im-gyung Koo marveled
at the calmness of the victims.  “What struck me in this footage of Japanese in shelters,
who lost their homes and relatives, is that no one was crying or
showing any negativity,” Koo, a 26-year-old language teacher
and native of  South Korea , said by phone from her home in Tokyo.
“There’s this deeply ingrained consideration for others, no
matter the circumstances. In  Korea , people would be bawling.”  Koo, who has lived in Japan for five years, said she
panicked when she turned to TV for guidance as the magnitude-9
earthquake hit on March 11, only to see a shaking image of an
empty studio. The composure of her Japanese neighbors, who
advised her to stay inside and watch less TV, comforted her.  Foreign governments heightened warnings to nationals in
Japan, with several including the U.S. advising citizens to
consider leaving the country as concerns mounted over radiation
leaks from the earthquake-stricken nuclear power plant in
Fukushima, 135 miles north of  Tokyo . As expatriates crowd
airports trying to escape, many expressed admiration for the way
Japanese are enduring a crisis Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has
described as the country’s worst since World War II.  “All my compatriots have left, but what they are missing
is Japan at its best,” said Davy Bergier, a 38-year French
musician living in Tokyo. “There is a look in the eyes of
strangers on the street, more compassionate than before, like
they are ready to help.”  U.S. Airlift  The U.S. advised citizens yesterday to consider leaving
Japan, urged them to keep 50 miles away from Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi plant in Fukushima, and began an  airlift  of
Americans wishing to leave the nation. The U.K. said people
should consider leaving Tokyo. France, Belgium and  Norway  have
advised leaving the country altogether.  Prime Minister Kan appealed for calm as Tokyo residents
packed hotels in  Osaka , 400 kilometers (250 miles) southwest of
the capital, uncertain whether efforts to contain radiation
would be successful. Those remaining in Tokyo face empty
supermarket shelves, lines at the gas pump, sporadic train
service and rolling blackouts as at least 536 aftershocks have
continued to rock the city.  The official death toll from the earthquake and tsunami was
5,692 people, with 9,522 missing and 2,409 injured as of
midnight local time, the National Police Agency said. The
tsunami and fears of a nuclear meltdown forced 429,519 people
from their homes into temporary shelters as of March 16, the
police said.  Radiation Readings  Radiation readings in central Tokyo spiked 21-fold to as
much as 0.809 microsieverts an hour on March 15, before
declining to 0.0489 microsieverts as of 9 a.m. today, according
to the  website  of Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of  Public Health .
Readings in the area the day before the quake averaged 0.0338
microsieverts, according to the agency.  Exposure to 1 sievert of radiation can cause hemorrhaging,
4 sieverts can cause death within two months, and 2,000 sieverts
can cause loss of consciousness within minutes and death within
hours, according to the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency .  Bergier, the French musician, was riding a train on the
Yamanote line, a 21-mile above-ground railroad encircling
central Tokyo, when the earthquake struck. Except for a few
people who cried out in surprise, most remained calm and within
minutes followed the conductor’s instructions to the street, he
said.  ’Difficult to Panic’  “It was difficult to panic when everyone around you is so
composed and orderly,” Bergier, who has lived in Japan for
three years and chose to stay in the country with his Japanese
wife, said by telephone. “If this was  France , there would be a
moment of chaos.”  As supplies of bottled water dwindled, Adam Donahue, a 33-
year-old U.S. real estate investor based in Tokyo, said he was
grateful to see a shopper leave a bottle for him instead of
taking all of the remaining stock.  Chia An Lin, 27, who came from  Taiwan  to study journalism
at the  University of Tokyo  a year ago, dashed out of a ramen
shop after the earthquake, the world’s fourth-most powerful
since 1900, hit. She found herself standing alone in the street.  “People keep calm, they stay in lines, no one is grabbing
stuff -- I really respect that,” said Lin, who still recalls
Taiwan’s worst earthquake in September 1999, which claimed 2,500
lives.  Social Conditioning  No cases of looting were reported in the days following the
earthquake, either in Tokyo or elsewhere, the  National Police
Agency  said. People continued to stand in line at supermarkets,
train stations and ATMs even as news of rising radiation levels
grew grimmer.  “Japanese line up for things, that’s nothing special.
What’s amazing is that the lines got even straighter since the
quake,” said Abasa Phillips, a 35-year-old U.S. citizen living
in Tokyo.  The social habits on display seem more deep-seated than
simple manners and etiquette, said Sangita Rajbongshi, who moved
to Japan from  India  11 years ago. The 34-year-old left her
apartment building in the suburbs of Tokyo to witness nursery-
school teachers taking children outside to safety.  “It looked like if the ceiling had fallen on their heads
the teachers would protect the kids with their own bodies;
that’s the kind of training they get,” said Rajbongshi, a
mother of two and a part-time English teacher. “Maybe this is
something beyond any training -- one has to learn it from the
day one is born.”  When she invited the nursery-school group into her
apartment building’s spacious lobby from the cold, they
apologized profusely for imposing, Rajbongshi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  