-- 
Japan’s Risk of Meltdown Lessening as Water Dumped, Graham Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-03-18T01:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-s-risk-of-meltdown-lessening-as-water-dumped-graham-says.html
Thomas Graham, a former U.S.
ambassador and chairman of Lightbridge Corp., said the risk of a
meltdown at  Japan ’s damaged nuclear reactors has lessened after
water was dumped on the site.  He spoke on Bloomberg Television from  Washington .  On the situation at the reactors:  “The situation with respect to the damaged fuel seems to
be improving somewhat. Still uncertain are the spent fuel ponds.
The coming day will be very important as to how this develops
but it does seem to be getting at this point somewhat better.  “Definitely not deteriorating as it was and seemingly
becoming stable and perhaps becoming more under control. It is
certainly in the positive direction.”  On possibility of a meltdown:  “I wouldn’t say it’s off the table but the more water that
goes in there, the more that the spent fuel is covered with
water and the spent fuel ponds are covered with water, the more
that happens the more we can progress towards that the less the
risk of meltdown becomes. I won’t say it’s gone completely but
it is certainly less.”  On radiation risk:  “Prominent experts have said at least up to now there is
no threat to human health off of the reactor site.”  On future of nuclear industry:  “It has had some significant impact. All the reactors that
are in trouble are old. It points up the need to get new
reactors with more highly developed safety measures in there
deployed.  “As far as  China ’s action is concerned they have halted
license pending extensive safety reviews. Also they are
completing a safety policy. There is no doubt that China will go
back to the nuclear power program, it’s just absolutely
essential to the development of their economy. They already have
very extensive coal fired plants that are causing a lot of
pollution. They just must find a carbon-free base load energy
source and nuclear power is the only one that exists now and is
likely to exist in the foreseeable future.  “The lesson learned is that one always has to anticipate
that unplanned, unexpected things can happen. You have to make
safety as good as you possibly can make it but also remember
this is a very important resource to the world and safety can
never be 100 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  