-- 
Japanese Bond Default Risk Drops Amid Efforts to Contain Radiation Leaks

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-03-18T06:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-government-corporate-bond-risk-drops-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring Japanese debt
from default fell as emergency workers used water cannons to
douse a damaged nuclear plant in Fukushima in an effort to stem
radioactive pollution.  Five-year credit-default swaps on  Japan ’s government
decreased 13 basis points to 104.5 basis points as of 3:08 p.m.
in Tokyo after climbing to a record 130 yesterday, according to
Citigroup Inc. The contracts were at 78.2 the day before Japan’s
record March 11 earthquake and tsunami triggered radiation leaks
at the plant, according to data provider CMA in  New York .  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of corporate borrowers fell
21 basis points to 129, according to Citigroup. The benchmark,
which investors use to hedge against losses on debt or speculate
on creditworthiness, soared to a nine-month high of 147.4 on
March 16 from 98 a day before the magnitude-9 temblor, CMA
prices show.  Japanese soldiers and firefighters from  Tokyo , using 30
fire engines, began dousing 50 tons of sea water on reactor No.
3 at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, sending plumes of steam into
the air.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. said it may finish
reconnecting a power line to the No. 2 reactor as it seeks to
pump cooling water onto overheating fuel rods.  Tokyo Electric Debt  Contracts insuring Tokyo Electric’s debt dropped 60 basis
points to 305 as of 2:22 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. The company’s failure to end the threat
of radiation from the six-reactor plant has prompted the U.S. to
advise its citizens to consider leaving Japan and to start
airlifting some out of the country.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 5 basis points to 110 as of
2:30 p.m. in  Hong Kong , BNP Paribas SA prices show. The Markit
iTraxx Australia index dropped 4 to 111.5 as of 5:32 p.m. in
Sydney, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Default-swaps on Japan are on course for their biggest
decline since Feb. 18, 2009, CMA prices show. The drop in the
nation’s benchmark corporate index is the biggest since May 26,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  