-- 
Japan Individuals Cut Bets on Weak Yen, Spur Surge to Record Versus Dollar

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-18T06:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-individuals-cut-bets-on-weak-yen-spur-surge-to-record-versus-dollar.html
Japanese individual investors
reduced their bets yesterday by 30 percent that the yen would
weaken, helping accelerate the currency’s surge to a record.  So-called net short positions for Japan’s currency against
12 of its major counterparts, including the greenback and
Australian dollar, dropped to 602,864 contracts yesterday from
863,753 the previous trading day, data from the  Tokyo  Financial
Exchange’s Click 365 margin-trading market showed. That was the
sharpest decline in figures going back to September.  “As Tokyo woke up, investors bought the yen in a very thin
market, causing a chain reaction, and stop losses eliminated
positions in about 20 minutes,” said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-based
president of Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s largest online currency broker. “The phenomenon was
particularly clear among individual investors. Their stop losses
were probably a main cause behind a plunge of South Pacific
nations’ currencies against the yen.”  A stop-loss order is an automatic instruction to sell or
buy a currency should it reach a particular level. A short
contract is a bet an asset’s price will decline, while a long is
a wager that the value will increase.  Net shorts for the yen against the dollar declined 37
percent to 193,699 yesterday, while bets against  Japan ’s
currency versus the Australian dollar slid to 216,985 from a
record 305,414 on March 16.  Tsunami, Radiation  The yen climbed for five days through yesterday after the
biggest earthquake in Japan’s history and a deadly tsunami hit
the country on March 11, spurring speculation insurance
companies and investors will repatriate assets to pay for
damages. The currency surged to as high as 76.25 per dollar
yesterday, a post-World-War-II high, as the risk of radiation
leaks from a damaged Japanese nuclear plant drove shares lower.  The yen tumbled 3.5 percent against the dollar today, the
most in more than two years, as the Group of Seven nations said
they will jointly intervene in foreign-exchange markets for the
first time in more than a decade.  The coordinated intervention “is likely to contain
speculative upward pressure on the yen,” Gaitame’s Ueno said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  