-- 
Japan’s 9% of Global GDP Means Expansion Won’t Get Unhinged

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-18T03:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-s-9-piece-of-global-gdp-means-world-expansion-won-t-become-unhinged.html
The world economic recovery may be
sturdy enough to withstand the double-whammy of  Japan ’s 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and the surge in crude-oil prices triggered
by tensions in the Middle East.  While Japan risks sinking into a recession and global
growth might slow, the expansion likely has the breadth and
momentum to last. Unemployment is falling around the world,
company profits are rising and monetary policy is easy. The
Group of Seven mounted its first joint currency intervention
today since 2000 to limit the threat to Japan’s economy.  “The global economy should pass these stress tests and see
continued prosperity,” said  Edward Yardeni , president and chief
investment strategist at Yardeni Research Inc. in New York.
Investors will buy equities “if and when Japan’s nuclear
problems are contained.”  Yardeni -- famous for coining the phrase “bond
vigilantes” to describe investors who punish profligate
governments -- predicts that global growth of about 5 percent
this year will help spur a 15 percent rebound in the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index of developed-nation equities from 1279.69 yesterday, and a
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks to 1,500
by year-end from 1273.72.  Growth Outlook  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. also see the world economy bearing up in the face of the
twin blows from Japan and oil. Goldman Sachs forecasts expansion
of 4.8 percent this year, while JPMorgan predicts 4.4 percent,
surpassing the 3.4 percent average of the past two decades.  “There’s a fair amount of resiliency to absorb this level
of shocks,” said David Hensley, director of global economic
coordination at JPMorgan Chase in New York and a former
economist at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York .  Even as Japan copes with the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl and destruction from  earthquakes  and a tsunami, the
effect on the rest of the world will “probably be limited and
small,” said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist in Lexington,
Massachusetts, at research group IHS. He estimates the negative
impact won’t be more than 0.2 percent this year. Japan’s gross
domestic product has shrunk as a share of global output from
about 18 percent in the mid-1990s to 8.7 percent last year, when
it lost its rank as the second-largest economy to  China .  After-Effects  Others, including Ian Plenderleith, a former executive
director at the Bank of  England , are more worried. They fear the
accumulating risks will weigh on an expansion that still is
coping with the aftereffects of the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  In addition to the natural disasters that may have killed
more than 10,000 people in Japan, uprisings in the Middle East
and North Africa have propelled the price of oil through $100 a
barrel to its highest level since 2008, threatening to damage
demand and spur inflation. Food costs jumped to record highs,
and  Europe  has yet to solve its debt crisis.  “The world economy was beginning to recuperate,”
Plenderleith, who is now chairman of Brevan Howard’s BH Macro
Ltd. hedge fund, told a Bloomberg Link conference in  London 
yesterday. “When you’ve got a patient that’s recuperating, it’s
quite a good idea to avoid him being exposed to too many shocks,
and we’ve had new shocks come at us,” he said. That “makes me
nervous about how fast we’re going to recover.”  Even before March 11, when Japan was hit with its strongest
earthquake on record, fund managers were becoming more concerned
about the outlook, according to a survey published March 15 by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. A net 31 percent of 203
respondents, managing a total of $602 billion, anticipated
stronger growth, a decline from 51 percent last month. Citigroup
Inc.’s economic-surprise index for major economies, which
measures whether data top or undershoot forecasts, is near its
lowest point this year.  Fuel Prices  Now Japan’s crisis risks propelling fuel prices even higher,
hurting investor sentiment and damaging the global supply chain.
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets estimates companies such as Tokyo-
based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and Panasonic Corp. in Osaka provide 44
percent of the world’s audio-visual equipment, 40 percent of
electronic components and 19 percent of semiconductors.  “In the context of a global economy that’s just starting
to come to life after the worst recession and the worst crisis
since the 1930s,” the question is “how sustainable” is the
recovery, Stephen Roach, nonexecutive chairman of Morgan Stanley  Asia , said on Bloomberg Television March 16.  The pessimism may be overdone from the point of view of
worldwide growth, as the rebound from recession in 2009 becomes
more entrenched, Hensley said. Among the signs of strength: His
index of global manufacturing, based on international
purchasing-manager indexes, rose to 57.8 in February, the fifth
successive gain and just 0.1 percentage point below the record
high in May 2004.  Falling Unemployment  Labor markets are improving, with the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development reporting this week that
unemployment fell in January for a second month among its
developed-nation members, averaging 8.4 percent compared with
November’s 8.6 percent peak. Joblessness in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, dropped to 8.9 percent in February from
9.8 percent in November.  Corporate profits also are surging. Earnings from
continuing operations of companies that make up the  S&P 500  rose
36 percent last year, the biggest gain since 1988.  “Many businesses have never seen a profit cycle this
good,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at
Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which oversees about
$340 billion.  U.S. companies aren’t alone. Of the 1,272 corporations in
the MSCI index that have reported earnings since Jan. 10, 59
percent exceeded expectations.  Power Outages  While Japan is suffering in the short-term amid declining
stocks, a surging yen, transport disturbances, power outages and
the halting of production by companies such as Tokyo-based  Sony
Corp. (6758) , economists say reconstruction could provide a spur.
Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its forecast yesterday for growth this
calendar year to 0.9 percent from 1.3 percent a week ago and
raised its estimate for 2012 by 0.3 percentage point to 2.5
percent.  To combat volatility in the currency market, the G-7
nations agreed in a statement to sell yen today at Japan’s
request. “We will monitor exchange markets closely and will
cooperate as appropriate,” the statement said. The yen slid 3.4
percent versus the dollar as of 12:20 p.m. in  Tokyo , limiting
its gain since the March 11 temblor to 1.6 percent.  Exporter Benefit  Asian countries that export to Japan may benefit when it
begins rebuilding and also if the yen keeps appreciating, Nomura
economists Tomo Kinoshita and Robert Subbaraman said in a March
15 report.  For now, Japan’s neighbors may suffer from supply
disturbances, lost demand and a paring of last year’s $21.6
billion in investment by Japanese companies, the Nomura
economists said. These countries bought $430 billion of Japanese
goods last year, and more than 12 percent of shipments from
Thailand, Taiwan, Korea and China go to Japan, they estimated.  Higher  oil prices  also pose a risk. An 85 percent to 90
percent annual gain in the cost of crude led a U.S. recession or
growth shock six times since the early 1970s, according to
Morgan Stanley. Brent crude has risen 40 percent since March
2010, ending yesterday at $114.90 a barrel for May settlement on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Much of the increase this time has come from stronger
demand, especially from emerging-market countries, mitigating
the impact on the global economy. Only about the last $15 was
driven by a supply squeeze, as turmoil in the Middle East
disrupted exports from Libya and raised concerns about the
political stability of other producers in the region, said Tim Drayson, a global economist at Legal & General Investment
Management in London, which oversees about $570 billion.  Less Impact  Oil spikes may have less impact on world growth now than in
the past because producing nations aren’t as likely to save the
additional income, said Paul Donovan, a global economist at UBS
AG in London. He estimates OPEC countries spent 66 percent of
their 2008 oil revenue, more than double the amount in 1974, and
the need to quell political tensions may encourage more outlays
this time.  “Transferring money from oil consumers to oil producers
does not induce the same shift in global-consumption patterns
today as in past decades,” said Donovan, who cited crude this
week in paring his expansion forecast for this year 0.1 point to
3.8 percent.  U.S. Consumers  U.S. consumers have been somewhat sheltered from the rise
in gasoline and food prices by this year’s $112 billion cut in
payroll taxes, said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse
Holdings USA Inc. in New York.  Continued easy-money policies from the Federal Reserve also
will help the U.S. weather the oil-price rise, according to  Allen Sinai , chief global economist at Decision Economics in New
York. Fed officials reaffirmed plans on March 15 to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June and keep their benchmark
interest rate near zero for an “extended period,” even as they
declared that the recovery is on a “firmer footing.”  “The  U.S. economy  has sufficient momentum to ride out the
Japan shock and the oil shock,” said Chris Varvares, president
of St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers.  First-Quarter Ebb  While growth may ebb to 2.6 percent in the first quarter
from 2.8 percent in the fourth, part of the slowdown would be
attributable to harsh winter weather, he said. He pegged the
underlying rate of expansion at 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  Emerging markets continue to provide impetus as well, even
though data last week showed China’s unexpected February trade
deficit was the biggest in seven years. Yardeni calculates that,
adjusting for distortions caused by the weeklong Lunar New Year
holiday, industrial production grew 14.1 percent in the first
two months of this year, up from 13.3 percent in the same period
of 2010. Urban fixed-asset investment accelerated 24.9 percent,
he said.  “There are certainly some more problems, but our basic
message is we still believe in the world economy and in risky
assets,” said  Michael Dicks , a former  Bank of England  economist
and now the London-based head of research at Barclays Wealth,
which manages the equivalent of about $240 billion. “The global
recovery rolls on with decent growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Rich Miller in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  