-- 
Death Toll From Japan Quake Eclipses Kobe as Tokyo Struggles to Move On

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   J a s o n   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-03-19T19:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/japan-relief-effort-hampered-by-snow-as-homeless-quake-victims-go-hungry.html
The death toll from  Japan ’s
strongest earthquake on record eclipsed that of the 1995 Kobe
temblor and foreign rescue workers began leaving as the chances
of pulling survivors from the rubble faded.  Police confirmed yesterday that at least 7,348 people died
when the March 11 quake sent a surge of water inland, smashing
ships, cars and buildings and razing entire towns. A 72-member
rescue and medical team from  Australia  prepared to depart Japan,
donating its camp of tents to the Japanese government.  More than a week since the magnitude-9 earthquake struck
off Japan’s northeast coast, hundreds of thousands of people are
homeless and the government is struggling to restore supplies of
power and fuel. Panic buying by  Tokyo  residents worried about a
nuclear leak from a power plant north of the city began to ease,
as  convenience stores  and supermarkets restocked.  “Tokyo isn’t bad, it’s not like there is no food,” said
Tomoko Murata while shopping at a supermarket in central Tokyo.
“It’s an inconvenience, but nothing compared to what people up
north are going through.”  Doctors around the northeastern city of Sendai said they
were sending patients to shelters because the hospitals have no
food. Ann Ogawa, a Sendai resident, said she had to queue for at
least an hour to buy anything at the convenience store, while
daily commodities are missing from supermarkets. In Fukushima
prefecture, relief workers are too scared of radiation to
deliver goods and fuel, Katsuhiro Kiko, a spokesman for the
region’s disaster center, said March 17.  Nuclear Plant  Workers reconnected the power cable to one reactor at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant, signaling progress in
efforts to prevent Japan’s nuclear crisis from escalating.  Radiation levels at the plant went close to zero after a
water-spraying operation by troops and fire-fighters, suggesting
the water was striking its target,  Kyodo News  reported
yesterday, citing a Tokyo fire department official. The
facility, damaged following a March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
hasn’t had a “massive radiation release,” said the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Tokyo Electric Power Co. will begin work on restoring power
to the cooling system of the No. 2 reactor today, said Hidehiko
Nishiyama, a spokesman for the Japan Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency. Tokyo Electric cautioned that cooling systems may
fail to function even with power restored because of damage
sustained during the quake and tsunami.  Radiation  Small amounts of radiation were detected in Tokyo’s water
supply and above-limits radiation was found in milk and spinach
from areas near the damaged nuclear plant, the government said
in its first acknowledgement the disaster may have contaminated
the  food supply .  “This is not at the level that would have any direct
effect on your health,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said at a news briefing in Tokyo yesterday. Eating the spinach
for one year would be equivalent to 20 percent of the  radiation
exposure  associated with a CT scan, he said.  People living within 30 kilometers of the Fukushima plant
along the northeastern coast should wear masks and long sleeves
and stay out of the rain, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said.  Concern over radiation leaks led governments including the
U.S., U.K. and  China  to tell their nationals to consider leaving
Japan.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA were among
companies that shifted operations from Tokyo.  Potassium Iodate Tablets  The British embassy started handing out Potassium Iodate
tablets as a precautionary measure to U.K. passport holders and
their dependents in Tokyo, Sendai and Niigata, Tom Burn, media
and communications director at the embassy, said yesterday in an
interview. The tablets, designed to stop the thyroid gland from
taking up radioactive iodine, are made by Cambridge Laboratories
Ltd., a unit of Alliance Pharma Plc.  Gero Plath, 42, an export manager for a Japanese trading
company, said he wouldn’t leave Tokyo without his girlfriend --
and she wouldn’t leave her family.  “I’m worried as well, but I think it’s crazy what the
media has been saying,” said Plath, a German citizen who has
lived in Japan for 10 years as he sat in the sunshine on a park
bench. “The biggest pressure to leave is from family abroad. I
have been getting emails telling me to leave from people I
haven’t heard from in 10 or 20 years.”  In a suburb where empty shops tried to sell Prada, Issey
Miyake and Cartier goods, a distant loud speaker blared every
hour, with a deliberate, slow-paced male voice pleading with
residents to conserve electricity or face the risk of blackouts.  Lighting Dimmed  At Tokyu supermarket in Jiyugaoka, a residential
neighborhood, non-essential lighting such as bulbs in
refrigerators, had been dimmed. The store was stocked with rice,
eggs and milk and notices urged customers not to buy in bulk.  The city’s residents had earlier emptied store shelves of
food, water and batteries and filled car tanks with gasoline.  In Tokyo yesterday, cars were still lined up for about 500
meters for gasoline. Japan had about 3 million tons of surplus
rice and oil enough for 199 days, the Consumer Affairs Agency
said March 17.  Students at Shinjuku station yesterday were collecting
money for earthquake relief, their box stuffed with 1,000 yen
($12.27) notes.  At the request of the Japanese government, the Australian
rescue team left behind its 76-person tented base in northern
Honshu. The team was searching in areas “that have been utterly
devastated,” enduring temperatures that dropped as low as minus
17 degrees Celsius, Australian Attorney General Robert McClelland said in a statement yesterday. Teams from the U.S.,
U.K.,  New Zealand ,  Germany  and  Switzerland  had also returned, he
said, without saying where he got the information.  Kobe Lessons  Towns in the northeast were pummeled by the quake, tsunami
and more than 530 aftershocks from Hakodate in the northernmost
island of Hokkaido to Fuji, 760 kilometers to the south,
according to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency. Seven
people died in metropolitan Tokyo.  Doctors in Sendai said lessons learned from the 1995 Kobe
earthquake were ineffective because it was the tsunami that did
the most damage this time, and the scale of the destruction
meant supply disruptions were going on longer than anticipated.  “We were shocked by the lack of injuries, which I think is
because there are more quake-resistant buildings,” Yukio Nagai,
chairman of the Sendai medical association, said by phone.
“Instead, there are so many dead bodies along the coast.”  The preparations centered on surviving for the first 48
hours, after which water, gas and electricity supplies are
restored and supplies from the government start arriving, he
said. This time, “nothing came.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
小笹俊一 in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  