-- 
JPMorgan Increases Dividend; Goldman Sachs to Repay Buffett

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-18T20:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/jpmorgan-wells-fargo-boost-dividends-approve-buybacks-after-fed-review.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  increased dividends and authorized share buybacks
after the  Federal Reserve  reviewed the ability of the largest
U.S. lenders to withstand another economic slump. Bank stocks
rallied in New York trading.  JPMorgan raised its quarterly payout to 25 cents a share
from 5 cents and authorized a $15 billion stock repurchase.
Wells Fargo authorized the repurchase of 200 million shares and
a special dividend of 7 cents, which will raise the first-
quarter payout to 12 cents.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it got
permission to buy back $5 billion of preferred stock sold to
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in 2008.  Regulators are giving banks more flexibility in their use
of capital after forcing the companies in early 2009 to cut
dividends. Profits rebounded last year after losses tied to home
mortgages, commercial real estate and business lending had
drained capital and led to more than 300 failures.  “Significant improvement in both economic conditions and
the capital positions of financial institutions” helped firms
win permission to increase their payouts, the Fed said in a
statement today. “From the end of 2008 through 2010, common
equity increased by more than $300 billion at the 19 largest
U.S. bank holding companies.”  The KBW Bank Index of 24 companies advanced 1 percent at
4:02 p.m. in New York. JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, climbed 2.7 percent to $45.74. No. 4 Wells Fargo, based
in San Francisco, increased 1.5 percent to $31.83.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs jumped 2.7 percent to $159.96. New York-based
Goldman said it also has Fed approval for the repurchase of
common stock and a potential increase of its dividend.    KeyCorp (KEY) , Ohio’s second-biggest bank, and Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  said today they are raising capital to repay
bailout funds after the Fed’s review. Cleveland-based KeyCorp
said it’s selling $625 million of stock and also issuing debt to
help repay $2.5 billion in U.S. bailout funds. SunTrust will
offer $1 billion in shares and $1 million in debt to help repay
a $4.9 billion rescue.  KeyCorp climbed 0.8 percent and SunTrust added 4.7 percent.
Lenders including New York-based JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and U.S.
Bancorp already paid back the U.S. Treasury Department.  U.S. Bancorp, Minnesota’s largest lender, advanced 1.1
percent after it raised its quarterly dividend to 12.5 cents a
share from 5 cents. The Minneapolis-based bank authorized the
purchase of 50 million shares through December.  ‘Confidence and Patience’  “Our shareholders deserve to be rewarded for the support,
confidence and patience they have shown over the past few
years,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis said in a
statement.  The Fed told banks in November to consider conservative
payouts that would still allow for a significant build-up of
capital and said today that firms are “generally expected” to
keep dividends no higher than 30 percent of earnings.  That ratio “will be the new normal,”  Gerard Cassidy , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  At the new level, JPMorgan’s dividend yield, the annualized
payout divided by the current share, equates to 2.2 percent. The
$1 annualized dividend works out to about 20 percent of
analysts’ estimates for earnings per share over the
next four quarters, based on a Bloomberg survey.  Wells Fargo’s new dividend yield is 1.5 percent, with an
estimated payout ratio over the next year of 16 percent. BB&T
Corp., which lifted its dividend by a penny to 16 cents, has a
dividend yield of 2.3 percent and an estimated payout ratio of
about 35 percent.  ‘Send a Signal’  “We really didn’t have a call to action to raise it at
all,” BB&T CEO Kelly King said in an interview. “We wanted to
send a signal to our shareholders that we were strong enough to
be able to do it and to signal to them that we are now entering
into a period where we can begin to think about future dividend
increases.” The Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based company is
also making a special payout of 1 cent a share.    State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, raised
its quarterly dividend to 18 cents from a penny and said it will
buy back as much as $675 million in stock this year.    American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, is planning share buybacks that will begin after the
New York-based company reports first-quarter results, according
to a regulatory filing.  BNY Mellon, PNC    Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s biggest custody
bank, and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , the Pittsburgh-
based lender, said the Fed approved plans that include higher
dividends and share buybacks in the second quarter. Neither
company’s statement disclosed the size or cost.  Fifth Third Bancorp,  Ohio ’s biggest lender, said the Fed
didn’t object to its capital plan, which includes a dividend
increase this quarter and possible redemption of trust-preferred
securities. The board of directors is scheduled to weigh the
dividend on March 22, the Cincinnati-based company said in a
statement today.  The Fed said it tested how banks would absorb stresses of a
typical recession, such as a decline in the value of riskier
assets, and an 11 percent unemployment rate.  The Fed still can limit dividends by weaker banks to
prepare the companies for tighter capital rules and eliminate
the need for taxpayer rescues. A bank’s decision to maintain its
dividend isn’t necessarily the result of the regulator denying
permission. Some companies may have opted not to seek approval,
the Fed said.  Bank of America  Rejections may be based on a determination that “plans for
meeting the upcoming Basel III capital standards were not
robust,” the Fed said. Requested increases may also have been
rejected if “the amount of the proposed distribution would
weaken the firm’s ability to weather adverse economic
conditions.”    Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, didn’t
request approval for a second-quarter increase, said  Scott Silvestri , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company, in an e-mailed statement.  The bank will “resubmit a proposal for a modest dividend
increase in the second half of this year,” he said.    Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, said today
that it still expects to return capital to shareholders next
year.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said it will proceed with plans to purchase
the portion of the Smith Barney brokerage business it doesn’t
already own after regulators reviewed its financial strength.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  said it will maintain its quarterly
dividend of 5 cents a share.  Regions, MetLife  Regions Financial Corp., Alabama’s largest lender, said it
planned no immediate capital actions and intends to repay its
bailout “in a prudent manner on shareholder-friendly terms.”
Regions was one of only two stocks in the bank index to decline
today, dropping 3.4 percent.  MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer, said it is too
early to discuss possible capital distribution after the Fed
reviewed the company’s financial strength.  “Our capital distribution activity typically occurs later
in the year,” said  John Calagna , a spokesman for the New York-
based company, in an e-mailed statement today.  MetLife, which didn’t take U.S. Treasury Department bailout
funds, is overseen by the Fed because the company has a banking
unit that gathers deposits and makes home loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  