-- 
JPMorgan Leads $22 Billion Increase in U.S. Banks’ Payouts

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-03-19T11:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/jpmorgan-leads-22-billion-increase-in-payouts-buybacks-after-fed-review.html
U.S. bank investors may be rewarded
with an extra $22 billion annually after government tests showed
the industry has regained enough strength to boost dividends and
share buybacks.    JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  were among six lenders that disclosed more than $16.2
billion in share buybacks and $5.4 billion of annualized
dividend increases yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The banks made their announcements after learning
they passed a  Federal Reserve  review of their financial health.  “This is a real signal by the Federal Reserve to tell the
world that the U.S. banking system is back,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . “We are going to
see, in our view, over the next three years, a dramatic increase
in the dividends.”  Regulators are allowing banks to begin restoring dividends
that were cut in early 2009 during the financial crisis, when
investors and analysts were speculating some banks might need to
be nationalized. Losses tied to home mortgages, commercial real
estate and business lending drained capital, leading to more
than 300 failures.  The Fed had demanded 19 of the biggest lenders undergo
stress tests before they could consider actions that would
reward shareholders by dipping into capital. The process was
formally completed yesterday, and within hours, banks began
announcing their plans.  Buybacks, Dividends  JPMorgan said it may repurchase $15 billion in shares and
boosted the payout rate to a level equal to $3 billion in
additional annual payments, while Wells Fargo said shareholders
could receive as much as $7.7 billion. Goldman Sachs said it
will buy back $5 billion of preferred stock sold to Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. during the financial crisis
and may raise its dividend or repurchase common stock.  The six banks that raised payouts and approved share
buybacks took more than $64 billion in bailout funds during the
financial crisis.  The total increase in payments to shareholders announced
yesterday was calculated by adding the value of the share
buybacks plus dividend increases. Dividends were annualized over
four quarters and multiplied by the number of outstanding shares,
which were reduced to account for the total stock buybacks. The
value of the shares repurchased was pegged to the closing price
on March 17.  The figure doesn’t include $7 billion in authorized share
buybacks that JPMorgan said it won’t complete before yearend, or
Goldman Sachs’s repurchase of Buffett’s stake. Berkshire, which
still holds warrants to buy the bank’s stock, has made about
$3.7 billion, including paper profits, from the 2008 investment.  Stocks Advance  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 companies advanced 1.1 percent at
4 p.m. in New York. Wells Fargo climbed 1.5 percent to $31.83.
New York-based JPMorgan jumped 2.7 percent to $45.74 and Goldman
Sachs rose 2.7 percent to $159.96  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, raised
its quarterly payout to 25 cents a share from 5 cents and said
$8 billion in shares may be repurchased in 2011. San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo authorized the repurchase of 200 million
shares, or $6.3 billion based on yesterday’s closing share price,
and a special dividend of 7 cents a share, which will raise the
first-quarter payout to 12 cents.  The Fed told banks in November to consider conservative
payouts that would still allow for a significant build-up of
capital. Firms are “generally expected” to limit 2011
dividends to 30 percent of expected earnings, the Fed said
yesterday.  Still Fragile  “The very cautious approach speaks to the tightrope which
the Fed knows it is walking on,” said Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics in  Washington ,
whose clients include the largest U.S. banks. The banking system
remains fragile and lenders still need capital to meet new
international standards, she said. “But if they don’t start
paying dividends, they will never attract investors and they
will never recapitalize.”  The Fed stress test assumed a 28 percent drop in the “Dow
Jones Total Stock Market Index” between Dec. 31 and the end of
this year -- an average quarterly decline of 6.9 percent --
followed by a 59 percent rally through Dec. 31, 2013, which
amounts to a 7.3 percent advance per three-month period.  That compares with the average quarterly retreat of 15
percent and gain of 7.4 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index during bear and bull markets, respectively, since 1962,
according to data compiled by Kevin Pleines and Cleveland Rueckert, analysts at Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi
Associates Inc. During the slumps that began in 2000 and 2007,
losses averaged 4.8 percent and 10 percent a quarter, they said.  Testing the Test  Banks were also asked what would happen if the jobless rate,
now at 8.9 percent, rose as high as 11 percent.  The tests should have been more severe to allow the Fed to
identify which specific banks would present big risks to the
overall financial system, said Matthew Richardson, a finance
professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business.  “You need to know which banks are going to be a problem”
in a severe economic slump that also involves tighter market
liquidity, Richardson said. “I would have preferred an
environment where they put the system through hell again.”  Richardson helped devise a model at NYU with Nobel Prize-
winning economist Robert Engle that ranks companies in terms of
systemic risk and the volatility of their market capital.  “Systemic risk has increased, not decreased,” said Mark Williams, a former Fed bank examiner who is now an executive-in-
residence at Boston University’s School of Management. “It is
too early to allow these dividends to go out.”  TARP Payments  While not all the banks were cleared to raise dividends,
the Fed allowed some to take steps toward repaying the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, the $700 billion federal bailout fund.    SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  sold $1.04 billion in common stock and
said it will sell $1 billion in debt as the Atlanta-based
company seeks to repay $4.85 billion to taxpayers.    KeyCorp (KEY) , the second-biggest bank in Ohio, said it raised
$625 million in stock and will issue debt to help repay $2.5
billion to TARP. A 2-cent increase in the dividend to 3 cents
per quarter drew no Fed objection, said KeyCorp, which plans to
vote on the payout in May.  “We’re moving away from the micromanagement of major banks
by the supervisors and slowly turning it back over to the board
of directors,” said Ernest “Ernie” Patrikis, a partner at
White & Case and a former general counsel and first vice
president for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in a phone
interview.  USB, BB&T  U.S. Bancorp, ranked fifth among commercial lenders and
based in  Minneapolis , raised its quarterly dividend to 12.5
cents a share from 5 cents, and authorized the purchase of 50
million shares through December.  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , the ninth-largest
U.S. bank by deposits, said it will raise its dividend to 16
cents a share from 15 cents and pay a 1 cent special dividend in
the second quarter.  Lenders that didn’t raise their payouts included  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Capital One Financial Corp., the banking and credit-card company
based in McLean, Virginia. Bank of America will reapply to the
Federal Reserve for permission to increase its dividend after
June 30, the company said. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company previously said it didn’t expect to raise its dividend
until the second half of this year.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, said the New York-
based company still expects to return capital to shareholders
next year. Capital One “continues to believe that its capital
and expected capital trajectory are strong,” according to a
statement. Regions Financial Corp., the Birmingham, Alabama
lender that still owes $3.5 billion in TARP funds, said it
hadn’t proposed any immediate capital action to the Fed.    Morgan Stanley (MS)   Morgan Stanley, the New York-based securities firm, said it
will proceed with plans to buy the portion of the Smith Barney
brokerage it doesn’t already own after the Fed’s review.  “The regulators are trying to get back on proper footing
in what is a very politicized environment,” said  Gary Townsend ,
president of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC in Chevy Chase,  Maryland .
The largest banks “are building capital with alacrity and this
is another clear signal to the markets that these financial
institutions not only have a future but a very profitable one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 Lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at +1-202-624-1862 or
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 