-- 
Kenya Shilling Gains for Second Day on Bets Currency Oversold

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-18T10:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/kenya-shilling-gains-for-second-day-on-bets-currency-oversold.html
  Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for
the second day as a technical analysis indicator showed its
decline to a 17-year low this week may have been excessive.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy strengthened
as much as 0.8 percent to 84.80 per dollar and traded 0.4
percent stronger at 85.10 by 12:52 p.m. in Nairobi, from a close
of 85.48 yesterday, paring its decline so far this month to 3.1
percent. That makes it second-worst performer worldwide against
the dollar after  New Zealand ’s dollar, which has weakened 3.4
percent. The shilling reached the lowest level since March 1994
on March 15.  The currency’s 14-day relative strength index was below 30,
a threshold that some traders see as a sign an asset’s price has
fallen too far and is poised to rise, from March 9 until
yesterday.  “The shilling is undergoing a correction as profit-taking
kicks in following the recent weakening of the unit and with the
onset of the rainfall season, is expected to stabilize in the
coming days as inflationary pressure eases off,” Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Kenya, the world’s biggest black-tea exporter, will
probably receive below-normal rainfall during the March-to-May
long rainy season, curbing agricultural production, the Kenya
Meteorological Department said on March 8.  Recent movements in the Kenyan shilling are an “over-
reaction” to expectations of future shortages of foreign
exchange because of higher  oil prices  and political turbulence
in North Africa, Ndung’u said in a statement on March 14.  Kenya’s central bank audited currency trades at five
commercial banks after the shilling depreciated this week,
Business Daily reported today, citing dealers it didn’t
identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 