-- 
KKR Treasurer Levin Said to Step Down After Less Than Two Years in Role

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-18T12:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/kkr-treasurer-levin-said-to-step-down-after-less-than-two-years.html
Jonathan Levin, treasurer and head
of  investor relations  for KKR & Co., is leaving the New York
buyout firm after less than two years in the role, according to
a person briefed on his plans.  Levin, 29, plans to step down after this quarter and move
to his home town Chicago, said the person, asking not to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been announced. KKR is
considering splitting his responsibilities, which include
helping manage the balance sheet and communicating with
shareholders, between two successors who may be appointed
internally, said the person.  Levin, who joined in 2004 from Bear Stearns, was named to
the role in September of 2009 as KKR merged with its publicly
traded European fund to become a stockholders’ company. The
combined firm listed its shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange
in July of last year, and this week held its first investor day
to attract more outside shareholders.  KKR, which was founded in 1976 by  Henry Kravis , Jerome
Kohlberg and  George Roberts , has gained 56 percent since moving
its listing to New York, and rose 3.7 percent to $16.41
yesterday. About 70 percent of its stock is still in private
hands.  KKR spokeswoman Kristi Huller declined to comment.  In Chicago, Levin will join Grosvenor Capital Management
LP, leading business development, strategy, and new products.
The firm invests client money in  hedge funds .  Levin participated in KKR’s quarterly calls with analysts,
and worked closely with Scott Nuttall, head of global capital,
and William Janetschek, KKR’s chief financial officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  