-- 
Kremlin Equity Fund May Get World Bank Backing, Pankin Says

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/kremlin-equity-fund-may-get-world-bank-guarantees-pankin-says.html
The Russian private equity fund
that President Dmitry Medvedev is creating may get World Bank
guarantees to lure foreign investors and expertise, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said.  The fund may start with as much as $10 billion of capital
and be managed by VEB, or Vnesheconombank, the state development
bank overseen by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , Pankin said in
an interview in Moscow on March 16. The fund will allow Russia’s
government to share risks with foreign investors and help
“modernize” the economy, Medvedev said in January.  “If VEB is issuing some kind of instrument, then it will
be guaranteed by the World Bank,” Pankin said. “This money
will be channeled to the private equity fund.”    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein met with Medvedev in Moscow this week to discuss the
U.S. bank’s possible participation in the fund, according to the
Kremlin’s website. Pankin said details of the fund’s structure
and size are still being discussed.  Goldman is one of 23 banks helping Russia manage its $34
billion privatization program over three years and Blankfein is
among the 27 executives Medvedev named to a board advising the
Kremlin on how to turn Moscow into a global financial center.  Other board members included Jamie Dimon of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc (C) ’s CEO Vikram Pandit,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Brian T. Moynihan,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s John Mack,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ’s  Josef Ackermann  and Blackstone Group’s Stephen Schwarzman.  $5.3 Billion  Marina Vasileva, a World Bank spokeswoman in Moscow,
declined to comment immediately, as did Timothy Krause, senior
regional manager for financial markets at the International
Finance Corp., the World Bank’s lending arm. Ekaterina Karasina,
a VEB spokeswoman, also declined to comment immediately.  Since 1993, the World Bank’s banking lending arm has
invested $5.3 billion in Russia, including $1.5 billion in
syndicated loans, according to its  website . The IFC is set to
complete the purchase of a 15 percent stake in Otkritie
Financial Corp. in “days”, the Moscow brokerage’s Chief
Executive Officer Roman Lokhov told reporters in London
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  