-- 
Natural Gas May Advance on Rising Japanese Demand, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-03-18T10:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/natural-gas-may-advance-on-rising-japanese-demand-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may advance
next week on speculation that a nuclear disaster in  Japan , the
worst since Chernobyl, will attract cargoes of the fuel that
might have come to the U.S., a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Nine of 16 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
March 25. Four, or 25 percent, said futures will fall and three
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 47 percent
of participants said gas prices would decline in a survey taken
before Japan’s worst earthquake on record.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Japan may need an additional
600 million cubic feet a day of gas to replace lost nuclear
generation. About 25 percent of the country’s nuclear power was
severely disrupted following the earthquake, Goldman analysts
led by Samantha Dart in  London  said in a note to clients.  “As Japan goes through this debacle, they’re going to be
importing more energy,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, a market
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago . “If the market
can close above the 50-day moving average again, I suspect we’ll
go to $4.40.”  Natural gas for April delivery surged 26.9 cents, or 6.9
percent, to $4.158 per million British thermal units in the
first four days of trading this week on the New York exchange.
The 50-day moving average was $4.1598 as of 3:03 p.m. yesterday,
according to Bloomberg data.  Japan’s LNG imports may rise 5 percent, or about six
standard cargoes a month, according to Evergreen, Colorado-based
Bentek Energy LLC.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  9        4          3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  