-- 
Nespresso CEO Says Coffee Prices Will Decline

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-19T08:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nespresso-ceo-says-he-expects-coffee-prices-will-decline.html
Nespresso Chief Executive Officer
Richard Girardot said he expects coffee prices to decline as
speculation has driven prices too high.  “We suppose it will go down, but how much, nobody is able
to say,” he said today in an interview in Lausanne,  Switzerland . “The stock market is managing our crops.”  Coffee in  New York  is as much as 50 percent overvalued as
speculators drive up futures prices, helping inflate a global
commodities “bubble,” Illycaffe SpA Chief Executive Officer
Andrea Illy said yesterday. Arabica futures have more than
doubled in the past year.  Nespresso, which sells capsules of espresso for use in its
own machines, is having a harder time finding top-quality beans,
as it aims to supply only the best 1 percent to 2 percent from
the global market, Girardot said. Nespresso is Vevey,
Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s fastest-growing major brand, with
sales growth exceeding 20 percent last year to 3.2 billion Swiss
francs ($3.6 billion). Nespresso said it aims to end the year
with more than 250 stores, up from 215 last year.  Nespresso has sued rivals including  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  and
Ethical Coffee Co. who started selling pre-filled capsules
compatible with its machines last year.  Patents  Nespresso’s new machines include hooks and devices that can
make Ethical Coffee capsules get stuck, according to Jean-Paul Gaillard, CEO of the competitor and former head of Nespresso.
Some of Nespresso’s machines infringe a patent Ethical Coffee
filed in July 2009 on such a mechanism, Gaillard said yesterday.  Girardot said Nespresso introduced such components to solve
a problem consumers of its own capsules began reporting in
recent years, Girardot said. Capsules placed horizontally in the
brand’s Citiz machines occasionally got stuck, he said.  Nespresso began producing machines with the mechanisms in
January 2010, before Ethical Coffee capsules reached the market,
and they were sold beginning last year, the CEO said. Nespresso
patented the mechanisms in April 2010, according to spokesman
Julian Liew.  Ethical Coffee sold 50 million capsules last year and
expects to sell 700 million to 800 million in 2011 as it
introduces the product in Switzerland and  Germany  later this
year, according to Gaillard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in New York at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 