-- 
NFL Commissioner Goodell Urges Locked-Out Players to Resume Bargaining

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-18T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nfl-commissioner-goodell-urges-locked-out-players-to-resume-bargaining.html
National Football League
Commissioner Roger Goodell urged players to return to the
bargaining table, saying each day there’s a work stoppage “puts
our game and shared economics further at risk.”  The stoppage began a week ago when the NFL Players
Association and league failed to agree on how to divide $9
billion in annual revenue. Players began a class-action lawsuit
against owners to block a lockout after the union announced it
no longer would represent players at labor talks.  Goodell outlined the league’s last proposal yesterday in an
e-mail to players, a copy of which was sent to Bloomberg News by
the NFL.  “The offer presented a strong and fair basis for
continuing negotiations, allowing the new league year and free
agency to begin, and growing our game in the years to come,”
Goodell wrote.  The letter said the league proposed a salary cap of $141
million per club in 2011, rising to $161 million by 2014;
allowing free agency for players with four or more accrued
seasons; reducing the offseason by five weeks, and retaining the
16-game regular season for the next two years.  “I’ve told my guys to take the letter and set it on fire.
We’re not that stupid,” said Seattle Seahawks guard Chester
Pitts, whose reaction was relayed to ESPN by NFLPA assistant
executive director George Atallah.  Other elements mentioned in Goodell’s letter included
guaranteeing as much as $1 million of salary in the second year
of a contract for any injured player who cannot return to
action. Players and their families were also offered the right
to purchase medical coverage after retirement and pension
benefits would increase by 60 percent for more than 2,000
retired players, the letter said.  “We are prepared to negotiate a full agreement that would
incorporate these features and other progressive changes that
would benefit players, clubs and fans,” Goodell said. “Only
through collective bargaining will we reach that kind of
agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  