-- 
Nigeria Has ’Climate of Impunity’ Before Vote, Amnesty International Says

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nigeria-allows-climate-of-impunity-before-vote-amnesty-says.html
Nigerian authorities have “fostered
a climate of impunity” before next month’s elections by failing
to adequately investigate more than 50 political killings since
July,  Amnesty International  said.  “Few arrests have been made and few people held
accountable for their deaths,” the London-based rights group
said today in report. “Perpetrators continue to torment
political rivals with impunity.”  Political parties in  Africa ’s top oil producer must condemn
acts of violence by their members and police should investigate
killings without regard to the political affiliation of suspects
or victims, the group said.  Since  Nigeria ’s return to civilian rule, elections in 1999,
2003 and 2007 have been marred by violence. The West African
nation goes to the polls next month to choose the president,
parliament and state officials. The State Security Service said
on March 14 that it would help police to protect political
parties before, during and after the votes.  President  Goodluck Jonathan , a southern Christian who is
the candidate of the ruling People’s  Democratic Party , faces two
main challengers: Muhammadu Buhari, a northern Muslim and former
military ruler representing the Congress for Progressive Change
party, and Nuhu Ribadu, the former head of the country’s anti-
graft agency and candidate of the Action Congress of  Nigeria .  At least 10 people were killed and 18 wounded after a bomb
blast at a PDP campaign rally on March 3 in Suleja, about 60
kilometers (37 miles) northwest of the capital, Abuja.  Sectarian Clashes  Two children who were shot Feb. 9 after security forces in
 Nasarawa  state in central Nigeria opened fire on anti-government
demonstrators. A gubernatorial candidate in the northern state
of  Borno  and seven others were shot dead Jan. 28. Boko Haram, a
militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility, the report
said.  Besides political violence, more than 200 people have been
killed in communal and sectarian clashes in north-central
Plateau state since Dec. 24, Amnesty said.  “Few people, if any, have been held accountable in a court
of law,” the report said. The government’s failure to take
action is “creating conditions conducive to an escalation of
violence around the April 2011 elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 