-- 
Nigeria Stocks to Climb on Elections, Egypt, RenCap Says

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-18T13:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nigeria-stocks-to-climb-on-election-success-egypt-rencap-says.html
Stocks in  Nigeria  are set to
rebound as elections next month are likely to be more credible
than the previous poll and as the re-opening of  Egypt ’s bourse
draws inflows to Africa funds,  Renaissance Capital  said.  “We recommend positioning ahead of this rebound in the
market after April, even though the ride may not be a smooth
one,” said an e-mailed note by analysts Yvonne Mhango and
Olaleye Adekeye today.  There is a “strong likelihood that the 2011 elections will
be significantly more credible than those of 2007,” they said,
noting that the government had spent an estimated $585 million
on voter registration.  More than 50 people have been killed in political violence
in the West African nation since July,  Amnesty International 
said in a report today. President  Goodluck Jonathan , a southern
Christian who is the candidate of the ruling People’s  Democratic
Party , faces two main challengers: Muhammadu Buhari, a northern
Muslim and former military ruler representing the Congress for
Progressive Change party, and Nuhu Ribadu, the former head of
the country’s anti-graft agency and candidate of the Action
Congress of Nigeria.  The Nigeria Stock Exchange’s All Share Index dropped 1.5
percent to 23,982.48 by 1:41 p.m. in Lagos, taking its decline
this week to 6.3 percent, the biggest five-day slump in a year.  Dollar Bonds  The nation’s 6.75 percent dollar bonds due January 2021
gained for a third day, reducing the yield by 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 6.828 percent. Yields may rise “on
the back of the political noise,” the analysts wrote.  “We recommend picking up the bond at a lower price, with
the anticipation of a yield compression post the completion of
the elections,” they wrote.  Nigeria’s currency, the naira, “should see the naira begin
to stabilize and retrace” as the cessation of election-related
spending after the poll should result in a drop in demand for
dollars, easing depreciation pressure, Mhango wrote in a
separate note.  The naira has depreciated 2.8 percent to 150.415 per dollar
this year, compared with a 1 percent gain in  Kazakhstan ’s tenge
and 7.2 percent advance in  Russia ’s ruble, currencies of its
oil-exporting peers, Renaissance said.  “While we acknowledge that the official  exchange rate  has
diverged significantly from the budget exchange rate of 150
naira per dollar, we maintain our view that fundamentals do not
support the devaluation of the naira,” the analysts wrote.  A current-account surplus, estimated at 7 percent of 2010
gross domestic product, implies capital inflows aren’t required
to finance it, while a $3 billion recovering in reserves to
$35.2 billion as of March 16 supports the currency, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net  