-- 
Nike Drops Most Since May on Apparel Maker’s First Profit Miss Since 2006

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-18T20:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nike-falls-most-since-may-on-first-profit-miss-since-2006.html
  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting goods company, sank 9.2 percent, the most in more than
two years, after profit missed analysts’ estimates for the first
time in 19 straight quarters, amid higher costs.  Net income rose to $1.08 a share in the third quarter ended
Feb. 28, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That compared with the $1.12 average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nike, led by Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker, is
grappling with higher costs for cotton, labor and
transportation. Increasing some prices and reducing marketing
costs couldn’t stop gross margin, the difference between sales
and cost of goods, narrowing 1.1 percentage points in the
quarter.  “The market is focused on the earnings miss that is
predominantly margin driven,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said yesterday in an
interview. The earnings miss “is surprising given the streak
they had,” said Arnold, who recommends buying Nike shares.  Nike fell $7.82 to $77.59 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading for the largest drop since December
2008. The stock was little changed this year before today.  Orders for the Nike brand from March to July increased 9
percent for a total of $7.9 billion, excluding currency
fluctuations, from the same period a year earlier. That missed
the average estimate of four analysts for a gain of 9.8 percent.  Gross Margins Narrow  Gross margin may shrink by 3 percentage points in the
current quarter from a year earlier, Nike Chief Financial
Officer Don Blair said on a call with analysts. Nike began
raising prices on select products last year and will enact
widespread increases in the first half of next year to combat
cost inflation, Blair said.  The damage caused by the earthquake in  Japan  will affect
Nike’s sales in a region that has been underperforming, Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group in New York,
said in an interview before the results. Sales from Japan
declined 8.5 percent to $195 million in the third quarter.  In Japan “no one is going to be focused at the moment on
buying athletic footwear and apparel,” said Svezia, who has a
“neutral” rating on Nike shares. “The flipside is there could
be a surge six months from now when people need to replenish.”  Nike’s organization and assets in Japan haven’t been
significantly affected, Blair said. While it’s too early to make
a specific assessment on the disaster’s financial impact, the
company does “anticipate there will be a negative impact on our
revenues and profitability for this geography,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  