-- 
Nomura Expects Bank of Japan to Draw Line at 80 Yen Against U.S. Currency

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-18T15:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nomura-expects-bank-of-japan-to-draw-line-at-80-yen-against-u-s-currency.html
The Bank of Japan is likely to act
“forcefully” and “persistently” in preventing the yen from
trading stronger than 80 against the dollar, according to  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest brokerage.  The yen plunged today the most in more than two years
against the greenback as Group of Seven nations jointly
intervened in foreign-exchange markets for the first time in
more than a decade by selling the currency. A stronger  exchange
rate  threatens to hamper Japan’s recovery from its biggest
earthquake on record and the related nuclear-reactor crisis by
curtailing the earnings of its exporters.  “BOJ has endorsement from the G-7 to continue a much more
sustained operation,”  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research at Nomura in  New York , said today in a
conference call with clients and reporters. “It’s highly likely
that the BOJ is going to be there for much longer and that the
80 level is going to be defended much more forcefully and much
more persistently.”  Japan’s currency weakened as central banks including the  Federal Reserve  sold the yen a day after it surged to 76.25
against the dollar, the strongest level since World War II. The
yen had gained on speculation damage from the 9-magnitude
temblor that struck Japan on March 11 would increase demand for
the currency as insurance companies and lenders sell overseas
assets to rebuild.  ‘Relatively Moderate’  Repatriation of yen by insurance companies may have a
“relatively moderate” effect on the currency market as losses
from the earthquake and tsunami total less than $10 billion,
according to Nordvig.  Funds for individual investors aren’t repatriating funds,
according to Nordvig, who said Nomura has a 22 percent share of
Japanese  investment trusts  issued to retail investors.  “We have not seen any net repatriation in that space this
week,” he said. “Every day of this week, we’re still seeing
net buying of foreign currency out of the retail space.”  Authorities in Japan probably sold less than 2 trillion yen
($25 billion) in today’s foreign-exchange market intervention, a
Japanese government official told reporters in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  