-- 
Notre Dame Shot at NCAA Basketball Crown Lifts Football Team’s Gloom

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/notre-dame-shot-at-ncaa-basketball-crown-lifts-football-team-s-gloom.html
  Notre Dame ’s basketball team, which
faces the University of Akron in the men’s NCAA tournament
today, confronts a challenge tougher than its opponent:
rebuilding the school’s morale.  For the first time in 30 years, the  University of Notre
Dame  grabbed one of four regional No. 2 seeds in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association event. The squad takes the court
just three days after the school was fined for an accident that
killed Declan Sullivan, a 20-year-old student who was filming a
football practice in October.  “A person’s life is so much more important than a sport,”
said Taylor Lyall, 26, who watched practice yesterday at
Chicago’s United Center. “But I think it’s good for just a
moment to take your eyes off of real life.”  The team, led by coach Mike Brey since 2000, has never won
an NCAA championship, though it went to the Final Four in 1978.
While the school is located in  South Bend , Indiana, Chicago
boasts the biggest Notre Dame alumni club in the U.S.  “It’s exciting, especially to start off in Chicago,” said
Ted Phillips, chief executive officer of the Chicago Bears
football team, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1979. “From the
city’s standpoint, Notre Dame has always had a great
following.”  Chicago is home to about 150,000 people with Irish
ancestry, the biggest ethnic group behind Polish-Americans in
the nation’s third-largest city of 2.7 million residents.  Irish Enclave  With green dye still lingering in the Chicago River (a St.
Patrick’s Day tradition), the city is ready for  game day . Sean’s
Rhino Bar in Beverly, a predominantly Irish-Catholic
neighborhood about 17 miles south of the Loop, is selling beer
for $1.50 a bottle.  “We’re going to have a great crowd,” Brian Hogan, 26, a
bartender at Sean’s, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of
people take Thursday and Friday off of work so we can all come
and watch the games together.”  The excitement of the basketball team’s success was
tempered by the Indiana Department of Labor citing the school
for “the most serious safety violation allowed” under state
law and imposed a $77,500 fine. Sullivan’s death, caused when
high winds toppled the hydraulic lift he was filming from,
tainted an already mediocre 8-5 season last year.  The school fired Charlie Weis as coach in November 2009
after he compiled a 35-27 record over five seasons. After hiring
Brian Kelly as head coach, the Fighting Irish finished last
season on a positive note by beating the  University of Miami  in
the Hyundai Sun Bowl.  Notre Dame ‘Allure’  “There’s no mistaking how the history and the allure of
Notre Dame is football,” Kelly said in an interview in  New York 
this week. Still, “the collaboration between sports is very
healthy.”  Notre Dame’s starters include five seniors, captained by
 Ben Hansbrough , who was recently named the 2011 Big East
Conference player of the year. These guys have “paid their
dues,” said John Heisler, the senior associate athletic
director at Notre Dame. “They haven’t just snapped a finger and
been a star.”  Sales at the  University of Notre Dame  Bookstore on South
Michigan Avenue are up 10 to 39 percent daily, said Brighid
Hanrahan, the store manager.  “We have increased our inventory,” said Jon Rubenstein, a
principal at Campus Colors, based in  Highland Park . Fans will be
snapping up Notre Dame T-shirts, hats and basketball shorts at
the company’s North Michigan Avenue shop before heading to the
game, he said.  Blue-and-gold followers flocked to the United Center
downtown to watch a pre-game practice. Children asked for
players’ autographs and adult fans munched popcorn as the team
shot free throws and layups.  “Everybody’s Irish pride is really flowing already,” said
Shannan McFadden, 34, a Notre Dame undergraduate and law school
alumna who lives in Chicago. “It’s really like icing on the
cake of a great week.”  A win would mean the Fighting Irish would face  Texas A&M
University  or  Florida State University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 