-- 
Nuclear Backlash Punishes ‘Boring’ Utilities on Japan Crisis

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-18T21:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nuclear-backlash-punishes-boring-utility-debt-on-japan-crisis.html
Investors are seeking protection
from a public backlash against nuclear power producers as the
threat from earthquake-damaged reactors in Japan stokes calls by
U.S. lawmakers to limit plants in this nation.  The average cost to protect against a default by eight of
the largest U.S. atomic energy producers, including  Exelon
Corp. (EXC) ,  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  jumped 15.5 basis
points since March 11, the biggest weekly gain since May 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and London-based CMA.    Utility companies , typically considered a haven among
credit investors because of their resilience in economic
downturns, are being punished as Tokyo Electric Power Co.
struggles to cool damaged reactors. Environmental groups want
limits on U.S. nuclear plants, and Representative  Edward Markey 
is seeking a moratorium on facilities in seismically active
areas. Nuclear-power executives say the nation’s reactors can
withstand such disasters.  “There’s going to be a pushback on nuclear power
generally, but in reality it’ll probably mean higher regulation
and increased levels of  capital spending  required by the
utilities to potentially upgrade safety standards,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds of utility
companies has climbed 7 basis points this week, the biggest
weekly jump since the first week of May, when spreads increased
18 basis points, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index of U.S. gas and electric utility company debt.  GE Swaps Gain  Credit-default swaps on New Orleans-based Entergy, which
also operates the  Vermont  Yankee plant in Vernon, Vermont, are
on pace for the biggest weekly jump since November 2008, two
months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. They
have climbed 46 basis points to 199.4 since March 11, according
to CMA.  Such swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Five-year contracts on Exelon, the utility owner with the
most nuclear  power plants , climbed 11.8 basis points this week
to 115 basis points, the biggest weekly increase since the
period ended Oct. 29. Chicago-based Exelon said it’s reassessing
a $3.65 billion plan to raise output because of the radiation
threat in Japan. The company wants to ensure its spending
remains prudent after safety reviews by the NRC that are “sure
to come,” Chief Executive Officer John Rowe said in an
interview this week.  Restarting Pumps  Swaps on Raleigh, North Carolina-based  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) 
have jumped 9.8 basis points to 46.5 basis points, the biggest
weekly increase since May, CMA data show.  Tokyo Electric Power, known as Tepco, said it may finish
reconnecting a power line to the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors by
tomorrow morning to restart pumps needed to protect fuel rods
from overheating. Even with power, the damaged pumps may not
work, the company said.  While the three loaded cores had become “relatively
stable,” their damaged state and lack of cooling leave the
situation “very serious,” Graham Andrew, Director of the  United Nations ’s  International Atomic Energy Agency , said
yesterday at a briefing in Vienna.  Near-Misses  In the U.S., there were 14 near-misses by U.S. nuclear
plant operators last year, according to a report yesterday by
the Union of Concerned Scientists that criticized the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission ’s oversight of the nation’s reactors.  Progress Energy, which plans to merge with  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  to create the largest U.S. utility owner, had four
accidents at three reactors, according to the report, written by
David Lochbaum, chief of nuclear safety for the watchdog group
and a former safety instructor for the NRC.  “We have the highest safety standards for our nuclear
plants and our employees, and we work continuously to improve
safety,” Mike Hughes, a spokesman for Progress, said in an e-
mailed response yesterday. “We are taking definitive steps to
address the issues raised.”  At Entergy’s Indian Point power plant 24 miles north of  New
York City , the NRC has been aware of a leak in the liner of
refueling cavity since 1993 and yet allowed the plant to
continue operating, putting people living in the area around the
plant in Buchanan, New York, at “elevated and undue risk,”
Lochbaum wrote.  ‘No Safety Issue’  “Leakage has been captured, understood, analyzed and
determined to pose no safety issue,” said Jim Steets, a
spokesman for Entergy, in a phone interview yesterday. “This is
not leakage into the environment that we’re walking away from.
We are acting responsibly.”  Backlash from the  Japan  incident, as the U.S. experienced
following the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, “could lead
to delays in new construction of nuclear power plants, reduced
willingness to extend operating licenses for existing plants and
increased costs due to more public scrutiny and security
requirements,” Hans Mikkelsen, Bank of America Corp. credit
strategist, wrote in a note to clients this week. The concerns
have left the market for utility debt as “anything but
boring,” he said.  Despite the increase in perceived risk of nuclear-power
operators compared with the broader credit market, the crisis
may eventually help the companies’ creditworthiness, according
to analysts at the capital markets research group of Moody’s
Corp.  “Ironically, in some cases a decline in the growth of
nuclear power may have a positive impact on some companies’
credit metrics, since the shelving of nuclear plant construction
could lower their business risk,” Robert Eckerstrom, a director
in the group, wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  