-- 
Nuclear Fallout Sinking Uranium Takeovers 28% Below Offer Prices: Real M&A

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-03-18T21:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nuclear-fallout-sinking-uranium-takeovers-28-below-offer-prices-real-m-a.html
  Japan ’s worst crisis since World
War II is making takeovers of uranium miners the most likely to
fail, and that has enabled some traders to anticipate returns
approaching 40 percent.    Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  traded 28 percent below the offer of
290 pence a share that China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co.,
the nation’s second-largest reactor builder, made last week,
implying a 39 percent gain, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Australia ’s  Mantra Resources Ltd. (MRU)  fell 28 percent
yesterday as Rosatom Corp., Russia’s state nuclear company,
sought to renegotiate its bid after Japan’s biggest earthquake
on record caused the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.
Analysts still project uranium stocks will rise more than 80
percent on average in the coming year, the data show.  Radiation leaks from the damaged nuclear plant in Japan
have prompted  China , which is building more reactors than any
other nation, to halt its atomic-power expansion plans and led
to an almost 30 percent drop through yesterday in uranium
producers since the magnitude-9 earthquake struck Japan on March
11. While the disaster has fed speculation investment in nuclear
energy will decrease, shares of companies that produce uranium,
used as fuel in reactors, have now fallen so far traders have a
chance to lock in the biggest profits from betting on takeovers
in the industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Overcome the Headwinds’  “You’re offered fundamental upside if you believe the
sell-off in the uranium stocks is overdone,” said  Andrew Ross ,
partner and global equity trader at First  New York  Securities
LLC, a New York-based proprietary trading firm that bets on
stocks, commodities and derivatives. “The Chinese are taking a
very long-term view of their energy needs and they have to
incorporate some element of nuclear power into their plans. You
just have to overcome the headwinds of the Japanese issues.”  Engineers have been trying to avert a meltdown at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
following last week’s earthquake and tsunami in northern Japan.
The situation remains “very serious,” Graham Andrew of the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said yesterday in Vienna.  China said it will stop approving new atomic plants “until
safety and improved long-term development plans are cleared,”
according to a statement on March 16 from the State Council, the
nation’s cabinet. China is building at least 27 reactors and has
50 more planned,  World Nuclear Association  data show.  Uranium Slumps  The disaster has sent the Global X Uranium ETF down 29
percent this week through yesterday. Kalahari Minerals and
Mantra are among its 20 biggest holdings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ETF rebounded 9.2 percent today.  Uranium retreated 27 percent this week to about $50 per
pound of U308, the tradable form of the metal.  “The risks associated with these types of transactions are
going to be much higher relative to other deals out there,”
said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York. “Because
the circumstances are without resolution in the plant in Japan,
the potential buyers are likely not only to take a wait-and-see
approach, but they’re trying to understand what ramifications
they will have with the current operations in their countries.”  Takeovers of diversified and non-ferrous metals companies,
which include uranium producers, have been more prone to failing
than those in other industries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the past five years, 71 percent of deals in the industry
greater than $500 million collapsed, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with 22 percent for all takeovers.  China Guangdong Nuclear  Among the industry’s deals this year, Shenzhen-based China
Guangdong Nuclear, the state-owned reactor builder, is in
discussions to buy Kalahari Minerals in an all-cash offer for
290 pence a share, according to a statement on March 7.  The transaction would value London-based Kalahari Minerals
at 756 million pounds ($1.2 billion), including  stock options 
and convertible loan notes. The proposed deal would give China
Kalahari’s 43 percent stake in Australia’s  Extract Resources
Ltd. (EXT) , which controls the Husab uranium project in  Namibia .  While Kalahari jumped as high as 301 pence on a closing
basis since the announcement, the shares fell to 209.25 pence
yesterday. The deal, proposed at a 17 percent premium to
Kalahari’s 20-day average prior to the announcement, would now
give traders a 39 percent return. That’s the largest globally of
any pending or proposed acquisition of more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kalahari advanced 9 percent to 228 pence in  London  today.  ‘Attractive Value’  “The Kalahari board believes this represents attractive
value for Kalahari shareholders,” Mark Hohnen, the company’s
chairman, said in the statement. Kalahari also held talks with
buyers including those from Japan and  Russia  prior to China
Guangdong Nuclear’s bid, Hohnen said in an interview on March 8.  Rosatom offered A$8 a share for Mantra on Dec. 15 in a deal
valued at A$976 million ($963 million) including net debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares, which fell
to a 2010 low of A$3.68 in July, climbed as high as A$7.94 after
the acquisition was announced.  Mantra tumbled to A$4.85 yesterday after ARMZ Uranium
Holding Co., the Rosatom unit buying Mantra, said the events at
Japan’s nuclear plant “are likely to have a material adverse
effect” on Mantra and that the agreement between the companies
can’t be met, according to a statement on March 16.  The premium for Mantra stood at 65 percent as of
yesterday’s close, the most of any acquisition of at least $500
million and the second-highest of any deal globally, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mantra rebounded 9.1 percent to A$5.29 in Sydney today.
Extract Resources rose 7.7 percent to A$7.  ‘Serious Buying Opportunity’  The share-price declines in uranium producers since the
earthquake in Japan give investors a “serious buying
opportunity,” Ben-Ari Elias, a New York-based analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., said in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt yesterday.  Analysts project an average advance of 82 percent for the
uranium companies in the  Global X Uranium ETF (URA)  that have 12-month
price estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s no doubt there are opportunities out there as far
as arbitrage spreads,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which has
about $90 billion in client assets. In the short-term “deals
that were seen to be certain may be less certain,” he said.  “Looking forward, you may see other deals come to market,
opportunistic deals in the wake of this,” he said.  Overall, there have been 4,878 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $468.5 billion, a 9 percent increase from
the $429.8 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 