-- 
Nuclear Medicine Material Unaffected by Japan Plant, Doctor Says

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-03-18T10:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nuclear-medicine-material-unaffected-by-japan-plant-doctor-says.html
Steven Meikle , a professor of
medical imaging physics at the  University of Sydney , said the
supply of material used in medical imaging and radiation
oncology aren’t affected by the nuclear power plant shutdowns in  Japan .  Meikle commented in an e-mailed response to questions
today.  On the nuclear medicine materials:  “There is no effect on radioisotope supply for medical
use; the affected reactors in Japan are for power generation
only.  ‘‘There have been recent problems with the supply of
medical radioisotopes due to scheduled and unscheduled shutdowns
of the two main reactors that supply the world market, but these
problems have since been largely resolved.’’  On the types of materials used for nuclear medicine:  ‘‘The most common radioisotope is technetium-99m, which
accounts for about 80 percent of all nuclear medicine studies
worldwide. Technetium-99m is a product of molybdenum-99, which
is produced in reactors.  ‘‘The remaining 20 percent are a variety of radioisotopes
that are either made in a reactor, for example iodine-131, or a
cyclotron, for example thallium-201.’’  On the main sources of these materials:  ‘‘The main source of medical radioisotopes is the Chalk
River reactor in  Canada , and the Petten reactor in the
Netherlands.  ‘‘The Opal reactor in  Australia  supplies the domestic
market and several countries in the Southeast Asian region and
there is a reactor in  South Africa  that also produces
molybdenum-99.  ‘‘Both these reactors have the potential to supply a
significant part of the world market in the future, but
currently the Canadian and Dutch reactors are the main global
sources of molybdenum-99 and other medical radioisotopes.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  