-- 
NYSE Files Plan to Sell Half of Amex Options Market

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-21T13:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/nyse-euronext-files-plan-to-sell-stake-in-amex-options-exchange.html
(Corrects to remove Goldman Sachs among Bats’ owners in
third paragraph after ‘ISE’s Entrance’ subheadline in story
published March 19.)  NYSE Amex filed a plan to sell 52.8
percent of its options platform to seven companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citadel LLC in an effort to
increase trading.  The proposal for a joint venture between the exchange,
owned by New York-based NYSE Euronext, and the brokers was
announced in 2009. Citadel and Goldman Sachs will each own 14.95
percent, followed by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  at 5 percent each,  UBS AG (UBSN)  at 4.9
percent and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  at 3 percent, according to a March 17
Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Selling stakes to brokerages gives those companies an
incentive to trade on the market, said William Karsh, former
chief operating officer at Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct
Edge Holdings LLC., the fourth-largest operator of U.S. equity
exchanges last month.  “It’s basically a way to get back or gain market share,”
he said. “That’s the end game.”  NYSE Amex Options’ share of total U.S. volume last year was
11.3 percent, up from 6.9 percent in 2009, according to data
compiled by Chicago-based  OCC , formerly called the Options
Clearing Corp. In 2008, the year  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  bought the  American Stock Exchange  for $260 million in stock, Amex had 5.8
percent. NYSE Euronext also operates an equity derivatives venue
called NYSE Arca Options.  Public Comment  The public will be able to comment on the proposal, which
requires SEC approval.  “Citadel, a large options market maker, can direct a lot
of volume to a destination,” Karsh said. “Now the firms will
begin the process of routing more flow to Amex as market makers
and sending more customer flow to a destination they have a
direct equity interest in,” he said of the seven co-owners.
Firms are required by law to get the best execution possible for
clients at the time they receive an order.  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , is the U.S. bank that
makes the most revenue from trading. Chicago-based Citadel runs
a brokerage as well as a hedge fund. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America is the nation’s biggest bank by assets,
and Citigroup of New York is No. 3. TD Ameritrade of Omaha,
Nebraska, is the third-largest U.S. retail brokerage by client
assets. Zurich-based UBS is Switzerland’s biggest bank, and
London-based Barclays is the U.K.’s third-largest lender.  Adjusting Stakes  NYSE Amex may adjust the stakes of the seven firms based on
their meeting “minimum volume requirements,” according to
Amex. The arrangement will operate for five years and three
months from the formation of the joint venture, the filing said.
While equity interest may be reallocated among the brokers,
their combined ownership stake won’t change. No firm will own
more than 19.9 percent, the limit allowed by the SEC.  “It’s a lot easier sometimes to go out and acquire market
share than it is to grow it organically,” Paul Finnegan, senior
vice president at NYSE Euronext and co-chief executive officer
at NYSE Arca Options, said March 17 at a Futures Industry
Association conference in Boca Raton, Florida.  The seven owners may be required to contribute capital to
meet regulatory requirements involving the operation of the Amex
Options market, the exchange said. Additional capital, capped at
$5 million in any 12-month period, may also be requested.  NYSE Euronext submitted its proposal, which it has worked
on with the SEC since 2009, after competition in the options
industry intensified. Nine exchanges now exist to trade equity
options, compared with five a decade ago.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) 
runs the  Chicago Board Options Exchange , the largest U.S. equity
derivatives market.  ISE’s Entrance  Until the late 1990s, most options traded on only one
venue. That changed as the  International Securities Exchange 
prepared to enter the market in 2000, when it introduced an all-
electronic venue and required bids and offers from market makers
to be firm and immediately available to investors.  The New York Stock Exchange and other markets used to be
membership-based entities owned by the brokerage firms that
traded there. NYSE went public in 2006 by purchasing Chicago-
based Archipelago Holdings Inc. As exchanges converted members
into shareholders and regulators changed trading rules, brokers
began to form rival markets to reduce the  fees  they pay for
executions.  Bats Global Markets, Direct Edge and Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. have
sold stakes in the past few years to groups of brokers that
could send them orders. Bats, owned in part by Bank of America,
Tradebot Systems Inc. and Getco LLC, said last month it would
buy Chi-X Europe and operate it on the same technology platform
as its current European venue. Bats is based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Knight, Citadel  Direct Edge’s owners include the International Securities
Exchange,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , Citadel and Goldman Sachs.
ISE is owned by Eurex, which is controlled by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. of Zurich.
Deutsche Boerse agreed last month to buy NYSE Euronext for $9.53
billion.  Bats and Direct Edge, which began trading in the mid-2000s,
now account for more than a fifth of U.S. equities volume. Some
companies sold stakes before them. The Philadelphia Stock
Exchange and Boston Stock Exchange did so before New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  bought them in 2008.  NYSE Euronext  completed  the sale in March 2010 of a
“significant minority ownership stake” in NYSE Liffe U.S., its
futures exchange, to six market participants including Citadel,
Getco,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS. The venue will begin futures
trading in Eurodollar contracts on March 21.  “If you think about what’s happened in the exchange
industry, the exchanges went from being completely member-owned
to completely the opposite of member-owned,” NYSE Euronext
Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said in a presentation
at a Goldman Sachs conference on Dec. 9, 2009, according to a
transcript. “We thought that it made sense to experiment with
landing somewhere in the middle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  