-- 
Obama’s 2012 Budget Underestimates Federal Deficits, CBO Says

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-18T21:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/obama-s-2012-budget-underestimates-federal-deficits-over-decade-cbo-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012
budget would produce $2.3 trillion more in deficits over the
next decade than the administration projects, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The nonpartisan agency  said  today the administration’s plan
would generate $9.5 trillion in deficits between 2012 and 2021,
compared with the $7.2 trillion forecast last month by the White
House budget office.  The difference is partly attributable to the CBO’s more
conservative estimates of how quickly the  U.S. economy  will grow
in coming years, which results in less  tax revenue  pouring into
the Treasury.  The CBO also declined to give the administration credit for
more than $500 billion in savings it had counted in its budget
from proposals to revamp the way the government finances highway
construction as well as Medicare’s physician payment system.
Both proposals were too vague to count, the budget agency said.  The CBO estimated that deficits under Obama’s 2012 spending
plan wouldn’t shrink to less than 4.1 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product, a level economists generally consider to
be unsustainably large. The administration projected deficits
would shrink to as little as 2.9 percent of GDP.  The report also said the administration’s budget falls
short of its goal of achieving “primary balance,” which refers
to the government balancing its books except for interest
payments on the debt. White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew   had
called  that a “key accomplishment” of its plan.  ‘Widening Gulf’  The report “exposes the widening gulf between the
president’s rhetoric and his budget’s reality,” said House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican.
“The president’s budget never reaches ‘primary balance,’
meaning that it fails to clear even the low bar the
Administration set for itself in justifying its claims of
sustainability.”  Lew  said , “There is large uncertainly in economic
projections and differences of opinion when it comes to
assessing individual policies.” He said, “Regardless of our
differences, CBO confirms what we already know: Current deficits
are unacceptably high, and if we stay on our current course and
do nothing, the fiscal situation will hurt our recovery and
hamstring future growth.”  The annual report is designed to provide lawmakers with an
independent assessment of the president’s budget request.  A stopgap measure signed into law earlier this month
cutting $4 billion in the 2011 budget will save more than $40
billion over the next decade, the report said, by lowering the
projected rise in discretionary spending as well as by reducing
interest payments on the federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  