-- 
Obama Says Qaddafi Must Withdraw From Cities, Allow Aid

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-18T22:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/obama-says-qaddafi-must-stop-violence-in-libya-or-face-military-response.html
President  Barack Obama  demanded
that  Muammar Qaddafi  immediately halt his assault against the
Libyan people or face military action by an international
coalition.  “All attacks against civilians must stop” and troops must
be pulled back from cities where they have attacked anti-
government forces, Obama said in his first remarks since the
United Nations vote yesterday that cleared the way for the U.S.
and its allies to take “all necessary measures” to protect the
population.  “These terms are not negotiable,” he said at the White
House today. “The resolution that passed lays out very clear
conditions that must be met.”  The U.S. and its allies won’t use force beyond the goal of
protecting civilians, Obama said, and no American ground troops
will be deployed to  Libya . The president signaled a limit on the
role for the U.S. military as European and Arab nations take the
lead in the skies over Libya.  “American leadership is essential, but that does not mean
acting alone,” Obama said. The U.S. will provide its “unique
capabilities” to the coalition, “including enabling our
European allies and Arab partners to effectively enforce a no-
fly zone.”  “And this is precisely how the international community
should work, as more nations bear both the responsibility and
the cost of enforcing international law,” he said.  Conferring With Lawmakers  The president spoke after conferring with Democratic and
Republican congressional leaders and key members of House and
Senate committees dealing with foreign affairs, defense and
intelligence.  “Here’s why this matters to us,” Obama said. “Left
unchecked, we have every reason to believe that Qaddafi would
commit atrocities against his people. Many thousands could die.
A humanitarian crisis would ensue.”  The UN Security Council authorized the use of air attacks
and a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians from forces
loyal to Qaddafi trying to end a monthlong uprising. The
resolution, which excludes “a foreign occupation force of any
form on any part of Libyan territory,” was approved 10-0, with
five abstentions.  “Ample warning was given that Qaddafi needed to stop his
campaign of repression or be held accountable,” Obama said.  The president said in addition to withdrawing his forces,
Qaddafi must restore water, gas and electricity and allow
humanitarian aid to reach people in the cities.  Imposing Consequences  “If Qaddafi does not comply with the resolution, the
international community will impose consequences, and the
resolution will be enforced through military action,” he said.  Obama spoke last night with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to coordinate the
next steps in Libya. In separate statements today, both leaders
reinforced Obama’s demands.  Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Obama’s ultimatum
“is the right message.”  “If Qaddafi does not comply with the requirements of the
UN resolution, we must be prepared to take robust action with
our NATO partners and the  Arab League  to enforce it,” Kerry
said in a statement.  Kerry, who has been an advocate of imposing a no-fly zone,
was among the lawmakers who consulted with Obama earlier today.  Coordinating Military Plans  Obama said Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  will coordinate
military planning with the international coalition and Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  will travel to Paris tomorrow to confer
with European allies and other partners on enforcing the UN
resolution.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization members Britain, France,
Denmark, Spain and  Canada  have pledged planes to a mission over
Libya, according to government statements and press reports, and
Qatar said it would participate.  Obama set no deadline for Qaddafi or any timetable for
military action. U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz told the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday that
imposing a no-fly zone over Libya may take “upwards of a
week.”  Following the UN action, Qaddafi’s regime declared an
immediate cease-fire and said it was willing to talk to rebels.
Still, forces loyal to Qaddafi shelled the city of Misrata even
after the cease-fire announcement, Al Jazeera television
reported, citing witnesses. Twenty-five people have been killed
there today, Qatar-based Al Jazeera said, citing medical staff.    Oil Prices   Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in  Africa .
Crude oil for April delivery dropped 35 cents to settle at
$101.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
were up as much as 2.2 percent to $103.66 before the Libyan
announcement. Prices are little changed this week.  Leaders across the Middle East are struggling to suppress a
renewed surge in unrest, as Arab nations backed the no-fly zone
and countries including Qatar indicated they will participate in
the enforcement of the UN resolution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  