-- 
French Warplanes Said to Fly Over Libya as Qaddafi Defies Cease-Fire Calls

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-19T14:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/obama-allies-set-demands-on-qaddafi-amid-preparation-for-military-strikes.html
French military jets flew over
Libya, ready to enforce an air-exclusion zone to halt Muammar Qaddafi’s attacks on rebels, as Western leaders met in Paris to
consider their next steps.  The planes were in the air not far from Libya this
afternoon and were ready to carry out air strikes if there are
orders from President  Nicolas Sarkozy , a military official with
knowledge of the preparations said on condition of anonymity.  Qaddafi’s forces attacked the rebel stronghold of Benghazi
today in defiance of international demands for a cease-fire,
television stations reported.  Al Jazeera  cited the head of the
rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, as saying bombing raids took
place in the eastern port city of 1 million people. There is no
indication that the Libyan leader is following through on his
regime’s pledge that it will observe United Nations demands for
a cease-fire, a State Department official said.  Strikes against Libya would mark the first military action
by Western powers against an Arab government since the invasion
of  Iraq  in 2003.  Oil prices  have risen 11 percent since the
start of the year as the Middle East protests that toppled the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  turned violent, sparking government
crackdowns from Libya to Yemen.  Timing of Strikes  The UN Security Council authorized the use of air attacks
and a no-fly zone over Libya two days ago to protect civilians.
The French newspaper Le Figaro, citing an unidentified official,
reported that air strikes might start once the Paris summit
hosted by Sarkozy is over, with French, U.K., Canadian and
Norwegian planes set to carry out the first attacks.  Pro-Qaddafi forces entered parts of Benghazi, Al Arabiya TV
reported. Forces advancing included tanks, it said, adding that
11 fighters loyal to Qaddafi were killed. A BBC correspondent
reported seeing government tanks on a bridge. The rebels said
they shot down one of their own fighter jets.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is attending the
meeting in Paris today on imposing the air-exclusion zone hosted
Sarkozy. British Prime Minister  David Cameron , United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and Arab League representatives
are also taking part.  Shokri Ghanem, the chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,
said Libyan oil production has slumped to less than 400,000
barrels a day and “could reach a halt.” Daily supply from  Africa ’s third-largest producer was 1.58 million barrels in
January, according to the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency .  Oil Commitments  Ghanem, speaking to reporters in Tripoli, said the UN
resolutions wouldn’t prevent Libya from meeting its oil
commitments and that “nobody wants to see the oil industry
disintegrated.”  “If it’s disintegrated it will take a long time to come
back into production,” he said.  Oil fell yesterday after the Libyan regime said it would
cease military operations and begin talks with the rebels. Crude
for April delivery dropped 35 cents to settle at $101.07 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures were up as
much as 2.2 percent at $103.66 before the Libyan announcement.  Qaddafi said in a message to Cameron, Sarkozy and Ban that
the UN resolution was void, a government spokesman told a
televised news conference in Tripoli.  “You will regret it if you intervene in our country,”
Qaddafi said. “It is our country, not yours.”  Qaddafi said in a separate letter to President  Barack Obama 
that he has “all the Libyan people on my side” and is fighting
against al-Qaeda.  ‘I Love You’  “What would you do if you found them taking over American
cities by force? Tell me how you would act so I could do the
same,” Qaddafi wrote, according to the spokesman, Ibrahim
Moussa. “Even if  Libya  and America fought a war, God forbid,
you will remain my son and I love you.”  Unrest continued across the region, with Yemen declaring a
state of emergency yesterday after government forces attacked
protesters in Sana’a in the deadliest crackdown in two months of
unrest. At least 46 people were killed and hundreds injured as
police and pro-regime gunmen shot at a crowd.  Saudi Arabia ’s
King Abdullah ordered increases in  government spending ,
including $67 billion on housing, to prevent protests in his
kingdom from gathering pace.  “Qaddafi is just trying to sow confusion and win time by
announcing a cease-fire,” said  Jan Techau , director of the
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in Brussels and a
former analyst at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Defense
College in  Rome  and the German Defense Ministry. “He knows if
his troops get into Benghazi it will be very messy for the
allies to use air power,” Techau said in a telephone interview.  Stop Attacks  Obama, speaking at the White House yesterday, set out the
demands he, Cameron and Sarkozy are imposing on the Libyan
regime. Qaddafi must immediately stop attacks on civilians, halt
his advance on Benghazi, and pull back forces from three
embattled cities, Ajdabiya, Misrata, and Zawiyah, scenes of
deadly fighting in the past two weeks.  The Libyan leader must also re-establish water, gasoline
and electricity supplies to all areas, and he must allow aid to
“reach the people of Libya,” Obama said.  Protect Civilians  The UN resolution demands a cease-fire, an end to abuses of
civilians, and moves to meet “the legitimate demands of the
Libyan people.” The resolution, approved by a vote of 10-0 with
five abstentions, allows the U.S., the U.K.,  France  and allied
Arab nations to “take all necessary measures” to protect
civilians.  Obama said the allies are prepared to use military action
because of the “potential for mass murder of innocent
civilians” by Qaddafi’s forces.  He said allies won’t use force beyond the goal of
protecting civilians and the U.S. won’t send ground forces into
Libya. He indicated the U.S. will provide logistics for the no-
fly zone to be established by the U.K. and France.  NATO members Britain, France, Denmark, Spain and  Canada 
have pledged planes to the mission, according to government
statements and press reports, and Qatar said it would
participate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  