-- 
Lockheed Martin’s First Littoral Combat Ship Develops Cracks, Navy Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-18T04:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/lockheed-martin-s-first-littoral-combat-ship-develops-cracks-navy-says.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s first new
warship for operating close to shore developed a crack as long
as six inches through its hull during sea trials, prompting a
U.S. Navy investigation of the design.  The Navy is analyzing the crack to determine if changes are
required for future Lockheed Martin hulls, Naval Sea Systems
Command spokesman Christopher Johnson said yesterday in an e-
mail. This includes reviewing “the design, construction
drawings and welding procedures,” he said.  During a heavy-weather ocean trial on the USS  Freedom  in
mid-February, he said, sailors discovered a six-inch horizontal
hull crack below the waterline that leaked five gallons an hour.
Inside the hull the crack measured three inches. It originated
in a weld seam between two steel plates.  The ship returned to its home port in  San Diego , avoiding
rough seas, after the commanding officer judged the leak rate
“manageable,” Johnson said.  Smaller cracks that indicated welding “defects” showed up
in the welds of the vessel’s aluminum structure during sea
trials last year, Johnson said in his e-mail.  Initial analysis of the second Lockheed-built vessel, the
USS Independence, showed improved welding, he said.  A spokesman for Lockheed Martin, Keith Little, said the
company “is working closely with the Navy to confirm the root
cause” and has made all necessary repairs to the ship. “We are
also supporting the Navy in additional testing along the hull to
confirm this crack was an isolated anomaly,” Little said.  First of 55  The USS Freedom is the first of 55 Littoral Combat Ships
planned. The Navy accepted the $645 million vessel in September
2008; its maiden voyages included drug  seizures  in the southern
Caribbean and sea trials.  Steve Taylor, a spokesman for U.S. Representative  Todd
Akin , a Missouri Republican who is chairman of the House Armed
Services seapower panel, said the Navy had not told the lawmaker
or staff about the cracks issue. The problem was not disclosed
by Navy officials during a March 9 subcommittee  hearing  on
shipbuilding.  “Congressman Akin is very interested in any indication
there are cracks or cracking,” Taylor said. “It is of interest
to the committee.”  “This presents a new potential oversight issue for
Congress,” said Ronald O’Rourke, naval analyst for the
nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service .  Johnson said in his e-mail that repair of the hull crack
was completed March 12.  In 2005, the estimated cost of the Freedom was put at $215
million, according to CRS. Since then, cost estimates for the
first two vessels have more than doubled.  Fatigue Analysis  Johnson said that several years ago the Navy conducted an
“early fatigue analysis” on the Freedom that “identified
high-stress areas” in the aluminum superstructure. The areas
were fitted with instruments to collect data and to monitor for
cracks.  Cracks showed up late last year in the predicted areas. The
measuring instruments remain in place, and the Navy implemented
some design changes to the superstructure “to correct high
stress and fatigue issues,” Johnson said.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , and Marinette Marine
Corp. of Marinette,  Wisconsin , are working together on one
model. It is based on a steel monohull and aluminum
superstructure.  The other design is an all-aluminum trimaran being
developed by the Mobile, Alabama-based U.S. subsidiary of  Australia ’s  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  General
Dynamics is providing combat systems designed at its Pittsfield,
Massachusetts, facility for the Austal vessel.  Close-In Missions  Littoral Combat Ships are designed to operate closer to
coastlines than existing surface vessels, such as destroyers,
for missions such as clearing mines, hunting submarines and
providing humanitarian relief.  The Navy on Dec. 29 awarded contracts for the construction
of as many as 10 Littoral Combat Ships to each team.  The Lockheed Martin team received a $491 million contract
that could be worth as much as $4 billion when all options are
exercised. Austal won a $465 million contract that could reach
as much $3.78 billion if all options are exercised.  Contracts for a second vessel each were awarded yesterday.
Lockheed Martin received a $376 million job and Austal a $368
million contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  