-- 
Mohamed Bin Hammam Plans to Challenge Sepp Blatter for Presidency of FIFA

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-18T12:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mohamed-bin-hammam-plans-to-challenge-sepp-blatter-for-presidency-of-fifa.html
  Asia ’s head of soccer today said
he’ll run against incumbent Sepp Blatter for the presidency of
the sport’s  governing body, FIFA.  Mohamed Bin Hammam made the announcement at a press
conference in  Kuala Lumpur . He’s the first person to challenge
Blatter since Cameroon’s Issa Hyatou tried to oust the Swiss
national in 2002. Blatter, 75, is going for his fourth four-year
term. An election of FIFA’s 208 members takes place on June 1 in
Zurich.  “I will be looking to develop the game to its best in both
professional and amateur levels, on and off the field and make
it accessible to each and every level of our global community,”  Bin Hammam , 61, said.  The FIFA president controls one of sport’s most influential
bodies. The organization runs the World Cup, sports most-watched
event, and had revenue of $4 billion between 2007 and 2010. It
has cash reserves of more than $1 billion and sponsorships from
businesses such as Sony Corp.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)   Bin Hammam helped his home nation Qatar become the first
Middle East country to be awarded the World Cup soccer
tournament. The emirate, which is smaller than Connecticut, was
a surprise choice for the 2022 event in a competition that
featured the U.S.,  Japan , Korea and  Australia .  The bidding race for that tournament and for the 2018  World
Cup , which was also decided in December, was marked by the
suspension of two of the 24 officials involved in making the
decision and other FIFA executives. They were snared by
undercover reporters from the Sunday Times newspaper, which
alleged that votes could be bought.  Manifesto  Outlining his manifesto, Bin Hammam said he’ll try “to
keep FIFA and football organizations above accusations and
suspicion of negative practice” and would address “the demands
of the public to create an absolute, ethical, democratic and
transparent environment within FIFA.”  He’s likely to get support from some of the nations that
lost out in the World Cup vote, including England. Roger Burden,
the English Football Association’s interim chairman, quit a day
after his nation came last of four bidders for the 2018 event,
saying he didn’t “trust” FIFA.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron described the soccer
body’s practices as “murky.” He spent a week in Zurich
lobbying Blatter and other FIFA executives on  England ’s behalf
in a competition eventually won by  Russia .  Bin Hammam proposes replacing FIFA’s 24-member executive
committee, its decision-making body, with a larger authority
made up of 41 members from six of the sport’s regional bodies.
He also wants to increase the amount of money distributed to
FIFA’s 208 member associations from $250,000 to $500,000 a year.  “The manifesto that I have made is the program towards the
future,” Bin Hammam said. “Unless one can be on the top of the
organization, he cannot make any changes. What I have said,
these are the changes that I’m proposing. People working within
the football community need more cooperation, more transparency,
more fair distribution of the revenue. These are the changes
which FIFA needs.”  Blatter, a former FIFA secretary general, was elected to
his current role in 1998, replacing Brazilian Joao Havelange,
who stood down after 24 years in the post. Bin Hammam’s efforts
to introduce a term limit were rejected by FIFA’s decision-
making panel last year.  The successful staging of the 2010 World Cup in  South
Africa  may have strengthened Blatter’s position. He fought
against opponents, including members of FIFA’s executive
committee, to take the tournament to Africa for the first time.  Blatter said “many, many” national associations backed
his re-election bid.  The deadline for candidacy is March 31.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 