-- 
Crude Futures Fell Friday as Libya Declared Cease-Fire, Called for Talks

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-18T20:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/oil-futures-retreat-after-libya-announces-it-will-halt-all-military-action.html
Oil fell after  Libya  said it will
cease military operations against rebels and begin talks aimed
at resolving the dispute that has curtailed crude shipments.  Oil dropped 0.4 percent after Muammar Qaddafi’s regime made
the announcement that it’s ready to end hostilities. President  Barack Obama  said Qaddafi must stop violence and repression or
face a military response by an international coalition. A United
Nations vote yesterday cleared the way for the use of air
attacks and a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians.  “There was a dramatic reversal after the Libyan
announcement,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “The market’s
reaction is understandable because there were fears that
ordinance would be in the air over Libya this weekend.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 35 cents to settle at
$101.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
were up as much as 2.2 percent to $103.66 before the Libyan
announcement. Prices are little changed this week.  Brent crude oil for May settlement fell 97 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $113.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The monthlong uprising in Libya has left the country
divided, with Qaddafi controlling much of the west, including
the capital of Tripoli, and rebels holding some of the east,
with the city of Benghazi as their base. Libya holds  Africa ’s
biggest proved oil reserves.  The UN Security Council agreement cleared the way for the
first Western military action against an Arab country since the
2003 invasion of  Iraq . Libyan Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled
Kaaim said at a press conference in Tripoli the regime is ready
to negotiate a cease-fire, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Attacks on Civilians  “All attacks against civilians must stop” and Qaddafi
must pull back his troops from cities where they have attacked
anti-government forces, Obama said in his first remarks since
yesterday’s vote.  Forces loyal to Qaddafi shelled the city of Misrata after
the cease-fire announcement, Al Jazeera television reported,
citing witnesses. Twenty-five people have been killed there
today, Qatar-based Al Jazeera said, citing medical staff.  Futures surged 3.5 percent yesterday after Qaddafi’s jets
dropped bombs around the rebel stronghold of Benghazi and as
Bahraini security forces arrested opposition leaders.  Bahrain declared a three-month state of emergency on March
15 as troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf states arrived to
support the administration. Protests in Bahrain, where the U.S.
Navy’s Fifth Fleet guards Gulf oil supply, follow unrest across
the Middle East and North Africa that led to the ouster of
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Iranian Protest  Shiites make up about 70 percent of Sunni-ruled Bahrain’s
population and many retain cultural and family ties with Iran,
as well as with Shiites in Saudi Arabia, a minority of about 10
to 15 percent. Earlier this week Iran withdrew its ambassador to
protest against the crackdown.  “It looks like there is a cold war between Saudi Arabia
and Iran and Bahrain is the current battlefield,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington . “The strong actions taken by the Saudis in Bahrain
signal that they won’t tolerate street demonstrations at home.”  Saudi Arabia and  Iran  are the two-biggest crude producers
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.    Japan  Quake  A magnitude 9 earthquake rocked Japan, the world’s third-
biggest oil-consuming country, one week ago, setting off a
deadly tsunami. The combination of natural disasters cut
electricity to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant and wrecked
backup systems designed to protect the reactors and spent fuel
pools from overheating.  Engineers plan to work into the night to restore power to
two of the crippled reactors at the plant, while Prime Minister
Naoto Kan described the crisis as “very grave.” Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said it may finish reconnecting a power line to the
No. 1 and No. 2 reactors by tomorrow morning.  “The situations in Libya, Bahrain and Japan all have
worrying implications on the oil market,” Sieminski said.  Japanese oil demand will rise as nuclear plants are
shuttered and the country rebuilds, Deutsche Bank said.
Consumption will be 130,000 barrels a day, or 2.9 percent,
higher than forecast before last week’s temblor, Singapore-based
Soozhana Choi, the bank’s head of Asian commodities research,
said in a report today.  “Developments in Japan have the ability to trump
everything else in this market until the nuclear crisis is
resolved,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 610,435
contracts as of 3:28 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 597,378
contracts yesterday, 26 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.54 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  