-- 
Oil Surges as UN Approves Libya No-Fly Zone; Credit Suisse Raises Forecast

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-18T12:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/oil-surges-as-un-approves-libya-no-fly-zone-credit-suisse-raises-forecast.html
Oil surged to its highest price in
a week in New York after the  United Nations  Security Council
approved military intervention to protect civilians in Libya,
holder of Africa’s largest crude reserves.  Futures jumped as much as 2.2 percent after the UN voted to
establish a no-fly zone over Libya and demanded a cease-fire
with rebels. Oil climbed 3.5 percent yesterday, the most in
three weeks, after Muammar Qaddafi’s jets dropped bombs around
Benghazi while Bahraini security forces arrested opposition
leaders. Credit Suisse Group AG raised its forecast for Brent
crude traded in London, citing Middle East unrest.  “The no-fly zone resolution increases the risk premium,”
said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst with Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Vienna. “Without it, Qaddafi would probably
re-conquer all parts of the country and the oil business would
become more stable sooner. With the resolution, oil production
will face more substantial outages for a longer period.”  Oil for April delivery gained as much as $2.24 to $103.66 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $103.08 at 12:08 p.m. London time.
Yesterday, it jumped $3.44 to $101.42, the highest close since
March 10. Prices are up 1.9 percent this week.  Brent crude for May settlement was up $1.11 at $116.01
after climbing as much as $2.39, or 2.1 percent, to $117.29 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Yesterday,
the contract advanced $4.30, or 3.9 percent, to $114.90.  Brent Forecast  Credit Suisse Group AG today upgraded its forecasts for
Brent, citing unrest in the Middle East and concerns about
capacity shortfalls. The bank increased its projection to
$105.80 a barrel from $85, analysts led by Sydney-based Sandra McCullagh said in a report. It raised its 2012 estimate by 18
percent to $100.50 a barrel from $85. UBS AG this week advanced
its 2011 forecast by 22 percent to $103.75 a barrel from $85.  Prices retreated briefly after  China ’s central bank moved
to cool economic growth, after inflation and industrial output
exceeded economists’ forecasts. The People’s Bank of China
raised banks’ reserve requirements by half a percentage point.  Oil climbed yesterday on concern violence in Bahrain will
spill into  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter.
Forces from neighboring countries were invited by Bahrain to
help quell a month of protests driven by majority Shiites.
Regional unrest has cut  Libya ’s crude production and toppled the
leaders of Tunisia and Egypt.  The no-fly resolution may “result in the UN having to take
military action against Qaddafi and the prospect of that is not
good for a peaceful resolution,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals and
energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne ,
said by telephone today. “The prospect of supply tightening is
keeping a floor under  oil prices .”  State of Emergency  The last time the United Nations imposed a no-fly zone upon
a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
was in  Iraq  in 1991, intended to prevent strikes by Saddam
Hussein’s air force on the north and south of the country after
his troops were driven out of  Kuwait .  Bahrain declared a state of emergency on March 15 as a
second contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the
kingdom. About 1,000 people in Saudi Arabia’s eastern city of
al-Qatif defied a ban on demonstrations and protested peacefully
on March 16 to demand the country’s troops end their incursion
into Bahrain.  “Bahrain arrested seven opposition leaders, drawing U.S.
criticism and raising fears of a regional conflict in top oil
producer Saudi Arabia,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said
in an e-mailed note today.  ‘Many Months’  The restoration of Qaddafi’s control won’t necessarily lead
to the quick resumption of Libyan oil output, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Lawrence Eagles  in  New York  said in
a note to clients yesterday. It will be difficult to persuade
foreign workers to return and there may be the obstacle of UN
sanctions and a boycott of Libyan oil, the analysts said.  Libya’s oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and sanctions following a
rebellion against Qaddafi, the International Energy Agency said
in its monthly Oil Market Report on March 15.  Analysts at Nomura International Ltd. said  Japan ’s oil
demand may jump by 3.9 percent, or 171,000 barrels a day, as the
country seeks alternative power sources after an earthquake and
tsunami disabled nuclear  power plants .  Nomura said it based its estimates on the effect of quakes
in 1995 and 2007. Japan will make up for the bulk of the nuclear
power losses by boosting output in oil-fired and natural gas-
fueled power plants, the bank said in an e-mailed report.  A Tokyo Electric Power Co. official said the company may
connect a power cable to the Fukushima nuclear plant this
afternoon as workers try to restart the cooling system and
prevent a meltdown. The March 11 earthquake, Japan’s strongest
on record, triggered a tsunami that has killed 6,405 people,
according to the National Police Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  