-- 
Tokyo Food Shortage May Be Easing as Shops Adapt to Blackouts

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-03-19T06:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tokyo-food-shortage-caused-by-quake-may-be-easing-aeon-says.html
  Tokyo ’s food shortage may be easing
as Japan’s biggest supermarket chain adapts to rolling blackouts
caused by the crippling of a nuclear reactor north of the
capital where engineers are working to avert a meltdown.  “Now we can deliver daily necessities, from rice to
bottles of water, even batteries,” Koji Tsusue, a spokesman for
Aeon Co., said by phone late yesterday, without giving figures.
“The situation is getting better day by day in the Tokyo
metropolitan area.”  Some stores in Tokyo had shelves stocked with rice, eggs
and milk. The city’s residents had earlier emptied stores of
food, water and batteries and filled car tanks with gasoline as
workers at a crippled nuclear facility north of the Japanese
capital struggled to avert a meltdown.  Japan  still had about 3
million tons of surplus rice and oil enough for 199 days, the
Consumer Affairs Agency said March 17.  “So far there’s nothing I need that I can’t get,” Yumi
Nakajima, a 50-year-old housewife, said outside one of Daimaru
Inc.’s Peacock stores in Jiyugaoka, a residential area in Tokyo.
“I still have rice at home and I saw them selling milk.”  A Tokyu Corp. supermarket in the same neighborhood also had
rice, eggs and milk. Customers at both stores were advised not
to buy in bulk. Electricity use was reduced by turning off non-
essential lighting, such as bulbs in refrigerators.  ‘It’s an Inconvenience’  At the Minami-Aoyama neighborhood of Tokyo a loud speaker
blared every hour with a reminder to residents to conserve
electricity or face the risk of a blackout.  Aeon, based in Chiba, outside of Tokyo, adapted its
distribution to rolling blackouts in the metropolitan area and
began drawing on hubs in central Japan, Tsusue said. “We don’t
face a shortage of gasoline for deliveries for the time being.”  Eggs and milk were available at a Tokyu supermarket in
central Tokyo yesterday. “Tokyo isn’t bad, it’s not like there
is no food,” Tomoko Murata, a 37-year-old housewife, said
outside the store. “It’s an inconvenience, but nothing compared
to what people up north are going through.”  Yuki Kondo, 37, visited Seven & I Holdings Co.’s Ito-Yokado
store in central Tokyo after her husband told her they had bread.
“It is getting better,” she said. “I knew things will calm
down after a while.”  Japanese Rice  While that supermarket was out of milk when Kondo visited,
store shelves were stocked with eggs and milk at  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Seiyu supermarket in Roppongi and a Peacock store in
Minami Aoyama. Rice was sold out at the three stores.  At the Nissin World Delicatessen supermarket in Higashi
Azabu in central Tokyo, there was stock of the premium
Koshihikari rice and imported brands from California and  Thailand . A handwritten sign said Japanese rice is best consumed
within a month of purchase.  “The supply of daily necessities will never dry up,”
Renho, Japan’s minister of state for consumer affairs and  food
safety , said in a statement posted on the website of the prime
minister’s office March 17. “If people continue to make
unnecessary, non-urgent purchases, supply of necessities in the
disaster-hit area may be disrupted,” said Renho, who uses only
one name.  Cup Noodles  Water, pasta and cup noodles are still in short supply,
said Katsuhiko Shimizu, a spokesman for Seven & I, which owns
the 7-Eleven brand and runs the convenience store chain in Japan.
The country’s biggest retailer more than doubled its deliveries
of bottled water, while demand rose more than 30-fold at its
Ito-Yokado supermarkets since the March 11, magnitude-9
 earthquake .  “Even though you are told not to hoard, there are people
who buy things,” said Shuon Minami, who shopped for necessities
at a Tokyo supermarket with her 9-month-old daughter and her
mother. “You will be in trouble if you go to a store and cannot
find what you need, so you end up hoarding.”  Kazuo Inazumi, who owns a rice store in central Tokyo,
yesterday afternoon had a sign saying they weren’t selling. The
sign would come down in the evening, he said. “I am saving rice
for those who work during the day.”  “It looks like rice supplies have begun returning to
stores,” said the 80-year-old merchant. “I expect supply to
resume. But I don’t feel reassured unless I touch it and I see
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  