-- 
Tombini Sees Risk to Brazil From Japan’s Earthquake, Middle East Turmoil

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-03-18T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tombini-sees-risk-to-brazil-from-japan-s-earthquake-middle-east-turmoil.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said uncertainty stemming from  Japan ’s deadly
earthquake and unrest in the Middle East are “new facts” that
need to be taken into account by policy makers.  The magnitude 9 quake and tsunami that hit Japan this month
will have an “uncertain” impact on global commodity prices,
supply chains and exchange rates, Tombini said in a  speech  to
bankers in Sao Paulo yesterday. Japan may repatriate investments
in the “short-term” to pay for reconstruction and the oil
market may cause further “surprises” if producers are unable
to offset a fall in output caused by turmoil in the Middle East
and North Africa, he said.  “Given these new developments, we have to continue to
monitor the international scenario closely,” Tombini said.
“The uncertainty and complexity of the global economic outlook
don’t justify either passivity or a knee-jerk reaction.”  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by 0.5 percentage point for a third straight
meeting April 19-20 to cool inflation that is running at a 26-
month high, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest
rate futures.    Brazil ’s inflation rate will start to slow towards the 4.5
percent mid-point of its target range towards the end of the
year, Tombini said last night. Inflation will remain at “higher
levels” this year, he added.  Inflation Dynamics  Inflation isn’t solely demand driven, Tombini said, and is
also being fueled by changes in the labor market, seasonal
factors and “inertia” carried over from 2010.  Brazil’s central bank, while raising its benchmark rate to
11.75 percent this month, signaled that one more rate increase
coupled with curbs on bank lending may be enough to slow
inflation to target in 2012.  The bank, in the minutes to their March 1-2 meeting, said
macro-prudential measures are a “rapid and potent” tool to
contain demand in some areas.  Annual inflation quickened to 6.01 percent in February, the
fastest pace since November 2008.  Data published this week show Brazil’s economy may be
cooling slower than expected. Brazil’s economic activity index
rose at its fastest pace in nine months in January.  January retail sales beat estimates and rose at their
fastest pace in five months, fueled by supermarket sales and
purchases of household goods. Sales rose 1.2 percent in January
from December, up from a revised 0.2 percent the previous month.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.32 percent yesterday.  Brent crude oil for May settlement advanced $4.30, or 3.9
percent, to end yesterday’s session at $114.90 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Oil surged after the
air force of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  dropped bombs around
the city of Benghazi and Bahraini security forces arrested
opposition leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman 
at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  