-- 
Auto Sales Plunge in Japan's Eastern Region After Quake, JAMA’s Shiga Says

-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-03-25T15:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/honda-suspends-u-s-dealer-orders-for-japan-built-autos-2-.html
Auto sales in  Japan ’s eastern
region may have dropped as much as 40 percent after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami that forced companies to halt production,
an industry official said.  In western Japan, sales likely fell 20 percent, Toshiyuki Shiga, the chairman of Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association, said in an interview yesterday. The estimate is
Shiga’s personal view and not that of the group, he said.  Some parts suppliers who have facilities outside Japan may
raise output abroad while the rebuilding at home continues,
Shiga said. The magnitude-9.0 quake and tsunami killed at least
10,000 people and forced companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Nissan Motor Co., and Honda Motor Co. to halt production amid
parts shortages and disruption to transportation infrastructure.  “Even with the supply shortages and risk of power outages,
reconstruction” of companies’ damaged factories “is proceeding
at a faster pace than we expected at the beginning,” Shiga, who
is also the chief operating officer of Nissan, said in Tokyo. As
many as 500 component makers have operations in the areas
affected by the disaster, he said, without naming any companies.  Global Auto Production  Component shortages caused by the earthquake may reduce
global automobile production by about 30 percent, research firm
IHS Automotive said March 24. If parts factories affected by the
quake don’t return to operation within six weeks, global auto
output may drop by as much as 100,000 vehicles a day, said
 Michael Robinet , vice president of Lexington, Massachusetts-
based IHS. The industry produces 280,000 to 300,000 vehicles
daily, he said.  Toyota, the world’s biggest car company, closed 1.9 percent
higher at 3,275 yen in Tokyo yesterday. The stock has lost 10
percent since March 10, the day before the earthquake struck off
the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo. Nissan has lost 17 percent
since March 10, while Honda has declined 12 percent.  Toyota may lose production of 140,000 vehicles through
today, with electronic parts, rubber and plastics in short
supply, the company has said. The carmaker, based in Toyota
City, has closed all 18 auto-assembly plants in Japan until at
least today.  Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  set up an
emergency center “within hours” of the earthquake, he said
this week in an interview. About 100 employees, including top
management, are there monitoring factories on an hourly basis.  Nissan resumed operations at six plants on March 21. It
will take the Yokohama-based company until mid-April to resume
major production at its engine plant in Iwaki, Fukushima
prefecture, Ghosn said.  Honda extended closings at two auto-assembly plants in
Japan until April 3, the Tokyo-based company has said. The
factories are in Sayama, Saitama prefecture, and Suzuka, Mie
prefecture. The Tokyo-based company’s North American factories
continue to run normal production shifts, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  