-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fluctuate on Concern Over Libyan Conflict, Japan Crisis

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-03-18T10:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-higher-profits-g7-action-to-weaken-yen.html
Hong Kong stocks fluctuated after  France  said military action against  Libya  may start within hours
and as doubts persisted about whether a nuclear meltdown in  Japan  could be averted after last week’s earthquake and tsunami.    Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the world’s biggest
contract maker of mobile phones, dropped 2.7 percent on concern
damage following the temblor will disrupt supplies. Henderson
Land Development Co., the homebuilder controlled by billionaire
Lee Shau-kee, increased 4.1 percent after reporting higher
profit. China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
builder controlled by the Chinese construction ministry, climbed
6.5 percent after posting earnings that beat estimates.  “Concern will gradually shift back to the instability in
the Middle East and North Africa as  Europe  prepares for a
military strike on Libya,” said Danny Yan, a  fund manager  in
Hong Kong at Haitong International Asset Management, which
oversees $600 million. “This weekend will be critical in Japan.
If power cannot be restored to the nuclear reactor, a meltdown
is likely.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.1 percent to 22,300.23 at the
close in Hong Kong, with five shares declining for every four
that advanced. The gauge, which pared a gain of 0.8 percent
earlier, slumped 4.1 percent this week, the most since February,
amid concern Japan’s strongest earthquake and a nuclear crisis
will cripple the world’s third-biggest economy.  The benchmark index has fallen more than 10 percent since a
Nov. 8 high of 24,964.37, entering what some analysts call a
correction. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of H shares of
Chinese companies fell 0.2 percent today, erasing gains of more
than 1 percent.  Military Action  France would join any military operation, such as a no-fly
zone, against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , French government
spokesman Francois Baroin said in an interview on RTL radio
today. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the U.K. was
ready to enforce a United Nations resolution authorizing
military action against Qaddafi.  In Japan, engineers plan to work into the night to restore
power to the crippled No. 2 reactor at Japan’s damaged Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant as they struggle to avert a meltdown and
further radiation leaks. Temperatures were rising inside the No.
5 and 6 reactors, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said yesterday.  Foxconn declined 2.7 percent to HK$4.77, extending this
week’s slump to 12 percent. Makers of mobile-phone handsets and
personal computers will be affected by supply disruptions in
Japan, a major provider of substrate raw materials that are used
in the electronics industries, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. said
this week.  Better Earnings  China State Construction International Holdings Ltd., a
state-owned construction company, fell 2.8 percent to HK$7 after
saying it plans to raise as much as HK$3.58 billion selling
shares to existing shareholders at HK$6.  Among stocks that advanced,  Henderson Land  increased 4.1
percent to HK$47.45. The developer said full-year profit
excluding property revaluation gains and deferred taxes rose 9
percent from the previous year to HK$5.04 billion ($646
million). That compares with an average HK$4.56 billion estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
builder controlled by the Chinese construction ministry, surged
6.5 percent to HK$14.10, the best performer in the Hang Seng
Index. The company said 2010 profit climbed 66 percent to
HK$12.4 billion. That exceeded the HK$9.31 billion average
estimate of 18 analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index increased 0.4 percent, and
the HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for  Hong Kong 
stock options, tumbled 9.3 percent to 25.58, indicating that
options traders are expecting a swing of 7.3 percent in the next
30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 