-- 
Lord’s Resistance Army Intensifies Attacks in Congo, Killing At Least 30

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-18T04:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/lord-s-resistance-army-intensifies-attacks-in-congo-killing-at-least-30.html
  Uganda ’s renegade Lord’s Resistance
Army has intensified attacks in northeastern Democratic Republic
of Congo this year, leaving dozens dead, and a more coordinated
effort may be needed to hunt the rebels down, U.S. and United
Nations officials said.  At least 30 civilians died and 70 more have been kidnapped
by the LRA since January, according to the UN’s Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, or OCHA.  The U.S. is working with governments in Central Africa to
combat the “significant rise in attacks,” U.S. Deputy Assistant
Secretary for African Affairs Karl Wycoff said by phone from  Washington  on March 14. The U.S. has provided more than $25
million in logistical and intelligence support to the Ugandan
army, which has engaged in joint operations with Congolese
forces since 2008, he said.  About 300 LRA rebels still roam a remote region about the
size of  California  that straddles three countries, making it
difficult for a single national army to hunt them down. Since
December 2007, OCHA estimates the group has killed more than
2,000 people and abducted more than 2,600 in Congo, where they
sought refuge from the Ugandan army in 2005.  The rebels are returning to Congo in small groups after
they were chased into neighboring  Sudan  and Central African
Republic over the past two years by the joint operations, said
Congolese General Jean Claude Kifwa.  “When they go to Central African Republic and Sudan they
reorganize,” Kifwa said in a phone interview from Beni, in
eastern Congo.  Two-Decade Insurgency  Uganda’s army fought a two-decade insurgency in the north
of the country by the LRA. The group, led by  Joseph Kony , rose
up against the government after Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni in the 1980s purged the army of members of the Acholi
community, whose interests the LRA says it is defending.  Kony, a former Catholic altar boy who says the LRA is
inspired by the Ten Commandments, faces International Criminal
Court charges of murder, mutilation, rape and the abduction of
thousands of children for use as soldiers.  In November, U.S. President  Barack Obama  asked Congress to
increase funding for military and humanitarian support to Uganda
and communities affected by LRA attacks. Wycoff declined to
provide budget details.  Last week, three Congolese soldiers were killed in an LRA
attack in Banda, near the border with  Central African Republic ,
that also left five rebels dead, Kifwa said. The general called
for more cooperation between the armies of the affected
countries to track the rebels when they cross borders.  Merchants Killed  In February, Congolese soldiers repelled an attack by the
LRA on 21 merchants who were travelling to Sudan on bicycles,
one survivor, Fidel Tolo, said in an interview in Bangadi near
Congo’s border with Sudan, on March 10. The month before, Tolo
lost all his goods in an attack when travelling without an army
escort.  “UN member states need to provide significantly more
resources to enhance their effectiveness in protecting people
from LRA attacks,” UN Undersecretary General for Humanitarian
Affairs Valerie Amos told reporters in Dungu, near the border
with Sudan, on March 10.  Western and African governments should also offer more
support to the Congolese army in its fight against the LRA,
Wycoff said.  Redeployment  Military operations against the LRA have been less
effective since the Ugandan military redeployed some of its
troops back home in mid-2010 to respond to internal security
needs before February’s general elections, Matthew Brubacher, a
UN official working to repatriate foreign fighters from Congo,
said on March 16. Other fighters joined the African Union
peacekeeping mission in  Somalia , he said.  “In 2009, one or two mid-to-senior-level LRA commanders
were killed or captured every month and now only low-level LRA
elements are received,” Brubacher said by e-mail. “The LRA are
abducting for recruitment almost every day and will expand if
given the opportunity.”  Lieutenant-Colonel Felix Kulayigye, spokesman for the
Ugandan army, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions and his phone
was turned off when called for comment.  About 1,000 UN peacekeepers and 5,000 Congolese soldiers
are in the region to combat LRA incursions, along with an
unspecified number of Ugandan troops. The soldiers often act as
escorts for humanitarian workers and civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kavanagh in Bukavu 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 