-- 
Morgan Stanley Targeting Mid-Market Buyout Firms to Boost Advisory Revenue

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-18T14:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/morgan-stanley-targeting-mid-market-buyout-firms-to-boost-advisory-revenue.html
  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is starting to win
more business from smaller private-equity firms after forming a
group of bankers to focus on the sector and generate more fee
revenue from buyouts.  The New York-based bank has advised on seven closed or
pending deals this year from firms that manage funds of less
than $5 billion, said Joe Purcell, managing director of the
middle-market advisory group created last year. The five-person
team has attracted business from clients such as Rhone Group
LLC, Tailwind Capital Group LLC and JLL Partners Inc.  “It’s often considered lower profile than covering the
largest sponsors, but middle-market private equity can be very
profitable for us,” Purcell said in an interview this month.  The focus on smaller buyout firms puts Morgan Stanley in
competition with boutique investment banks as well as some
larger ones such as  Barclays Capital , Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG. Morgan Stanley ranked seventh among banks in
terms of fees that buyout firms paid for financial services such
as acquisitions and loan underwriting last year, according to
New York-based consultant Freeman & Co.  In all corporate and private-equity takeovers, Morgan
Stanley was the top adviser globally in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bank advised Rhone this year on its
minority investment in beauty products maker Coty Inc. Last
year, it worked with JLL Partners on the sale of McKechnie
Aerospace Holdings Inc., the aircraft-components manufacturer
that  TransDigm Group Inc. (TDG)  bought in December for $1.27 billion.  Fewer Fees  Financial advisers are trying to capitalize on the so-
called middle market after buyout funds ranging from $1 billion
to $5 billion in size grew to account for 69 percent of the
total amount raised last year, compared with 35 percent in 2009,
according to researcher Pitchbook Data Inc.  Traditionally banks have put more emphasis on the largest
20 firms, such as TPG Capital and KKR & Co., since their deals
generated 48 percent of the $7.65 billion in fees that buyout
firms paid banks last year, according to Freeman. That is still
less than half of the $16.3 billion banks reaped in fees at the
height of buyout dealmaking in 2007.  Morgan Stanley is looking to fill some of that gap. For the
first time last month, the bank held a conference for about 100
prospective middle-market private-equity clients. Robert Kindler, Morgan Stanley’s global head of M&A, recruited Purcell
last year from JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he ran a similar
team.  “Middle-market firms selling businesses benefit from
Morgan Stanley’s strong relationships with strategic buyers,”
Kindler said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 