-- 
Morgan Stanley Expects S&P 500 Valuation to Decline on Economy: Tom Keene

-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-18T21:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/morgan-stanley-s-parker-expects-s-p-500-valuation-to-decline.html
The price investors are willing to
pay in relation to earnings for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies will decline as economic growth decelerates, according
to  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Adam Parker.  “Our contrarian call at Morgan Stanley is that the market
multiple is going to contract,” said Parker, chief U.S. equity
strategist at the New York-based bank, in an interview today on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television.
“That’s a function of the belief that growth’s decelerating.
It’s probably going to be more volatile, and then you have the
overhang of inflation.”  An increase in  capital spending  in the U.S. will reduce the
free cash flow of companies and damp a rise in equities,
according to Parker, who predicted the combined earnings of
companies in the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks to be $93 this
year, compared with the average estimate of $94.34.  Investors should favor technology stocks over the
industrial sector as corporate earnings sag as stimulus measures
in the U.S. end, Parker said. His forecast for the  S&P 500  at
the end of 2011 is 1,238, the lowest of 13 strategists surveyed
by Bloomberg. S&P 500 stocks trade at an average price-to-
earnings ratio of about 15.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 0.4 percent to 1,279.21 at 4
p.m. in New York, rallying for a second day as the Federal
Reserve cleared the way for big banks to boost dividends, Libya
announced a cease-fire, and central banks worked to support
Japan’s economy after the March 11 earthquake.  “You don’t want to own the stock market until the capital
spending is done accelerating,” Parker said. Technology stocks
“have never been cheaper versus industrials; they have the
specter of returning more cash to the shareholder,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas R Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  