-- 
BofA, Other Banks Agree to Master in New Jersey Foreclosures

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T23:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/mortgage-servicers-agree-to-special-master-in-new-jersey.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and five
other mortgage servicers agreed to the appointment of a special
master to examine foreclosure procedures in  New Jersey , a court-
appointed lawyer said today.  A blanket suspension of foreclosures in New Jersey isn’t
necessary in light of the settlement, which subjects the banks
to a performance review for a year, the lawyer, Edward Dauber,
said in a letter to Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson, posted
on the court’s website. Dauber’s law firm,  Newark , New Jersey-
based Greenberg Dauber Epstein & Tucker, was appointed to
present arguments supporting a foreclosure suspension.  Given these protections any order of suspension “would
serve no purpose,” Dauber said in the letter. “To the
contrary, an efficient and normalized foreclosure process is
essential to the health of the New Jersey housing market.”  The banks’ practices came under scrutiny after employees
signed court documents in foreclosure cases without verifying
their accuracy, according to court papers. The banks are Ally
Financial Inc., Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and OneWest Bank, according to a
Dec. 20 court order.  The banks argued in court papers filed in January that
defects in their procedures for seizing homes could be remedied
without halting foreclosures.  Pending Actions  The special master will govern the resumption of pending
foreclosure actions, according to the agreement. Banks will be
required to submit affidavits and certifications detailing
record-keeping, processes to review documents, training programs
and quality-assurance procedures.  The special master will then decide whether to recommend
that Jacobson permit individual banks to resume prosecution of
pending foreclosures.  Dauber recommended that retired New Jersey Superior Court
Judge Richard J. Williams be appointed special master.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  declined to comment.
Wells Fargo spokeswoman Vickee Adams and Diane Henry, a
spokeswoman for OneWest Bank, and Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia
had no immediate comment. Citigroup spokesman Sean Kevelighan
didn’t immediately return an e-mail and phone call left after
regular business hours seeking comment.  The New Jersey actions add to the legal challenges banks
are facing across the country. The 50 state attorneys general
are investigating foreclosure practices by banks and mortgage
servicers, while homeowners in several states have filed
potential class-action lawsuits against the companies.  The case is In the Matter of Residential Mortgage
Foreclosure Pleading and Document Irregularities, Superior Court
of New Jersey, Chancery Division-General Equity Part,
F-59553-10, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  