-- 
Most Asian Stocks Rise as Radiation Concern Eases, Central Banks Sell Yen

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-03-18T10:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/most-asian-stocks-rise-as-radiation-concern-eases-central-banks-sell-yen.html
Most Asian stocks rose after
reports that emergency crews may have had some success at
cooling a stricken nuclear reactor in Japan, and as Group of
Seven nations acted together in the foreign-exchange market for
the first time in more than a decade.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank
by market value, gained 3 percent in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co.
advanced 0.8 percent after Japan’s Finance Minister said the
U.S., U.K.,  European Central Bank , Canadian and Japanese
authorities would participate in sales of the yen against the
dollar as each market opened.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Australia ’s
biggest oil producer, rose 2 percent in Sydney as the United
Nations Security Council voted to ground Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force, driving crude prices higher.  “The speedy reaction to the yen’s gains and the
coordinated intervention showing international support for Japan
gave a short-term boost to  market sentiment ,” said Hideo Arimura, who helps oversee about $2.2 billion at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  “But the actual economic damages from the earthquake,
nuclear fallout and power cuts are still unclear, and the yen’s
move is still hard to assess. The mid- to long-term outlook of
the market remains uncertain.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1 percent to 128.73 as
of 7:25 p.m. in  Tokyo  as it headed for its biggest weekly drop
since the height of the European debt crisis last May. Almost
three times as many stocks advanced as declined on the gauge.
The index is priced in U.S. dollars, which means a weaker yen
reduces the value of Japanese stocks in the gauge.  Nikkei Surges  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 2.7 percent in
Tokyo and an Asian gauge that omits Japanese stocks, the MSCI
Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index, increased 1 percent.  The Asia-Pacific index including Japan lost 6.6 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.3 percent
by the  S&P 500  and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.    Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was little changed. South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 1.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 1.6 percent in Sydney, where uranium producers
rallied after Tokyo Electric Power Co. said water cannons may
have had some success cooling a reactor at its damaged Fukushima
nuclear plant.  “The market has priced in the worsening situation at the
nuclear plants to some extent, and negative surprises no longer
happen every time there’s some announcement,” said Juichi Wako,
a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  Cannons, Helicopters  Water cannons and helicopters were used to douse the
Fukushima nuclear plant yesterday as workers tried to stem
radioactive pollution from the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl. Some water may have reached the No. 3 reactor, a
Tokyo Electric Power official said.  Engineers worked during the night to connect a power cable
that may help get Fukushima’s cooling systems working again.  Tokyo Electric Power surged 19 percent to 948 yen, paring
its weekly loss to 55 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ gained 3 percent to 374 yen. Komatsu Ltd.,
the world’s No. 2 maker of construction machinery, climbed 1.7
percent to 2,562 yen. Honda,  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker by
sales, increased 0.8 percent to 3,080 yen.  The yen depreciated 3.7 percent to 81.79 per dollar as of
2:58 p.m. in Tokyo from 78.89 in New York yesterday, when it
touched 76.25, a post-World-War-II high. That’s the biggest
decline since Oct. 28, 2008. The yen was little changed from
81.84 on March 11.    Crude Oil   Japan’s exporters say they can remain profitable as long as
the yen trades at 86.30 per dollar or weaker, compared with the
previous year’s breakeven point at 92.90, an annual Cabinet
Office survey showed on March 11.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5
percent today. The index advanced 1.3 percent yesterday amid
investor speculation that Japan will contain its nuclear crisis
and as FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast beat estimates.  Crude oil rose in  New York  after the  United Nations 
Security Council today authorized a no-fly zone and other
military action to prevent Qaddafi from making good on his
threat to conquer the rebel capital, Benghazi, and “destroy”
the opposition movement.  Crude Oil Gains  Oil futures jumped as much as 2.2 percent in New York after
the UN voted to adopt a resolution that establishes a no-fly
zone over Libya and demands a cease-fire with rebels. Oil surged
3.5 percent yesterday, the most in three weeks, after Qaddafi’s
jets dropped bombs around Benghazi, while Bahraini security
forces arrested opposition leaders.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its forecast for  Brent crude 
traded in  London , citing Middle East unrest.    BHP Billiton  rose 2 percent to A$44.56 in Sydney and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company by sales,
added 1.6 percent to A$80.50. Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,
Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer, increased 3.6
percent to A$44.41.    Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) , a uranium producer, jumped 7.5 percent
to A$3.60 in Sydney, and rival  Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. (ERA) 
climbed 9.3 percent to A$8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 