-- 
OSX to Issue Deals for Three Supertanker Conversions

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-18T16:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/osx-to-issue-deals-for-three-supertanker-conversions-correct-.html
(Corrects name of the company in the headline and in the
first paragraph in the story published yesterday.)    OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the Brazilian ship
company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista ,  plans to award
deals for converting three supertankers into floating oil
production and storage vessels this year as Batista’s oil
company develops South American oilfields.  The first contract will be handed out by the end of the
month and two others will be decided in the second half of the
year, Anna Kac, engineering executive manager at OSX, said today
in Singapore. Keppel Corp., based in the city-state, is already
converting one very large crude carrier for the group.  Keppel will complete work on the first of the four ships by
as early as the end of June, Kac said. The vessel will start
operating in August, she said. The ship will be able to produce
42,000 barrels of oil a day, while the other three will have
daily capacities of 100,000 barrels each, Kac said.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by Batista, which doesn’t yet produce any oil, will
use the vessels at fields off  Brazil . The company will begin
drilling at the Waimea field in the third quarter, with the aim
of producing 20,000 barrels a day by year’s end.  OGX expects to eventually need 48 production units,
including 19 floating production and storage vessels, to support
its growth over the next 10 years. The company is testing other
areas as it seeks to achieve total output of 730,000 barrels a
day by 2015 and 1.38 million by 2019.  OSX has won a preliminary environmental license from the
government of Rio de Janeiro state to build the biggest shipyard
in the Americas to help support the group’s expansion plans. The
company is 10 percent owned by Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s largest shipyard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  