-- 
Congressional Panel Seeks to Block Roger Clemens Subpoena in Perjury Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-18T22:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/house-panel-seeks-to-block-clemens-subpoena-in-perjury-case-1-.html
The  House of Representatives  panel
that held hearings on steroid use in Major League Baseball said
it should not be required to turn over materials to ex-New York
Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens , who is seeking information to
defend himself against perjury and obstruction charges.  The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
today asked U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  to block a
subpoena from Clemens, saying the request is barred by the
Speech or Debate Clause of the U.S. Constitution.  “The documents that Mr. Clemens asks this court to compel
the committee to produce are self-evidently integral to a
committee investigation that is plainly ‘within the sphere of
legitimate legislative activity,” the committee said in court
papers.  Clemens requested that the committee turn over interview
summaries, notes memoranda and all communications between
committee staff and witnesses related to the February 2008
hearing on steroids. The subpoena says it covers 20 individuals,
including former baseball players Jose Canseco, Andrew Pettitte
and Chuck Knoblauch.  Earlier today, the law firm hired to investigate steroid
use in  Major League Baseball , DLA Piper LLP, said it should be
spared from turning over about 20 documents, including
handwritten notes of witness interviews, because they are
protected by attorney confidentiality rules.  Senator  George Mitchell   The steroid report, published in 2007, was written by
former U.S. Senator George Mitchell, who was a partner at
Chicago-based DLA Piper at the time.  “These documents were prepared in anticipation of
litigation, they are ‘opinion’ work product of the sort that is
virtually immune from production,” DLA Piper said in court
papers.  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and  Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career,
pleaded not guilty.  He faces a $1.5 million fine and a maximum of 30 years in
prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is scheduled
to begin July 6.  Clemens’s lawyer, Michael Attanasio, declined to comment.  William Pittard, assistant counsel in the House general
counsel’s office, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia   Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 