-- 
Parmalat Advances After Lactalis Says It May Raise Stake

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-03-18T16:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/parmalat-shares-advance-after-lactalis-says-it-may-raise-stake.html
  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  gained in Milan
trading after Groupe Lactalis said it may raise its stake in
Italy’s largest dairy company, joining a battle for control with
other shareholders, including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Parmalat shares rose 10 cents, or 4 percent, to 2.60 euros
at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading, valuing the company, based
near Parma, at 4.51 billion euros ($6.4 billion).  Lactalis, whose cheese brands include Galbani and
President, said yesterday it acquired a direct holding of 7.3
percent in Parmalat, plus equity swaps that may give it a
further 7 percent. Lactalis said it may increase the stake,
though the company doesn’t plan to breach the 30 percent
threshold at which it would be required to bid for Parmalat.  Today is the last day for nominations to the board, and
Lactalis still has to communicate its list, after Intesa,  Italy ’s second-largest bank and holder of 2.2 percent of
Parmalat, today announced a slate of board nominees, led by the
dairy’s CEO Enrico Bondi. That’s after a group of Parmalat
investors put forth a slate of alternative board candidates, led
by Massimo Rossi, a former manager at Swedish Match AB, who
pledged to boost growth through acquisitions.  “Lactalis’s objective is to develop a project that would
allow the two groups to offer a complete range of dairy
products,” Laval, France-based Lactalis said in a statement
late yesterday. The company said it aims to be Parmalat’s main
shareholder.  ‘Strategic Fit’  “There is a significant degree of ‘strategic fit’ between
Parmalat and Lactalis,” Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global in  London , said in a note today, adding the French company has
about 1 billion euros of sales in Italy. Merging their Italian
operations would involve few antitrust issues and allow
“substantial” cost savings, said Smith, who has a “conviction
buy” rating on Parmalat.  Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit Asset
Management AB, the shareholder group that already presented
board nominees, owns a combined 15.3 percent stake.  Lactalis’s ownership might hinder the company’s
development, Rossi said by phone today. Parmalat will “turn out
to be a top-five subsidiary” of Lactalis, rather than one of
the top five global competitors, he said.  Rossi said investors backing his list will probably own as
much as 23 percent of the company. He was aiming for as much as
25 percent earlier this week and said some investors may have
sold shares as stock markets plunged, he said.  Building Stakes  Lactalis’s interest “could materially drive up shares,”
said Chiara Rotelli, an analyst at Mediobanca in Milan, in a
note today. “This stake-building process could continue up to
the first days of April” ahead of the shareholder’s meeting,
scheduled to start April 12.  Parmalat shares have risen 21 percent since an initial
newspaper report on Jan. 26, confirmed later that day, that the
funds would present a list for a new board.  Intesa said in a statement today that Parmalat could
benefit from its candidates, some of whom already sit on the
company’s board. They have “experience of the national economic
context” and “ability to take advantage of the best
opportunities for growth on international markets,” it said.  Granarolo SpA, a dairy producer in which Intesa owns a 20
percent stake, is unlikely to form an accord with Lactalis for
rival Parmalat, daily  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported today, citing
Granarolo Chairman Gianpiero Calzolari.  Italy’s Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti in today’s Cabinet
meeting discussed a plan to adopt measures to protect
"strategic" companies, similar to French rules, according to a
government statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  