-- 
British Pound Weakens Against Euro as Consumer Confidence Falls to Record

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-18T17:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/pound-heads-for-fourth-week-of-declines-against-euro-as-confidence-drops.html
The pound slid against the euro,
heading for the longest run of weekly declines since October,
after a report showed U.K.  consumer confidence  fell to a record
low, fueling concern the economic recovery will slow.  Sterling gained versus the dollar. A gauge of U.K.
sentiment dropped to 38 last month, the lowest since records
began in 2004,  Nationwide Building Society  said today. The pound
jumped against the yen as Group of Seven nations intervened to
weaken the Japanese currency. Gilts climbed, while implied
yields on short-sterling futures dropped, as traders scaled back
bets the Bank of England will raise interest rates.  “Consumer confidence was certainly weak, and goes to show
that sterling will remain on the back foot,” said Jane Foley, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “The market has reined in its expectations of  Bank of
England  rate hikes this year.”  The pound was 0.5 percent weaker against the euro at 87.30
pence as of 4:54 p.m. in London, after depreciating to
87.61 pence, the weakest level since Nov. 5. Against the dollar,
the U.K. currency was 0.6 percent higher at $1.6234.  Sterling has gained 1.9 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. It trails behind the euro’s
3.9 percent advance, the Swedish krona and Norwegian krone. The
pound has lost 1.8 percent against the 17-nation European
currency since Dec. 31.  Gilts Advance  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell
four basis points to 3.51 percent, with two-year note yields
also three basis points lower, at 1.19 percent.  The  United Nations Security Council  authorized the
imposition of a no-fly zone over Libya yesterday, sending  oil
prices  higher and stoking investors’ demand for assets perceived
as being the safest. Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s regime said
it was ceasing all military action versus rebel forces today.  Short-sterling futures rose, pushing the implied yield on
the contract maturing in December down five basis points to 1.34
percent. U.K. borrowing costs will rise by 27 basis points in
August to 0.77 percent, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia.  “Sterling will remain in its under-performing position,”
analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker , London-based global head
of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a
client note today. “So long as the BOE sits on its hands and
abstains from raising rates, the U.K.’s negative real rates will
continue to go south.”    Interest Rates   Bank of England policy makers, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
are divided on whether to focus on boosting an economy that
shrank in the fourth quarter or containing inflation that has
accelerated to twice a 2 percent target.  Gilts made 1.08 percent this month, while German  government
securities  lost 0.1 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The FTSE 100 Index of stocks fell
4.6 percent in the period.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled earlier this month that the bank may raise its key rate
from 1 percent as soon as next month. King said earlier this
month that boosting rates too soon would be a “futile
gesture,” though there is still a “perfectly reasonable case
for doing it now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  