-- 
Princeton Can’t Match 13th-Seed Magic in NCAA Basketball Loss to Kentucky

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-18T05:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/princeton-can-t-match-13th-seed-magic-in-ncaa-basketball-loss-to-kentucky.html
The situation was familiar for  Princeton University  -- playing a college basketball powerhouse
as a No. 13 seed with Sydney Johnson at the helm. This time, the
Tigers came up just short.  Princeton  took the  University of Kentucky  to the final
minute yesterday before losing 59-57 in Tampa,  Florida , on a
driving layup by Brandon Knight with two seconds left.  Princeton wasn’t able to match its tournament magic from 15
years ago, when Johnson -- now the school’s coach -- was the
leading scorer in the 13th-seeded Tigers’ 43-41 win against
defending champion UCLA. Kentucky, the fourth seed in the East
Regional, avoided its biggest upset in 51 trips to the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  “Princeton and  Kentucky , from my vantage point, are two of
the best basketball programs that we’ve seen in college
basketball,” Johnson, one of 10 coaches in this year’s field
who is at his alma mater, said during a news conference. “I
wanted to demand from our players that we live up to that, and I
think we did that.”  Princeton put a scare into the seven-time national
champions before falling to 13-28 in its Ivy League-record 24
NCAA tournament appearances.  It was the latest in a series of NCAA near misses for the
Tigers, who lost to top-seeded Georgetown 50-49 as a 16th seed
in 1989. The following year, Princeton fell 68-64 against an
Arkansas team that reached the Final Four. In 1991, the Tigers
were beaten by Villanova 50-48.  “We prepared this whole week to beat these guys and our
team believed that we could do it,” said senior forward Kareem
Maddox, who scored 12 points off the bench.  1998 Win  Princeton’s last NCAA tournament victory was in 1998, when
it beat the University of Nevada-Las Vegas as a fifth seed. The
Tigers are 0-3 in the tournament since then.  “It was just trying to find that sweet spot where we were
ready to perform,” said Johnson, who broke down in tears at his
postgame news conference. “We were excited about these bright
lights and all the hype that surrounds us, but we were focused
on the task at hand and what we had to do.”  Princeton, which beat  Harvard University  in a playoff for
the  Ivy League ’s automatic NCAA berth, recovered against
Kentucky after falling behind 11-2 in the opening minutes.  “They came out firing a little bit,” said senior guard
Dan Mavraides. “I don’t know what it was for us, maybe another
big stage, a little jitters or something. But I knew we would
settle in.”  Tigers Lead  The Tigers, who have improved their record in each of
Johnson’s four seasons as coach, led in the second half 44-39
before Kentucky went on a 14-4 scoring run.  Princeton trailed 57-53 with two minutes left before tying
the game on jump shots by Maddox and Mavraides, who led the
Tigers with 14 points.  After a timeout, Kentucky put the ball in the hands of
Knight, a freshman who was the Wildcats’ leading scorer this
season at 17.5 points a game. Knight had been held scoreless and
missed all seven of his shots before driving to the basket and
hitting the game-winner.  The lowest-ranked team Kentucky has lost to since seedings
were introduced was No. 11 Middle Tennessee in 1982. The
Wildcats advance to face  West Virginia  tomorrow.  “I knew they were going to fight for their lives,” Knight
said in the Kentucky locker room. “They are a great team and
they came out and battled us to the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  