-- 
Radiation’s Effect on Food, Agriculture: Questions and Answers

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n ,   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-18T09:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/radiation-s-effect-on-food-agriculture-questions-and-answers.html
Radiation leaks from Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern  Japan 
may contaminate the rice, beef and fish produced in the region,
scientists say.  Officials in the country’s 47 prefectures have been asked
to test agricultural and marine products and drinking water for
possible contamination to keep tainted food, including grains,
milk, vegetables, meat and eggs, from being consumed, Kumiko Tanaka, an official at the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare, said today.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
the ways in which pollution from a nuclear power plant can
contaminate food. The information is drawn from interviews with
scientists in  India ,  Australia  and  New Zealand  and the
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  Q: How does nuclear radiation affect food?
A: A damaged nuclear plant, like the one in Japan’s Fukushima
prefecture, releases radiation and radioactive particles. The
former is energy and the latter is matter.  Exposing food to radiation doesn’t always make it harmful
to human health. Fruit and vegetables are often  irradiated  to
increase their shelf life. Food products that contain
radioactive nuclei, which are subatomic particles that emit
gamma rays, can be toxic and may cause cancer.  Q: How far from the plant will radioactive particles travel?
A: That depends on the prevailing wind and weather. There is
insufficient data available to say how far the effects of the
radiation will linger. Radioactive elements are heavy and don’t
remain airborne very long.  Soil may be contaminated within a 10-mile radius, posing a
danger for human occupation for at least three decades. Food
production from an area 10 miles to 20 miles away may be unsafe.
Radiation levels may be not be affected from a distance of 40
miles to 50 miles.  Q: What kinds of contamination can occur?
A: Fuel rods exposed to the atmosphere may emit radioactive
cesium and iodine, both of which are cancer causing agents.  The  iodine  may be carried in the air and get deposited on
grass and plants. When cows eat these plants, the milk they
produce is also contaminated and may be unfit for consumption.  Atoms of radioactive cesium may be absorbed by plants, and
fruit and vegetables from these plants may contain harmful
concentrations. Cesium is also absorbed in the soil and can
remain there for many decades.  Q: What happens when you eat contaminated food?
A: Radioactive particles accumulate in the body and continue to
release radiation. This may lead to changes in the molecular
structure of the cells and has been linked to cancer.  Iodine-131, the radioactive form of iodine, is absorbed by
the thyroid and can cause thyroid cancer.  Cesium-137 , which
isn’t stored in any one part of the body, increases the overall
cancer risk by as much as a few percentage points.  Q: What happens when you eat irradiated food?
A: Exposing foods to controlled amounts of  gamma rays  through a
process called irradiation is used to extend shelf life of
vegetables like onions and potatoes and kill harmful bacteria in
meat. There are guidelines for the maximum amount of radiation
for various food products.  When the exposure exceeds permissible levels, the food may
become unpalatable.  Q: How do you know if food is contaminated?
A: A sensitive radiation  detector  can be used to detect food
contaminated with radioactive particles. There is no externally
visible sign or indication.  Q: Is there a way to remove radioactivity?
A: No. Often radioactive particles are absorbed inside plants or
meat, and washing or cooking may not remove them.  Q: How long does it take for the radioactivity to go away?
A: This depends on the kind of contamination. Iodine-131 has a
so-called half life, which is the time it takes for the level of
radioactivity to drop to half the starting level, of eight days.
In a few weeks, most of the iodine will have broken down in the
environment.  Cesium-137 has a half-life of 30 years and may take
centuries to breakdown completely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  