-- 
Rand Gains Versus Dollar, Yen as G-7 Pledges to Help Foster Japan Recovery

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-18T08:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/rand-advances-against-dollar-yen-as-g-7-intervenes-to-aid-japan.html
The rand advanced against the
dollar and had its biggest jump against the yen in 10 months
after the Group of Seven nations said they will jointly
intervene in foreign-exchange markets to aid  Japan ’s recovery.  The rand gained as much as 1.4 percent to 7.0035 per
dollar, and traded 1 percent stronger at 7.0332 at 9:54 a.m. in
Johannesburg, the best performance out of more than 20 emerging-
market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Against the yen, the
South African currency climbed 4.4 percent to 11.6160 yen per
rand, its biggest intraday jump since May 26, after tumbling to
a two-year low of 10.6905 yesterday.  Stock markets rose, commodity prices rallied and the yen
fell against all of its 16 major counterparts as Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said each G-7 country will sell the
Japanese currency. The yen sales are an attempt to limit the
damage a strong Japanese currency will have on the nation’s
economy in the aftermath of the magnitude 9.0 earthquake.  “This news has sparked a sharp weakening of the dollar and
prompted commodity prices to shift higher once more,”
supporting the rand, Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in an e-mailed note.
“Global equity markets are showing further signs of
stability.”  G-7 members haven’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  South Africa ’s benchmark stock
index, the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index, jumped as much as
1.2 percent as the prices rose for gold and platinum, which
account for a fifth of South Africa’s export earnings.  Carry Trade  Efforts by the  Bank of Japan  and the G-7 nations to
stabilize Japan’s markets may encourage Japanese investors to
maintain positions in high-yielding currencies such as the rand,
Bertenshaw wrote. Japanese investors own about $3.9 billion of
rand-based Eurobonds, known as uridashi.  It may also prompt other investors to buy rand assets to
benefit from the country’s relatively high  interest rates . South
Africa’s benchmark interest rate is at 5.5 percent compared with
near-zero rates in the U.S. and Japan. The gap has boosted the
rand through the carry trade, in which investors buy currencies
of low-interest-rate nations and invest where yields are higher.  “All of this will go some way to shielding high-yielding
emerging-market currencies against a full-blown unwinding of”
Japan-based carry trade, Bertenshaw wrote. “It also means that
for those with appetite for risk, the carry trade becomes an
option once more.”  South African  government bonds  rose for the first day in
three. The 13.5 percent bond maturing in Sept. 2015 climbed 6
cents to 120.821, driving the yield down 4 basis points to 7.886
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 