-- 
Treasuries Decline as G-7 Yen Intervention Damps Safety Demand

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-18T08:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/treasuries-decline-as-japan-says-g-7-will-coordinate-on-yen-intervention.html
Treasuries fell for a second day
after Group of Seven nations said they would jointly intervene
in the  currency market  to weaken the yen, helping boost Japanese
stocks and reduce demand for safer assets.  Benchmark notes pared their biggest weekly gain this month
as the yen dropped the most in two years after Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said each G-7 member will sell the
currency as its market opens. Treasuries rose earlier as oil
surged after the United Nations Security Council authorized the
use of air attacks and a no-fly zone over Libya.  “Right now the foreign exchange and equity markets are
greater determinants of market direction and we’ve had such a
strong week of risk on-risk off that could still flip at any
time,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Agricole SA in London. “There remain many outside, non-
financial factors:  Japan , Libya, and the yen interventions add
further complexity to the mix” for Treasury markets.  The yield on the 10-year note rose one basis point to 3.27
percent as of 8:16 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 3.625 percent security due in February
2021 declined 1/16, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 103.
The yield has dropped 13 basis points this week.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose as much as 3.5 percent
today as the weaker yen boosted the outlook for Japanese
exporters and encouraged investors to buy higher-yielding
assets.  Yen Intervention  Japan began the G-7 intervention effort, Noda told
reporters in  Tokyo . The yen tumbled 3.6 percent to 81.69 per
dollar, the biggest one-day drop since October 2008. The
currency surged to a postwar high of 76.25 yesterday amid
concern over radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear plant and
speculation insurers and investors will redeem overseas assets
to pay for reconstruction.  Declines in Treasuries were tempered by speculation unrest
in North Africa and the Middle East will deepen, pushing up  oil
prices  and boosting demand for the safest securities.  Libyan jets yesterday dropped bombs on the outskirts of
Benghazi, the rebel stronghold, and leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said
his forces would move within hours against the coastal city. The
UN’s principal policy-making panel voted 10-0, with five
abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a no-fly
zone over  Libya , demands a cease-fire and allows “all necessary
measures” to protect civilians.  ‘Flight to Quality’  “The flight to quality movement will continue, so Treasury
yields will decline further,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior
investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees
the equivalent of $42.2 billion and is a unit of Japan’s second-
largest bank. “The Middle East and North Africa situation is
very severe and maybe there’s a possibility that these movements
spread to  Saudi Arabia  or other countries.”  Oil surged 3.5 percent yesterday, the most in three weeks,
after Bahraini security forces arrested opposition leaders and
accused them of having ties with foreign countries.  The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to purchase as much as $2
billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS,
maturing from April 2013 to February 2041 today as part of the
plan to use asset purchases to keep borrowing costs low.  Demand for Treasuries may be trimmed before a Commerce
Department report on March 25 forecast to show the  U.S. economy 
grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, faster
than the 2.8 percent previously calculated, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard W. Fisher said March 7
the U.S. recovery is gaining strength and he might vote to cut
short the central bank’s program of large-scale asset purchases
if he believed it to be “counterproductive.” Fisher is
scheduled to speak March 22 at a financial summit in  Frankfurt .  ‘Quite Positive’  The difference between yields on two- and 10-year notes
widened for a second day as investors demanded a greater premium
to own longer-maturity debt. The spread was 268 basis points
after shrinking to a three-month low of 258 basis points on
March 17.  “The fundamental backdrop for the U.S. is quite
positive,” said Damien McColough, head of fixed-income research
in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest
lender. “At some stage you want to get short Treasuries, but
you need to have a lot more certainty around the geopolitical
situation as well as the nuclear situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  