-- 
Tribune Judge Says He Will Weigh Naming Trustee Over Case

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-18T22:32:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/tribune-judge-says-he-will-consider-appointing-trustee-for-case.html
The judge overseeing Tribune Co.’s
bankruptcy urged warring creditors to settle their court battle
or face the possibility he will appoint a trustee to reorganize
the newspaper and television company.  After hearing two weeks of testimony about the competing
reorganization plans, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey told
lawyers today that should neither proposal satisfy him, he will
consider appointing a Chapter 11 Trustee to oversee the company.  “I leave you with my encouragement to continue to have
discussions,” Carey said.  The two groups of creditors will return to Wilmington,  Delaware , on April 11 to present more witnesses for and against
the two plans.  At the beginning of the court hearing earlier this month,
Carey agreed with one lawyer in the case, who called the
Tribune’s reorganization process “water torture.”  The two plans differ mainly over how to settle allegations
that the company’s 2007 leveraged buyout made the company
insolvent. The lenders that financed the $8.2 billion
transaction, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have proposed settling
the claims by paying more than $500 million to the pre-buyout
creditors.  Rejected Settlement  The pre-buyout creditors, led by hedge fund Aurelius
Capital Management LP, have rejected that settlement and say
lawsuits related to the buyout should go forward after Tribune
exits bankruptcy. Under their plan as much as 65 percent of the
company’s stock would remain under the control of a trust while
the lawsuits were resolved.  Under both plans, JPMorgan and the other lenders would be
the majority owners. The company filed bankruptcy in 2008, one
year after the buyout, which was led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Today Tribune is worth about $6.75 billion. It has about
$13 billion of debt, most if it from the buyout.  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
of 1.9 million last year. The company’s 23 TV stations include
sites in  New York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 