-- 
Trichet Affirms ECB Plan to Raise Interest Rates Amid Japan Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-18T17:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/trichet-says-ecb-policy-makers-have-nothing-to-withdraw-on-rate-stance.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated the bank still plans to raise  interest rates  next month, saying he doesn’t want to change his
message on the need to contain inflation.  “I have nothing to add, nothing to withdraw,” Trichet
told reporters today in Frankfurt when asked if policy makers
are still in a posture of strong vigilance, ECB code words for
an imminent rate increase. “No new message at all,” he said.  Trichet took investors by surprise earlier this month when
he announced the ECB may raise its benchmark rate from a record
low of 1 percent in April. Since a magnitude 9.0 earthquake and
tsunami rocked  Japan  on March 11, triggering a nuclear crisis
that threatens to erode confidence on financial markets and hurt
economic growth, investors have pared bets on higher ECB rates.  “The potential impact of the earthquake and aftermath is
something we will be thinking deeply about in the coming days,”
Trichet said.  Euribor futures and German two-year notes extended declines
and the euro advanced after Trichet’s comments.  The yield on the Euribor futures contract expiring in
December jumped nine basis points to 2.03 percent as of 4:15
p.m. in  London . The two-year German note yield was also nine
basis points higher at 1.66 percent.  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month
and has exceeded the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December.  “We are extremely attentive to preserve the appropriate
anchoring of inflation expectations,” Trichet said.  Crude  oil prices  rose to a 29-month high of close to $107 a
barrel on March 7 as escalating violence in  Libya  renewed
concern that supply disruptions may spread through the Middle
East and North Africa. Oil traded as high as $103 a barrel
today.  ECB policy makers are concerned about so-called second-
round effects, when companies increase prices and boost wages to
compensate for higher costs, entrenching faster inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  