-- 
Rovio Grooming ‘Angry Birds’ Maker for Possible U.S. IPO

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-18T17:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/rovio-is-grooming-angry-birds-maker-for-possible-nasdaq-ipo-ceo-says.html
Rovio Mobile Oy , the maker of the
hit mobile-phone game “Angry Birds,” is grooming its business
for an initial public offering, Chief Executive Officer Mikael Hed said.  “We probably want to be in a marketplace that is as liquid
as possible, which would probably mean  NASDAQ  is our stock
exchange of choice,” Hed said in a phone interview. “If we can
do it in the next few years, that would be great.”  With its arsenal of birds fired from slingshots at
fortresses of pigs who’ve stolen their eggs, Angry Birds raced
up the charts on the iPhone to become the top-selling paid
software in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App Store last year. Angry Birds now
boasts 40 million active users.  Rovio, based in Espoo,  Finland , last week announced $42
million in funding from investors including Skype Technologies
SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom’s Atomico Ventures. That may
value the company at 200 million euros ($284 million), Finnish
business website Talouselaemae  said  today. Hed dismissed the
figure as speculation.  Rovio booked more than 5 million euros ($7 million) in
sales and 3 million euros in profit for the second half of 2010,
Hed said. It plans to use the venture funding to expand into new
markets such as online games and consoles.  Rovio is readying a new Angry Birds game with a storyline
tied to upcoming animated bird film “ Rio ” from Blue Sky
Studios, the makers of “Ice Age,” and 20th Century Fox.  Expansion Planned  “We are working exactly according to plan, we’re releasing
a lot of new games, there’s ‘Rio’ coming out next week, that’s
going to be a big thing,” Hed said. “There’s a lot of new
development happening on the studio side and the business
development side.”  Rovio, whose founders met at a Helsinki hacking contest in
2003, published more than 50 games for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  phones and
other handsets before hitting the big time with Angry Birds.  The 50-person company, has also introduced versions of
Angry Birds for desktop computers, and sold more than 2 million
stuffed toys shaped like the game’s characters, priced at
between $11.99 and $59.99 on its website store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  