-- 
Russia Funds See First Outflow in 16 Weeks on Japan Concern

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/russia-funds-see-first-outflow-in-16-weeks-on-japan-concern-2-.html
Russia-focused equity funds had
their first outflows in 16 weeks as investors shunned riskier
assets on concern  Japan ’s earthquake will slow a global
recovery, UralSib Financial Corp. said, citing EPFR Global data.  Outflows from Russian funds reached $58 million in the
seven days to March 16, after inflows of $486 million the week
before, the data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm  EPFR Global  show.  “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to events in Japan,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib, wrote in an e-mailed report
today. “The redemption from Russia funds should be short-
lived,” he said. “Continuing fighting in Libya and the threat
of instability in  Saudi Arabia  is supporting the oil price.”  Oil, Russia’s biggest export, gained as much as $2.24 to
$103.66 a barrel today. Futures slipped as much as 1.4 percent
yesterday on concern damage from Japan’s earthquake and tsunami
will curb demand for crude.    Russia ’s benchmark Micex index has gained 3.5 percent so
far in 2011, beating indexes in Brazil and India, as the biggest
energy-exporting country benefits from a 23 percent advance in
oil during the the past year. The 30-stock Micex gauge advanced
to its highest in a more than a week, adding 0.6 percent to
1,747.32 by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow.  Russian markets are “cheap,” Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman Jim O’Neill said yesterday at the Bloomberg
Link Hedge Fund Conference in  London . The country is GLG
Partners LP’s “favorite” emerging market and will benefit from
a flight of capital away from the Middle East, Bart Turtelboom,
co-head of emerging markets, said at the same event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  