-- 
South African Business Group Says Labor Law Change Will Discourage Hiring

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-18T14:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/s-african-business-group-says-labor-law-change-to-harm-jobs-1-.html
One of  South Africa ’s main business
groups said planned labor law changes would discourage employers
from hiring as Africa’s biggest economy struggles to bring down
its 24 percent jobless rate.  Business Unity South Africa President Futhi Mtoba today
told a jobs summit hosted by President  Jacob Zuma  that the
government’s proposed legislative changes to give workers more
job security and improve conditions for contract laborers would
“not promote employment and constitute a full-frontal assault
on competitiveness.”  Companies are thinking “carefully” about whether to
rebuild their workforce after South Africa’s first recession
since the end of white rule in 1994 led to over a million job
losses in 2009, Mtoba said.  Making  job creation  his top policy priority, Zuma has
pledged to help create 5 million new jobs in the next decade, in
a country with the highest  unemployment rate  among 60 ranked by
Bloomberg.  Government ministers and business executives such as Adrian Gore, chief executive officer of  Discovery Holdings Ltd. (DSY) , which
owns South Africa’s largest medical insurance administrator, and
Patrice Motsepe, the chairman of  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) ,
also attended the meeting in Pretoria.  Working Conditions  South African trade unions, which are in alliance with
Zuma’s ruling African National Congress, are campaigning for
workers to enjoy better conditions and to make it harder to fire
them. Zuma said he will address ways to foster jobs growth at a
meeting with labor groups on April 19.  While government will stimulate industry by spending on
infrastructure, Zuma said, private industry shares the
responsibility in creating work.  “The responsibility of business is to grow and to create
jobs,” Zuma said. “The role of government is to create the
conditions to encourage the kind of growth that creates jobs.”  The government and business leaders agreed to create a
joint panel that will spend the next month working out how to
promote employment.  Trade Minister Rob Davies told reporters the government
didn’t make a commitment to leave land, mining and labor laws
unchanged, as requested by business leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 