-- 
Saudi King to Spend $67 Billion on Housing, Jobs in Bid to Pacify Citizens

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-03-18T16:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/saudi-arabian-king-abdullah-boosts-spending-as-protests-sweep-arab-world.html
  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah
ordered sweeping increases in spending, including $67 billion on
housing and funds for the military and religious groups that
backed the government’s ban on domestic protests.  The new package, which follows a $36 billion handout
announced on Feb. 23, will probably help prevent unrest from
gathering pace in the kingdom, analysts said. A call for a March
11 demonstration in the kingdom failed to materialize after the
government deployed troops at designated assembly points for the
rally and senior clerics denounced protests as un-Islamic.  “This will certainly buy the regime time,” Rawad Hakme,
portfolio manager at EFG Hermes U.A.E. Ltd, said by e-mail
today. “Economically speaking, these measures may resolve
things to a certain extent, but ultimately people are hungry for
democracy, which money can’t buy.”  More than two months of unrest across the Middle East and
North Africa has toppled the Egyptian and Tunisian presidents
and led to a civil war in  Libya  and deadly clashes in Saudi
Arabia’s neighbors, Yemen and  Bahrain . Demonstrators are
demanding civil rights, higher  living standards  and the removal
of entrenched autocratic regimes.  Saudi troops intervened earlier this week in Bahrain, where
mainly Shiite protesters called for free elections and a
constitutional monarchy. The kingdom’s own Shiite minority has
held regular demonstrations for the past few weeks calling for
the release of Shiite prisoners.  Petitions Ignored  The new decrees didn’t address political reforms requested
in petitions sent to the king by Shiite and Sunni intellectuals
and scholars recently.  “The package was mostly for the military, security and
religious establishments,” said Jaafar Shayeb, a human-rights
activist in the eastern city of Qatif. “There was very little
for the average citizen and nothing regarding political reform,
elections and changing the government.”  The new spending plans may cost the government as much as
350 billion riyals ($93 billion), according to John Sfakianakis
Riyadh-based chief economist at  Banque Saudi Fransi. (BSFR)  That’s
equivalent to just under a quarter of Saudi gross domestic
product. The new measures supplement previous announced spending
plans, Sfakianakis said.  ‘Critical Time’  Today’s package was announced in a royal decree read on
state television. Saudi Arabia needs to create 5 million jobs
for nationals by 2030, Labor Minister Adel Faqih said in
January. The  unemployment rate  is as high as 43 percent for
Saudis between the ages of 20 and 24.  “We are at a very critical time and the number one
priority is to keep the people satisfied,” said Amro Halwani,
senior equity sales trader at  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp.’s bonds rose, pushing the
yield to the lowest in almost a month, after the spending
measures were announced. Sabic’s $1.5 billion of 9.5 percent
notes due August 2015 rose to 105.8 percent of face value,
pushing their yield to 7.9 percent, the lowest since Feb. 21,
prices on Bloomberg show. Bonds of the state-owned
petrochemicals maker are used as a proxy for the government,
which has no outstanding debt.  The government in August announced a $385 billion, five-
year spending plan to help tackle joblessness and stop young men
from turning to more radical Islam.  Houses, Mortgages  The king today ordered the construction of 500,000 houses
for Saudis at a cost of 250 billion riyals, and raised the value
of mortgages provided to nationals by the country’s Real Estate
Development Fund to 500,000 riyals from 300,000 riyals. The
government fund provides interest-free loans to citizens across
the kingdom.  “They will not be able to do all these measures in one
year,” Sfakianakis said. “They could spread it out over the
next 3-5 years.”  “Some will be immediately enforced, like the bonuses, but
the housing, you won’t be able to build half a million housing
units in one year,” he said. “You will not be able to spend
more than at best 25 percent of what they have outlined,
excluded the bonuses, salaries.”    King Abdullah  also allocated 1.2 billion riyals to be spent
on mosques and in support of clerical institutions including the
religious police, or Mutawa’a, who enforce the austere strain of
Islam the kingdom follows. The decree also ordered the media not
to criticize the religious establishment.  Internal Security  Senior Muslim scholars have been vocal in their opposition
to calls of protest and have issued decrees banning them. Their
words carry weight in the mostly conservative country and their
support for the government at this sensitive time is crucial.  The king boosted the internal security forces by 60,000 and
ordered promotions in the military. He also decreed the creation
of an anti-corruption agency, added 500 jobs to the Ministry of
Trade to monitor prices and allocated 16 billion riyals to the
building and expansion of hospitals and medical centers.  He granted all government employees two months of their
salaries and students a two-month payment. The king also set a
minimum wage of 3,000 riyals a month for all Saudis.  Saudi Arabia, an absolute monarchy, was classified as the
least democratic country in the Middle East in the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Riyadh  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  