-- 
HSBC Was Warned About Madoff ‘Fraud Risks’ in 2006 and 2008 KPMG Reports

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-18T20:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hsbc-was-told-about-bernard-madoff-fund-fraud-risks-in-two-kpmg-reports.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
lender, was warned twice by auditors that entrusting as much as
$8 billion in client funds to  Bernard Madoff  opened it up to
“fraud and operational risks.”  KPMG LLP told the London-based bank about the risks in 2006
and 2008 reports. The firm was hired to review how Madoff
invested and accounted for the funds, for which HSBC served as
custodian. KPMG reported 25 such risks in 2006, and in 2008
found 28, according to copies of the reports obtained by
Bloomberg News, which was allowed access to them on the
condition they not be published.  Twenty-five “fraud and related operational risks were
identified throughout the process whereby Madoff LLC receive,
check and account for client funds,”  KPMG  said in the 56-page
report dated Feb. 16, 2006. The limited controls in place “may
not prevent fraud or error occurring on client accounts if
management or staff at Madoff LLC either override controls or
undertake activities where appropriate controls are not in
place,” according to the report.  A 66-page KPMG report dated Sept. 8, 2008, cited 28 risks
and described them in the same words as the 2006 document.  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, sued HSBC and a dozen feeder funds
for $9 billion in December in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . The suit was partly based on the KPMG reports and
alleges the bank knew of concerns Madoff’s business was a fraud
and didn’t protect investors. KPMG’s reports haven’t been made
public. Picard has filed more than $50 billion in so-called
clawback suits to compensate victims.  Reviews ‘Foiled’  In the reports, KPMG didn’t present evidence the risks it
identified had materialized or that it found signs of actual
fraud, and said HSBC had told the firm “no allegations of fraud
or misconduct have been raised.”  HSBC confirmed hiring KPMG in 2005 and 2008 to review
Madoff’s firm, adding it now believed Madoff had tricked the
auditors. “It appears from U.S. government filings that Madoff
and his employees foiled these reviews by, among other things,
providing forged documentation to KPMG,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement.  “KPMG did not conclude in either of its reports that a
fraud was being committed by Madoff,” HSBC said. “HSBC did not
know that a fraud was being committed and lost $1 billion of its
own assets as a victim.”  HSBC Spokesman Patrick Humphris, KPMG spokesman Mark
Hamilton and Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard’s lawyers
Baker & Hostetler LLP, all declined to confirm the authenticity
of the reports obtained by Bloomberg.  Custodian  At the time of the first report, HSBC was custodian for
eight funds that had invested $2 billion with Madoff, KPMG said.
By 2008, the bank was custodian for 12 funds with as much as $8
billion invested.  “We continue to believe that we have strong defenses to
the claims made against us and we will defend ourselves,” the
London-based bank added.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to using money from new
investors to pay old ones and is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  In the list of risks in KPMG’s report, number 2 was that
“BLM embezzles client funds,” using the initials as shorthand
for Bernard L. Madoff. To prevent it, KPMG recommended in both
2006 and 2008 that HSBC “establish a process to monitor monthly
statements” and reconcile them with contributions from clients.  KPMG didn’t perform tests to check that risk.  ‘A Sham’  The 2006 report listed fraud risk number 5 as “client
cash is diverted for personal gain” and risk number 18 as
“trade is a sham in order to divert client cash.” It went on
to say there were concerns “Madoff LLC falsely reports buy/sell
trades without actually executing in order to earn commissions”
and “BLM falsifies accounting records which are provided to
HSBC.”  KPMG reviewed samples of trades and account statements for
both its 2006 and 2008 reports to test the risks and detected no
discrepancies, the reports said. Even so, the firm suggested
HSBC “consider undertaking a periodic review which includes
tracing a sample of client trades back to the bulk order.”  HSBC declined to comment on individual risks cited in the
reports, citing the pending lawsuit.  In prefaces to the reports, KPMG said it wasn’t hired to
audit Madoff LLC and based its reports on information Madoff and
his staff provided, which wasn’t independently verified.  HSBC units in Bermuda, Luxembourg and Dublin acted as
custodian for 12 funds including: Pioneer Investment’s Primeo
Select, Bank Medici’s Herald (Lux) and Thema International, as
well as Herald USA, Alpha Prime, Lagoon Investment, Senator,
Kingate Global, Defender and Global Investments.  The bank was also sued in Ireland and Luxembourg by
investors over Madoff investments.  In its 2010  annual report , HSBC said that by Nov. 30, 2008,
the aggregate value of those funds was $8.4 billion, including
fictitious profits Madoff reported.  HSBC said that it was impossible to estimate the range of
potential liabilities that could arise from lawsuits including
Picard’s, adding that “they could be significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  and;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 