-- 
Scotland Energy Plan Nixes Offshore Wind Projects Planned by E.ON, Dong

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-18T17:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/scotland-energy-plan-nixes-offshore-wind-projects-planned-by-e-on-dong.html
  Scotland  has declared unviable
three proposed locations for offshore wind farms, a potential
setback for  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and Dong Energy A/S, which are planning
projects at some of the sites.  The  Crown Estate , which manages the U.K. seabed,  granted  in
2009 development rights for wind farms at  10 locations  in
Scottish waters. Scotland’s government today identified as
suitable six of those sites, under its  Blue Seas, Green Energy 
plan.  The plan found that three sites, in Kintyre, Solway Firth
and Wigtown Bay, should not be included in the nation’s offshore
wind plans, due to environmental and economic issues. Developers
determined last year that radar issues made one area unsuitable.  The decision lets energy companies move forward with
proposals to build as much as five gigawatts of wind farms by
2020, enough to power more than 3 million homes. It also means
that E.ON,  Germany ’s largest utility, and Dong, the largest
producer of electricity in  Denmark , must reconsider their plans.  E.ON, which was awarded rights to develop the Solway Firth
site, said it was “disappointed” with the decision made by the
Scottish government. “We don’t know what our next steps will be
at this stage,” Rebecca Mara, a spokeswoman for the company’s
E.ON U.K. Plc unit, said by telephone.  Dong has not pulled out of its proposed project, and will
take the conclusions of the report into consideration for
Wigtown Bay “and when looking at any other future
opportunities” in Scottish waters, spokesman Ulrik Frohlke said
in an e-mail today.  E.ON and Dong may still submit applications to build wind
farms at the excluded sites, though the environmental
assessments would make it difficult for them to receive permits,
a spokeswoman for the Scottish government said by phone.  Shelved Project    Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-largest
power producer, shelved this month plans to develop a 378-
megawatt wind farm at the Kintyre site, off Scotland’s west
coast, after surveys raised concerns about adequate winds and
the project’s potential impact on air traffic and recreation.
That decision “informed” Scotland’s evaluation, according to a
statement.  Scottish & Southern and its development partner Fluor Ltd.,
the U.K. unit of the U.S. construction company  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,
withdrew in May plans to build a wind farm at one of the 10
sites, citing radar issues.  Scottish & Southern is involved in two of the six projects
that received approval.  The Blue Waters, Green Energy plan identified 25 additional
offshore sites that may be suitable for wind projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  