-- 
Senators Press Obama to Deal on Debt-Cut Plan in Boost for Grand Bargain

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-03-18T21:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/senators-press-obama-to-deal-on-debt-cut-plan-in-boost-for-grand-bargain.html
A bipartisan majority of the  U.S.
Senate  called on President  Barack Obama  to lead a broad effort
to slash the nation’s debt through spending cuts and tax
increases as part of negotiations on this year’s budget.  A letter to Obama today signed by 64 senators said
“comprehensive deficit-reduction measures are imperative” and
the president’s leadership is vital.  “With a strong signal of support from you, we believe that
we can achieve consensus on these important fiscal issues,” the
letter said.  The call for Obama to widen the budget talks, made by 32
Republicans and 32 members of the Democratic caucus, gives a
boost to a bipartisan group of six senators trying to craft a
sweeping deficit-reduction plan that can pass Congress. The
number of signatures suggests that the group’s effort to reach a
grand bargain on spending and taxes has picked up support that
may help propel an eventual agreement through the Senate.  “I expected a lot, but this is an awful lot,” said
Senator Michael Bennet, the Colorado Democrat who circulated the
letter this week with Republican Senator Mike Johanns of  Nebraska . “I hope it will keep the conversation moving forward
and the Gang of Six working.”  Pressure on Obama  The letter also ratchets up pressure on Obama, who has said
he is prepared to work with members of both parties on debt
reduction, yet hasn’t put forward a plan. It says the discussion
should include cuts to the part of the budget that Congress
controls, as well as changes to entitlement programs such as
Social Security and Medicare, and a tax overhaul.  “We now have a very substantial number of senators who are
saying, ‘Look, we’ll step out there, we’ll make hard decisions,
we’ll look at this from a comprehensive standpoint, but we need
the leader of the country,’” Johanns told reporters in a
conference call.  The White House issued a statement calling the letter a
“positive development.” It said Obama has already made “down
payments” on slashing the debt, including by calling in his
latest budget for a five-year freeze on non-defense spending
controlled by Congress and limits on  tax deductions  for high-
income earners.  “The president agrees that any serious discussion of how
to tackle our long-term fiscal situation needs to include
entitlements and tax reform, which is why he committed to take
on both in his State of the Union address,” said Amy Brundage,
a White House spokeswoman.  ‘Something Big’ Happening  Budget experts who have been pushing for a debt-reduction
effort hailed the letter as a sign of momentum toward the goal.  “No one wants to make the first move on this issue, but if
no politicians act, our creditors surely will,” Maya MacGuineas
of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget said in a
statement. “Something big is happening, and those who don’t
confront our fiscal situation head on are going to be left
behind.”  Even with the fresh show of support, the six senators face
long odds as they seek a deal that would contain politically
painful steps for each party. Democrats are wary of undercutting
entitlement programs, particularly Social Security, while
Republicans are loath to raise taxes.  As a result, the six may opt for setting targets to slash
Social Security and Medicare in the future, rather than pushing
legislation that contains specific cuts and tax increases.  Political Benefits  While short of the grand bargain that some lawmakers
envision, members of the group increasingly believe that
avoiding detailed proposals now may be the only way to gain
congressional support, according to people familiar with their
views.  Setting deficit-cutting benchmarks has political benefits:
It would allow lawmakers to go on record backing debt reduction
-- responding to growing pressure from voters -- yet delay
casting votes to cut popular programs or raise taxes.  “It’s probably the more politically viable way, partially
because we don’t have time to do the major reforms in all of the
major authorization programs,” said Senator Rob Portman, an
Ohio Republican who served as President  George W. Bush ’s budget
chief. Portman, who signed the letter, said there is support for
the idea of “establishing what has to be the savings, and then
forcing Congress and the administration to do it.”  ‘Only Shot’  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a member of
the negotiating team, said during a March 15 congressional
hearing that while the approach is “imperfect,” it may be
Congress’s “only shot.” The North Dakota Democrat -- like the
other five senators involved -- declined to detail the
deliberations or confirm any agreement.  The proposal has risks, because Congress could simply
ignore the spending and revenue goalposts. It also may not
satisfy many lawmakers clamoring for quick, dramatic action to
bring down the debt, including Tea Party-backed Republicans who
made the deficit the centerpiece of their insurgent campaigns,
and some Democrats whose votes would be critical.  “It’s going to be necessary to provide more detail than
that to make real progress,” said Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat.  Pressure is mounting on the six senators, led by Democrat  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and Republican Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , to come up with a blueprint. The impasse over a series
of short-term spending bills to fund the government this year --
the latest of which cleared Congress yesterday and was signed by
Obama today -- underlines challenges facing the group.  Like Gramm-Rudman  While the plan would include some policy prescriptions, it
is likely to stop short of legislative language, according to
people familiar with the talks. The vehicle for enacting the
group’s work could be an amendment to legislation to increase
the debt ceiling similar to the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act
that set goals for specific cutbacks.  After the measure passed, Congress could enforce the
benchmarks by using its 2012 budget blueprint to order
congressional committees overseeing entitlement programs and
taxes to draw up legislation hitting the targets.  Lawmakers in both parties are growing frustrated debating
non-defense domestic discretionary spending in areas like
education and transportation that account for 12 percent of the
federal budget. Entitlements make up more than 40 percent.  Broader Discussions  In recent weeks, Senate leaders in both parties have
insisted on a broader discussion about entitlement and tax
reform. The calls for action reflect rising public alarm over
the deficit and its effect on economic growth.  A Bloomberg National Poll earlier this month found concern
about the deficit growing, with 29 percent citing it as the most
important issue, second only to jobs, which was chosen by 43
percent. At the same time, lopsided majorities opposed cuts to
Medicare or social programs that depend on congressional
appropriations.  With the latest temporary spending bill set to expire April
8, Congress is moving closer to a succession of confrontations
that may force the issue of dealing with entitlements.  Lawmakers must vote on this year’s budget, debate a 2012
plan that will emerge next month and decide as early as May on
raising the national debt ceiling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  