-- 
Indian Stocks Drop Most in Asia; Reliance Slides on Report Output May Fall

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-03-18T11:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/sensex-drops-on-inflation-interest-rates-concerns-as-price-of-oil-surges.html
Indian stocks declined, with the
benchmark index dropping for a second week, as surging  oil
prices  raised concerns about faster inflation and higher  interest rates .    Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  lost the most in almost 11 months
after an industry website reported natural gas production at a
field operated by the nation’s largest company by market value
may drop.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the largest
mortgage lender, fell for the fourth day. Oil climbed on
speculation turmoil in Libya may spread and disrupt supply.
India’s central bank yesterday signaled higher crude prices may
fan inflation as it raised borrowing costs for the eighth time
in a year.  “Inflation and rising oil prices are the biggest
concerns,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who manages about $100 million
as chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. in  New Delhi .
“There will be more interest-rate hikes. It’s better to book
some profits now and wait for the outlook to become clear.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
271.06, or 1.5 percent, to 17,878.81 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, taking its slide this week to 1.6 percent. The S&P CNX
Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange dropped 1.3 percent
to 5,373.70, while its March futures settled at 5,383. The BSE
200 Index retreated 1.3 percent to 2,209.71.  Reliance Tumbles  Reliance Industries sank 3.7 percent to 993 rupees, its
steepest drop since April 28. The company’s gas output from the
D1 and D3 fields in the KG-D6 block may decline to 38 million
cubic meters a day in 2012-13, Indianpetro reported on its
website, citing the company’s responses to  India ’s oil
regulator. Reliance accounts for more than 12 percent of the
Sensex index’s weight.  Reliance said the expected production figures in media
reports today are “purely provisional” and may change,
according to a statement on the Bombay Stock Exchange after the
market closed. S.K. Srivastava, director general at the
regulator, didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking
comment.  “Reliance is expected to seek the government’s approval
for capital expenditure on the field to increase output,” said
Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt., who owns Reliance shares. “In the absence of
higher capital expenditure, output will fall and that is
affecting the stock today. Higher capital expenditure could also
mean higher gas prices.”  Faster Inflation  Housing Development, the biggest mortgage lender, slid 2.6
percent to 620.3 rupees, capping its weekly decline at 6.1
percent.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the biggest lender, lost 1 percent
to 2,590.25 rupees, while its March futures settled at 2,592.10
rupees.  The  Reserve Bank  of India yesterday raised its inflation
forecast for the second time since January as it lifted the
benchmark repurchase rate by a quarter-percentage point to 6.75
percent, capping the steepest interest-rate increases among  Asia ’s major economies as oil prices rise and consumer demand
strengthens.  India’s key wholesale-price inflation unexpectedly
quickened to 8.31 percent in February, led by manufactured
product costs. That prompted the Reserve Bank yesterday to
predict the price gauge will reach 8 percent at the end of
March, compared with the 7 percent pace it estimated on Jan. 25.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may boost borrowing costs by
another 0.75 percentage point in 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc and DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. said. India imports three-quarters of its
energy needs and oil has surged 25 percent in the past 12
months, stoked by political turmoil in the Middle East and  Libya 
that threatens supplies.  Worst Performer  Crude oil climbed as much as 2.2 percent in  New York .
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops outside the rebel base of
Benghazi may face air strikes from the U.S.,  France  and other
allies after the  United Nations Security Council  authorized the
use of force to protect civilians.  The Sensex’s 13 percent drop this year makes it Asia’s
worst performer amid concern government measures to quell
inflation will hurt economic growth. The gauge has retreated 15
percent from a Nov. 5 record. Companies on the Sensex are valued
at an average 16.8 times estimated earnings, down from last
year’s high of about 21.5 times in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rebound Unlikely  Indian stocks are unlikely to rebound before the second
half of the year as the central bank seeks to curb the pace of
price increases, according to Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.
and Bank Julius Baer & Co.  India’s benchmark inflation pace is second only to  Russia 
among the so-called BRIC nations including  Brazil  and  China . It
is more than China’s 4.9 percent and Brazil’s 6.01 percent and
compares with 9.5 percent in Russia.  Emerging-market stock mutual funds recorded $2.2 billion of
outflows in the week to March 16, a Citigroup Inc. report said,
citing data compiled by research firm EPFR Global.  Overseas investors sold a net 1.25 billion rupees ($27.6
million) of Indian stocks on March 16, taking their outflow from
equities this year to 71.7 billion rupees, according to data on
the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  