-- 
Solar Rally Might Fizzle After Nuclear Accident ‘Hysteria,’ Investors Say

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-03-18T16:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/solar-rally-on-japan-s-nuclear-crisis-expected-to-fizzle-investors-say.html
The rally in solar shares after  Japan ’s atomic accident may fizzle because the crisis won’t
quickly boost demand for renewable power, investors including
First Empire Asset Management’s  Michael Obuchowski  said.  “The hysteria that helped run up solar stocks was not
warranted by the damage in Japan,” Obuchowski, chief investment
officer of the Hauppauge, New York-based firm that owns shares
in  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , said in an interview. “Down the road it
may lead to policy changes and the restoration of incentives,
but I don’t see that happening yet.”  The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index fell 1.6 percent
today, having risen as much as 10 percent since March 11, when
an earthquake and tsunami in Japan knocked out cooling systems
at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. reactor, releasing radioactive
pollution. While the incident triggered speculation governments
will scale back nuclear power in favor of renewable, solar panel
demand is stagnating.  Installations worldwide will climb 2.7 percent to 18.9
gigawatts this year after more than doubling last year,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. Government decisions
needed to push up demand faster aren’t likely to be made this
year, said Tucker Twitmyer, who helps manage $400 million in
clean energy investments at EnerTech Capital Partners.  ‘Dependent on Government’  “Solar is still so dependent on government incentives I
don’t think we’ll see any real boost to sales in the short
term,” Twitmyer said from the fund’s base in Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania . “The real winners will be natural gas and energy
efficiency.”  Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar, the world’s biggest
supplier of thin-film panels, climbed 10 percent since the
accident through yesterday and China’s  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rose 20
percent. First Solar was down 2 percent to $150.98 as of 12:37
p.m. and Trina sank 3.6 percent to $26.88. The Bloomberg solar
index dropped 1.7 percent to 112.66 points.    Germany  has idled seven reactors and said it would review
plans to extend the life of other plants. Britain,  Spain , China
and  India  also are considering the lessons they can learn from
the accident, which may delay efforts to expand nuclear power
there.  Setback for Nuclear  While that’s a setback for nuclear energy, it will take
longer for a shift toward renewable power supplies because the
cost of wind and solar remains too high to compete without
subsidies, John Rowe, chief executive officer of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  “What’s happening in Japan will definitely increase demand
for solar and wind,” said Rowe, whose Chicago-based company is
the biggest U.S. operator of nuclear plants. “Right now,
though, the prices are too high to compete with natural gas,
which is the real queen here.”  Germany, France, Spain and Britain are curbing incentives
for solar energy, and legislation that would have mandated more
renewable energy use stalled in the U.S. last year.  New natural gas turbines can produce power for about $60 a
megawatt-hour, which is 28 percent cheaper than new wind power
and 75 percent less than solar photovoltaic panels, New Energy
Finance estimates.  Gas-fired generation is the likeliest beneficiary in the
U.S. from the crisis in Japan, said Angus McCrone, chief editor
at New Energy Finance in  London .  China  will shift its focus for
the 2020s further into efficiency, wind and coal with carbon
capture and storage, the technology that traps and buries coal-
burning emissions, he said.  ‘Seismic Risk’  “The U.S. and China are likely to persevere with current
reactor building plans, but long-term nuclear expansion in both
countries will be scaled back and subject to higher seismic risk
hurdles,” McCrone said.  The Obama administration plans to expand a loan guarantee
program for nuclear plants to $36 billion, from an existing
$18.5 billion, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in a
congressional hearing on March 16.  “It shouldn’t make any noticeable difference to short term
PV demand,” said Jenny Chase, solar analyst at New Energy
Finance. In the longer term, “consumers will find solar levies
a sweeter pill to swallow if they think the alternative is more
nuclear power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  