-- 
Stanford, Middlebury Strain to Shield Their Study-Abroad Students in Japan

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/stanford-middlebury-strain-to-shield-study-abroad-students-from-turmoil.html
Ashley Mar, a 20-year-old student
from the  University of California, Santa Barbara , ducked under
her desk in a laboratory at Tohoku University in Sendai, about
80 miles (129 kilometers) west of the epicenter of the
earthquake that struck  Japan  on March 11.  She left unharmed minutes later, wearing a helmet provided
by the school, and saw a nearby chemistry building on fire.
While she has been ordered home by her U.S. university, the
biology student said she is evacuating with reluctance.  Leaving Japan “destroys most everything that I’ve
developed in these past months,” Mar said in a telephone
interview from  Tokyo . “I really want to stay here.”  U.S. colleges are scrambling to assure the safety of their
students on study-abroad programs in the wake of the Japanese
earthquake and revolutions and violence in the Middle East.
About 260,000 U.S. students studied abroad in the 2008-09 school
year, up 81 percent in a decade, according to the  Institute of
International Education , a nonprofit group in New York.  The State Department’s  March 16 travel warning  that U.S.
citizens should “consider departing” Japan has prompted
colleges, including the University of  California  system and the
University of  Kansas , to recall students.  Stanford University 
near Palo Alto, California, canceled the  Bing Overseas Studies
Program in Kyoto , scheduled to begin March 30, according to its
website, citing the uncertainty about Japan’s short-term
recovery and the “unknown future impacts” on the country’s
infrastructure.  Middlebury in Egypt  Middlebury College, in Middlebury,  Vermont , for the first
time in its 62-year history of running international study
courses, canceled a program because of political upheaval,
suspending classes in Alexandria, Egypt, in January.  “Because more students are going abroad to different
places, there’s a greater likelihood that if something does
happen, that American study-abroad students might be nearby,”
Richard Gaulton, director of the study abroad program at Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York, said in an interview.  International study, sponsored by U.S. colleges or through
partnerships with foreign universities, has never been more
popular, said Peggy Blumenthal, who oversees the research
division at the Institute of International Education.  Study-Abroad Growth  While  Europe  remains the most common study-abroad
destination, accounting for 55 percent of students in the 2008-
09 school year, the share going to  Asia  has almost doubled to 11
percent from nine years earlier, according to the institute.
About 5,800 American students took courses in Japan, and 1,780
in  Egypt .  Keith Swafford, 21, a student at the  University of Kansas ,
in Lawrence, was in the middle of his junior year in Japan when
his university ordered him to evacuate after the State
Department’s travel warning.  “To have it cut short in half is just shattering,”
Swafford said by phone from Nara, near Kyoto.  Robert B. Mulry, a 19-year-old sophomore at  Grinnell
College , abandoned his plans to spend a semester studying Arabic
at the  American University in Cairo  three days after protests
began in Egypt.  “I didn’t want to waste my study-abroad experience getting
helicoptered out,” Mulry said in a telephone interview from the
liberal-arts college in Grinnell,  Iowa .  ‘Stable Experience’  Searching for a more “stable experience,” he plans to
head to Amsterdam in August to focus on Arab immigration issues,
Mulry said.  When universities are not requiring evacuations, students
are struggling with their decisions.  Maro Kariya received an e-mail Thursday night, Japan time,
from his home school,  Stony Brook University  in Stony Brook,  New
York , that recommended he leave. While he would like to stay
with his father’s relatives there, his mother has been
encouraging him to get out of Japan.  “As this slow-motion tragedy continues to unfold, I don’t
see it getting any better,” said his mother, Barbara Kariya, a
technology coordinator for a middle school in  New York City , in
a telephone interview.  After exchanging texts and speaking on the phone with his
mother, Maro Kariya, 21, said he is more open to her viewpoint.  ‘Considering Leaving’  “I’m considering leaving the country now after some of the
recent attempts to cool the reactor failed,” Kariya said in an
e-mail. He may now head to  South Korea .  Even when there aren’t natural disasters or revolutions,
students pursue placements that make their universities and
parents nervous. Northwestern University, in Evanston,  Illinois ,
last year shifted a  public health course  to Santiago,  Chile ,
from Mexico City because of a State Department travel warning
after drug-related violence erupted along the U.S.-Mexico
border.  Chase Renick, 23, a student at Dartmouth College, in
Hanover, New Hampshire, wanted to study Arabic in a country
where few spoke English. He found a language school in Yemen,
the ancestral homeland of Osama Bin Laden. The State Department
 website  warns U.S. citizens that Yemen is a “high security”
threat level due to “terrorist activities and civil unrest.”  While his mother, Gigi Renick, wasn’t happy with his
choice, she felt more comfortable after the school responded
within two days to her e-mail with 52 questions about safety and
security. Her son completed a three-month language course in
September.  “I just don’t think you can stop a determined 21-year-old
from living out their life and following their dreams, even if
it takes them to  Yemen ,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 