-- 
Starwood Seeking to Partner With Private Hotels in Europe, Executive Says

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-18T14:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/starwood-seeking-to-partner-with-private-hotels-in-europe-executive-says.html
  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , the owner of the St. Regis and W brands, is seeking to
partner with privately owned hotels in  Europe , an executive
said.  “There are a lot of family-owned, independent luxury
hotels that sit trying to connect to the kind of customers we
already have,” said Michael Wale, the senior vice president for
northwest Europe, in an interview yesterday. “We’re starting to
talk to those owners,” he said. He cited the Negresco in Nice,  France  as a potential property to have discussions with.  Starwood plans to open 50 hotels in Europe,  Africa  and the
Middle East over the next three to five years, the White Plains,
New York-company said this week. Starwood sees a “potential
growth area” in the luxury hotel sector, Wale said.  Starwood may also be interested in making acquisitions and
is in a “very good” financial position, Wale said, adding that
the company would look at opportunities that come along. He
declined to comment on whether the company would consider buying  Spain ’s NH Hoteles SA, which sold five hotels this week to help
cut debt.  Emerging-Market Growth  The hotelier anticipates growth to be driven by demand in
the Middle East and Africa as those economies expand, Wale said.
Starwood also expects demand to increase in China and  India . The
company will grow in Eastern Europe, he said, citing openings in
Istanbul and St. Petersburg. Turkey and Russia will lead
European growth, he said.  The company will also seek to expand its Aloft hotels, a
so-called “mid-market” brand where the average cost to stay is
between 100 pounds ($161) and 120 pounds a night, he said.  Starwood said that the prices charged to business
travellers, the company’s “base business,” has increased 5
percent this year as costs of food and energy weigh on
hoteliers. The company has hedged about 70 percent of its energy
until the end of 2012, Wale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 