-- 
State Street Announces Dividend, Buyback After Fed Approval

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-03-18T18:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/state-street-increases-dividend-18-fold-plans-buyback-after-fed-approval.html
  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, raised its quarterly dividend and said it
will buy back as much as $675 million in common stock this year
after the U.S. Federal Reserve approved the measures.  State Street raised the dividend to 18 cents a share from 1
cent, the Boston-based bank said today in a statement. The firm
had reduced its quarterly payout from 24 cents on Feb. 5, 2009,
in an effort to preserve capital amid the financial crisis.  “This is the first step in getting back to a normal
utilization of excess capital and that’s positive for
shareholders,”  Marty Mosby , an analyst at New York-based
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview.  The Fed today cleared some of the 19 largest U.S. banks to
increase dividends, buy back shares or repay government aid
after “significant improvement” in their capital and the
economy.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the largest custody
bank, also received approval to move forward with its capital
plan, including a dividend increase.  Joseph “Jay” Hooley, State Street’s chief executive
officer, said Jan. 19 his priorities included returning the
company’s dividend to its pre-crisis level. He said State Street
would also have sufficient capital to fund share buybacks or
make acquisitions this year.  The company last year bought the securities-servicing unit
of  Italy ’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA for 1.28 billion euros ($1.81
billion) and Mourant International Finance Administration in the
U.K.’s  Channel Islands . In January, State Street completed the
purchase of Bank of Ireland’s investment-management business for
about 57 million euros.  Basel Rules  State Street’s tier 1 common ratio, as estimated by the
bank under the new Basel III rules, stood at 9.4 percent at the
end of 2010. Basel III rules require banks to have a ratio of
tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of 7 percent by
2019, according to BNY Mellon.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities to institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 