-- 
Stress Test Banks, EU Capital Pass Rate Undecided a Month Before Deadline

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/stress-test-banks-eu-capital-pass-rate-undecided-a-month-before-deadline.html
European Union regulators have yet
to agree on which banks to test as part of annual exams on
capital, or what the passing grade will be, a month before an
April deadline for disclosure of stress test methodology.  The stress tests will apply to a “wide sample of European
banks covering over 60 percent of total EU banking assets,” the
 European Banking Authority , the agency carrying out the tests,
said in a statement today that didn’t identify the banks to be
examined. The regulator said earlier this month that it would
 list  the banks by today.  Ninety-one lenders were tested with a pass rate set at 6
percent of Tier 1 capital last year. The agency said 88 banks
would be tested in documents obtained by Bloomberg News earlier
this month. Anglo Irish Bank Corp., whose collapse during the
financial crisis contributed to Ireland seeking an international
bailout, wasn’t among the lenders tested.  “I can sort of understand it because it’s up to the
national regulators to decide,”  Simon Gleeson , a financial
regulation lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP said in a telephone
interview in  London . “It’s possible one or two regulators
haven’t come back to the EBA.”  The EBA is “currently refining common criteria for core  tier 1 capital  that will be applied consistently across the
EU,” the watchdog said in the statement.  Last year’s EU stress tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($4.9
billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Analysts also criticized the tests failure to review
the effect of sovereign debt defaults.  Sovereign Default  Bonds held in lenders banking books, the debt which lenders
hold to maturity, won’t be tested for losses arising from a
sovereign debt restructuring.  Rather than test for default directly, “banks will be
expected to disclose their exposures to sovereigns broken down
by accounting portfolios, maturities and countries,” according
to the EBA’s overview of the stress tests.  The EBA’s executive director nominee, Adam Farkas, told an
EU parliamentary committee in Brussels yesterday that regulators
should examine lenders’ sovereign debt holdings.  “If needed for credibility, I would not hesitate to
propose that,” Farkas said during a confirmation hearing. EU
lawmakers are scheduled to vote on his appointment March 24.  Banks’ risk from sovereign debt restructuring is tested in
domestic U.K. stress tests,  Financial Services Authority 
Chairman  Adair Turner  told reporters in London yesterday.
“Obviously, it’s very important to track this, although the
direct U.K. exposures are relatively light.”  Scenarios  Sovereign debt held in banks’ trading book, which houses
portfolios of frequently bought and sold securities, will be
tested for declines in value.  Lenders will assume a loss of 17.1 percent on Greek bonds,
7.6 percent on British debt and 14.6 percent on Spanish
securities held in their trading book as part of the test.  Portuguese debt is tested for the largest trading loss, at
19.8 percent, according to an overview of the stress test
scenarios from the  European Central Bank .  Scenarios for this year’s test include a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011, an 11 percent
decline in the value of the dollar against all major currencies
and a 15 percent drop in European equity markets, according to
the EBA.  Banks will also have to simulate the effect of a 75 basis-
point-jump in European sovereign bonds and an increase in short-
term interbank financing costs of 125 basis points. The results
will be published in June, the EBA said.  Liquidity Review  The EBA is also carrying out a review of risks to lenders’
liquidity. The results won’t be published.  “Publishing the results of a liquidity test is much more
dangerous than capital,” Dirk Jaeger, managing director at the
BdB Association of German Banks, told reporters in  Frankfurt 
yesterday.  “Liquidity is much more sensitive because even a hint that
a bank has a liquidity problem could quickly turn into a
situation where they wouldn’t get access to money,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  