-- 
Swiss Equities Rise for Second Day; Swiss Re Rallies

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-18T17:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/swiss-equities-rise-for-second-day-swiss-re-actelion-shares-lead-rally.html
(Corrects spelling of Zuercher Kantonalbank in 15th
paragraph.)  Swiss stocks advanced as  Libya 
declared a cease-fire against rebel forces and the Group of
Seven nations agreed to sell yen to support Japan following the
March 11 earthquake.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. rose for a second day after Barclays
Plc raised its recommendation on the shares.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,
Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company, rallied 3.5 percent
after an upgrade from Vontobel AG. PubliGroupe SA surged 7.4
percent after reporting a profit.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies advanced 0.7 percent to 6,117.06 at 2:03 p.m.
in Zurich. The gauge is still heading for a weekly decline of
3.7 percent after the Japanese tremor and ensuing tsunami caused
radioactive vapor to leak from the country’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power station. The broader Swiss Performance Index
gained 0.8 percent today.  “Stocks have been oversold this week and the market’s just
retraced up a little way amid low volumes,” said Vanni Vecchini, who sells equities at Louis Capital Markets in  London .
“Considering what’s at stake -- Japan, Bahrain and the currency
issues -- the market hasn’t really come down at all.”  Libya is ceasing all military action and will start talks
with the opposition, Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said in a
televised news conference today. The announcement followed the  United Nations Security Council ’s authorization of the use of
force to protect civilians in the North African nation.  Yen Intervention  The G-7 jointly intervened in the foreign-exchange market
for the first time in more than a decade after Japan’s currency
soared, threatening its recovery from last week’s earthquake.
Japan began the effort, with  Europe ’s central banks following up
in their markets, sending the currency down the most against the
dollar since 2008.    Switzerland ’s central bank doesn’t plan to issue a
statement about possible interventions, spokesman Walter Meier
said. He declined to comment on whether the  Swiss National Bank 
plans to intervene or is in contact with other central banks on
the matter.  Japanese engineers plan to work into the night to restore
power to two of the crippled reactors at the damaged Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant. Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it may
finish reconnecting a power line to the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors
by tomorrow morning.  Swiss Re gained 2 percent to 50.1 Swiss francs. Barclays
raised the world’s second-biggest reinsurer to “equal weight”
from “underweight.”  Reinsurance Shares  Reinsurance shares now “fairly reflect” the relative loss
from the earthquake in  Japan , according to Andy Broadfield, an
analyst at Barclays. “Swiss Re is best able to provide
solutions” to the Japanese insurance market, Broadfield wrote
in a note to clients.  Actelion, whose shareholder Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd. is
trying to remove management, surged 3.5 percent to 49.89 francs.  “We see potential for the share price to climb up to 72
francs,”  Andrew Weiss , analyst at Vontobel wrote in a note to
customers. Elliot, which holds a 6 percent stake in Allschwil,
Switzerland-based Actelion, nominated James Shannon, the former
head of global development at Novartis AG, as chairman of the
Actelion board, and also proposed five other directors, the
hedge fund said yesterday in a statement.  PubliGroupe Climbs  PubliGroupe SA soared 7.4 percent to 116 francs, the
highest price in more than a year. Switzerland’s largest
advertising company said net income was 42.6 million francs
($47.2 million) for 2010 and announced a dividend of 6 francs a
share. Publigroupe made a loss in the prior year.  “The company gave an encouraging outlook,” Patrick Jnglin, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to
clients.    Gurit Holding AG (GUR) , the maker of materials for  wind energy ,
gained 3.8 percent to 571 francs. Zuercher Kantonalbank raised
the shares to “outperform” from “market perform.”  “The perspective for alternative energies have
considerably improved in the last week,” Martin Schreiber, an
analyst at the bank, wrote today.    Coltene Holding AG (CLTN) , the Swiss dental products company, fell
5.6 percent to 50.25 francs as Zuercher Kantonalbank downgraded
the shares to “market perform” from “outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  