-- 
U.K., Germany, France, Italy Participate in G-7 Yen Intervention

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-18T09:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/u-k-germany-france-italy-participate-in-g-7-yen-intervention.html
The central banks of the U.K.,  Germany , France and Italy are selling yen as part of a
coordinated plan by the Group of Seven nations to ease pressure
on Japan’s exchange rate.  “The Treasury can this morning confirm that, at its
instruction, the Bank of England intervened in the foreign  currency market  to give effect to the G-7 Finance Ministers’
Communique,” the U.K. Treasury said in an e-mailed statement in
London today. Germany’s  Bundesbank  “is participating in
concerted intervention on currency markets,” a spokeswoman for
the Frankfurt-based central bank said.  The  Bank of Italy  and the Bank of France also took part in
the intervention, said central bank officials who declined to be
identified.  G-7 finance ministers and central bank governors agreed
earlier today to intervene for the first time in more than a
decade as  Japan ’s yen soared, threatening its recovery from the
March 11 earthquake. Each G-7 member will sell yen as their
markets open, Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters in Tokyo.  Against the dollar, the yen fell to 81.39 at 9:52 a.m. in
Frankfurt, compared with the postwar high of 76.25 reached
yesterday. It slid 3.9 percent versus the euro to 114.53.  The yen climbed for five days through yesterday on
speculation insurance companies and investors will repatriate
assets to pay for damages from the earthquake and the deadly
tsunami that followed it.  The G-7 said in a joint statement that it will “provide
any needed cooperation” with Japan. The group, which comprises
the U.S., Germany,  France , Canada, Italy, the U.K. and Japan,
“will monitor exchange markets closely and will cooperate as
appropriate,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  