-- 
U.K. Appetite for New Nuclear Remains ‘Strong,’ Hendry Says

-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-18T09:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/u-k-appetite-for-new-nuclear-remains-strong-hendry-says.html
There is still a “strong
appetite” for building nuclear reactors in the U.K., even as  Japan  struggles to bring the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic
plant under control.  “There’s a lot of work which still needs to be done, but
there’s still a very strong appetite,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in a television interview yesterday. “The issues in
North Africa reinforce the need for us to move in a low carbon
direction,” he added.  Before the earthquake and tsunami in Japan that led to the
Fukushima calamity, the U.K. government had begun an assessment
of the country’s energy regulation in an effort to accelerate
investment in nuclear and renewable energy projects. Measures
being considered include a floor price on carbon emissions and
guaranteeing long-term prices for low-carbon generators.    Chris Huhne , Britain’s energy minister, said on March 14
that he asked Mike Weightman, the country’s chief nuclear
inspector, to report on the implications of Japan’s nuclear
situation. Weightman said in a  statement  yesterday that his
interim assessment will be completed by May and a final report
will follow within six months.  “I think a delay is the wrong word, and certainly not a
moratorium,” Hendry said. “I think what we’re looking at is
saying that as we look at the specific sites which could be used
for new build nuclear and as we look at the particular reactor
designs which are being proposed, are there any lessons we can
learn from what has happened in Japan in order to make sure that
safety is always our top priority?”  Popular uprisings and unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa this year have renewed concern over the region’s
reliability as a source of energy supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 