-- 
U.K. Sends Planes to Enforce Libya No-Fly Zone, Cameron Says

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T11:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/u-k-is-deploying-aircraft-to-enforce-no-fly-zone-on-libya-cameron-says.html
The U.K. is deploying aircraft to
enforce a no-fly zone over  Libya  after the United Nations
Security Council voted to take action against  Muammar Qaddafi ,
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  “Our forces will join an international operation to
enforce the resolution if Qaddafi fails to comply” with the UN
demand “that he ends attacks on civilians,” Cameron told
lawmakers in Parliament in  London  today. “Britain will deploy
Tornadoes and Typhoons as well as air-to air refueling and
surveillance aircraft.”  Cameron said he spoke to U.S. President Barack Obama last
night and to French President Nicolas Sarkozy this morning,
saying there will be “a clear statement later today setting out
what we can now expect from Colonel Qaddafi.”  Last night’s UN vote cleared the way for the first Western
military action against an Arab regime since the 2003 invasion
of  Iraq .  France  will join the operation, government spokesman
Francois Baroin said in an interview on RTL radio.  “Preparations to deploy those aircraft have already
started and in the coming hours they will move to airbases from
where they can start to take the necessary action,” Cameron
said.  ‘No Mercy’  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, signaled after the UN
resolution that government troops won’t try to enter the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, though they will encircle it, backing
away from earlier threats, Agence France-Presse reported.
Qaddafi had said he’d “destroy” the opposition movement,
recapture Benghazi, a city of 1 million people, and show “no
mercy” to “traitors” who don’t surrender.  “In this country we know what Colonel Qaddafi is capable
of,” Cameron told lawmakers. “We should not forget his support
for the biggest terrorist atrocity on British soil,” Cameron
said, referring to the Lockerbie airplane bombing in 1988.  “We simply cannot have a situation where a failed pariah
state festers on  Europe ’s southern border,” he said.  Cameron said he will attend a meeting in Paris with Arab
leaders tomorrow, called by Sarkozy. It is “remarkable” how
“Arab leaders have come forward and condemned the actions of
Qaddafi’s government,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  