-- 
U.S. Fourth Quarter Sales of Tourism Industries Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-18T12:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/u-s-fourth-quarter-sales-of-tourism-industries-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. Travel and Tourism Satellite Accounts Report:  Real spending on travel and tourism increased at an annual rate
of 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, following an
increase of 8.6 percent (revised) in the third quarter of 2010.
By comparison, real gross domestic product (GDP) increased 2.8
percent (second estimate) in the fourth quarter, after
increasing 2.6 percent in the third quarter. Overall growth in
prices for travel and tourism goods and services accelerated,
increasing 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 following a
0.2 percent (revised) increase in the third quarter. The
slowdown in real spending on tourism mainly reflected a
deceleration in international air transportation, primarily due
to a strong upturn in prices and a slowdown in revenue; airlines
imposed higher surcharges to recover increased fuel costs.  Real travel and tourism spending turned up in 2010, increasing
3.4 percent (that is, from the 2009 annual level to the 2010
annual level), after two consecutive years of decline.  Overall
price growth for travel and tourism goods and services increased
3.9 percent in 2010 after a decrease of 4.3 percent in 2009.  Direct tourism-related employment was unchanged in the fourth
quarter of 2010, after increasing 0.6 percent (revised) in the
third quarter.  By comparison, overall U.S. employment increased
0.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 after decreasing 0.2
percent in the third quarter.  For the year 2010, direct
tourism-related employment decreased 1.0 percent after
decreasing 5.0 percent in 2009.  Real Tourism Spending. Real spending on passenger air
transportation decelerated, increasing 3.6 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2010 after increasing 30.2 percent in the third
quarter.  This slowdown reflected an upturn in prices. Prices
declined in the third quarter, primarily on international
flights.  Real spending on traveler accommodations increased 5.8
percent in the fourth quarter after increasing 9.4 percent in
the third quarter.  Though occupancy was strong, room rates
declined in the fourth quarter.  Tourism Prices. Prices for passenger air transportation turned
up, increasing 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter after
decreasing 12.0 percent in the third quarter.  International
passengers paid nearly ten percent more in the fourth quarter as
carriers began increasing fuel surcharges to offset rising fuel
costs.  Prices for traveler accommodations turned down,
decreasing 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter after increasing
4.0 percent in the third quarter.  Group rates negotiated during
the recession, remained a hurdle to raising rates.  Tourism Employment. Employment in air transportation services
increased 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  This increase was
offset by decreases in traveler accommodations of 3.3 percent
and recreation and entertainment of 5.2 percent.  Total Tourism-Related Spending. The U.S. production generated by
tourism spending not only includes the goods and services that
are purchased directly, but also the inputs used to produce
these goods and services -- indirect tourism-related spending.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, total current-dollar tourism-
related spending was $1.4 trillion and consisted of $802.8
billion (59 percent) of direct tourism spending -- goods and
services sold directly to visitors -- and $558.2 billion (41
percent) of indirect tourism-related spending -- goods and
services used to produce what visitors buy.  Total Tourism-Related Employment.  In the fourth quarter of 2010,
total tourism-related employment was 7.7 million and consisted
of 5.5 million (71 percent) direct tourism jobs -- jobs where
workers produce goods and services sold directly to visitors --
and 2.2 million (29 percent) indirect tourism-related jobs --
jobs where workers produce goods and services used to produce
what visitors buy.  Definitions
Tourism spending.   Tourism spending comprises all goods and
services purchased by tourists (defined as people who travel for
any reason).  In the following tables, tourism spending is
referred to as direct tourism output.
Indirect tourism-related spending.   Indirect tourism-related
spending comprises all output used as inputs in the process of
producing direct tourism output (e.g., toiletries for hotel
guests and the plastic used to produce souvenir key chains).
Total tourism-related spending.  Total tourism-related spending
is the sum of direct tourism spending and indirect tourism-
related spending.  Direct tourism employment.  Direct tourism employment comprises
all jobs where the workers are engaged in the production of
direct tourism output (such as hotel staff, airline pilots, and
souvenir sellers).
Indirect tourism-related employment.  Indirect tourism-related
employment comprises all jobs where the workers are engaged in
the production of indirect tourism-related output (e.g.,
employees of companies that produce toiletries for hotel guests
and the plastic used to produce souvenir key chains).  Total tourism-related employment.  Total tourism-related
employment is the sum of direct tourism employment and indirect
tourism-related employment.
 