-- 
UN Action on Libya Will Support Rebels, ANU Lecturer Gray Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-03-18T03:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/un-action-on-libya-will-support-rebels-anu-lecturer-gray-says.html
Matthew Gray, senior lecturer as
the center for Arab and Islamic Studies at  Australian National
University  in Canberra, comments on the United Nations decision
to impose a no-fly zone and other military action in  Libya .  The UN Security Council authorized the action, providing
the legal basis for the U.S.,  France , the U.K. and several Arab
nations to intervene in the Libyan conflict to avert a feared
bloodbath if leader  Muammar Qaddafi  defeats the opposition. The
Libyan dictator this week said he would show “no mercy” to
“traitors” who don’t surrender.  Gray, who has worked in intelligence and policy roles with
the Australian Department of Defence, spoke with Bloomberg
Television by phone today.  On why the UN took the action:  “It was starting to look like the rebels would be defeated
very shortly and Col. Qaddafi would have a military victory over
those insurgents. A lot of these countries started to think
‘Well, what can we do about this? Are we going to be in position
where we are going to be very much weakened and look bad because
of the positions that we took?’ I think that caused some,
especially the U.S., to reconsider the no-fly zone.”  On whether it will work:  “It’s going to be effective up to a point. It can help to
give the rebels a psychological boost. It can help send a
message to Col. Qaddafi and his allies and it removes the Libyan
airforce from the equation. However, to really control things
you have to be on the ground, so this is by no means a guarantee
that the tide is going to turn against Qadaffi. It’s very late,
but whether it’s too late remains to be seen. This depends
partly on what the initial actions are, as it seems to be the
case that the British and the French in particular could be over
the Libyan sky within hours. Then they are going to be in a
position to support the insurgents in Benghazi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  