-- 
No-Fly Zone Wins Approval From UN to Protect Libyans From Qaddafi’s Forces

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-18T08:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/un-security-council-approves-military-action-against-qaddafi-no-fly-zone.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s troops outside
the rebel base of Benghazi may face air strikes from the U.S.,  France  and other allies after the United Nations  Security
Council  authorized the use of force to protect civilians.  The council’s resolution, approved yesterday 10-0 with five
abstentions, allows the U.S., the U.K., France and Arab nations
to “take all necessary measures” to protect civilians. It
excludes “a foreign occupation force of any form on any part of
Libyan territory.” France said military action may start within
hours and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called an emergency
Cabinet meeting.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, signalled after the Security
Council passed the resolution that government troops won’t try
to enter Benghazi, though they will encircle it, backing away
from earlier threats,  Agence France-Presse  reported. Qaddafi had
threatened to “destroy” the opposition movement, recapture
Benghazi, a city of 1 million people, and show “no mercy” to
“traitors” who don’t surrender.  The UN vote opens the way for the first Western military
action against an Arab regime since the 2003 invasion of  Iraq .
Its announcement drew cheers and celebratory gunfire from
hundreds of anti-Qaddafi Libyans gathered in Benghazi. Brazil,  China , Germany, India and Russia abstained from voting in New
York. Oil extended gains on the prospect of a broader conflict
in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest reserves.  ‘Several Hours’  Military intervention against Libya could happen within
“several hours,” French government spokesman Francois Baroin
said in an interview on RTL radio. Foreign Minister Alain Juppe
told the Security Council before the vote: “Every day, every
hour we see the closing of the clamp on the civilian population.
We should not arrive too late.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose 1.5 percent to $102.92 a
barrel at 7:45 a.m. in  London , after a 3.5 percent jump
yesterday that was the biggest in more than three weeks. The
contract is up 22 percent since the Libyan conflict broke out a
month ago, and political tensions in Bahrain and elsewhere in
the region have also fuelled gains.  Libya ’s crude oil exports
may be halted for “many months” because of damage to
facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy
Agency  said March 15.  It wasn’t immediately clear when the military action
authorised by the UN would take place, or who would participate.
Hisham Yousif, chief of staff for the Arab League’s secretary-
general, declined to say which Arab countries expected to take
part, saying announcements should come from those countries as
and when they deem appropriate.    Turkey , Denmark  Turkey, the only majority-Muslim member of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, does not support direct military
intervention in Libya “for the moment,” and is examining the
coalition for action that is developing, said Selcuk Unal,
spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. Denmark is ready to provide
“a concrete contribution” as fast as possible, the Ritzau
newswire reported, citing Foreign Minister Lene Espersen.  Yesterday, Libyan jets dropped bombs on the outskirts of
Benghazi, and Qaddafi went on state television to say the
“decisive hour” had arrived for his forces to take the coastal
city. Fighting continued around Ajdabiya, about 100 miles (160
kilometers) south of Benghazi, where Qaddafi’s forces are facing
rebel holdouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  