-- 
Hungary’s Central Bank Voted 6-1 to Leave Rates Unchanged

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-03-18T14:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hungary-s-central-bank-voted-6-1-to-leave-rates-unchanged-1-.html
Hungarian policy makers voted six
to one to keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged last month
after three consecutive increases, according the minutes of the
meeting posted on the bank’s website today.  Tamas Banfi, the sole member of the rate-setting Monetary
Council who voted for a change at the Feb. 21 meeting, sought to
lower the two-week deposit rate by a quarter-point to 5.75
percent.  The central bank kept the rate steady after inflation
slowed, wages dropped and investors’ risk assessment of the
country improved.  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  policy makers raised the
rate by 0.75 percentage point since November citing accelerating
inflation. The need for further rate increases hinges partly on
the inflation outlook, the bank said.  “The overwhelming majority of council members consider
that the need for further rate increases to meet the inflation
goal hinges on macroeconomic data in the coming months, the
content of government measures and the forecasts of the
Inflation Report” in March, the minutes said.  The inflation rate in February rose to 4.1 percent from 4
percent in January, matching the forecast of economists and
adding to arguments to leave interest rates unchanged when
policy makers meet on March 28.  Inflation Outlook  The inflation outlook, “even in the short-run, remained
highly uncertain” as a result of energy and food-price
increases on the one hand and “extremely restrained domestic
demand” on the other, they said, according to the minutes.  The government on March 7 said it plans spending cuts that
will produce savings of 900 billion forint ($4.7 billion)
annually in 2013 and 2014, starting with 550 billion forint in
2012. Measures will include delaying a cut in the corporate
income tax, extending a bank tax and tighter retirement and
welfare rules.  As many as four new policy makers may join the Monetary
Council for its next rate decision, replacing the four outside
members whose terms expired on March 1. Parliament confirmed
Ferenc Gerhardt and Andrea Bartfai-Mager, both of whom worked
under former central bank President Zsigmond Jarai, on March 7.
Two others, who have yet to be nominated, may be confirmed on
March 21.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  