-- 
Turkey Doesn’t Back Military Action Against Libya Government ‘for Moment’

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-18T09:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/turkey-doesn-t-back-military-action-against-libya-government-for-moment-.html
Turkey doesn’t support direct
military action in  Libya  “for the moment,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Selcuk Unal said.  The United Nations Security Council authorized the use of
air attacks and a no-fly zone yesterday to protect Libyan
civilians from forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who is
fighting to put down a month-long rebellion against his regime.  Turkey is looking into the “coalition of the willing”
being formed for action in Libya, Unal said today in a telephone
interview without giving further details. “We always abide by
UN Security Council resolutions, whether we support them or
not.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called today for an
immediate end to the violence, characterizing the Qaddafi
regime’s attacks as “disproportionate force against innocent
people.” Erdogan’s remarks were reported by  Turkey ’s state-run
Anatolia news agency.  Turkey’s conditions for any action in Libya are that it has
international legitimacy, takes into account the opinions of
regional organizations such as the Arab League and African
Union, and be consistent with the “situation on the ground,”
Unal said. Some rebels called for a no-fly zone, while others
say foreign intervention would be counterproductive, he said.  Unal noted that Germany, Turkey’s replacement on the
Security Council, abstained from the vote.  “This shows that Turkey is not the only country in the
Western camp that is not for direct military intervention,” he
said.  The vote authorizing the UN to use force against Qaddafi’s
government passed 10-0 yesterday, with abstentions from  Germany ,
China, Russia, Brazil and India.  Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said his country
abstained because the vote may lead to “large-scale military
intervention.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 