-- 
Hutchison Port Trust Declines on Trading Debut After Biggest IPO This Year

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-18T10:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hutchison-port-trust-traded-below-ipo-sale-price-in-gray-market-btig-says.html
Hutchison Port Holdings Trust fell
on its trading debut following the world’s largest initial
public offering this year, as investors sold units priced before
an earthquake in  Japan  roiled Asian markets.  The container-terminal owner, backed by billionaire Li Ka- shing, dropped 5.9 percent to close at 95 cents. Units were sold
at $1.01 in the $5.5 billion IPO, which was priced on March 11,
the day of the temblor.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was set for its biggest weekly
drop since May as investors offloaded stocks on concerns
electricity shortages and radiation leaks from a crippled
nuclear-power plant may disrupt production in Japan. HPH Trust
owns container terminals in Hong Kong and neighboring Shenzhen.  “Given the weak  market sentiment , I’m not surprised at the
performance,” said Ng Soo Nam, a Singapore-based chief
investment officer at Nikko Asset Management Co., which oversaw
$126 billion in assets globally as of Dec. 31. “It will
eventually rebound as Hutchison Port generates solid  cash
flow .”  Nikko Asset bought some Hutchison Port units in the IPO, Ng
said, without elaboration. The trust sold about 5.4 billion
units in the offering. The price range was initially set at 91
cents to $1.08 before being narrowed to 99 cents to $1.03,
according to term sheets.  ‘Excellent’  “Considering the situation, I think it’s excellent,”
trust Chairman Canning Fok said about the price movement at a
listing ceremony in Singapore. The earthquake’s “impact is
minimal” on the trust’s assets, he said.  The trust’s terminals handled a record 21.2 million 20-foot
containers last year, 17 percent more than in 2009. The trust
has room to develop 12 more berths in Shenzhen’s deepwater
Yantian port, with the first three expected to be completed by
2015, Ivor Chow, chief financial officer of the trust’s manager,
said at a  Singapore  press briefing last week.  Cornerstone investors including Capital Research &
Management Co., Paulson & Co. and Singapore’s Temasek Holdings
Pte invested $1.62 billion in the trust’s IPO, according to the
prospectus filed with the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  managed the sale.  “This sell-off should be temporary,” said Wong Sui Jau,
general manager of Fundsupermart, the online division of IFAST
Financial Pte, which manages $2.8 billion. “The sell-off has
made it more attractive considering that the fundamentals
haven’t changed much.”  World’s Busiest  Hong Kong and Shenzhen, in  China ’s  Pearl River Delta , form
the world’s busiest container market, Hong Kong-based Hutchison
Whampoa said in a Jan. 18 statement. Hutchison Whampoa,
controlled by billionaire Li, kept about 25 percent of the trust
and will manage it.  Hutchison Whampoa rose 0.1 percent to HK$84.85 in  Hong Kong .
It’s dropped 8.5 percent since March 10, the last full day of
trading before the earthquake.  The company, the world’s largest container-terminal
operator, also invests in drug stores, real estate and mobile-
phone services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  