-- 
Velarde Sees Peru 2011 Inflation Reaching 3% on Food Prices

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-18T20:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/velarde-sees-peru-2011-inflation-reaching-3-on-food-prices-1-.html
  Peru ’s annual inflation is likely
to accelerate to 3 percent this year as imported grain prices
rise and the economy grows faster than expected, central bank
President Julio Velarde said today.  The central bank, which forecast 2011 inflation of close to
2 percent three months ago, sees inflation pressures growing
because of higher prices for imports including corn, wheat and
crude oil, Velarde said. The bank, which targets annual
inflation in a 1 percent to 3 percent range, has raised  interest
rates  at eight of its last 11 meetings.  “Inflation is worrying given the price shock in the main
commodities we import,” Velarde said in  Lima  today. “It’s
easier to transmit this pressure from food inputs amid very
strong demand and that’s why we’re raising the benchmark rate.”  Higher food prices kept Peru’s monthly inflation rate near
its highest level in over two years in February. The central
bank at its March 10 meeting raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter-point to 3.75 percent. The effective rate is closer to
4.75 percent when taking into account five increases in the
average reserve requirement for banks since August, Velarde
said.  Peru’s consumer price index is the second-most exposed to
food inflation among emerging markets, after the  Philippines ,
Velarde said.  Consumer prices rose 0.38 percent in February from January
and 2.2 percent from a year earlier.  “Inflation is a threat, but it’s still very much under
control compared with other countries,” he said. “There’s no
reason to be alarmed.”  The sol was unchanged at 2.7680 per dollar at 4:28 p.m. New
York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  