-- 
Workers Miss Deadline to Reconnect Power at Japan’s Stricken Nuclear Plant

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-18T11:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/workers-to-resume-water-dousing-as-meltdown-risk-eases-at-fukushima-plant.html
Engineers plan to work into the
night to restore power to two of the crippled reactors at  Japan ’s damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, while Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  described the crisis as “very grave.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it may finish reconnecting
a power line to the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors by tomorrow
morning. The electrical link would be used to restart pumps
needed to protect fuel rods from overheating. However, the
company said it’s possible the water pumps, damaged in the
March 11 tsunami, might not work even with power, Hikaru
Kuroda, chief of Tepco’s nuclear facility management
department said tonight in a Tokyo news conference.  “Work on installing external electricity is moving along,
but we aren’t yet at a point where power can be restored,”
Japan Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters.  The U.S. military, which is flying unmanned surveillance
drones over the 40-year-old power station about 135 miles
(220 kilometers) north of  Tokyo  at Japan’s request, said it
is “cautiously optimistic” that the damage to the reactors
can be contained. The risk of a meltdown has lessened after
water was dumped on the site yesterday , said Thomas Graham,
chairman of Lightbridge Corp., a McLean, Va.-based nuclear
fuel developer, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “We’re optimistic that we’ll continue to progress in
this, and that worst-case scenario will never be
encountered,” Admiral Robert Willard, head of the U.S.
Pacific Command, told reporters by telephone from  Hawaii . The
worst-case scenario would be if the effort to keep the cores
of the reactors covered were abandoned, he said.  Water Coolant  “We believe that that can’t happen, that we must do
everything required in order to keep water and cooling
affecting these reactors,” Willard said.  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling
water caused explosions in at least three of the structures
surrounding the station’s six reactors, as well as a fire in
a pond containing spent fuel rods.  Japanese soldiers using fire engines today doused sea
water on reactor No. 3, site of an explosion earlier this
week. Water cannons and helicopters were used to drench the
same reactor yesterday. The dousing was stopped this
afternoon as the effort replenished some water to the spent-
fuel pools at the reactor, Air Self Defense Force Chief of
Staff Shigeru Iwasaki said. Spraying may resume tonight.  Risk of Meltdown  The possibility of a meltdown is “not off the table,
but the more water that goes in there,” the less the risk of
a meltdown becomes,” Graham said. “The reactor situation is
definitely not deteriorating as it was and seemingly becoming
stable and perhaps becoming more under control.”  If the power cable can be linked successfully, power may
be restored to reactors 3 and 4 on Sunday, Tepco spokesman
Kaoru Yoshida said in a briefing to reporters. Still, there
is a potential risk of an explosion if the power is
reconnected to the reactor, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency said. The agency didn’t provide details.  The greatest risks at Fukushima may come from the spent
fuel pools that sit on the top of the six reactors.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s
spent-fuel cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods
could decay, catch fire and spew radioactive materials into
the air.  A  magnitude 9 earthquake  rocked Japan one week ago,
setting off a deadly tsunami. The combination of natural
disasters cut electricity to the power plant and wrecked
backup systems designed to protect the reactors and spent
fuel pools from overheating.  As of 2 p.m. in Tokyo, the  National Police Agency  said
6,539 were killed in the disasters, 10,354 are reported
missing, 2,513 were injured and 382,613 people have been
evacuated. More than 536 aftershocks have been recorded by
the  U.S. Geological Survey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  