-- 
World Needs to Choose Between Nuclear, Climate Risks, Orbeo Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-18T13:15:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/world-needs-to-choose-between-nuclear-and-climate-risks-orbeo-says.html
“Runaway” climate change may be
the price of retreating from nuclear energy in the wake of
Japan’s nuclear crisis, according to an analyst at Orbeo.  Failing to replace or expand nuclear capacity will boost
global emissions by 1.7 billion metric tons in 2030, said  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst in Paris at the carbon-trading
venture of  Rhodia SA (RHA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA. That estimate
includes 1.3 billion tons from replacement coal and 381 million
from natural gas, he said today in an e-mailed research note.  “Confronted with the heightened perception of nuclear risk
following the Japanese disaster, populations might have to
choose, through their vote, between this nuclear risk and
runaway climate risk,” Fages said. “Nuclear is seen by many
only as a ‘bridge’ to the future zero-emission power
technologies to be developed and made economical for large-scale
deployment. But this bridge is necessary.”  Renewable-energy capacity would be 7.5 percent higher in
2030, compared with a scenario that includes expansion from
reactors. The higher emissions would make it “unfeasible” to
avoid damaging  climate change , Fages said.  Meeting the United Nations goal of keeping temperatures
from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) will
require carbon-dioxide equivalent cuts of about 35 billion tons
in 2030 alone, compared with so-called business-as-usual levels,
he said, citing figures from the International Energy Agency.  Engineers in Japan are trying to control radiation leaks
from crippled reactors at the Fukushima plant north of Tokyo.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  described the crisis as “very grave.”  Climate Debate  While the crisis not likely to stop all expansion of
nuclear plants worldwide, assessing that scenario “is useful in
the global energy-climate debate,” the analyst said. Cumulated
over the 20 years through 2030, the extra emissions amounts to
17.2 billion tons, he estimated.  Those  greenhouse gases  are valued at 289 billion euros
($408 billion) based on today’s benchmark European Union
December carbon futures price of 16.80 euros a ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of midday. The price of EU
carbon is up 7 percent in the last week and 25 percent from a
year ago.  Another bridging option for the world might be construction
of  carbon capture  and storage plants, according to the note.
“However, it is not anticipated to be available at a
significant scale before 2030.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  