-- 
Yemen Declares State of Emergency After Deadliest Day Since Protests Began

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-03-18T22:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/yemen-declares-state-of-emergency-after-deadliest-day-since-protests-began.html
Yemen declared a state of emergency
yesterday after government forces attacked protesters in Sana’a
in the deadliest crackdown in two months of unrest.  At least 46 people were killed and hundreds injured as
police and pro-regime gunmen shot at a crowd of tens of
thousands of protesters in the capital’s Taghyeer Square and
snipers opened fire from rooftops, doctors treating the wounded
said. U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned the violence, and
the opposition called for an international investigation.  President Ali Abdullah Saleh, speaking at a press
conference to declare the 30-day emergency rule, said the dead
were “martyrs” of democracy and victims of an attempt to
sabotage a Saudi Arabian initiative to broker an end to the
conflict. He said police didn’t fire on the protesters, without
saying who did. Interior minister Mutahar al-Masri said that 25
were killed and 102 injured.  “The Yemeni people, like people everywhere, have the
universal rights to demonstrate peacefully, to freely assemble,
and to express themselves without fear of intimidation or
death,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in
statement yesterday. “A solution to Yemen’s problems will not
be found through security measures.”  Demonstrations calling for an end to Saleh’s three-decade
rule have been held almost every day for the past two months in
Yemen, and before yesterday at least a dozen people had been
killed. Among those killed yesterday was Jamal al-Sharaabi, a
photographer for the independent weekly Al-Masdar, according to
the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists.  Street Fighting  The unrest was inspired by popular uprisings that overthrew
rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  and has spread across the region.
Yemen borders  Saudi Arabia , which this week sent troops to help
quell protests in neighboring  Bahrain .  The opposition coalition, known as the Joint Meeting
Parties, urged the  United Nations  to help and to protect
citizens, according to an e-mailed statement.  Fighting spread through the streets of Sana’a after the
shootings. Security forces also deployed in the southern city of
Taiz, where tens of thousands of anti-government protesters have
camped out for weeks, Salah al-Dakak, an opposition activist,
said by telephone. Tanks and armored vehicles took control of
one entrance to the square where the opposition is gathered, and
troops were seen in surrounding areas, he said.  New Constitution  The opposition Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six
groups, urged Yemenis to respond to the attack by joining
protests throughout the country to break down the emergency
rule. It said in an e-mailed statement that the “massacre” has
stripped Saleh of “what legitimacy was left to him.”  Saleh has promised a new constitution, called for the
formation of a unity government and said he won’t seek to extend
his term when it expires in 2013. The opposition movement has
dismissed those offers and insists he must step down.  In  Washington , Obama said he “strongly” condemns the
violence and urged Saleh to stick with his promise to permit
peaceful protest. Those responsible “must be held
accountable,” Obama said in a statement.  The U.S. has backed Saleh as an ally against al-Qaeda,
whose unit in Yemen has been linked to attacks including the
attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound plane in December 2009.  At a masjid, or place of worship, at a university building
in central Sana’a, volunteers set up a makeshift clinic to care
for the wounded. At least 40 were dispatched to local hospitals
in serious condition. Most injuries were to the head.  ‘Barbaric Crimes’  “This is a massacre that has been planned well,” Mohammed
al-Sabri, a leader in the opposition, said in an interview.
“This crime aims to trap the people into violence but we will
not be trapped into violence, and will continue our protests
peacefully till the departure of this criminal regime.”  The opposition movement, in an e-mailed statement, urged
“all human rights organizations and humanitarian organizations
throughout the world to began an immediate investigation of
these barbaric crimes.”  Qatar, a member of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
condemned Yemen’s government for resorting to force against
protesters, saying it “doesn’t help solving the problems and,
on the contrary, complicates them,” according to the state-run
Qatar News Agency.  Saleh, 68, became leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has
ruled the Republic of Yemen since the north and south merged in
1990. His government is also battling a separatist rebellion in
the south.  Yemen is the Arabian peninsula’s poorest nation and has one
of the world’s most acute water shortages. It was ranked 15th of
60 countries on the  2010 Failed States Index  created by Foreign
Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace, which said only
Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among nations
in  Asia  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 