-- 
Yen Tumbles Most in Over Two Years After G-7 Announces Joint Intervention

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-18T11:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/yen-weakens-after-noda-says-some-g-7-nations-to-coordinate-on-intervention.html
The yen tumbled the most in more
than two years against the dollar as the Group of Seven nations
said they will jointly intervene in foreign-exchange markets for
the first time in more than a decade.  Japan’s currency slumped against all its major counterparts
as Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said his country started the
effort and each nation would intervene when its market opened.
G-7 finance ministers and central bank chiefs said after a call
to discuss the impact of the March 11 earthquake today that they
will “provide any needed cooperation.” Central banks in
France,  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. said they took part. The
Australian dollar rose and the Swiss franc weakened as a rally
in stocks boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  The G-7 statement “met everyone’s expectations -- it was
what people wanted,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency
dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The earthquake is
considered one of the biggest in a few centuries and so other
nations must help  Japan . The yen should fall toward 83 as
nations are unified to stop its advance.”  The yen slumped 3.2 percent to 81.42 per dollar as of
7:12 a.m. in New York after weakening as much 3.9 percent, the
biggest one-day drop since Oct. 28, 2008, when markets were
roiled by the global financial crisis. Japan’s currency surged
to 76.25 yesterday, the highest level since World War II.  The yen declined 4 percent to 115.03 per euro. The dollar
depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.4128 per euro.  Volatility  The franc dropped against all but one of its 16 most-
actively traded peers. The Swiss currency depreciated
0.4 percent to 90.19 centimes per dollar.  “We note the Bundesbank, the Banque de  France  and the  Bank
of England  released statements to say they are participating in
co-ordinated intervention,” said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “The
recent price action in yen against the dollar, euro and pound
suggests official activity to stem yen strength.”  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen rate fell
16 percent to 14.16, following a 19 percent jump yesterday.
Volatility was 8.50 on March 10. One-month euro-yen volatility
dropped 12 percent to 15.25, from 10 on March 10. Implied
volatility is a measure of expected price swings and the key
gauge for option prices.  Pressure to ‘Unwind’  “In response to recent movements in the exchange rate of
the yen associated with the tragic events in Japan, and at the
request of the Japanese authorities, the authorities of the
U.S., the U.K.,  Canada , and the  European Central Bank  will join
with Japan, on March 18, 2011, in concerted intervention in
exchange markets,” the G-7 said today in the statement.  The combined yen sales are an attempt to limit the damage a
strong Japanese currency will have on the nation’s economy in
the aftermath of the magnitude 9.0 earthquake. G-7 nations may
also conduct euro-yen intervention in addition to dollar-yen
intervention, Noda said.  “You couldn’t expect anything stronger than what the
statement contains,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo . “Investors will
be forced to unwind long positions on the yen.” A long position
is a bet that an asset will rise.  Radiation Risks  G-7 members hadn’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  “People had been talking about the possibility of co-
ordinated intervention, but this is slightly more aggressive
than people thought,” said Geoff Kendrick, head of European
foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura International Plc in London.
“Past co-ordinated central bank action tells you that you
shouldn’t fight what they’re trying to achieve.”  Japan unilaterally sold more than 2 trillion yen ($24.4
billion) in foreign-exchange markets in September to stem gains,
its first intervention since 2004. The  Bank of Japan  today added
4 trillion yen to the financial system, bringing its emergency
fund injections this week to 38 trillion yen.  The yen soared 4.5 percent in 26 minutes yesterday as
markets closed in  New York  and re-opened in  Asia  amid
speculation automated trades to limit losses were taking place.  Japan said there’s no evidence insurance companies were
repatriating assets from abroad due to the risk of radiation
leaks from a quake-crippled nuclear plant north of Tokyo.  Downtrend ‘Uncertain’  “Intervention is certainly a powerful emergency response
and makes it hard for the yen to rise, if it’s really done
internationally,” said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-based president of
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
online currency broker. “Yet it remains uncertain whether the
yen will switch to a downtrend from here, because we don’t know
what will happen to the nuclear plant’s problem.”  Power may be restored to one of the reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant today, Tokyo Electric Power Co.
said, improving the odds that workers can prevent a meltdown and
further radiation leaks.  The G-7 nations’ plan to jointly intervene in foreign-
exchange markets is aimed at stopping the yen from appreciating
rather than weakening the currency, according to Societe
Generale SA.  “They’ve stopped the yen rise but are careful to say they
don’t want to weaken it,”Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research in London, wrote today in an e-mailed note. There’s
still a risk that the yen will appreciate to 75 per dollar
within a month because “there are still people with yen to
buy,” he said.  ‘Hope and Fear’  The yen reached its previous postwar high of 79.75 per
dollar in April 1995, three months after a magnitude 6.9 quake
struck the city of Kobe. Japan sold a total of 1.8 trillion yen
in February and March that year as the yen rose 10 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rallied as much as 3.5 percent
today, and the Topix index advanced as much as 2.8 percent.  “Investors are swinging between hope and fear,” said
Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust &
Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank.   Risk
aversion  has eased after seeing some developments at the nuclear
plant in addition to the G-7’s decision. Stocks are trading
higher and the Aussie and kiwi are being bought.”  The Australian dollar rose 1.1 percent to 99.08 U.S. cents,
paring the week’s drop to 2.3 percent. The so-called Aussie
jumped 4.4 percent to 80.71 yen. The  New Zealand dollar  rose 1.3
percent to 72.74 U.S. cents, and added 4.6 percent to 59.27 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  