-- 
Yen Drops on G-7 Intervention as UN’s Libya No-Fly Vote Spurs Rally in Oil

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-18T08:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/yen-drops-on-g-7-intervention-as-un-s-libya-no-fly-vote-spurs-rally-in-oil.html
The yen fell the most since 2008
versus the dollar and equities rose, with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average paring its weekly drop, after central banks intervened
to weaken Japan’s currency. Oil paced a gain in commodities.  The yen sank 3.7 percent to 81.83 per dollar as of 5 p.m.
in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 added 2.7 percent, trimming its biggest
weekly slump in more than two years. The MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index climbed 1.1 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index advanced 0.4 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
increased 0.7 percent. Oil surged 1.8 percent in  New York  as the
United Nations Security Council voted to ground Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force. Corn and wheat rallied.  G-7 nations started joint intervention in the foreign
exchange market for the first time in more than a decade after
the yen soared to a post-World War II high, threatening  Japan ’s
recovery from the record March 11 earthquake. Power may be
restored to one of the crippled reactors at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima nuclear plant today, improving the odds that
workers can prevent a meltdown and further radiation leaks.  “This is an extreme measure; coordinated intervention
doesn’t happen often,”  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “They’re coming in and
they’re using the yen as a tool to keep stability in the
Japanese equity markets.”  The yen, which soared to 76.25 per dollar yesterday,
declined against all 16 of its most actively-traded peers. The
currency fell 3.8 percent to 114.80 per euro. The  Bank of Japan 
added 3 trillion yen ($37 billion) to the financial system in a
one-day operation today, bringing its total emergency fund
injections this week to 37 trillion yen.  ‘Concerted Intervention’  “In response to recent movements in the exchange rate of
the yen associated with the tragic events in Japan, and at the
request of the Japanese authorities, the authorities of the U.S.,
the U.K.,  Canada , and the  European Central Bank  will join with
Japan, on March 18, 2011, in concerted intervention in exchange
markets,” the G-7 said today in a statement.  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds added one basis
point to 1.21 percent, rebounding from near the lowest level in
two months. Treasuries fell, sending the yield on the benchmark
10-year note higher by one basis point to 3.26 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “One effect of joint intervention is that it gives
calmness or stability to the market so the  risk premium  should
fall,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , who helps oversee the equivalent
of $67.1 billion as a general manager at Fukoku Mutual Life
Insurance Co. in  Tokyo . “The flight to quality in terms of U.S.
Treasuries should be weakened.”  Tepco Plant  Five-year credit-default swaps on Japan’s sovereign debt
decreased 13 basis points to 104.5 basis points after climbing
to a record 130 yesterday, according to Citigroup Inc. The
Markit iTraxx Japan index of corporate borrowers fell 21 basis
points to 129, its biggest drop since May 26, according to
Citigroup and data provider CMA in New York.  Contracts insuring Tokyo Electric’s debt against default
dropped 60 basis points to 305, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Shares of Tepco, as the company is known,
climbed 19 percent after tumbling 62 percent in the first four
days of this week.  Japanese soldiers and firefighters from Tokyo, using dozens
of fire engines, doused sea water on reactor No. 3, site of an
explosion earlier this week. Tepco said it will finish
reconnecting a power line to the cooling system of the No. 2
reactor today, where white smoke or steam was observed. The
power link would be used to restart pumps needed to pour cooling
water on overheating fuel rods.  Weekly Slump  About 15 stocks gained for each that fell on the Nikkei 225
as the gauge dropped 10 percent this week, the steepest since
the period ended Oct. 24, 2008. MSCI’s index of Asian markets
outside Japan fell 1.7 percent this week, while the MSCI World
Index dropped 2.5 percent, the biggest weekly loss in seven
months. Declines in the first three days of this week wiped more
than $1.8 trillion from global equity markets.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-largest oil and
gas producer, rallied 3.6 percent as oil prices rose.  Oil rose to $103.24 a barrel in New York, set for a third
day of gains.  Brent crude  increased 1.1 percent to $116.20 a
barrel in  London  after the UN voted to adopt a resolution that
establishes a no-fly zone over Libya, that demands a cease-fire
with rebels and that grants military authority to the U.S. and
its allies to protect civilians and population centers.  Tightening Supply  “It may result in the UN having to take military action
against Qaddafi and the prospect of that is not good for a
peaceful resolution,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist for National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The
prospect of supply tightening is keeping a floor under  oil
prices .”  Qaddafi’s jets dropped bombs around Benghazi yesterday
while security forces in Bahrain arrested opposition leaders
after more than a month of Shiite-led protests calling for
democracy and increased human rights.  Corn for May delivery paced an advance among grains today,
rising 3.2 percent to $6.67 a bushel. Wheat futures jumped 2.7
percent to $7.2950 a bushel. The S&P/GSCI Index of 24
commodities advanced 1.5 percent after soaring 3.4 percent
yesterday, the biggest one-day jump since September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 