-- 
Yen Declines as U.S. Joins G-7’s Post-Earthquake Intervention; Euro Rises

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-18T21:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/yen-falls-against-dollar-as-u-s-canada-join-g-7-coordinated-intervention.html
The yen declined the most in more
than two years against the dollar as the Group of Seven nations
jointly intervened in foreign-exchange markets for the first
time in more than a decade.  Japan’s currency slumped against all its major counterparts
as the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of Canada  joined the Bank of
Japan and European central banks in an effort to sell the yen.
G-7 finance ministers and central bank chiefs said after a
conference call yesterday to discuss the impact of the March 11
earthquake that they will “provide any needed cooperation.”
The euro added to gains against the dollar after European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet indicated the bank
still plans to raise interest rates next month.  “The G-7 has given its full support to help stabilize the
market and to help prevent the yen from strengthening further,”
said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in  New York . “With policy makers stating that further monetary
policy easing is forthcoming, we expect the yen to continue
weakening following the intervention.”  The yen fell 2.1 percent to 80.58 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York, from 78.89 yesterday, when it hit a record high of
76.25. The currency had appreciated 5.2 percent since the
earthquake.  The yen declined 3.4 percent to 114.31 per euro. The euro
gained 1.2 percent to $1.4182, from $1.4021.  Trichet Restates  The 17-nation currency added to gains after Trichet said he
doesn’t want to change the message he gave on March 3.  “I have nothing to add, nothing to withdraw,” Trichet
told reporters today in  Frankfurt  when asked if policy makers
are still in a posture of strong vigilance, ECB code words for
an imminent rate increase. “No new message at all,” he said.  “This confirms that they have no interest in being dovish
whatsoever,” said Douglas Borthwick, managing director and head
of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading LLC.  The Japanese currency weakened as the Fed and BOC’s actions
followed those of the Bank of  Japan , the European Central Bank,
the  Bank of England , the Bank of  France ,  Germany ’s Bundesbank
and the Italian central bank. Japan’s authorities probably sold
less than 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in today’s foreign-
exchange market intervention, a Japanese government official
told reporters in  Tokyo .  Coordinated Plan  “Coordination is happening because of sympathy for Japan,
given the tragic disaster that has occurred. It is designed to
support Japan and to stabilize Japan,” said  Jens Nordvig , a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc., during a call with clients and reporters today.
“It’s highly likely that BOJ is going to be there for much
longer and that the 80 level is going to be defended much more
forcefully and much more persistently.”  New Zealand’s dollar, Sweden’s krona and  South Africa ’s
rand were the top performers against the yen, buoyed also by a
rise in commodity prices.  The kiwi gained 4 percent to 58.90 yen, the krona added 4.5
percent to 12.85 yen and the rand advanced 3.8 percent to 11.52
yen.  The three nations are commodity exporters. The Thomson
Reuters /Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials gained 0.7 percent
as investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets increased.  Implied Volatility  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen rate fell
to 13.3 percent, from almost 17 percent yesterday. One-month
euro-yen volatility dropped to 14.09 percent, from 17.25
percent. Implied volatility is a measure of expected price
swings and the key gauge for option prices.  Implied volatility in the G-7 currencies, as measured by
the JPMorgan Chase & Co. index, dropped 2.5 percent to 11.57. It
reached a nine-month high of 14.13 yesterday.  “The central bank moves that are being reported to take
place should be enough to stall out some of the speculative
moves, but I think the repatriation flows are still likely to
continue for some time,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of  Canada  in Toronto.  The franc dropped against all of its 16 most-actively
traded peers except for the yen. The Swiss currency depreciated
0.3 percent to 90.10 centimes per dollar.    Libya  Moves  Libya said it is ceasing all military action and will start
talks with the opposition, Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa
said in a televised news conference carried by Al Arabiya TV.  British and French leaders began preparing for possible air
strikes against Libya after a United Nations vote yesterday
cleared the way for the first Western military action against an
Arab country since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.  Japan’s Finance Minister, Yoshihiko Noda, said the combined
yen sales are an attempt to limit the damage a strong Japanese
currency will have on the nation’s economy in the aftermath of
the magnitude 9.0 earthquake. G-7 nations may also conduct euro-
yen intervention in addition to dollar-yen intervention.  “In response to recent movements in the exchange rate of
the yen associated with the tragic events in Japan, and at the
request of the Japanese authorities, the authorities of the
U.S., the U.K., Canada, and the  European Central Bank  will join
with Japan, on March 18, 2011, in concerted intervention in
exchange markets,” the G-7 said today in the statement.  Last Entry  G-7 members hadn’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  Japan’s intervention was its first since September, when it
acted on its own after the yen had climbed to 82.88, the
strongest at that time since 1995. The BOJ sold 2 trillion yen
in that effort, which was the first such move since 2004. Even
after the move, the yen appreciated to a 15-year high Nov. 1,
before weakening.  The yen’s decline against the dollar will be temporary
unless it’s supported by higher U.S.  interest rates , according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The move shouldn’t be a “trend-
changer,” said John Normand, the London-based head of currency
strategy at JPMorgan.  “The more relevant question is whether such a policy would
support the dollar-yen and the euro-yen for long,” wrote
Normand in an e-mailed note. “History isn’t on the G-7’s side.
The major concentrated interventions -- Louvre in 1987, euro in
2000 --only turned trends when reinforced by central bank
tightening, so Fed policy will negate whatever the G-7 do.”  Fed Policy  The U.S. central bank has kept its benchmark lending rate
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The Fed will boost
the rate by 25 basis points in the last three months of the
year, according to the weighted average forecast of 68 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’S Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, fell as much as 0.7
percent to 75.537 in the biggest intraday decline since December
2009.  The BOJ added 4 trillion yen to Japan’s financial system
today, bringing its emergency fund injections this week to 38
trillion yen.  The yen soared 4.5 percent in 26 minutes yesterday as
markets closed in New York and re-opened in  Asia  amid
speculation automated trades to limit losses were taking place.
Japan said there’s no evidence insurance companies were
repatriating assets from abroad due to the risk of radiation
leaks from a quake-crippled nuclear plant north of Tokyo.  Power On  Power may be restored to one of the reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant today, Tokyo Electric Power Co.
said, improving the odds that workers can prevent a meltdown and
further radiation leaks.  The G-7 nations’ plan to jointly intervene in foreign-
exchange markets is aimed at stopping the yen from appreciating
rather than weakening the currency, according to Societe
Generale SA.  “They’ve stopped the yen rise, but are careful to say they
don’t want to weaken it,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research in  London , wrote today in an e-mailed note. There’s
still a risk that the yen will appreciate to 75 per dollar
within a month because “there are still people with yen to
buy,” he said.  Turning Points  Joint intervention helped mark turning points for
currencies targeted on three occasions during the Clinton
administration, a history that may today encourage bets against
the yen. The yen weakened against the dollar in 1995 after
central banks sold it, and then rose in 1998 as the U.S. and
Japan acted to buy the yen. The euro climbed in 2000 after the
G-7 started buying the currency.  The yen’s weakness may be short-lived as Japan would need
as much as $500 billion to intervene in markets just to match
its previous efforts to curb the currency’s strength, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  An intervention of that magnitude will add about 10 percent
of gross domestic product to Japan’s record debt level, wrote
Deutsche Bank analysts including Bilal Hafeez, its head of
currency strategy, in an e-mailed note. The bank based its
estimate on previous moves by the  Bank of Japan  and the size of
the currency market.  The British pound slid against the euro, heading for the
longest run of weekly declines since October, after a report
showed U.K. consumer confidence fell to a record low, fueling
concern the economic recovery will slow.  A gauge of U.K. sentiment dropped to 38 last month, the
lowest since records began in 2004, Nationwide Building Society
said today.  The pound fell 0.5 percent to 87.36 pence per euro, after
reaching 87.61 pence, the weakest level since Nov. 5. The U.K.
currency added 2.8 percent to 130.82 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  