-- 
Stocks Rally as U.S. Banks Boost Dividends; Yen Falls on G-7 Intervention

-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-18T20:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/yen-falls-most-in-two-years-as-g-7-intervene-to-aid-japan-quake-recovery.html
Stocks rose, sending the MSCI World
Index to its best two-day rally of the year, as the  Federal
Reserve  allowed some U.S. banks to boost dividends and  Libya 
called a cease-fire. The yen slid as central banks weakened the
currency to help Japan recover from its worst earthquake.  The MSCI gauge of stocks in developed markets gained 0.7
percent as of 4 p.m. in New York and climbed 2.3 percent in the
last two days. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent after Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed up 2.7
percent. Crude slipped 0.4 percent to $101.07 a barrel, erasing
a 2.2 percent gain. The yen weakened against all 16 most-traded
peers, depreciating 2.2 percent to 80.69 versus the dollar. Ten-
year Treasury yields increased 1 basis point to 3.27 percent.  The  S&P 500  trimmed its weekly loss to 1.9 percent after
the Fed said capital has improved at the largest U.S. banks and
Libya’s Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said the government is
ceasing military actions and starting talks with the opposition.
The yen retreated after yesterday jumping to a post-World War II
high against the dollar amid speculation investors and companies
were buying the currency to pay for rebuilding projects.  “Stability in Libya is certainly one factor that investors
are looking toward as a sign that we can get back to business,”
said Richard Skaggs, senior equity strategist at Loomis Sayles &
Co. in  Boston , which manages more than $150 billion. “We’re
pleased to see the G-7 got together a plan in a quick fashion to
contain the yen’s upside. It’s important for  Japan  that the yen
strength be controlled and in that sense it’s a positive for
global equities.”  Banks Rally  Eight of 10 industries in the S&P 500 rose, with financial
companies up 1.1 percent as a group to lead the advance. The Fed
said some of the 19 largest U.S. banks can restart dividend
payments, buy back shares, or repay government capital after
“significant improvement” in their capital positions and the
economy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . were among banks
to rally, climbing 2.7 percent and 1.5 percent respectively, as
they increased payouts and announced buyback plans shortly after
the Fed’s announcement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, climbed 2.7 percent after winning
approval for a dividend increase and buyback and saying it will
purchase $5 billion of preferred stock sold to Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. at the height of the 2008 financial
crisis. Berkshire’s Class B shares climbed 0.9 percent.  The 19 largest banks have increased common equity by more
than $300 billion from the final quarter of 2008 through the end
of 2010, the Fed said in a paper released today.  Cisco Dividend    Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest maker of networking
equipment, climbed 0.8 percent after announcing plans to start
paying a quarterly dividend of 6 cents a share.  The world economy will continue to grow even as Japan’s
earthquake causes “modest supply disruptions,” Citigroup
Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist,  Tobias Levkovich , told
Bloomberg Television.  Jonathan Golub , his counterpart at UBS AG,
told Bloomberg TV that investors who were optimistic before
Japan’s crisis should stick with their outlook and buy U.S.
equities as earnings expand.  Three stocks advanced for every two that fell in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, which climbed 0.2 percent. Parmalat SpA
rose 4 percent after Groupe Lactalis said it has a 7.28
percent direct holding in the Italian food company. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 investment-
grade companies fell 3.1 basis points to a two-week low of 99.5.  Japan Stocks, Yen  The Nikkei 225’s gain trimmed this week’s drop to 10
percent, the biggest retreat since October 2008.  South Korea ’s
Kospi Index and Taiwan’s Taiex both climbed more than 1 percent
today.  Japan’s currency slid 3.4 percent versus the euro. Japan
began the intervention to weaken its currency, with Europe’s
central banks, the Bank of  Canada  and the Fed Bank of  New York 
following up. The  Bank of Japan  is likely to act “forcefully”
and “persistently” in preventing the yen from trading stronger
than 80 against the dollar, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s biggest brokerage.  Engineers plan to work into the night to restore power to
two of the crippled reactors at Japan’s damaged Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant, while Prime Minister Naoto Kan described the
crisis as “very grave.”  Japanese Reactors  Japanese soldiers and firefighters from  Tokyo , using dozens
of fire engines, doused sea water on reactor No. 3, site of an
explosion earlier this week. Tokyo Electric Power Co. worked to
finish reconnecting a power line to the cooling system of the
No. 2 reactor, where white smoke or steam was observed. The
power link would be used to restart pumps needed to pour cooling
water on overheating fuel rods.  The Swiss franc weakened against all of its 16 major peers,
except the yen, and the  New Zealand dollar  climbed against all
but one of its major counterparts. The pound declined 0.5
percent against the euro after a report from Nationwide Building
Society showed U.K. consumer confidence fell to a record low in
February.  Crude’s earlier rally came as a United Nations decision to
prevent the Libyan air force from bombing rebel cities renewed
concern that political unrest in the region may spread and
disrupt oil supplies. President Barack Obama said  Muammar Qaddafi  must stop violence and repression against the Libyan
people or face a military response by an international
coalition. European and Arab nations will take key roles in
enforcing a no-fly zone, he said.  Corn and Wheat futures capped the biggest two-day rallies
since October, up 11 percent and 9.2 percent respectively, on
speculation that adverse weather will hurt U.S. supplies. Cotton
and sugar climbed at 3.6 percent each today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 