-- 
Hypo Alpe Adria Bank Said to Hire JPMorgan to Manage Sale of Austrian Unit

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-18T16:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hypo-alpe-adria-bank-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-to-manage-sale-of-austrian-unit.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the lender nationalized by  Austria  in 2009, has hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to find a buyer for its domestic unit,
three people with knowledge of the process said.  There have been informal talks with potential bidders, said
two of the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The lender’s board has started to
evaluate a possible sale of its Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank AG unit,
Dominic Koefner, a spokesman for Hypo Alpe, said by phone today
from Klagenfurt, Austria. A decision hasn’t been made, Koefner
said. He declined to comment on JPMorgan being hired.  Hypo Alpe’s domestic unit has about 6.7 billion euros ($9.5
billion) of assets, or 16 percent of the group’s total,
according to a report for the first half of 2010. Its net loss
more than doubled to 65 million euros in the period.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe in December 2009 to avert
the bank’s collapse after bad debts increased during the
financial crisis and former owners, including  Bayerische
Landesbank , withdrew their support. Chief Executive Officer
Gottwald Kranebitter said on Jan. 28 that he expected most of
the bank’s assets to be privatized by the end of 2014.  Patrick Burton, a spokesman for JPMorgan in  London , didn’t
have an immediate comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  Hypo Alpe has started sales negotiations with four Austrian
banks, Kleine Zeitung newspaper reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  Eastern European Units  UniCredit Bank Austria AG, the nation’s biggest bank, would
consider buying the Hypo Alpe’s unit, according to spokesman
Martin Halama. Peter Thier, a spokesman for Erste Group Bank
AG’s Austrian unit, declined to comment. Raiffeisenlandesbank
Kaernten isn’t interested, said Albin Aspernig, a spokesman for
the bank in Klagenfurt.  Hypo Alpe is winding down its business, mostly consisting
of leasing, in countries including Ukraine, Bulgaria and
Macedonia. It will also sell its Italian leasing unit,
Kranebitter has said. The lender’s units in  Croatia ,  Serbia ,  Slovenia  and Bosnia and Hercegovina should be sold as a whole,
according to the CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  