-- 
Hypo Alpe Bank Reviews Selling Its Austrian Unit in Breakup

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-18T13:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/hypo-alpe-bank-reviews-selling-its-austrian-unit-in-breakup.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the lender nationalized by  Austria  in 2009, is considering a
sale of its domestic business in the Carinthia province as its
first privatization step.  Hypo Alpe’s board started to evaluate a possible sale of
its Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank AG unit, Dominic Koefner, a spokesman
for the company, said today in a telephone interview from Hypo
Alpe’s headquarters in Klagenfurt, Austria. A decision to sell
hasn’t been made, he said.  The unit has 6.7 billion euros ($9.5 billion) in total
assets, or 16 percent of the group’s, according to its report
for the first half of 2010. Hypo Alpe has started sales
negotiations with four Austrian banks, Kleine Zeitung newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe in December 2009 to avert
the bank’s collapse after bad debts increased during the
financial crisis and former owners, including  Bayerische
Landesbank , withdrew their support. Chief Executive Gottwald Kranebitter told journalists in a Jan. 28 briefing he expected
privatization of most of the bank’s assets by the end of 2014.  The lender’s units in  Croatia ,  Serbia ,  Slovenia  and Bosnia
and Hercegovina should be sold as a whole, Kranebitter said at
the time. While that business is suffering from recession and
rising unemployment in the region, the share of bad loans is
higher at the bank’s holding company, which has the group’s
large-scale project financing in the region as well as big
Austrian loans on its books.  Hypo Alpe is winding down its business, mostly consisting
of leasing, in countries including Ukraine, Bulgaria and
Macedonia. It will also sell its Italian leasing unit,
Kranebitter said in the Jan. 28 briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  