-- 
Zimbabwe Risking ‘Sliding Back Into Chaos,’ Prime Minister Tsvangirai Says

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-03-18T13:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/zimbabwe-risking-sliding-back-into-chaos-prime-minister-tsvangirai-says.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  said he warned regional leaders that the country is
at risk of “sliding back into chaos” because of a crackdown
against democracy.  “Dark and sinister forces” are trying to take over the
running of the southern African nation, Tsvangirai, who is also
leader of the  Movement for Democratic Change , told reporters
today in Harare, the capital. Tsvangirai held talks with the
leaders of Botswana, Swaziland, Mozambique and  Zambia , he said.  “While I was away in the last four days, it appears the
civilian authority is no longer in charge and dark and sinister
forces have engaged in a hostile takeover of running the affairs
of the country,” he said.  While the power-sharing government of Tsvangirai’s MDC and
President  Robert Mugabe ’s  Zimbabwe  African National Union-
Patriotic Front, formed in 2009 after disputed elections, helped
end a decade of recession, it has often come close to breaking
down. Tsvangirai warned on March 10 that the arrest of Energy
Minister Elton Mangoma of the MDC “strikes at the heart” of
the nation’s coalition government. The party is prevented from
holding rallies, according to the MDC.  “Together with civil society, we’d planned to hold a major
peace rally in Harare tomorrow to pray for peace in the
country,” Tsvangirai said today. “We duly notified the police
who have refused to allow this peaceful rally to proceed.”  Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena didn’t answer calls to
his mobile phone when Bloomberg called for comment.  Tsvangirai said he hoped to meet with South African
President  Jacob Zuma  this weekend to discuss Zimbabwe’s
political crisis. Zuma said today that he would send envoys to
Zimbabwe next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  