-- 
Zloty Strengthens for Second Day on Polish Rate Bets, G-7 Push

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-18T15:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-18/zloty-strengthens-for-second-day-on-polish-rate-bets-g-7-push.html
The zloty gained for a second day
against the euro as speculation mounted Polish  interest rates 
will rise next month and after the Group of Seven nations sold
yen to prevent  Japan  from entering a recession.  The Polish currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent and
traded 0.2 percent stronger at 4.0584 per euro at 3:55 p.m. in
Warsaw, paring this week’s decline to 1.4 percent. The zloty is
rebounding from its weakest level in eight months of 4.1217
reached in intraday trading yesterday.  Forward-rate agreements fixing Polish three-month interest
costs one month from today rose for a third day to 4.31 percent
after a report yesterday showed the growth in industrial output
and producer prices, an early indicator of inflation trends,
accelerated more than expected.  “This rise strongly supports a rate hike at the next
Monetary Policy Council meeting in April,” strategists at BNP
Paribas SA led by London-based Bartosz Pawlowski wrote in a
report today. “The weak zloty and more hawkish  European Central
Bank ” also support monetary tightening, according to the note.  While the currency’s recent weakening is not a concern for  Poland , further losses could provide additional justification
for increasing borrowing costs, central bank Deputy Governor
Witold Kozinski said today.  Equities rallied worldwide after  Libya  announced a cease-
fire and plans to hold talks with the opposition and as the G-7
members sold the Japanese currency. The yen’s strength threatens
to hamper the recovery of the world’s third-biggest economy from
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  