-- 
Taiwan's President Ma Plans to Run for Second Term, Kuomintang Party Says

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-04-23T08:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/taiwan-s-president-ma-plans-to-run-for-second-term-kuomintang-party-says.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou began
his re-election bid today, pinning hopes for a second four-year
term on economic growth and better ties with China.  Ma, 60, registered with his Kuomintang party as a candidate
to run for the next presidential term, the party’s spokesman
Fan-Chiang Tai-chi said by phone today. He is the only one
registering for the candidacy, Fan-Chiang said.  Taiwan’s economy grew at a 23-year-high pace of 10.82
percent last year and relations across the  Taiwan Strait  have
improved, Ma said in a statement today on the  Kuomintang ’s
website. Relations between Taiwan and China are at their warmest
in more than 60 years after Ma abandoned his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance and focused on economic issues.  The opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  will consider
its candidate to oppose Ma by April 28, DPP spokesman Cheng Wen- tsan said by phone.  Ma had the confidence of 43.5 percent of the people polled,
according to an April 20 statement on the website of Taipei-
based Global Views Survey Research Center. As many as 32.9
percent of the respondents in the survey said his performance
was satisfactory, according to the statement.  Taiwan has eased China-bound investments and closer ties
across the straits follows the signing of an economic
cooperation framework agreement in June.  China , Taiwan’s largest export market, regards the
independently governed island as part of its territory, and has
threatened to attack if it declares formal independence. The two
sides split more than 60 years ago after Mao Zedong’s communists
took control of China, forcing the then-ruling Kuomintang to
retreat to Taiwan.  In the 2008 presidential poll, the KMT beat the DPP 58
percent to 42 percent by pledging direct flights to China,
lifting of investment restrictions by Taiwanese companies and
allowing more mainland visitors to Taiwan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  