-- 
Thaksin Pledges to Build Dams, Railways in Thai Policy Address

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-04-23T11:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/thaksin-pledges-to-build-dams-railways-in-thai-policy-address.html
Thaksin Shinawatra , Thailand’s
exiled former prime minister, pledged to build dams and railways
and raise minimum rice prices if the main opposition party wins
elections that may be held as soon as June.  A government led by the pro-Thaksin Puea Thai party would
build a new city from reclaimed land within 10 years, construct
a dam in Samut Prakarn province to prevent flooding and expand
rail links to cities including  Chiang Mai  and Hua Hin, Thaksin
said in a video address to party members  Both Thaksin and Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  are
wooing voters by pledging to control prices and build
infrastructure. Abhisit has given cash to the elderly and crop
price guarantees to win over poorer northern voters who have
underpinned support for Thaksin, who has lived abroad since
fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008.  “I am ready to work,” Thaksin said in the two-hour
address from Dubai. “If people are willing to let me go back, I
won’t go back for revenge but will go to solve problems, to
bring  Thailand  back to normalcy, to reunite the Thai people.”  Thaksin promised to pay rice farmers a guaranteed 15,000
baht ($500) per metric ton, a 36 percent premium to the price
offered under the government’s existing plan.  Abhisit, who has used subsidies and price controls to
shield Thailand’s 66 million people from inflation, has said he
plans to hold an election in June or July. Disputes over the
2007 poll won by Thaksin’s allies led to rival street protests
marred by gun battles, airport seizures and arson attacks.  He also pledged in February to raise the minimum wage by 25
percent over two years and boost civil service pay if elected,
adding to increases that took effect in April.  2006 Coup  Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after a
court disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for election fraud
under rules written after the 2006 coup that toppled the former
premier. Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past four
nationwide votes.  The former leader called for a free and fair election, and
said all parties should accept the outcome of the vote.  Thaksin also pledged to end poverty within four years under
a Puea Thai-led government. The government would call for a
three-year moratorium on personal debt of less than 500,000 baht
and restructure borrowings of between 500,000 baht and 1 million
baht to ease problems related to loan-sharking, he said.  Thaksin also said three areas in the nation’s south may be
designated as special administrative districts to help ease
tensions in Muslim-majority provinces near Malaysia, where a
decades-old insurgency flared up in 2004,  The Puea Thai party hasn’t yet announced a candidate for
prime minister, though there are a number of candidates being
considered, Thaksin said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
-0- Apr/23/ :53 GMT 