-- 
Manchester Utd. Beats Everton 1-0 to Move Closer to Premier League Title

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-23T19:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/manchester-utd-beats-everton-to-extend-premier-league-lead-to-nine-points.html
A goal in the 84th minute saw
 Manchester United  defeat Everton 1-0 and move one step closer to
a record 19th English soccer championship.  Javier Hernandez  scored as United remained six points ahead
of Chelsea, which beat West Ham 3-0. Arsenal also close to
within six points with a win at Bolton tomorrow.  “As I said to the players, just try to win your games and
you’ll be alright,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told  Sky
Sports . “There’s only four games left and the way they are
going about their business gives them an outstanding chance.”  Sunderland ended a nine-match winless run with a 4-2
victory over Wigan, which dropped into the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings. Liverpool routed
Birmingham 5-0 and Tottenham drew 2-2 with West Brom. Three
games --  Aston Villa  vs Stoke, Blackpool vs Newcastle and
Wolverhampton vs Fulham -- ended 1-1.  Manchester United continued its home dominance at Old
Trafford thanks to Hernandez, who rose at the far post to head
home a cross from Antonio Valencia for his 19th goal in his
first season at the club.  “Javier has done better than everyone expected in his
first year because we thought he would get used to the English
game and get strengthened up,” Ferguson said on United’s
website. “He’s passed all those tests.”  Goal Difference  United is unbeaten in 17 league home games this season,
with 16 wins, and 29 games overall at Old Trafford dating back
to a 2-1 loss to Chelsea on April 3, 2010. The Red Devils, who
share the record of 18 titles with Liverpool, visit Arsenal in
their next game May 1 before hosting Chelsea seven days later.  Fernando Torres  scored his first goal for Chelsea as the
Blues beat last-place West Ham.  Torres beat  Robert Green  with a shot eight minutes after
coming on as a substitute, ending a 15-game goalless drought
since his 50 million-pound ($83 million) transfer from Liverpool
in January.  Frank Lampard  and Florent Malouda also scored as the
Blues ran their unbeaten run in the league to 10 games.  Jordan Henderson scored twice as Sunderland won for the
first time since January. The defeat drops Wigan into the
relegation zone behind Blackpool because of an inferior goal
difference, with both on 34 points. Blackpool moved up after D.J.
Campbell’s goal earned it the home draw with Newcastle, which
got a score from Peter Lovenkrands.  Missed Chance  Tottenham missed a chance to move into fourth place,
drawing at home with West Brom. Spurs are one point behind
 Manchester City , which visits Blackburn on April 25, in the race
for the final qualifying spot in the Champions League.  Jermaine Defoe scored his 100th Premier League goal to give
Tottenham a 2-1 lead before Simon Cox drew West Brom level with
nine minutes left.  Maxi Rodriguez  scored a hat trick as
Liverpool beat Birmingham to draw within three points of Spurs.  Andy Johnson scored in the 80th minute to give Fulham the
draw at Wolves, which moved out of last place over West Ham.
Darren Bent’s goal earned Aston Villa the home draw with Stoke,
which got a score from  Kenwyne Jones .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  