-- 
BP’s Quest for Transocean Spill Payment May Be Helped by Report

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-04-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/bp-s-quest-for-transocean-spill-payment-may-be-aided-by-coast-guard-report.html
A U.S. Coast Guard report that
cited safety failures by drilling-rig owner  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  may
help bolster  BP Plc (BP/) ’s effort to recover some of the costs of
last year’s oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico , an analyst said.  Transocean’s poor maintenance of electrical equipment,
bypassing of gas alarms and automatic shutdown systems and a
lack of training played a role in the April 20, 2010,
catastrophe, the Coast Guard said in a 288-page  report  released
yesterday. The disaster killed 11 rig workers, injured 16 and
left crude pouring into the Gulf for 87 days.  BP, which leased the Deepwater Horizon rig from Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, sued the company on April 20 for
billions of dollars in damages, saying that without its
“misconduct,” there wouldn’t have been any explosion, fire,
deaths or  oil spill . Transocean lacked effective safety
management and culture, which “contributed” to the disaster at
the rig, according to the Coast Guard report.  “BP will probably look at it as helping support their
argument that Transocean is partially to blame,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis . BP may be
“more persistent” in trying to get Transocean to help pay for
the disaster, he said.  BP, based in  London , said in its complaint in federal court
in  New Orleans  that it has incurred costs of $17.7 billion and
that it took a pretax charge last year of $40.9 billion in
relation to the spill.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP in the U.S., didn’t
immediately respond to an after-hours e-mail and voicemail
seeking comment on the Coast Guard report. An e-mail to BP’s U.S.
media affairs also wasn’t returned.  ‘Strongly Disagree’  “We strongly disagree with, and documentary evidence in
the Coast Guard’s possession refutes, key findings in this
report,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman in  New York ,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  “The Coast Guard inspected the Deepwater Horizon just
seven months before the Macondo incident and certified the rig
as being fully compliant with all applicable U.S. and
international marine safety compliance standards, including
those associated with fire and gas detection systems,”
Colasuonno said. “The company looks forward to setting the
record straight.”  While BP likely will pay for the vast majority of the costs
related to Macondo, Transocean may end up paying some of the
costs if BP continues to push, said Youngberg, who has a
“hold” rating on Transocean’s shares and BP’s American
depositary receipts and doesn’t own either.  Joint Investigation  The explosion and subsequent sinking of the rig has led to
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners and contractors.  The report is volume 1 of a Coast Guard and Interior
Department joint investigation. The Coast Guard has jurisdiction
over what happened on the Deepwater Horizon rig, according to a
 statement  yesterday. The report covers the explosions, the
resulting fire, evacuations, the flooding and sinking of the rig,
and safety systems.  The report didn’t analyze what led to a loss of well
control or aspects that are overseen by the U.S. Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. The final report
by the joint investigation team is expected by July 27,
according to the Coast Guard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 