-- 
Coast Guard Cites Transocean’s Safety ‘Failure’ in Gulf Spill

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-04-23T00:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/coast-guard-report-cites-transocean-s-safety-failure-in-gulf-oil-spill.html
The U.S. Coast Guard cited safety
failures by  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner and operator of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, in an explosion last year that
resulted in the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  Poor maintenance of electrical equipment, the bypassing of
gas alarms and automatic shutdown systems and a lack of training
played a role in the April 20, 2010, catastrophe, which killed
11 people, injured 16 and left crude pouring into the Gulf for
87 days, the Coast Guard said in a 288-page  report  released
today.  “We strongly disagree with, and documentary evidence in the
Coast Guard’s possession refutes, key findings in this report,”
Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman in  New York , said in an
e-mail.  “The Coast Guard inspected the Deepwater Horizon just seven
months before the Macondo incident and certified the rig as
being fully compliant with all applicable U.S. and international
marine safety compliance standards, including those associated
with fire and gas detection systems,” Colasuonno said. “Further,
at the time of the accident the Deepwater Horizon possessed all
required valid documents verifying compliance with all
international and Coast Guard requirements. The company looks
forward to setting the record straight.”  The Coast Guard said in the report that the “deficiencies
indicate that Transocean’s failure to have an effective safety
management system and instill a culture that emphasizes and
ensures safety contributed to this disaster.”  The Republic of the Marshall Islands, the rig’s flag state,
“effectively abdicated” its inspection responsibilities,
according to the report.  The explosion and subsequent sinking of the rig, which was
leased to  BP Plc (BP/) , has led to hundreds of lawsuits against BP and
its partners and contractors. The company said in court
documents filed April 20 that it has incurred costs of $17.7
billion and that it took a pretax charge last year of $40.9
billion in relation to the spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 