-- 
Dollar Drops to Three-Week Low Versus Yen on Fed Rate Outlook; Euro Jumps

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-04-23T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/dollar-drops-to-three-week-low-versus-yen-on-fed-rate-outlook-euro-jumps.html
The dollar fell to a three-week low
against the yen on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reiterate next week its intention to keep interest rates near
zero, damping the appeal of U.S. assets.  The euro surged to a 16-month high versus the dollar in the
holiday-shortened trading week as signs that the region’s
economy is gathering momentum fueled speculation the European
Central Bank will raise interest rates further. The Australian
dollar, the biggest winner this week among major counterparts to
the greenback, climbed to a record as stock and commodity price
gains drove investors to higher-yielding currencies.  “Market perceptions seem to be intensifying that the Fed’s
quantitative easing stance will continue,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex &
Ueda Harlow Ltd.,  Japan ’s largest currency broker. “The bias is
likely to sell the dollar.”  The dollar dropped 1.5 percent to 81.88 yen yesterday from
83.13 yen on April 15, for a second weekly loss. The euro
advanced to $1.4585, from $1.4430, and reached $1.4649, the
highest level since December 2009.  Australia ’s dollar rose 1.7
percent to $1.0741, from $1.0568, after climbing to $1.0775, the
strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Financial markets in countries including the U.S. and U.K.
were closed yesterday for the Good Friday holiday.  The likelihood Fed policy makers will raise the target rate
for overnight lending between banks by their December meeting
was 25 percent, down from 33 percent odds a week earlier, Fed
funds futures showed on April 21. The U.S. central bank has kept
the benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  announces its policy
decision on April 27, when it will likely hold the benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, according to all 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Most of the 50 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey last month said they expect the Fed will keep
its bond portfolio stable for some time after its $600 billion
purchase program ends in June.  “The dollar is in a hopeless situation, paralyzed by low
rates, a fact likely to be reaffirmed by the FOMC next week,”
analysts led by  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in
Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., wrote in a note dated April 21.  Standard & Poor’s this week put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. S&P maintained its top rating on U.S. long-term
debt while lowering the outlook to “negative” for the first
time.  Services, Manufacturing  The euro rose 1.1 percent this week as reports showed
 Europe ’s services and manufacturing growth unexpectedly
accelerated in April, suggesting the region’s economy is
weathering surging energy costs and austerity measures.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries rose to
57.8 from 57.6 in March, London-based Markit Economics said on
April 19. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a drop to 57.  “The euro-zone’s recovery looks solid,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co.,
a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank. “As long as inflation is
on the upside, market expectations for  European Central Bank 
rate hikes will likely persist, which is euro-supportive.”  Higher energy costs pushed German inflation to 2.3 percent
in March. The ECB, which aims to keep inflation below 2 percent,
raised its key interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to
1.25 percent this month. It left the door open for further moves
even as a sovereign debt crisis damps growth in peripheral
nations such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland.  Riksbank Rate  Sweden’s krona strengthened to its highest level against
the dollar in more than 2 1/2 years after Riksbank increased its
target lending rate by a quarter-percentage point to 1.75
percent and maintained plans for more tightening.  The krona has gained 4.7 percent this year, the best
performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. Economic growth and faster inflation have forced policy
makers to raise the key rate six times since July.  The Swedish currency rose 1.5 percent to 6.0927 per dollar,
from 6.1848, after climbing to 6.0736, the most since August
2008.  The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars climbed for a fifth
week against the greenback as commodity prices and stocks around
the world rose. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has climbed 1.7 percent
this week while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity
Price Index has gained 1.3 percent.  Commodity Prices  “Commodity markets are doing well, boosting the Aussie
dollar’s allure,” Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based market
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. wrote in a note to clients.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to 80.19 U.S.
cents, from 79.95 cents, after advancing to 80.38 cents, the
highest level since March 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  