-- 
Misrata Struck by Rockets in Fresh Fighting After U.S. Drone Fires Missile

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-24T10:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/first-drone-strike-hits-libyan-rocket-launcher-nine-die-at-syria-funerals.html
The U.S. carried out its first
missile attack from a drone aircraft in  Libya  as fighting
continued in the rebel-held city of Misrata.  The Predator drone fired its missile yesterday, the U.S.
Defense Department said in an e-mailed statement, without
elaborating. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said a
Predator strike destroyed a multiple-rocket launcher that had
been used against civilians in Misrata.  Rebels in Libya have been fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s
42-year rule since mid-February. NATO war planes operating over
the capital Tripoli struck near Qaddafi’s Bab al-Azizia
compound, AP reported yesterday. Bursts of automatic weapons
fire and rocket explosions could be heard in the city of
Misrata, the  BBC reported  today, citing its correspondents.  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh agreed yesterday to
accept a plan that allows him to cede power in exchange for
immunity, a government official said. He would be the third
leader forced from office since popular unrest spread through
the Middle East, ousting the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia .  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said he doesn’t
anticipate a partition of Libya to create an area for current
Qaddafi’s supporters and another for those opposed to him. “I
don’t think a partition” is likely “because this is not an
east-west split,” Hague told the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr Show in
 London  today.  Looking Viable  Fighting has lasted more than six weeks in Misrata where 25
people died and 100 were hurt yesterday in shelling by troops
loyal toQaddafi, unidentified medical personnel told Al Jazeera
television.  Libyan tribal leaders are trying to get rebels in Misrata
to lay down their arms within 48 hours, AP reported,
citing Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled Kaim. If
negotiations fail, tribal chiefs may send armed supporters into
the city of 300,000 to fight the rebels, AP reported Kaim as
saying.  Rebel control of Misrata would leave Qaddafi in charge of
one major city, Tripoli, W. Andrew Terrill, a research professor
of national security affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute
of the U.S. Army War College in Carlisle,  Pennsylvania , said in
an interview.  ‘Viable Force’  “If the rebels have Benghazi and Misrata, they’re looking
like a viable force and a legitimate government” and it could
make a stronger case for other nations to join  France ,  Italy  and
Qatar in recognizing them, Terrill said.  NATO is leading what it calls a United Nations-sanctioned
mission to police a no-fly zone, protect civilians and enforce
an arms embargo against Qaddafi’s regime.  France, Italy and the U.K. have sent military advisers to
the rebels. The U.S. has said it would provide $25 million in
non-lethal aid, such as radios and body armor.  President  Barack Obama  approved the use of Predator drones,
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said April 21. The drones
are made by closely held General Atomics of  San Diego  and armed
with air-to-ground Hellfire missiles made by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)   The price of oil has advanced 23 percent in  New York  this
year as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa.  Libya’s production of crude oil fell to 390,000 barrels a
day in March from an average of 1.6 million barrels a day last
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The country has
Africa’s biggest proved oil reserves.  McCain’s Visit  U.S. Senator  John McCain  visited Benghazi, the center of
the Libyan uprising, on April 22. McCain, the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee and the ranking member of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, urged the U.S. to recognize the rebel
Transitional National Council as the country’s government and
provide financial assistance and more military aid to the
insurgents.  The Obama administration called on all parties in Yemen to
implement a plan brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council that
allows President Saleh to cede power in return for immunity.
Saleh accepted the proposal yesterday, Tarik al-Shami, spokesman
at the ruling General People’s Congress, said.  The council’s plan could “resolve the political crisis in
a peaceful and orderly manner,” the administration said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement from the White House.  Saleh, 68, a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda,
became leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has ruled the Republic
of Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  