-- 
Indian Bank Plans to Raise $1 Billion Selling Debt, Boost Sri Lanka Loans

-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-04-23T11:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/indian-bank-plans-to-raise-1-billion-selling-debt-boost-sri-lanka-loans.html
Indian Bank (INBK) , a state-owned lender,
plans to raise as much as $1 billion selling medium-term notes
and use the proceeds to boost loans in Sri Lanka and  Singapore .  The bank will sell the 5 ½-year debt overseas in two phases,
Executive Director V. Rama Gopal told reporters today in Chennai,
where the company is based. The sale may start after three
months, he said.  The 103-year-old bank is betting the fastest pace of growth
in more than three decades in Sri Lanka will boost demand for
loans. The lender also expects low  interest rates  in Singapore
to attract Indian companies to borrow in the city-state. Indian
Bank’s profit rose 10 percent, the slowest pace in six years, in
the 12 months ended March 31.  “Almost all Indian corporates are setting up offices in
Singapore,” and they want to borrow in the city, Chairman and
Managing Director T.M. Bhasin said in an interview today. In  Sri
Lanka  there’s demand to borrow to build infrastructure and gain
from economic growth in the nation, he said.  Indian Bank’s rose 0.2 percent to 239.35 rupees on April 21
in Mumbai. The shares have declined 3 percent this year,
compared with a 1 percent gain in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Bankex index.  Indian Bank expects its balance sheet to almost triple to 5
trillion rupees ($112.6 billion) in the next four years, Bhasin
said.  Sri Lanka’s economy expanded 8 percent in 2010 from a year
earlier, which is the most since 1978 and compares with a 3.5
percent gain in 2009.  Tamil Tigers  Companies including Shangri-La Asia Ltd., Nestle Lanka Plc
and  India ’s Delta Corp. are boosting investments after President
Mahinda Rajapaksa’s government ended the  Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam ’s quest for a separate homeland in 2009, bringing an
end to conflict.  Bharti Airtel Ltd., India’s biggest mobile-phone services
company, and Shapoorji Pallonji & Co. are among companies that
have approached Indian Bank to borrow in Singapore, Bhasin said.
The prime lending rate in Singapore is 5.38 percent, while the
minimum rate at  State Bank  of India, the nation’s biggest, is
8.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The lenders’ profit in the three months ended March 31 rose
7.3 percent to 4.39 billion rupees, the lender said in a filing
to the Bombay Stock Exchange today. Total income rose to 28.65
billion rupees from 23.17 billion rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in  Chennai  at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  