-- 
Netschi Gets 8 Years, 4 Months in Prison for $80 Million ATM Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-23T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/netschi-gets-8-years-4-months-in-prison-for-80-million-atm-ponzi-scheme.html
Walter Netschi was sentenced to
eight years and four months in prison after being convicted of
running an $80 million Ponzi scheme based on phony investments
in automated teller machines.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa yesterday also ordered
Netschi to forfeit $80 million and will later require him to pay
restitution. The prison term is three months longer than Griesa
imposed on Netschi’s co-defendant, Vance Moore II. Griesa said
Netschi can remain free on bail while he appeals his conviction.  “I view this crime as a crime of a very serious nature,”
Griesa said in federal court in  New York . Netschi purported to
“sell properties that simply did not exist and to take in tens
of millions of dollars from those fraudulent sales,” the judge
said.  Netschi, 64, was convicted Nov. 12 at a  jury trial  where
prosecutors said he duped investors by falsely saying they were
buying 4,500 ATMs in retail locations. Netschi failed to
disclose that 90 percent of the ATMs never existed or were owned
by third parties, prosecutors said. They said he used money from
new investors to pay earlier ones and lived lavishly.  “Netschi lived well and enjoyed a privileged lifestyle,”
prosecutors said April 20 in a sentencing memorandum. “He took
more than $15 million from the fraud and flew around on his
private jet playing golf and taking vacations with friends.”  Netschi was charged with Moore and accused of defrauding
investors from 2005 to January 2008. Moore, who pleaded guilty,
was sentenced Feb. 28. Netschi was convicted at trial of nine
counts of  wire fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud. He previously lived in McKinney,  Texas , and now lives in
Hot Springs Village,  Arkansas .  Requested Sentence  In court papers, prosecutors urged Griesa to sentence
Netschi within the advisory guideline range of 11 years, three
months to 14 years. In his sentencing memo, Netschi sought a
term of three to five years. The judge said he would fashion his
own sentence, noting that Netschi has already been punished.  “The fact is that he is financially ruined,” Griesa said.
“Members of his family who got into this with him are
financially ruined or suffered very grievous setbacks.”  Prosecutors said Netschi refuses to accept responsibility
for his crimes. They said he bilked victims of more than $50
million, including a Wall Street banker who lost his life
savings of $4 million and now works as a waiter in  Florida .  ‘Bad Judgment’  “For all the world, I wish I had never met Vance Moore and
I wish I had never gotten involved in the ATM business with
him,” Netschi wrote April 14 to the judge. “I am guilty of
having very bad judgment and not being careful with other
people’s money and just blindly trusting what Vance Moore
said.”  He said he feels “tremendous and unrelenting guilt and
remorse” for how his actions have damaged so many people,
including investors and his family. “I wish I could turn back
the clock and return all the money and go back to a time before
these terrible events,” he wrote.  In court yesterday, Netschi said “I did not knowingly try
to beat, cheat or cause problems to anybody. I’m so very sorry
to all the people who have been hurt by this.”  The case is U.S. v. Netschi, 09-cr-00881, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in New York federal court at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  