-- 
Obama Says Clean-Energy Programs Cuts Would Harm Effort to Cap Gas Prices

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-23T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/obama-says-u-s-can-t-afford-cuts-to-clean-energy-investments.html
President  Barack Obama  said
proposals in Congress to cut investments in clean energy
technology would hurt efforts to stem rising gasoline prices,
which climbed to a 33-month high April 21.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , Obama said while
“there’s no silver bullet that can bring down gas prices right
away” increasing U.S. oil production, investing in clean,
renewable energy, and ending $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies to
oil and gas companies each year will help curtail rising gas
prices.  “That’s $4 billion of your money going to these companies
when they’re making record profits and you’re paying near record
prices at the pump,” he said. “It has to stop.”  Obama said in the address that he disagrees with a
Republican proposal in Congress to reduce clean energy
investments. House Budget Committee Chairman Rep.  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin  proposed a 70 percent cut to clean energy programs in
the Republican budget plan released April 5.  Gasoline for May delivery rose 3.13 cents, or 1 percent, to
$3.3086 a gallon on the Nymex, the highest settlement since July
15, 2008. Gasoline, which gained 0.6 percent this week, has
increased 45 percent in a year.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.3 cent to $3.84 a gallon April 21,  AAA  said on its
website. That was the highest price since Sept. 16, 2008.  Oil Price Probe  Obama announced a Justice Department probe into the role of
traders and speculators in oil markets during a town-hall in
Reno,  Nevada , on April 21. The working group will explore
whether oil and gasoline prices are being driven higher by
illegal manipulation.  The group, which includes representatives of federal
agencies and state attorneys general, will check for fraud,
collusion or misrepresentation at the retail and wholesale level,
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in a  statement . The group also
will examine investor practices and the role of speculators and
index traders in oil futures markets.  Obama faces political pressure over rising gasoline prices.
A New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted April 15-20, found
that the number of Americans who think the economy is getting
worse has risen by 13 percentage points since last month. The
poll of 1,224 adults nationwide had a margin of error of plus or
minus three percentage points.  Obama said it’s inevitable that politicians will try “to
grab headlines or score a few points” whenever gas prices go up.  Alternative Energy   While the president said that last year’s domestic oil
production was at its peak level since 2003, the “long term”
answer is investing in alternative energy and capitalizing on
the potential of innovative clean energy companies and start-ups.
He said that an agreement reached with major auto companies to
raise the fuel economy of cars and trucks in the U.S. and an
increase in hybrid technology will also help save Americans
money at the pump.  “If you buy a new car in the next few years, the better
gas mileage is going to save you about $3,000 at the pump,” he
said.  Senate Minority leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the Obama administration has unleashed “a war
on American energy,” in a statement yesterday. The
administration has limited drilling in the U.S. and pushed for
more regulations that would raise energy costs for U.S.
businesses, he said.  Republican Address  In the Republican  address  U.S. Senator Mike Johanns of
 Nebraska  said in order to get the nation’s “economic engine
firing on all cylinders” there should be less  government
regulation , which he said “holds businesses back.”  “Our small businesses, when free to grow and prosper, need
more and more employees to sustain that success,” he  said .
“That’s  job creation .”  Johanns said the country’s $14 trillion deficit has a
“ripple effect right to Main Street” because it causes banks
to limit the credit available to small businesses, leading to
stagnated growth. He also said the debt could lead to a
devaluation of the  U.S. dollar , which may cause higher prices
for goods and higher  interest rates  that would have a “chilling
effect on small business growth.”  The U.S. government should get out of the way of free
enterprise, Johanns said, citing widespread criticism of a tax-
compliance mandate in last year’s health-care law, dubbed 1099
for the tax changes it would have required. Johanns said the
mandate, which would have required companies to report more
transactions to the  Internal Revenue Service , created more “red
tape” for the nation’s businesses. The president signed the
repeal on April 14.  Johanns said that since January the Obama administration
has either proposed or enacted more than 250 regulations that
cost more than $24 billion.  “That’s $24 billion dollars needed by small businesses
across the country to hire new employees and to grow their
businesses,” he said.  Johann said “we can’t tie up small businesses in needless
red tape and regulations and then expect them to create jobs and
boost the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  