-- 
Portugal 2010 Deficit Revised Wider to 9.1% of GDP After Highways Included

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-04-23T18:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/portugal-2010-deficit-revised-wider-to-9-1-of-gdp-after-highways-included.html
Portugal ’s 2010 budget deficit was
revised to 9.1 percent of gross domestic product from 8.6
percent after the government added three highways onto its
accounts, the National Statistics Agency said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The government in March reported an 8.6 percent deficit for
2010, missing its target of 7.3 percent. Accounting changes
ordered by Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics agency,
forced the state to add more than 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion)
to the 2010 deficit for impairment costs stemming from the 2008
seizure of Banco Portugues de Negocios SA and also for charges
linked to the public-transportation system.  Without those additional charges, the deficit would have
been 6.8 percent of GDP, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos
Santos said at the time.  Today’s revision had to do with charges related to three
highways, two of which previously had been free until the
government introduced tolls.  “The economic rationale is that when final users pay the
majority of the cost of the service, the investment is to be
recorded on the balance sheet of the institutional unit
receiving these fees,” according to the statement. “As the
government receives these tolls, this implies that the assets
integrated in these contracts are considered as an investment of
the General Government, affecting in consequence the respective
net borrowing.”  The statistics office also revised the 2009 budget to 10.1
percent of GDP from 10 percent. These changes will lead to a
reduction in the deficits in the future, according to the
statement.  Portugal earlier this month became the third country to
request aid from the EU, after Greece and Ireland.  International
Monetary Fund , European Commission and European Central Bank
officials are in Lisbon to prepare an estimated 80 billion-euro
aid program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 