-- 
Rubin, O’Neill Say Debt Ceiling Should Be Decided Separately From Budget

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-04-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/rubin-o-neill-say-debt-ceiling-should-be-separate-from-budget.html
Raising the U.S. national debt
ceiling shouldn’t be an issue in negotiations over the federal
government budget, two former Treasury secretaries said.  Robert Rubin , Treasury secretary under Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , and  Paul O’Neill , who held the post under
Republican President  George W. Bush , spoke in an interview on
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” scheduled to air today.  “The debt ceiling should never be part of the budget
negotiations,” Rubin said, according to a program transcript.
Asked if he agreed, O’Neill replied, “Absolutely.”  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the government’s $14.3 trillion legal debt limit. The Treasury
Department projects that it will hit the cap on May 16, though
it could use emergency measures to avoid default until about
July 8.  U.S. President Barack Obama and members of his economic
team have said that failure to approve an increase could have
catastrophic consequences for the U.S. economy and financial
markets.  Standard & Poor’s  on April 18 revised the U.S. government’s
long-term outlook to negative on concern the Obama
administration and Congress will fail to reach agreement on
cutting medium- and long-term debt.  Irresponsible Threats  “I think an impasse or serious threats with respect to
default are highly irresponsible,” Rubin said. “And I think
they can do great damage to confidence in our political system
and also potentially to our markets. And the idea of default
itself seems to me should be absolutely unthinkable.”  O’Neill agreed, saying, “I think people, even if they
don’t understand the details of the numbers, have this gnawing
concern that our society is headed for a cliff that we’re not
going to be able to recover from.”  As part of the debate on  government spending , which also
includes completing a 2012 budget, Obama has offered the
outlines of a plan to reduce the debt by $4 trillion over 12
years through a combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, Republican of
Wisconsin, has proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a
decade in part by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid
spending. Republicans reject Obama’s push for tax increases to
help reduce debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  