-- 
Shanghai Cuts Fees for Truckers Following Strike, Xinhua Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-23T16:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/shanghai-cuts-fees-for-truckers-following-strike-xinhua-says.html
Shanghai  container-truck drivers
were reported to have won cuts in port fees after a sometimes
violent protest against rising costs highlighted the risk of
inflation triggering unrest in the world’s most populous nation.  The local government will lower or remove some fees after
drivers stopped work on April 20 because of the levies and
increased fuel costs, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an
unidentified spokesman.  The city’s ports are operating
normally, the report said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to tame the fastest
inflation since 2008 has spanned interest-rate increases, higher
reserve-requirements for banks and requests to companies
including Unilever NV to delay price increases. An acceleration
in consumer-price gains to an annual 5.4 percent pace in March,
with food costs rising 12 percent, suggested that the government
may need to take additional measures.  “Policy makers are sensitive to the strains on lower-
income households,”  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at
Action Economics Ltd., said late yesterday. “ China  will use a
combination of measures to combat inflation -- perhaps we will
see some more direct price controls.”  Wen last month described inflation as like “a tiger” that
once uncaged can be difficult to recapture and added that rising
prices may undermine social stability. Gains by the Chinese
currency, the yuan, are another tool that could counter
inflation pressures, by reducing the cost of imports.  Dockyard Protests  In Shanghai, China’s busiest port city,  protesters blocked
a dockyard on April 20 and smashed the windows of trucks whose
drivers refused to take part in the demonstration, the
 Associated Press  reported. Police arrested at least eight people
who tried to overturn a car, it said.  Truckers blockaded a dock in Pudong district in on April
21, AP said in another report, citing a logistics company
employee.  On April 22, more than a dozen police vehicles were
deployed around Shanghai CIMC Vehicles Logistics Equipment Co.
near Wusong port in the Baoshan district. That day, several
hundred truck drivers demonstrated as police blocked off an
intersection, the AP reported.  The Shanghai government’s press office hasn’t responded to
calls from Bloomberg News for comment.  Cohen said he didn’t see any “serious” disruption to the
Chinese economy from the events in Shanghai. At the same, he
said, the protests highlighted how measures such as increases in
lenders’ reserve requirements and in  interest rates  “don’t
provide very much immediate relief to those people like truck
drivers.”  Warehouse Charges  The truck drivers complained warehouse operators introduced
a new charge of 50 yuan ($7.7) in October for trucks that pick
up more than one container, AP said, citing driver Zhao Feng.  The strength of China’s rebound from the financial crisis,
a record expansion of credit in 2009 and 2010, and this year’s
surge in commodity costs have increased the threat from
inflation.  “We cannot allow price rises to affect the normal lives of
low-income people,” Wen told lawmakers at the annual meeting of
the National People’s Congress in Beijing last month. “This
problem concerns the people’s well-being, bears on overall
interests and affects social stability.”  China’s economy  grew a more-than-forecast 9.7 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  