-- 
St. Louis Airport Closed After Tornado Rips Through Main Terminal Building

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-23T15:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/st-louis-airport-closed-after-tornado-rips-through-main-terminal-building.html
Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport  in St. Louis is closed indefinitely due to severe damage
after a storm, including a possible tornado, struck last night.  “All inbound and outbound flights are canceled at Lambert
until further notice pending safety and operational assessments
to determine the full extent of damage to the airport complex
and the surrounding area,” the airport said in a statement
today.  The storm broke most of the glass windows and doors and
tore off sections of the roof at one of Lambert’s concourses,
according to Jeff Lea, a spokesman for the airport.  “We had damage to light poles, signs as well as trees and
fences,” Lea said in an interview. “Some vehicles were turned
over.”  As many as 12.3 million passengers passed through Lambert
last year, Lea said. The airport operates 256 departures daily
and about the same number of arrivals, and is served by 13
carriers flying to 61 destinations, according to the airport’s
 website .  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest carrier at the airport,
canceled the majority of its 85 Lambert flights through 4 p.m.
local time, said a spokeswoman, Marilee McInnis. She said the
low-fare carrier was forced to scrub nine flights last night
after the storm and other flights were diverted. Southwest
doesn’t charge penalties for rebooking flights.  Aircraft Damage  McInnis said one Southwest plane on the ground was damaged
when a belt loader hit the aircraft. “We’re continuing to
assess the damage as we look at operations,” McInnis said in a
telephone interview.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  will be forced to cancel
flights today, said a spokesman, Ed Martell. He said there no
injuries to customers or staff, even as one of the airline’s
planes experienced a crosswind of 70 miles per hour (112
kilometers per hour) while landing during the storm.  American, the second-biggest operator at Lambert, agreed to
waive penalties for rebooking  St. Louis  flights for travel
through April 27, for passengers who bought tickets through
yesterday. Flights can be rebooked for trips as late as May 1,
American said today on its  website .  Lambert isn’t a hub for any of the major U.S. carriers,
which tempers the blow to the nation’s air-traffic system. One-
time lead tenant Trans World Airlines agreed in 2001 to be
bought by AMR, which has pared operations at the airport by
almost half in the past four years.  Southwest Network  The airport’s biggest carrier by traffic is Dallas-based
Southwest. Unlike other large airlines, Southwest’s network is
based on so-called point-to-point routes, meaning it doesn’t
rely on small planes to collect passengers at regional airports
and funnel them into hubs for mainline flights on larger jets.  Southwest had 44 percent of St. Louis passengers for the 12
months ended in January, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Transportation Statistics.  American ranked No. 2, with 20
percent, followed by 9 percent for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   The top destination airports for flights from Lambert are
 Chicago , a hub for American and  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) ; Atlanta, the home base for Delta; and Dallas-Fort Worth,
where American has its headquarters, according to BTS data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  