-- 
Syrian Deaths Reported for Second Day at Funerals of Anti-Assad Protestors

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-23T17:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/syrian-deaths-reported-for-second-day-at-funerals-of-anti-assad-protestors.html
Syrian authorities killed at least
nine people today at funerals for victims in anti-government
demonstrators yesterday, according to reports by  al Arabiya 
television and the  Associated Press .  The reports, which cited eyewitnesses, said today’s dead
included five people in the southern town of Izzra and four in a
funeral procession in the Damascus suburb of Douma. The British
Broadcasting Corp.’s Arabic service said security forces opened
fire on mourners in Barzeh, another suburb of the capital.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has failed to douse
protests that began March 15 with political measures. His
government two days ago lifted a 48-year-old state of emergency,
a move followed by the deadliest day yet of demonstrations.
Syrian security forces fired tear gas and live ammunition to
break up protests, killing at least 88 people yesterday, Al
Arabiya reported, citing activists.  Syrian human-rights activists have reported at least 200
people killed by government forces since major demonstrations
began five weeks ago, according to  Human Rights Watch , a New
York-based group that tracks violations of human rights.  Two Syrian lawmakers from the southern town of Daraa, scene
of the deadliest clashes between the government and protesters,
announced they were quitting today,  Al Jazeera  reported.  ‘Outrageous Violence’  President Barack Obama yesterday condemned Syria for
“outrageous use of violence.” Assad must “change course now
and heed the calls of his own people,” he said.  “The  United States  has repeatedly encouraged President
Assad and the Syrian government to implement meaningful reforms,
but they refuse to respect the rights of the Syrian people or be
responsive to their aspirations,” Obama said. “President Assad
is blaming outsiders while seeking Iranian assistance in
repressing  Syria ’s citizens through the same brutal tactics that
have been used by his Iranian allies.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called for an
independent investigation into the killing of protesters.  The secretary-general “reminds the Syrian authorities of
their obligation to respect international human rights,
including the right of freedom of expression and peaceful
assembly,” the  UN  said in a statement yesterday.  Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera broadcast amateur videos of
thousands of protesters across the country and people fleeing
gunfire in several cities. Two boys aged seven and 10 and a 70-
year-old man were among those killed in Izzra, according to
Amnesty International.  ‘Bullets and Batons’  “The Syrian authorities have again responded to peaceful
calls for change with bullets and batons,”  Amnesty
International ’s Malcolm Smart said on the group’s  website .  In Libya, the U.S. launched its first Predator missile
attack, as rebels said forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  had
withdrawn from the center of the besieged city of Misrata.  The strike occurred today in the early afternoon local
time, the Pentagon said in an e-mailed statement, without
providing further details. Obama last week approved the use of
Predator drones, made by closely held General Atomics of  San
Diego , to support the insurgents.  France ,  Italy  and the U.K. have sent military advisers. The
U.S. has said it would provide $25 million in non-lethal aid,
such as radios and body armor, to  Libya ’s rebels.  The U.S. rules out for now supplying arms to the rebels,
ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capitol with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Oil Exports  “With the weapons that they have, the rebels are holding
on,” Rice said, referring to firefights in the besieged city of
Misrata. “It is natural and to be expected that it is going to
take some time for them to be constituted into an effective
fighting force.”  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is leading a UN-
 sanctioned  mission to police a no-fly zone, protect civilians
and enforce an arms embargo against Qaddafi’s government.  Fighting has halted most oil exports from Libya, home to
 Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  Oil prices  are up more than 30
percent from a year ago. Crude oil for June delivery rose 84
cents to settle at $112.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Markets were closed yesterday for the Good Friday
holiday.  Anti-government protests in Sana’a, Yemen’s capital, drew
almost 1 million people following Friday prayers yesterday,
according to an unidentified organizer. Demonstrators are
demanding the end of President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s 30-year
rule.  The president, who has rejected calls to step down, spoke
to his own supporters yesterday, a day after he met with
officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council in an attempt to
resolve the crisis.  A total of 109 protesters have been killed in Yemen since
Feb. 11, according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the
Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  