-- 
U.S. Outgoing Ambassador Urges Kenya to Hurry Political Changes for Polls

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-23T12:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/u-s-outgoing-ambassador-urges-kenya-to-hurry-political-changes-for-polls.html
Kenya  must accelerate political
reforms to address underlying issues of leaders’ impunity,
ethnic divisions and poverty to reduce the risk of trouble at
elections next year, outgoing U.S. Ambassador Michael Ranneberger said.  Discontent over Kenya’s “culture of impunity, negative
ethnicity and pervasive poverty” spurred post-election violence
almost four years ago and the problems persist, Ranneberger told
reporters in Nairobi today.  Accusations of vote-rigging in December 2007’s presidential
poll trigged ethnic clashes in East Africa’s biggest economy
that left 1,500 people dead and forced another 300,000 to flee
from their homes. Calm prevailed after President Mwai Kibaki, a
member of the largest Kikuyu tribe, signed a power-sharing
accord with  Raila Odinga , an ethnic Luo who was installed in the
newly created position of prime minister.  The  International Criminal Court  is scheduled to begin
hearings in September to determine whether six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , accused of
masterminding the unrest, should stand trial on proposed charges
of crimes against humanity.  “Despite the reforms that have been carried out, despite
having the new constitution, the fact of the matter is that
those three central issues still exist,” Ranneberger said.
“Unless they are dealt with by 2012 then there is going to be a
chance of trouble.”  Kenyan leaders should listen to their citizens’ desire for
change and remove the obstacles to reforms, Ranneberger said.  New Constitution  Kenya must appoint a new chief justice, a director of
public prosecutions and an attorney general, reorganize its
judiciary and police and establish a  Supreme Court  under a new
constitution established in August.  In 2009, the U.S. revoked the visa of Kenyan Attorney
General Amos Wako for allegedly blocking political changes,
after sending letters to 15 cabinet ministers, lawmakers and top
civil servants accused of obstructing reforms and failing to
oppose violence in the country.  Odinga said he intends to stand in presidential elections
in 2012, the Malibu Times newspaper quoted him as saying at a
private function in the city in  California  on April 17.  Kibaki doesn’t plan to run for re-election in 2012, and
he’ll  step down  at the end of his second term as required by
law, according to a statement on the government’s Office of
Public Communications’ website dated April 21.  Scott Gration , the former U.S. special envoy to  Sudan , is
due to replace Ranneberger in Kenya next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 