-- 
Qaddafi Forces Struck by First U.S. Drone as Rebels Say They Hold Misrata

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A n t h o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-23T15:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/u-s-launches-first-predator-strike-after-lull-in-misrata-siege.html
The U.S. launched its first
Predator missile attack in  Libya , as rebels said forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  had withdrawn from the besieged city of Misrata.  The strike occurred today in the early afternoon local
time, the Pentagon said in an e-mailed statement, without
providing further details. U.S. President Barack Obama last week
approved the use of Predator drones, made by closely held
General Atomics of San Diego, to support the insurgents.  NATO forces have carried out air strikes over the capital,
Tripoli, making two hits early today on a concrete bunker near
Qaddafi’s Bab al-Azizia compound. Three people died in the
attacks, Al Arabiya reported. Loyalist troops yesterday withdrew
from nearby Misrata, the main rebel-held city in western Libya,
Al Jazeera television said, citing rebel fighters. Qaddafi’s
forces today shelled the city of Yefren, also in western Libya,
 Al Arabiya  reported.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is leading a UN-
 sanctioned  mission to police a no-fly zone, protect civilians
and enforce an arms embargo against Qaddafi’s government.
 France , Italy and the U.K. have sent military advisers to the
rebels. The U.S. has said it would provide $25 million in non-
lethal aid, such as radios and body armor, to Libya’s rebels,
who have been battling for control of cities since the uprising
began in mid-February.  Fighting has halted most oil exports from Libya, home to
Africa’s biggest oil reserves.  Oil prices  are up more than 30
percent from a year ago. Crude oil for June delivery rose 84
cents to settle at $112.29 a barrel on April 21 on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Markets were closed yesterday for the Good
Friday holiday.  ‘Traders and Speculators’  Obama said April 21 that his  Justice Department  would
investigate whether “traders and speculators” in oil markets
deserve any blame for the high prices.  U.S. Senator  John McCain  visited Libya yesterday in a show
of support for insurgents trying to overthrow Qaddafi.  The 2008 Republican presidential nominee and the ranking
member of the  Senate Armed Services Committee  yesterday went to
Benghazi, the center of the uprising. McCain called on the U.S.
government to recognize the rebel Transitional National Council
as the country’s government and provide financial assistance and
more military aid to the insurgents.  Libyan fighters seeking to oust Qaddafi are “patriots who
want to liberate their nation,” McCain said during his visit.
“They are not al-Qaeda.”  “Maybe we should be doing everything we can to help these
people,” McCain, 74, of Arizona, said on  Al Jazeera  following a
visit to a hospital. “And maybe we’re not, and they’re dying.”  White House Response  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  responded to McCain’s call
to recognize the council by saying the Obama administration has
determined that “it’s for the people of Libya to decide who the
head of their country is, not for the United States to do
that.”  Carney told reporters yesterday that that the
administration knew about McCain’s trip and that the senator
wasn’t carrying any messages from the administration.  The U.S. rules out supplying arms to the rebels for now,
ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capitol with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “With the weapons that they have, the rebels are holding
on,” Rice said, referring to firefights in Misrata. “It is
natural and to be expected that it is going to take some time
for them to be constituted into an effective fighting force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  