-- 
Yemeni President Says Opposition Dragging Country to Civil War

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-23T15:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/yemeni-president-says-opposition-dragging-country-to-civil-war.html
Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh
said the opposition is pushing the Arabian Peninsula country
toward a civil war as shops and businesses across the country
remained closed amid protests against his rule.  “They want to drag the area to civil war and we refuse to
be dragged to civil war,” Saleh said in a speech today to the
military and students, the official  Saba news service  said.
“Security, safety and stability are in Yemen’s interest and the
interests of the region.”  Demonstrations in Yemen, calling for the end of Saleh’s
tenure, entered their third month after being inspired by
popular movements that ousted the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia 
from power this year. Tensions escalated last month when police
and snipers killed 46 demonstrators in Sana’a, the capital,
prompting several military and government officials to abandon
Saleh’s regime.  Protests continued today in the city of Taiz, where crowds
demanded the end of Saleh’s rule, Rashad Mohammed, an
eyewitness, said by telephone. A majority of the city’s shops
were closed for a general strike, he said. In Aden, more than 90
percent of the shops, schools and businesses were closed
Saturday, said Marwan al-Yafee, an eyewitness.  A total of 109 protesters have been killed since Feb. 11,
according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters
Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a. Unicef,  the United Nations’
Children’s Fund , said at least 26 children have been killed
since early February, in a statement on April 20.  GCC Mediation  Saleh said in his speech today that power should change
“through the ballot box and not through a coup,” and those who
want power “should be brave and call for early elections,
whether presidential or parliamentary elections,” according to
Saba.  Saleh met on April 21 with Gulf Cooperation Council
Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani to try to resolve the
crisis. The council, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the  United
Arab Emirates , Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait , has held
separate meetings this month with representatives of Yemen’s
ruling General People’s Congress and the opposition as it seeks
to defuse the crisis.  The congress said today it had accepted the GCC mediation
plan, according to a statement on the  website of the party .
Saleh said yesterday in a speech that he welcomed the GCC
mediation.  The GCC proposed April 10 that he hand power over to Vice
President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi. A week earlier, the group
called for Saleh’s departure and the formation of a national
unity government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 