-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Agrees to Step Down in Exchange for Immunity, Official Says

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-23T19:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-23/yemen-s-saleh-agrees-to-step-down-in-exchange-for-immunity-official-says.html
Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh
agreed to accept a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered plan that
allows him to cede power in exchange for immunity, a government
official said.  Saleh agreed to transfer power to a deputy within 30 days
and to elections 60 days after that, Tarik al-Shami, spokesman
at the ruling General People’s Congress, said in a telephone
interview today. The opposition must end protests and accept
immunity for Saleh and his aides and all terms of the GCC plan,
al-Shami said.  Saleh would be the third leader forced from office since
popular unrest spread through the Middle East, resulting in the
ouster of Hozni Mubarak in  Egypt  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia .  Tensions escalated last month when police and snipers
killed 46 demonstrators in Sana’a, the capital, prompting
several military and government officials to abandon Saleh’s
regime. A total of 109 protesters have been killed since Feb.
11, according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic
Sisters Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a.  The General People’s Congress, Saleh’s party, has agreed to
the Gulf-sponsored arrangement, it said in a statement on its
website earlier today.  “When they said the ruling party accepted the plan, it was
clear that he accepted it, as Saleh is the president of the
party,” al-Shami said. The party told the GCC Secretary-General
Abdel Latif al-Zayyani that it endorsed the plan, he said.  Protest Rights  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, also agreed to the GCC plan. They won’t participate in a
national unity government under the leadership of Saleh during
the 30 days he remains in power, said Mohammed al-Sabri, a
leader in the opposition. The opposition coalition also will
support the peoples’ right to protest, he said.  Saleh met on April 21 with GCC Secretary-General al-Zayyani
to resolve the crisis. The council, which includes  Saudi Arabia ,
the  United Arab Emirates , Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait , has
held separate meetings this month with representatives of
Yemen’s ruling General People’s Congress and the opposition.  Saleh said earlier today that the opposition was pushing
the Arabian Peninsula country toward a civil war.  “They want to drag the area to civil war and we refuse to
be dragged to civil war,” Saleh said in a speech to the
military and students, the official  Saba news service  said. He
said power should change “through the ballot box and not
through a coup,” and those who want power “should be brave and
call for early elections, whether presidential or parliamentary
elections,” according to Saba.  Protests continued today in the city of Taiz, where crowds
demanded the end of Saleh’s rule, Rashad Mohammed, an
eyewitness, said by telephone. A majority of the city’s shops
were closed for a general strike, he said. In Aden, more than 90
percent of the shops, schools and businesses were closed
Saturday, said Marwan al-Yafee, an eyewitness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  