-- AIG Profit Rises on investments, Lower Catastrophes Costs
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-03T23:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/aig-profit-rises-on-investment-gains-fewer-catastrophe-losses.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
insurer majority owned by the U.S. Treasury Department after a
2008 bailout, said first-quarter profit more than doubled on
gains from investments including its stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)   Net income climbed to $3.21 billion, or $1.71 a share, from
$1.3 billion, or 31 cents, a year earlier, when the insurer
booked charges related to paying back a Federal Reserve credit
line, according to a statement yesterday from the New York-based
company. Operating income, which excludes some investment
results, was $1.65 a share, beating the $1.13  average estimate 
of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, has presided
over a 47 percent surge in AIG’s share price this year, as the
insurer retired obligations to the Treasury and bought back
shares, helping cut the department’s  stake  to 70 percent. He is
counting on results at the Chartis property-casualty division
and SunAmerica life operation to attract private investors to
replace government funds backing the insurer.  “Relatively little of AIG’s outperformance reflected
improved earnings potential within core operations,” analysts
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. led by  Meyer Shields  said in a research
note. “We believe the shares will trade down on Friday.”  AIG fell 39 cents to $33.75 at 6:15 p.m. in extended
trading in New York yesterday. The Treasury needs to sell shares
at an average of $28.72 to break even on the government’s
investment.  AIA Stake  The change in the fair value of AIA, the Hong Kong-based
life insurer, added $1.8 billion to income including realized
gains. AIG raised about $6 billion by selling part of its AIA
holding on March 6. Benmosche’s company sold a majority stake in
the insurer through a public offering in 2010 and retained a
holding of about 19 percent after the offering in March.  AIA advanced 17 percent in the first quarter. The insurer,
led by CEO  Mark Tucker , sells coverage in nations including
 China ,  India  and  Australia .  Chartis posted pretax income of $910 million, compared with
a loss of  $374 million  a year earlier. The division spent $1.02
for every premium dollar on claims and expenses, down from 
$1.19 . Catastrophe costs fell to $80 million from about $1.7
billion a year earlier. The March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  was the most costly disaster for insurers last year.  Sales at Chartis, which insures commercial property,
corporate boards and airplanes, fell 3.8 percent to about $8.82
billion as the company said it sought to improve on risk
selection.  Bond Gains  Net unrealized gains on bonds available for sale widened to
$16.2 billion from $13.2 billion three months earlier, led by
mortgage-backed and corporate debt. The figures, reflecting
market fluctuations that aren’t counted toward earnings, are
monitored by investors and rating firms as a gauge of financial
strength.  Shareholders’ equity , a measure of assets minus
liabilities, was $57.68 per share as of March 31, compared with
$53.53 at the end of December. AIG published revised financial
reports for prior periods last month to account for new rules
that stipulate which costs related to acquiring and renewing
insurance contracts can be capitalized.  AIG said pretax profit at the U.S. life insurance and
retirement-services division fell to $862 million from $967
million a year earlier. Premiums and other considerations
declined about 13 percent to $5.6 billion.  A day after the latest AIA offering, the Treasury said it
was selling $6 billion of its AIG shares and that the bailed-out
insurer had agreed to purchase half the offering. The stock sold
for $29 a share, the same price as in the government’s first
offering, in 2011.  Maiden Lane  AIG also struck a deal in March to retire $8.5 billion of
the Treasury’s interests in entities tied to the bailout. Part
of the proceeds for that repayment came from the wind-down of a
 New York  Fed-controlled fund called  Maiden Lane II , which held
mortgage-backed securities taken over in the rescue.  Another bailout fund, Maiden Lane III, holds mortgage
investments that AIG had insured against losses. The New York
Fed began divesting those assets last month in an auction. An
increase in the value of AIG’s stake in Maiden Lane III
contributed $1.25 billion to earnings.  Selling the rest of Maiden Lane III, the remaining stake in
AIA and plane-leasing unit International Lease Finance Corp.
could generate funds for AIG to buy back additional shares, Josh Shanker, an analyst Deutsche Bank AG, said in a March note to
clients. He estimated that asset sales and distributions from
subsidiaries could allow the company to repurchase $15 billion
to $20 billion of stock in the next year.  AIG has sold non-U.S. life insurance operations, a consumer
lender and other businesses to raise funds to pay back the
government. In the first quarter of 2011, the insurer incurred a
$3.3 billion pretax charge in retiring a Fed credit line. At the
same time, the Treasury got 92 percent of the company’s common
stock, after exchanging preferred shares. That holding has been
cut through two share sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  