-- AirAsia, Malaysian Air Jump After Revamping Tie-Up Plan
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-05-03T10:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/airasia-malaysian-air-jump-after-revamping-tie-up-plan.html
AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd. and  Malaysian Airline
System Bhd. (MAS) , the nation’s two biggest carriers, surged in Kuala
Lumpur trading after saying they will boost collaboration in
areas including procurement, even as they end an equity tie-up.  AirAsia, the region’s biggest discount carrier, jumped 8.1
percent to close at 3.60 ringgit, the most since August 2010 and
 largest gainer  on the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.
Malaysian Air climbed as much as 9.8 percent, the most in about
four months, before ending up 1.6 percent at 1.24 ringgit.  The two airlines said yesterday that they plan to cooperate
in areas including maintenance and purchasing as rising fuel
costs dent industry earnings. The carriers will push ahead with
the plan even after their parents announced plans to unwind a
less than nine-month-old share swap that had triggered
opposition from Malaysian Air’s largest union.  “Both airlines could see benefits from areas under the
memorandums of understanding,” Wong Ming Tek, a Hwang-DBS
Vickers Research Sdn. Analyst, wrote in a report today. “In
particular, joint procurement of  fuel oil  could see cost
savings.”  To reverse the share swap, Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,
Malaysia’s state-investment fund, will exchange back its 10
percent stake in AirAsia for the 20.5 percent of Malaysian Air
owned by the budget carrier’s biggest shareholder, it said in a
statement yesterday. The shares Khazanah will get are worth
about $29 million less than the ones it will give up, based on
April 30 market prices. There won’t be any cash adjustment.  Union Opposition  The deal will raise Khazanah’s stake in Malaysian Air to
about 69 percent. The fund said it will seek a waiver from
stock-exchange rules so it doesn’t have to offer to buy the rest
of the carrier.  The 15,000-member  Malaysia  Airlines Employees’ Union had
opposed the share swap, saying it benefited AirAsia more. The
group met Prime Minister Najib Razak at least three times to
discuss concerns over potential job losses following the tie-up,
according to Alias Aziz, the labor group’s president.  Najib said Malaysia will set up a National Aviation Council
to “help arbitrate issues between MAS, AirAsia and Malaysia
Airports.” The council will be set up within two months, he
told reporters in Putrajaya, near Kuala Lumpur.  “The cross-holding of shares has become a distraction to
management’s efforts to turnaround MAS and win stakeholders’
support for collaboration,” Khazanah Managing Director Azman Mokhtar said in the statement. “With this reset, we hope and
believe that it will give all parties renewed impetus to refocus
and move forward together.”  Directors Resign  Tony Fernandes , chief executive officer of AirAsia, and his
deputy Kamarudin Meranun both quit as directors of Malaysian Air,
which is based in Subang outside  Kuala Lumpur . The two are
shareholders in AirAsia’s parent, Tune Air Sdn.  “Investors will be pleased by the fact that Tony Fernandes
could now fully focus on being group CEO of AirAsia,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at OSK Holdings Bhd., said in a report
today.  The two stakes were both worth about $360 million when the
swap was agreed to in August. Malaysian Air had since dropped 29
percent as of April 30, while AirAsia, the region’s biggest
discount carrier, had fallen 6 percent.  “We can now have a clear focus on developing the Asean and
Asian low-cost carrier market which has enormous growth
potential,” Fernandes said in a statement. “The collaboration
efforts will set us in good stead for the future.”  Stake Values  Malaysian Air will no longer be restricted to focusing on
full-service operations after this deal, according to a
 statement . The carrier had earlier agreed to cede the low-cost
market to AirAsia as part of the share swap.  “Under the old arrangement, AirAsia was seen as
benefitting more as MAS agreed to convert its low-cost carrier
business to premium services,” said Ang Kok Heng, who oversees
about 1.3 billion ringgit ($430 million) as chief investment
officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. The new arrangement
will benefit the two carriers equally as they will be
cooperating on an operational level, he said.  Malaysian Air is now considering fundraising options, it
said in a statement, following reports that it may sell 3
billion ringgit of bonds.  ‘Quite Critical’  The carrier’s condition is “quite critical,” Chairman Md
Nor Yusof said in a March 16 statement, after the airline posted
a net loss of 2.5 billion ringgit for last year. That was more
than twice the 1.21 billion ringgit average of 15  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The airline expects another full-year loss in 2012 though
will strive to break even, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Jauhari
told reporters on Feb. 29. It plans to save 302 million ringgit
this year by paring flights to cities including Johannesburg and
 Buenos Aires , he said.  “Recovery is our main focus along with initiatives to
strengthen the balance sheet and operations through improved
productivity, increasing revenue and lowering costs,” he said
in a separate statement yesterday. “These efforts will
translate into improved financial results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 