-- Airgas Founder to Step Aside as CEO to Focus on M&A
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-03T20:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/airgas-founder-to-step-aside-as-ceo-to-focus-on-m-a.html
Airgas Inc. (ARG)  founder  Peter McCausland ,
who built the company into the largest U.S. distributor of
industrial gases through almost 450 acquisitions, will be
replaced as chief executive officer by Michael L. Molinini.  McCausland, 62, will remain chairman, Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas said today in a statement. The change will take
effect at the company’s annual meeting in mid-August. Molinini,
61, the chief operating officer, was named a director effective
immediately. McCausland said he will focus on strategy and
acquisitions.  “I’m pretty intense so it’s hard for me to keep the CEO
title and not have my fingers in everything,” McCausland said
today in a telephone interview. “This is my chance to dial it
back a little bit and focus on the areas where I think I can
bring more to the party.”  McCausland’s announcement comes almost 15 months after he
fended off a $5.9 billion hostile takeover bid from  Air Products
& Chemicals Inc. (APD) , which had pursued Airgas for more than a year.
McCausland maintained that the offer, which Air Products
eventually raised to $70 a share, undervalued the company he
founded in 1982.  Airgas  rose  0.9 percent to $92.04 at the close in  New York .  ‘Few Changes’  The departing CEO is the company’s  largest shareholder  with
a 13 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
McCausland said the succession has been in the works for five
years and that he’s looking forward to being able to make trips
that last for weeks at a time after Molinini takes over the day-
to-day running of the business.  Molinini has been COO since 2005. He joined Airgas in 1997
from National Welders Supply Co., an Airgas joint venture, and
has a bachelor of science in chemistry from  Seton Hall
University  in South Orange,  New Jersey . Molinini said he and
McCausland have similar ways of thinking and they jointly built
the current leadership team.  “You can expect very few changes,” Molinini said in the
same interview. “It’s all about continuing to stay the course
and keep the culture we have and execute on our strategy.”  McCausland said he expects the pace of acquisitions to
increase now that the Air Products fight is over and the  U.S.
economy  is improving. Half of the $13 billion U.S. packaged-gas
market is still owned by independent companies, he said.  “There may be some bigger things than the independent
distributors that I can work on” for acquisitions, McCausland
said. “I think we are behind in acquisitions because of Air
Products and the recession.”  Founded in 1982  McCausland founded Airgas when he was a 31-year-old
corporate lawyer assessing potential acquisitions for the U.S.
unit of German industrial-gas company Messer Group GmbH. He
recommended it buy Connecticut Oxygen. Instead, Messer decided
to exit the U.S. market, so McCausland founded a law practice,
McCausland, Keen & Buckman, and raised $5.3 million to buy
Connecticut Oxygen in 1982.  That company became the foundation of Airgas, which
McCausland took public in 1987. He bought hundreds of smaller
competitors and, in the past decade,  bought units  of larger
rivals, including Air Products and  Germany ’s  Linde AG (LIN) , on the
way to becoming the largest U.S. packaged-gas distributor with
about 30 percent of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  