-- Alexza Says It Can Resolve FDA Roadblock to Antipsychotic
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-03T22:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/alexza-says-it-can-resolve-fda-roadblock-to-antipsychotic.html
Alexza Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXA)  said it
can resolve the concerns about its drug-making facility that led
regulators to deny market approval to the company’s
antipsychotic treatment.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cited manufacturing
deficiencies that affected its decision on Adasuve, which is
designed to rapidly treat agitation related to schizophrenia and
bipolar disorder, the  Mountain View , California-based company
said today in a statement. The FDA isn’t seeking more clinical
data and Alexza said the manufacturing issues likely involve the
the device used to deliver the inhaled drug.  Alexza plans to schedule a meeting with the FDA to gain a
better understanding of the deficiencies, the company said in
the statement. Once the company submits a response, the agency
told Alexza it can continue discussions on a risk mitigation
plan for the antipsychotic treatment that would screen potential
patients for respiratory risks.  “Alexza looks forward to working to resolve the remaining
issues in a timely manner,” the company said.  Alexza  declined  43 percent to 35 cents in extended trading
at 6:08 p.m.  New York  time. The shares declined 12 percent
earlier to close at 61 cents before the company’s announcement
about the FDA action.  Alexa in February fired 29 employees, or 38 percent of its
workforce, to focus on development of Adasuve and sold 44
million shares, raising about $20.4 million, the company said in
a statement. The company had hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  in December to
explore strategic options, including selling itself.  Sales Estimate  U.S. sales of the drug were expected to reach $264 million
in 2017, according to an e-mail from JMP Securities in  San
Francisco  led by analyst Charles Duncan. The product would
compete with injectable versions of  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Abilify and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Geodon.  Adasuve failed to win approval in October 2010 because the
FDA was concerned that the drug may produce adverse side
effects. The treatment uses an inhalation device developed by
the company to deliver a vaporized form of loxapine to the lungs
for rapid absorption into the bloodstream. Alexza resubmitted
its application in August.  The medicine can cause fatal bronchial spasms in people
with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, FDA staff
said in a December report.  Bipolar Disorder  Schizophrenia  is a chronic and disabling brain disorder
that affects 2.4 million American adults who may hear voices or
falsely believe people are plotting against them, according to
the  National Institutes of Health . Bipolar disorder is a manic-
depressive illness that causes shifts in a person’s mood and
affects about 5.7 million adults in the U.S., according to the
NIH.  A company-funded study published in January in the British
Journal of Psychiatry found that Adasuve started to work within
10 minutes of inhalation and was more effective than a placebo
in cutting agitation levels within two hours.  While loxapine was approved by the FDA in 1975, Adasuve
would be the first inhaled treatment for agitation associated
with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  