-- Algeria to Tap ‘Big Potential’ for Shale Gas With Incentives
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-03T15:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/algeria-to-tap-big-potential-for-shale-gas-with-incentives-1-.html
Algeria  sees “big potential” for
shale gas and plans incentives to encourage exploration as
extraction of so-called unconventional resources becomes
economically feasible, according to an Oil Ministry official.  Algeria will introduce new legislation to spur investment
in exploration this year, including tax incentives that “take
account of the production difficulties of this kind of fuel,”
said Ali Hached, an adviser to Energy and Mines Minister Youcef Yousfi. “There is big potential,” he said at a Paris summit.  Countries from the U.S. to  Poland  are exploring for natural
gas in shale, which requires the injection of water, sand and
chemicals into sedimentary rock at high pressure to extract the
fuel. Energy producers have stepped up the search for such
unconventional resources as rising energy prices and advances in
technology have made such developments profitable.  “Non-conventional resources are important in Algeria,”
Abdelhamid Zerguine, chief executive officer of state-run energy
company Sonatrach Group, said at today’s summit. Tests in three
provinces over 180,000 square kilometers (69,500 square miles)
have uncovered a possible 2 trillion cubic meters of gas, he
said, adding that “partnerships will be necessary.”  Sonatrach has said it intends to invest $80 billion over
five years, with more than 60 percent dedicated to exploration
and production. The company plans to drill 150 exploratory wells
and expand crude-processing capacity at three oil refineries.  Development of unconventional gas resources outside  North
America  will “take time,” Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of
exploration and production at French  oil company  Total SA, said
in Paris. Total, which is producing shale gas in the U.S. with
Chesapeake Energy Corp., is developing the Timimoun and Ahnet
gas projects in Algeria and pursuing projects in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  