-- Alpha Cuts 2012 Coal-Shipment Forecast After Posting Loss
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-05-03T20:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/alpha-posts-wider-than-expected-loss-reduces-2012-coal-forecast.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , the
second-largest U.S. coal miner, cut its forecasts for full-year
shipments and capital expenditure after posting a second
straight quarterly loss as demand and prices slumped.  Alpha’s guidance ranges for shipments of metallurgical coal
used by steelmakers and thermal coal burned at power stations
were lowered by a combined 7.5 million tons, the Bristol,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Alpha’s first-
quarter loss excluding acquisition expenses, severance charges
and other items was 27 cents, compared with the 6-cent average
of 24  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “While margins declined in every segment, met coal margins
declined the most versus the previous quarter” after shipments
of metallurgical coal were lower than expected, Lucas Pipes, an
analyst at Brean Murray, Carret & Co. in  New York  who recommends
buying Alpha shares, said in a note.  Alpha, which completed its $7.1 billion takeover of Massey
Energy Co. in June, is among producers that have closed mines
this year after record high temperatures and surging natural-gas
supplies caused coal demand at U.S. power utilities to tumble.
Alpha said today that requests for deferring shipments have
become “commonplace.” It also said prices for immediate
delivery are less than production costs in “much” of Central
Appalachia and at some operations in the Powder River Basin, a
region that covers parts of Wyoming and  Montana .  James River  Alpha fell 4.1 percent to $14.85 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped 27 percent this year, the third-worst
performer on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   The first-quarter net loss was $29.1 million, or 13 cents a
share, compared with net income of $49.8 million, or 41 cents, a
year earlier. Sales rose to $1.93 billion from $1.13 billion,
missing the $1.9 billion average of 15 estimates.  Alpha said  capital spending  will be $450 million to $650
million this year, $100 million lower than previously projected.  Rival U.S. producers are also suffering from the
deterioration in coal demand.  James River Coal Co. (JRCC)  said today
it’s withdrawing its 2012 capital expenditure guidance because
of market volatility.  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , the third-largest U.S. producer,
yesterday reported first-quarter earnings that trailed
estimates.  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the fourth-largest miner, said May 1
it will cut its dividend and make additional production
curtailments.  Walter Bid?  The Telegraph reported yesterday that  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s largest mining company, is working on a bid for
Walter, citing traders the London-based newspaper didn’t name.
Susan Knight, a spokeswoman for Birmingham, Alabama-based
Walter, said the company declined to comment on rumors. Walter
rose 5.6 percent in New York.  Central Appalachian thermal coal futures, the U.S.
benchmark, averaged $63.90 in the first quarter, 17 percent less
than a year earlier.  The average price of metallurgical coal was $168.63 a ton
in the first quarter, 19 percent lower than a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Alpha got 50 percent of
its 2011 coal revenue from the steelmaking raw material.  Global steel capacity utilization averaged 79 percent in
the first quarter, compared with 82 percent a year earlier,
according to data from the World Steel Association.  “Markets for both metallurgical and thermal coal are under
pressure, but the challenges facing the metallurgical market
appear to be cyclical and could reverse quickly,” Alpha said in
the statement. “The challenges facing the domestic steam coal
market, on the other hand, appear to be both cyclical and
structural and are likely to linger well into 2013.”  Alpha is the second-largest U.S. coal producer ranked by
revenue, after St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  