-- World’s Richest Man Avoids $1 Billion Fine in Antitrust Deal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-03T20:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/america-movil-says-mexico-agency-reverses-1-billion-fine.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  struck a deal with Mexican regulators to avoid paying
a fine of almost $1 billion, in exchange for cutting wireless
fees and offering calls to competitors for no extra charge.  The agency voted unanimously to overturn the fine it
assessed in April 2011, the Federal Competition Commission said
today in a statement. The commission will be able to fine Mexico
City-based America Movil, the largest wireless carrier in the
Americas, as much as 8 percent of its annual Mexican wireless
revenue if it violates the pledges.  With governments worldwide moving to trim phone-connection
fees to boost competition, Slim calculated that dropping his
fight against reductions in Mexico would keep regulators at bay,
said  Christopher King , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst.  America
Movil  announced in November it would cut fees, without tying the
decision to its antitrust case.  “As long as he held rates as high as they were, it did not
bode well for him in the long run,” the Baltimore-based analyst
said today in a phone interview. “The negative headlines
associated with a billion-dollar fine would not have been good
for the company.” King advises holding the shares.  America Movil, which has 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-
phone lines and 80 percent of land lines,  rose  1.5 percent to
17.88 pesos in Mexico City, the highest close since Jan. 10,
2011. The shares have gained 13 percent this year.  Market Power  Mexican officials have sought to contain Slim’s market
power. The nation’s phone industry overcharged customers $13.4
billion a year from 2005 to 2009, hurting Mexico’s economy, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development said in a
January report commissioned by the country’s government.  Slim disputed that report in a Jan. 31 press conference,
saying its figures had been “pulled out of thin air.” He gets
about 60 percent of his $74.9 billion net worth from his shares
in America Movil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mexico is America Movil’s most important market. The company is
getting about 40 percent of sales and two-thirds of operating
income from the country,  Latin America ’s second-largest economy.  Slim’s company will gradually reduce interconnection fees,
which are charged to competitors to complete calls to its users,
the company said in November. The rate will fall to 31 centavos
(2.4 cents) a minute in 2014 from 39 centavos in 2011. It had
been charging 95 centavos before agreeing to use the cost model
used by the Federal Telecommunications Commission.  Court Ruling  A Supreme Court decision last year made it harder to
challenge the phone regulator’s rulings on fees, influencing
America Movil’s decision to accede to the government’s rate
plan.  The competition commission said it would rather strike a
compromise to more closely monitor America Movil than engage in
a lengthy legal battle with Slim, 72, who according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index  is the world’s richest person.
America Movil had said it would sue to block the fine if it was
upheld and said in its April 30 annual report it was “not
probable” it would end up paying the penalty.  “It’s clearly preferable to ensure immediate and direct
benefits for consumers for as much as $6 billion a year than to
enter years of litigation to eventually charge one-fifth of that
amount,” the agency said in its statement.  While the government won concessions from Slim, it will be
difficult for the agency to claim victory against America Movil
after backing away from such a large fine, King said.  America Movil may still face lawsuits for damages by the
companies that filed the antitrust complaint, the competition
commission said. Those parties included  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Axtel (AXTELCPO) 
SAB, said an antitrust official who asked not to be named under
the agency’s policy.  Axtel’s View  Axtel, the second-largest land-line phone carrier in
Mexico, after America Movil’s Telmex unit, will probably take
legal action on the antitrust agency’s decision, said Ermilo
Vazquez, director of interconnection and regulatory affairs. The
San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based company’s lawyers are
studying how to proceed, he said.  An official at Madrid-based Telefonica didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages today.  America Movil lawyers spent a year battling the antitrust
fine, which the company first disclosed on April 15, 2011.
America Movil won a decision in June to get Eduardo Perez Motta,
president of the antitrust commission, recused from the vote
because of public comments he made about the case.  Objections Overruled  The victory follows a year in which America Movil has come
under tightening regulation in  Mexico . In 2011, the Federal
Telecommunications Commission overruled the objections of Slim’s
company and cut by more than half the fees mobile-phone carriers
could charge rivals to connect calls.  Regulators are still pressing Slim on other fronts. In
March, the competition commission upheld a ruling that America
Movil was dominant in the market for completing phone calls, a
decision that could lead to tighter regulations. The
telecommunications commission approved rules the same month
implementing price and quality controls for fixed lines America
Movil leases to competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  