-- Man Who Sailed Breivik to Island Mistook Shootings for Drill
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-05-03T11:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/man-who-sailed-breivik-to-island-mistook-shootings-for-drill.html
The captain of the boat that brought
Anders Behring Breivik to  Norway ’s Utoeya island said he
initially thought the confessed killer was performing a police
drill as he opened fire and killed 69 people.  Breivik had a rigid posture, and spoke quickly and
decisively as he was ferried out dressed as a policeman to
execute the second phase of his July 22 hate killings, Jon
Olsen, the captain, testified in the Oslo District Court today.  “I think, in my head, this must be a rehearsal and at the
same time I think, but they would have told me and I think that
something must be wrong,” he said. “I thought then about
Qaddafi and how he would send terrorists to the countries that
bombed  Libya , so I thought he was from Libya.”  After helping Breivik transport his equipment to the main
house on the island, the captain said he was about 10 meters (33
feet) away, when Breivik opened fire on his victims. Among those
killed was the boat captain’s partner, Monica Boesei, the
caretaker at the  Labor Party  youth camp.  The 10-week trial of the 33-year-old Oslo native started
its third week today with testimony from witnesses on Utoeya,
where Breivik’s shooting rampage targeted the youth wing of the
ruling Labor Party. He arrived at the island hours after
detonating a car bomb at the prime minister’s office, killing
seven people in Norway’s worst peace-time attacks.  ‘Heavy’ Legs  Olsen said that after the initial shootings he ran with
“really heavy” legs into the woods and eventually got back to
the boat where people were hiding. He started the boat back to
the mainland as people were getting messages of a “wild
shooting.”  “Then I started to feel the desperation creep in on me,”
he said. “I look up and think that the sky should be full of
helicopters and that there should be blue lights everywhere and
that’s when I get desperate.”  Breivik arrived on the island at 5:15 p.m. local time and
was arrested at about 6:35 p.m., according to the indictment.
There were 564 people on the island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  