-- Mancini Says Tevez Can Stay at Manchester City: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-03T06:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mancini-says-tevez-can-stay-at-manchester-city-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Tevez’s Welcome  Manchester City  coach  Roberto Mancini  told  Carlos Tevez  he
is welcome to stay at the club after the Argentine striker said
he wants to, the  Sun reported .  “Why not? He has a contract,” Mancini, who fell out with
Tevez earlier this season, was cited as saying by the newspaper.
“And he is a good player.”  Barca Wants Luiz  Chelsea defender  David Luiz  is an off-season target for
Barcelona even after a turbulent career since joining the
Premier League team 14 months ago, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Brazilian is at the top of Barcelona’s shopping list as
it seeks a center-half, left-back and striker, the Mirror said.
The Spanish club will probably have to transfer players before
it can buy, the Mirror added.  No Juventus Move  Nemanja Vidic’s agent, Silvano Martina, ruled out the
possibility of the  Manchester United  captain joining Juventus,
the  Daily Express reported .  “A future in Italy? You have to consider he has a non-EU
passport and that would make it difficult for him to arrive in
Serie A,” the Express cited Martina as saying. “I can assure
you that I have never spoken with Juventus about Nemanja.”  Hodgson Conduit  England’s new manager,  Roy Hodgson , wants to bring in an
assistant coach who can double up as a conduit with the locker
room and is targeting Everton defender  Phil Neville , the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The 35-year-old Neville, who played 59 times for England,
has won respect for his role as Everton captain and has already
been involved with  England ’s under-21 squad, the paper added.  Ferdinand, Terry  Hodgson plans to speak to Manchester United’s Rio Ferdinand
within the next week about the defender playing for England at
next month’s European Championship, the  Independent reported .  Hodgson has made it one of his priorities to find out if
Ferdinand would be able to play in the same team as Chelsea’s
John Terry, who faces court July 9 on charges of racially
abusing Ferdinand’s younger brother Anton, the Independent said.  Harry History  Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp , who had been the bookmakers’
favorite for the England job, said he doesn’t expect to get the
chance to manage the national team in the future following
Hodgson’s appointment, the Sun reported.  “I don’t think it will ever happen now,” the Sun cited
Redknapp as saying after Spurs beat Bolton 4-1 last night. “I’m
fed up of hearing my name mentioned now. I’m history with that
job. Roy deserves it, he’s got it and I’m sure he’ll make a
great job of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  