-- Angels’ Weaver Throws Second Major League No-Hitter in 10 Days
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-03T05:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/angels-weaver-throws-second-major-league-no-hitter-in-10-days.html
Jered Weaver of the Los Angeles Angels
threw  Major League Baseball ’s second no-hitter in 10 days
against the  Minnesota Twins .  The only baserunners against right-hander Weaver came when
catcher Chris Iannetta’s passed ball on a third strike allowed
Chris Parmelee to reach first base in the second inning, and
when Josh Willingham walked with two outs in the seventh.  The final out came with a little drama. Alexi Casilla hit a
line drive to deep right field that Torii Hunter caught on the
warning track, and the Angels raced out of the dugout to
celebrate with Weaver.  “This is an unbelievable moment,” Weaver said in a
televised interview. “A lot of things went my way.”  It was the second hitless game in which Weaver, 29, had
been involved. He pitched the first six innings and combined
with Jose Arredondo to allow no hits in a 1-0 loss at the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  on June 28, 2008, which doesn’t officially count
as a no-hitter because the Angels lost.  The 10th no-hitter in franchise history comes nine months
after Ervin Santana achieved the feat July 27 for the Angels in
a 3-1 win against the Cleveland Indians.  It was the second no-hitter in baseball in less than two
weeks. Chicago White Sox right-hander Philip Humber threw a
perfect game on April 22, the 21st in major league history.  It’s the first no-hitter of the Twins since  David Wells  of
the  New York Yankees  threw a perfect game against them on May 17,
1998.  “I’m at a loss for words,” said Weaver, whose older
brother, Jeff, had an 11-year major league pitching career that
included two seasons with the Yankees. “It hasn’t even kicked
in yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  