-- Mantega Says Brazil Savings Rule Change to Allow Lower Selic
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-03T23:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mantega-says-brazil-savings-rule-change-to-allow-lower-selic-1-.html
Brazil’s government will cut returns
on new deposits to savings accounts, thereby paving the way for
the central bank to further cut its benchmark lending rate,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  Under rules announced today, returns on new savings
accounts will amount to 70 percent of the  benchmark Selic rate 
if it falls to 8.5 percent, plus a fluctuating Reference Rate,
Mantega told reporters in Brasilia. While the decree to be
signed by President  Dilma Rousseff  will go into effect tomorrow,
it must be approved by Congress. The Selic is currently 9
percent.  “We are removing this obstacle, so that if conditions are
favorable, the central bank can reduce the Selic rate further,”
Mantega told reporters in Brasilia. “It’s not politics that’s
driving us, it’s the will of the Brazilian people, who want more
economic growth, more  jobs .”  Government-mandated returns of more than 6 percent on
existing  savings accounts , after taking into account taxes and
fees collected by asset managers, would have exceeded yields on
local bonds if the central bank continued to reduce borrowing
costs, making it more difficult for companies and the government
to sell bonds.  “The Brazilian  Finance Ministry  has sent a very clear
message to the Brazilian central bank,” said  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo .
“Don’t worry about obstacles to trimming the Selic target rate.
We’re here to get rid of them for you.”  The central bank pushed the Selic to a record low 8.75
percent in 2009-2010.  Policy Path  While Mantega said he had no idea if the central bank would
raise or cut rates at its next monetary policy meeting on May
29-30, he gave as an example a rate cut to 8 percent to
demonstrate the effect of the new rule on savings returns.  Mantega said there is no basis for comparison to Brazilian
President Fernando Collor’s 1990 seizure of the savings
accounts.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has cut the
benchmark  interest rate  3.5 percentage points since last August,
more than any other central banker in the Group of 20 nations.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said before the announcement that it
would cut its forecast for the benchmark Selic rate this year to
8 percent, from 8.5 percent, if the changes were made.  Rousseff would not be prepared to incur the political costs
of limiting returns to savers except to make room for rate cuts
larger than half a percentage point, said  Tony Volpon , head of
emerging-markets research at Nomura.  ‘No Floor’  “Once you change the savings account rules, there is no
floor for interest rates,” Volpon said in a telephone interview
from  New York  before Mantega announced the rule change. “The
government probably sees the possibility of the rate falling
much further.”  Rates could go as low as 7 percent, Volpon said.  Brazil wants interest rates at international levels,
Rousseff said at an event in Brasilia today. The country also
doesn’t want its  currency  to be the victim of expansionary
monetary policies by other nations, and wants lower taxes to
guarantee productivity, the president said.  The yield on interest rate futures maturing in January
2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell four basis points to
8.11 percent, as traders increased bets on rate cuts.  Traders are wagering that policy makers will reduce the
overnight rate to at least 8.25 percent, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  Inflation slowed to 5.25 percent in mid-April, from 5.61
percent a month earlier. Analysts surveyed by the central bank
expect  Brazil  to exceed the mid-point of its target range until
2017. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
two percentage points.  The recent depreciation of the real did not pose any
inflation risks, Mantega said.  In the minutes to their April board meeting, policy makers
said additional cuts will be “conducted with parsimony.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  