-- Apparel-Swapping Millennials Eschew Stores and Malls
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/apparel-swapping-millennials-eschew-stores-and-malls.html
Retailers from  Gap Inc. (GPS)  to  Urban
Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  are already struggling to persuade consumers to
pay full-price for clothes. Now, it turns out, many of their
younger customers prefer trading T-shirts, jeans and designer
dresses among themselves than actually buying new gear.  Clothing swaps are a hot ticket for Americans aged 18 to
34. Millennials attend swap house parties from New York to  San
Francisco . And they gather online, frequenting such sites as
 Swapstyle.com , which has swelled to more than 55,000 members
since its 2002 founding.  Frugality has become a way of life for a cohort weighed
down by student-loan debt and high joblessness, according to WSL
Strategic Retail. In a WSL survey, 80 percent of respondents
aged 18 to 34 said it was key to get the lowest price on most
things they buy, up from 69 percent two years earlier and the
only change among the three age groups surveyed.  “They can stay engaged in fashion without getting
themselves in more debt,”  Wendy Liebmann , chief executive
officer of New York-based WSL, said in a telephone interview.
“This generation has also grown up in an online world of
Craigslist and EBay where selling something or swapping
something has become somewhat second nature.”  The surge in apparel bartering comes as retailers struggle
to woo young customers. While  consumer spending  rose in March,
 gasoline prices  have held at more than $3.80 per gallon for more
than a month and the  unemployment  rate remains above 8 percent.
That’s cutting discretionary spending for the newest members of
the workforce.  Swap Society  Event-listing website Meetup.com features apparel-exchange
groups with hundreds of members, including the  Washington  D.C.
Clothing Swap Society, the Five Boroughs Clothing Swap and the
Frugal Fashionista’s Clothing Swap Group. The websites Evite
Inc. and Etsy Inc. provide invitation templates for hosting swap
parties.  “People are saying, ‘I can at least figure out another way
to look like I’m wearing something new and fresh without
spending top dollar on it, or waiting for it to go on sale and
not being able to find my size,’” said Alison Paul, who leads
the retail group at Deloitte LLP in  Chicago .  Sarah Smith, a 24-year-old literary assistant in  Manhattan ,
went to a coworker’s apartment in February for her first
clothing swap, armed with three dresses and two skirts she
hadn’t worn in at least a year. She walked out with a pair of
skinny American Eagle army pants, a Simply Vera silk blouse and
gray American Apparel T-shirt, pleased with the exchange.  Multiple Parties  Emily Weidner, a 29-year-old who works for the  U.S. Forest
Service  in Washington, has hosted multiple clothing swap
parties. She  “consciously” tries to limit the amount of money
she spends on apparel.  “I’ve been trying to aggressively pay off  student loans 
from undergrad and grad school,” said Weidner. “I’ve heard a
lot more about people being interested in participating in
clothing swaps and I’ve been invited to a number of them.”  Frugal shoppers also are downloading  Poshmark , an iPhone
app introduced in December that hosts real-time shopping events
for members to buy and sell clothes from their closets. Poshmark
lets users follow others with similar taste, such as “animal
prints” or “ Marc Jacobs .”  The social aspect of shopping made possible by apparel-
swapping parties is exactly what retailers need to do more of if
they are to attract technologically driven millennials,
according to WSL’s Liebmann.  Real Opportunity  “The opportunity to create a party around sharing and
seeing new and trading old is a real opportunity to get younger
shoppers back into the stores,” she said.  Gap and Urban Outfitters, both seeking to cut back on
discounts for merchandise, have increased social-media marketing
efforts to target young consumers.  Gap, which has said it’s not comfortable with its market
share among 25- to 30-year-olds, worked with fashion bloggers to
promote its spring collection this year. Urban Outfitters has
promoted “social free shipping,” which gives customers free
shipping if they tell friends the option exists.  In a March survey from Deloitte LLP, 52 percent of
consumers under 45 years old said they rely more on Web comments
and recommendations from others when deciding what to buy
instead of marketing messages from retailers. That compares with
37 percent for customers 45 and up.  At the same time, only 22 percent of all respondents said
retailers were offering more value for their money this spring
than a year ago, compared with 45 percent in 2010.  Hannah Cole-Chu, a 25-year-old in Washington who’s in
between jobs, has been attending clothing swaps and once came
away with an oft-used Coach Inc. purse that she “loves.” Cole-
Chu doesn’t frequent the mall, where it’s frustratingly common
to see “a little tank top for $40.”  Clothing swaps offer “a more personal experience than
going into a store,” she said. “It’s a nice relaxed social
atmosphere. It’s not as high-pressure as shopping is
sometimes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  