-- Apple Must Face Lawsuit Over IPhone Data Collection Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-03T23:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/apple-must-face-lawsuit-over-iphone-data-collection-claims-1-.html
Apple Inc. must face a lawsuit over
claims it collected data from customers’ iPhones while they used
applications approved by the company, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California , today
dismissed some of the claims in the case while allowing others
to proceed to pretrial fact-finding.  “I’m going to lift any stay of discovery, and discovery is
going forward,” Koh told lawyers representing Apple and
customers who filed the complaint.  Apple, through applications on iPhones, collected data on
customers’ geographical locations even after users said they
didn’t want to share the information, Scott Kamber, a lawyer
representing customers, said in court today.  “I don’t want any obstruction here,” Koh said,
threatening Apple with sanctions if she learns of any “game
play” during the exchange of information before trial. The
judge told Apple she wanted the company to start turning over
relevant documents to plaintiffs’ lawyers by May 17.  ‘Concrete Injury’  Apple sought to dismiss the case based on arguments in a
court filing that the customers failed to identify a “single,
concrete injury inflicted on any one of the plaintiffs here,
much less one that is traceable to defendant  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ”  In its online privacy statement, Apple says it collects
“non-personal information,” meaning data that isn’t directly
associated with individuals. The company may collect information
such as zip codes, area codes, and the location where an Apple
product is used “so that we can better understand customer
behavior and improve our products, services, and advertising,”
according to the statement.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on today’s ruling.  “It’s been a long wait and plaintiffs are pleased to be
getting their opportunity to have their day in court,” Kamber
said in a phone interview after today’s hearing.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  