-- Amazon Kindle Fire Sales Slump as Apple Boosts Tablet Share
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-03T22:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/apple-increases-tablet-market-share-as-android-shipments-slump.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  lost share in the
tablet market in the first quarter as Kindle Fire sales slumped
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad widened its lead to 68 percent, IDC said.  Amazon’s tablet, which runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, saw its share tumble to about 4 percent, from
17 percent in the December period, the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm said today in a statement.
Apple’s market share climbed from 55 percent.  The Kindle Fire’s price, at less than half that of Apple’s
cheapest iPad, helped Amazon grab the No. 2 spot in the market
behind Apple in the Fire’s debut quarter. Kindle devices have
historically sold best in the December quarter, when consumers
buy them as gifts, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners
LP. Sales may also be dropping off as customers delay purchases
of electronics in anticipation of newer versions, he said.  “Fatigue is starting to kick in about six months after a
product has launched,” Gillis, based in  New York , said in an
interview. “And it’s natural that Amazon is going to tend to be
a better holiday play.”  Amazon shares fell less than 1 percent to $229.45 at the
close in New York. The stock has risen 33 percent this year.
Apple shares declined less than 1 percent to $581.82.  Worldwide Shipments  Total worldwide tablet shipments more than doubled to 17.4
million units in the first quarter, from 7.9 million units a
year earlier. That followed a record 28.2 million units in the
fourth quarter, lifted by holiday sales, IDC said. The 38.4
percent drop from the December quarter was steeper than the 34
percent decrease IDC predicted.  The Kindle’s ranking in the tablet industry dropped to
third, with Samsung Electronics Co. now in second place. So far,
Android hasn’t managed to convert its popularity in smartphones
into success in the tablet market, said  James Kelleher , an
analyst at Argus Research in New York.  “Outside of Samsung, no top-tier manufacturer has stepped
up with a great tablet product to take on Apple,” Kelleher
said. “Almost as surprising as how strong Android is in
smartphones is how inept it is in tablets.”  Last week, ComScore Inc. said that the Kindle Fire  grabbed 
54.4 percent of the Android tablet market in February, almost
double the 29.4 percent it had in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  