-- Target, Macy’s Sales Trail Estimates After Early Easter
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-03T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/target-macy-s-sales-trail-estimates-after-early-easter.html
U.S. retailers’ same-store sales
trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time in five months as
the earlier Easter holiday pulled sales into March and cooler
weather cut mall traffic.  Sales at  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-biggest U.S. discount
chain, rose 1.1 percent, falling short of the average projection
for a 2.9 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S.
department-store chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase in same-
store sales, missing the 1.9 percent estimate.  Retailers faced slowing sales gains after Easter fell more
than two weeks earlier this year and pulled some shopping into
March, when sales gained 3.9 percent. Same-store sales for the
more than 20 retailers tracked by Retail Metrics rose 0.8
percent in April, compared with estimates for a 1.5 percent
gain, the first time they’ve trailed since November.  “There was a little bit of an optimism overhang coming
into April that didn’t come to fruition,” Joel Bines, a Dallas-
based managing director in the retail practice at AlixPartners,
said in a telephone interview. “The holiday shifts were
especially difficult and there was cold weather along the East
Coast towards the end of April, which is always a challenge.”  Target fell 2.5 percent to $56.55 at the close in New York.
Macy’s rose 0.7 percent to $41.55.  Gap Decline  Gap Inc. (GPS)  lost 1.6 percent to $28.67 after reporting same-
store sales that fell 2 percent, worse than the estimate for a
0.9 percent decline. While Gap North America sales increased by
4 percent from 2 percent last year,  Old Navy  and the
international segment saw declines from the earlier period.  Old Navy, which had a 6 percent tumble in comparable-store
sales from a 14 percent increase a year ago, was especially hurt
by the earlier Easter “given a greater merchandise focus for
the holiday,” Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst with Robert W. Baird
& Co. in  Chicago , said in a note today.  Some stores, particularly value-oriented retailers, fared
better than expected in April, Bines said.  TJX Cos., the operator of T.J. Maxx discount stores, said
April same-store sales rose 6 percent, beating the average
estimate for a 3.5 percent increase. The company boosted its
forecast for first-quarter profit to 54 cents per share from as
low as 51 cents. The stock fell 0.2 percent to $42.45.  Nordstrom Beat  Department-store chain  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  said sales rose 7.1
percent in April, beating estimates for a 6.2 percent gain.  Limited Brands Inc., the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of
the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain, said sales in April rose 6
percent, beating estimates of 3.9 percent. The shares rose 2.5
percent to $51.70 to the highest on record.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  “There was a lot of enthusiasm in the March numbers, which
were really good, and the hope was they weren’t borrowing from
April sales but were showing an exciting new trend,” said
Barbara Kahn, a professor of marketing and director of the Baker
Retailing Center at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School. “It doesn’t look like that was the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  