-- Armajaro Invests $1 Million to Boost Ecuador’s Fine Cocoa
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-03T13:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/armajaro-invests-1-million-to-boost-ecuador-s-fine-cocoa.html
Armajaro Trading Group Ltd., a London-
based supplier of cocoa, sugar and coffee, is investing $1
million over three years to increase production of fine  cocoa
beans  in Ecuador, the largest producer of the variety.  Ecuador accounts for more than half of the world’s supply
of fine cocoa, according to the  International Cocoa Organization 
in London. While cocoa production in the country jumped 86
percent over the past 10 years, a 2007 ICCO study shows the
share of fine beans fell to just under 5 percent of global
output from about 50 percent at the start of the century.  Farmers in  Latin America ’s second-biggest producer have
been expanding plantations of a pest-resistant variety, known as
CCN51, as yields can be about four times higher than those from
the traditional Nacional Arriba cocoa, according to Nicko Debenham, Armajaro’s director of development and sustainability.
About 110,000 metric tons of the 190,000 tons of cocoa the
country will produce this season will come from CCN51 beans, he
said. Those beans are considered ordinary cocoa, according to
 Ecuador ’s National Cocoa Exporters Association,  Anecacao .  “There are a lot of efforts to try and bridge the problem
that is asking someone to grow Nacional with a quarter of the
yields of a CCN51 and yet not paying them four times the
price,” Debenham said in a telephone interview from London
yesterday. “Concerns are that if Ecuador does not maintain its
fine flavor crop because of the pressures of CCN51, chocolate
makers will have to resort to a new source of beans, which will
impact the flavor of their chocolates.”  Training Farmers  Armajaro’s investment will be used to train farmers in
Ecuador to help them lift yields of their Nacional Arriba crop
to at least a ton per hectare (2.5 acres) in small farms,
Debenham said. The project started last year and it will run for
another two.  Yields of Nacional Arriba in small properties can be as low
as 200 kilograms (441 pounds) a hectare, compared with about 1
ton per hectare of the CCN51 variety, he said. In plantation-
type areas, where cocoa is farmed intensively, Nacional yields
can be about 400 kilograms a hectare, less than the 2.5 tons a
hectare of CCN51, he said. Some new varieties of Nacional are
able to generate much higher yields.  “There are lots of efforts and attempts to try and recover
the yields of this very valuable cocoa, because the fine flavor
users are desperate to ensure they have a good supply,”
Debenham said. “We are working directly with farmers,
particularly Nacional farmers, to try and help them
significantly improve their yields of fine flavor cocoa.”  Armajaro is also segregating the two varieties in farms
they are working with and ensuring there is a market for CCN51
as well, Debenham said.  Fine Flavor  “One of the biggest problems for the fine flavor concept
of Ecuador is the blending of CCN51 into Nacional, which then
ruins the fine flavor,” he said. “We promise to our customers
that we will keep the two varieties separated.”  Ecuador is renowned for producing a fine bean, which is an
aromatic, floral and spicy cocoa, according to information on
the  website  of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company. The
maker of Kit-Kat and Crunch bars buys over a fifth of the
world’s fine cocoa.  The CCN51 bean was created in Ecuador in the 1960s,
according to  Anecacao . The variety gained popularity, especially
in the private sector, because it was more resistant to pests
and provided higher yields, Debenham said.  “One of the biggest problems for Ecuador is Witches’ broom
and Monilia, particularly on Nacional cocoa,” Debenham said,
referring to pests that affect cocoa trees. “Until there is a
very, very big awareness of a massive improvement in the yield
of a Nacional, the growth will continue to be CCN51.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 