-- Harvey Norman Profit Slumps as Slowdown Curbs Sales
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-03T06:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/harvey-norman-profit-slumps-as-slowdown-curbs-sales.html
Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) ,
 Australia ’s largest electrical-goods retailer, said nine-month
earnings dropped 25 percent as a consumer slowdown curbs sales
and discounting crimps profitability.  Unaudited pretax profit fell to A$204.8 million ($211
million) in the nine months ended March from A$272.3 million a
year earlier, the Sydney-based company said in a statement
today. Sales in the period dropped 6.7 percent.  The highest borrowing costs among developed countries,
increased utility prices and soaring household savings have cut
consumer demand for televisions and computers as retailers lower
prices to retain market share. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
decision to deliver the biggest  interest rate  cut in three years
this week may help reverse declining consumer sentiment, Chief
Executive Officer  Gerry Harvey  said May 1.  “The strength of the Australian dollar and continued price
deflation has eroded average selling prices, and ultimately,
retail gross profit margin,” the company said in the statement
today.  Harvey Norman  shares  fell 1.5 percent to A$2.04 at the
close of trading in Sydney. The stock has slumped 24 percent in
the past year.  Third-quarter sales fell 8.1 percent with revenue from
outlets open at least a year dropping 7.5 percent, it said.  Total revenue was expected to fall 3.5 percent in the March
quarter with same-store sales to decline 4.5 percent, Phillip Kimber, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc, wrote in a report
today.  Shaun Cousins, an analyst at JPMorgan, predicted a 5.8
percent decline in total sales and 5.3 percent fall in revenue
form outlets open at least a year, according to a separate
report before the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  