-- Asia Doubles Reserve Pool to $240 Billion to Shield Region
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-03T09:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/asia-set-to-double-reserve-pool-as-region-steps-up-cooperation.html
Asian policy makers are doubling the
size of their foreign-currency reserve pool as officials step up
efforts to shield the region from global financial shocks.  Finance ministry and central bank officials from Japan,
 China ,  South Korea  and 10 Southeast Asian nations agreed to
boost the so-called Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization
agreement to $240 billion, according to a statement after their
meeting in  Manila  today. The Asean+3 countries, as the group is
known, will also set up a precautionary  credit line  to let
members tap the pool to prevent a crisis, and will allow more
funds to be used without being linked to an International
Monetary Fund program.  “We strongly believe that our agreement made today on
strengthening the CMIM, including doubling its total size,
increasing the IMF de-linked portion, introducing the crisis
prevention function” will help strengthen the regional
financial safety net, the officials said.  Asian nations, which hold more than half of global reserves,
are looking within themselves to protect the world’s fastest-
growing region as  Europe  and the U.S. struggle to recover from
the worst economic slump since World War II. The countries have
bolstered cooperation since a regional crisis almost 15 years
ago, when  Thailand ’s baht devaluation set off a plunge in
neighboring currencies and sparked a financial meltdown.  “It is a very significant step and certainly strengthens
the firepower of Asean+3 in a very significant way,” Rajat Nag,
managing director general of the  Asian Development Bank , said in
an interview with Bloomberg News. “It also has a psychological
context that the region is willing to come to the defense of
each other. That will make the region that much more able to
take care of itself.”  Debt Purchases  Japan announced today that it will use foreign-exchange
reserves to buy South Korea government bonds as it looks to
diversify its assets after striking a similar agreement with
China in December. That led to an application to buy about $10
billion of Chinese bonds in February.  The move comes as the yen remains close to a high against
the dollar that has hurt exporters such as  Sharp Corp. (6753) , while
South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  has benefited from a
weaker won.  “Buying foreign bonds is basically a measure to curb the
yen’s gains,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. “The weaker won and stronger
yen have affected a lot to international competitiveness of
Japanese companies, especially in industries such as electronics,
semi-conductors and automobiles.”  EU Crisis  Asian officials are mixed on the outlook for the global
economy. While ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda said yesterday that
the worst of Europe’s sovereign debt woes is probably over,
former China central bank adviser Yu Yongding said the situation
may worsen.  Spain , Europe’s fifth-largest economy, has become the focus
of policy makers attempting to contain the debt crisis, and
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to quell speculation
that the country will need a bailout.  The increased cooperation between Asian nations may reduce
their reliance on traditional backstops such as the
 International Monetary Fund  as Europe saps resources. The IMF,
which bailed out South Korea,  Indonesia  and Thailand during the
1997-98 Asian financial crisis, estimates that the euro area
will take up about 80 percent of its total credit in 2014.  The Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization agreement
took effect in 2010. It supplements existing international
financial arrangements through currency swap transactions among
member nations if needed, or can act as a backstop for those
facing balance-of-payments or short-term liquidity difficulties.
The swap agreements have not been tapped.  Chinese Reserves  The increase in the Chiang Mai Initiative will be a
fraction of the foreign-currency holdings that Asian nations
have accumulated, totaling more than $6.5 trillion. China alone
has about $3.3 trillion of reserves, followed by  Japan ’s
holdings of more than $1.2 trillion.  The pool widens access to reserves that will allow
countries such as Indonesia and Thailand to defend their
currencies in times of turmoil. During the Asian financial
crisis, the IMF loaned more than $100 billion to the two nations
and South Korea, and governments were forced to cut spending,
raise  interest rates  and sell state-owned companies in return.  Asean+3 officials said today countries can tap as much as
30 percent of their allotment in the fund without being tied to
an IMF program, and that may be increased to 40 percent in 2014.
Currently, the portion that is delinked from the IMF is 20
percent.  “We shall continue to engage the IMF in the areas of
surveillance, financial safety net and capability development,”
the ministers said.  Region’s Diversity  Even as they increase cooperation through the Chiang Mai
Initiative,  Asia  is unlikely to follow Europe in pursuing a
single currency anytime soon. Malaysian central bank Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said yesterday the region remains too diverse
and such a move would be too costly.  “We do not have the convergence or the preconditions even
in the next 10 years or beyond that” to achieve a common
currency, Zeti said. “It’s not worth our while to pursue that
but what we are pursuing to achieve the very same objectives
that Europe wanted to achieve and that is a greater shared
prosperity for our regions. We are doing it through greater
financial integration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  