-- Latin America to Post Most Asset Management Growth: BNY Mellon
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-05-03T08:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/latin-america-to-post-most-asset-management-growth-bny-mellon.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, expects  Latin America  to
experience the biggest growth in financial assets over the next
four or five years, according to James Palermo, vice chairman
and chief executive officer of global client management.  Financial assets, such as stocks, bonds and bank deposits,
will grow an average 11 percent to 13 percent in the region,
Palermo said in a May 1 interview in Doha, Qatar. The Middle
East and North Africa will experience 9 percent to 11 percent
growth and the Asia and Pacific region will register 8 percent
to 10 percent, he said.  Western European and North American assets will increase by
3 percent to 5 percent.  “Brazil is an extremely active market,” said Palermo, who
said he was visiting Qatar as part of a regional trip to meet
clients. “There is a lot of wealth being created in the
region.”  Rio de Janeiro  will host the soccer  World Cup  in 2014 and
the Olympic games two years later and “their infrastructure-
build plans are well under way,” he said.  Latin America and the Caribbean will register economic
growth of 3.7 percent this year, outpacing the economies of the
European Union, central and eastern  Europe  as well as the world
average, according to International Monetary Fund data. Growth
will be slower than in developing Asian countries, Sub-Saharan
Africa, the Middle East and North Africa.  The  MSCI Emerging Market Latin America Index (MXLA)  has climbed
8.6 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain for the
broader  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The economy of  Brazil , the world’s seventh-biggest, grew
2.7 percent last year, the second-worst performance since 2003.
The country’s growth rate will accelerate to 3.2 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of about 100 economists
in a central bank survey published April 30.  Growth in the Middle East, holder of more than half the
world’s crude oil reserves, will “largely be energy related,”
Palermo said.  BNY Mellon, which posted a 1 percent drop in profit in the
first quarter, said last month that assets under custody and
administration rose 4 percent to a record $26.6 trillion during
the quarter, and assets under management climbed 6 percent to
$1.3 trillion, also an all-time high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  