-- Mauritius Rupee's Strength to Curb Imported Inflation
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-05-03T15:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mauritius-rupee-s-strength-to-curb-imported-inflation.html
The Mauritian rupee’s recent stability
may ease imported inflation, though increases in food and fuel
costs may push consumer prices higher, the central bank said.  “The stability of the rupee observed since November 2011
is likely to limit the inflationary pressures arising from
external sources,” the Bank of  Mauritius  today said in an
 inflation report  published on its website. “While underlying
inflationary pressures have eased slightly, increasing global
food and oil prices could represent an upside risk to the
inflation outlook.”  The rupee has weakened 0.9 percent against the U.S.
currency since November, trading at 29.05 per dollar at 5:50
p.m. in  Port Louis . The rupee has gained 3.4 percent against the
euro, the currency of Mauritius’s main trading partner,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The behavior of the rupee exchange rate vis-a-vis major
trading partners’ currencies and the pass-through to import
prices of food and non-food commodities is likely to be a major
critical factor in shaping up inflation,” the bank said.  Inflation in the Indian Ocean island nation has been easing
since December. It slowed to 3.8 percent in March, the lowest
rate since October 2010. The central bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee has cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a total of 0.6
percent since Dec. 5 to 4.9 percent to boost growth.  Below Capacity  Mauritius, with a population of 1.3 million people, is a
net buyer of food and fuels, with 67 percent of import bills in
dollars, according to central bank data. The euro represents 41
percent of foreign-currency earnings.  The economy will “continue to operate below its capacity
in the near term,” the central bank said. “Muted consumer
sentiment in main export markets is expected to weigh on
external demand-led sectors such as tourism and textiles.”  Europe  accounts for almost two-thirds of tourist arrivals,
with the number of visitors  declining  2.7 percent to 171,669 in
the first quarter. The U.K.,  France ,  Italy  and  Spain  bought  49
percent  of manufactured goods in February.  The economy will expand 3.6 percent to 3.7 percent this
year, according to Finance Minister Xavier Luc Duval. The
Mauritius Chamber of Commerce and Industry raised its forecast
to 3.9 percent today from 3.8 percent in November. The central
bank predicts growth of 3.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  