-- Aussie Beer Drinking Market Goes Flat, Slumping to 65-Year Low
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-03T05:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/aussie-beer-drinking-market-goes-flat-slumping-to-65-year-low.html
Beer drinking in  Australia  fell to the
lowest level since the end of World War II as wealthy consumers
opted for wine and others shifted to the hard stuff.  Beer consumption  measured in pure alcohol content fell to
4.23 liters per person in the 12 months to June 30, 2011, the
weakest reading since 1946, from 4.45 liters a person a year
earlier, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. Consumption of spirits rose to 1.32 liters from 1.28
liters, while wine imbibing totaled 3.74 liters, near the prior
year’s record high.  “A more multicultural Australia and higher income and
wealth levels goes a long way to explaining increased wine
consumption since the 1970s,” said  Savanth Sebastian , an
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender. “Perhaps in the current climate, more people
are looking for a good, stiff drink,” he said, referring to
liquor consumption.  Australia’s beer-drinking reputation was burnished by
former Prime Minister  Bob Hawke , the most successful leader of
the ruling  Labor Party , winning four elections in the 1980s and
early ’90s before being ousted by his party. The Rhodes Scholar
set a record for the fastest consumption of a yard -- more than
a liter -- of beer while studying at the University of Oxford.  Beer drinking in Australia peaked in 1975, at 9.2 liters of
pure alcohol per person, according to the statistics bureau.  Hawke’s Guzzling  The 82-year-old Hawke showed he still had what it takes at
an international cricket match in Sydney in January. At the
crowd’s urging, the former prime minister guzzled a cup filled
with beer, only spilling a drop on his chin as fans cheered and
nearby police smiled, according to a YouTube  video  of the
incident.  One-in-four Australians were born overseas and a third of
people in the country’s biggest city, Sydney, entered the
country after birth, according to government figures. There are
almost 23 million people in Australia and about  4.6 million  in
the country’s biggest city.  In a 2011 report, Australia ranked 20th internationally in
per capita beer consumption, according to the  World Health
Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  