-- Aussie Set for Biggest Drop This Year on RBA Easing Bets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-04T06:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/aussie-set-for-biggest-drop-this-year-on-rba-easing-bets.html
Australia ’s dollar is poised for its
biggest weekly drop this year and bond yields fell to new
records as investors increased bets the  Reserve Bank  will reduce
its benchmark rate to an all-time low after officials cut
forecasts for growth and inflation.  Declines in the so-called Aussie were tempered on
speculation the currency’s slide may have been too rapid after
the central bank lowered borrowing costs by an unexpected degree
on May 1. Yields on the South Pacific nation’s 10- and 15-year
debt declined to records. New Zealand’s dollar weakened versus
all of its 16 major counterparts this week as Asian stocks fell
in tandem with global equities.  “The Aussie has made its move slightly lower against the
 U.S. dollar ,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George
Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The Reserve Bank is seeing weaker
inflation and growth, and has therefore moved  interest rates 
appropriately.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0265 as of
4:12 p.m. in Sydney, poised for a 2 percent drop this week, the
biggest since Dec. 16. It bought 82.32 yen from 82.30, having
fallen 2.1 percent since April 27.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year note slid to as low as
3.53 percent. The rate on the 15-year security dropped to 3.86
percent, the  lowest recorded  for Australia’s longest-maturity
issue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1991.  N.Z. Dollar  The  New Zealand  dollar was at 80.04 U.S. cents from 79.97
cents yesterday, set for a 2.7 percent five-day decline. The so-
called kiwi was at 64.18 yen from 64.13 yesterday, when it
traded at 64.08, the weakest since Feb. 8.  New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell as low as 2.56 percent, the least
recorded in Bloomberg data going back to 1993.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  fell 0.6
percent.  Japan ’s markets are shut today for a public holiday.  The RBA cut its key rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, to 3.75 percent on May 1. Governor  Glenn Stevens  cited economic conditions that “have been somewhat
weaker than expected” after the RBA decision, which most
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted would be a
quarter-percentage-point reduction in borrowing costs.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show
investors are betting that the RBA will lower its benchmark rate
to 3 percent by November, matching 2009’s all-time low. There’s
more than a 35 percent chance of the rate declining to 2.75
percent or lower, the data indicate.  Lower Forecasts  The RBA sees average growth of 3 percent in 2012, down from
a February estimate of 3.5 percent, according to its quarterly
monetary  policy statement  released today. Consumer prices will
rise 2.5 percent in the year to December, from a previous
prediction of 3 percent. Underlying inflation is predicted to be
at 2.25 percent from a previous 2.75 percent, the central bank
said. The estimates are based on the overnight cash rate target
remaining at 3.75 percent, it said.  “The assumed high level of the  exchange rate  and a weak
short-term outlook for building construction are expected to
result in subdued growth outside of the mining sector in the
near term,” the RBA said.  The Aussie has lost 1.6 percent this year, the worst
performer after the Japanese yen and U.S. dollar among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “We’ve seen some short-covering in the Aussie dollar,”
said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior currency strategist in  Hong Kong  at
Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “The statement
wasn’t overly negative, relative to an RBA that cut by 50 basis
points.” Short-covering is the purchase of a security in order
to close out a short position, a bet that an asset will fall.  Relative Strength  The Australian dollar’s relative strength index versus the
greenback was at 41 from 56 on April 27, nearing the 30 level
that some traders see as a sign the currency may be about to
reverse direction.  Both the Australian and New Zealand currencies fell
yesterday after data showed growth slowed in U.S.  services
industries , curbing demand for risk assets.  The  Institute for Supply Management  said yesterday its  non-
manufacturing index , a gauge of U.S. service industries, fell to
a four-month low of 53.5 in April from 56 in March. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 55.3. A reading
above 50 in the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s gauge signals
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  