-- Australia Delays Buying F-35 Jets in Push for Surplus
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-03T03:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/australia-delays-buying-f-35-jets-in-push-for-surplus.html
Australia’s Defense Force will delay
buying 12 new  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint Strike Fighters
by two years as the Julia Gillard-led Labor government aims to
end four years of budget deficits.  The delay will save the government about A$1.6 billion
($1.65 billion) in its 2012-2013 budget, Defense Minister
 Stephen Smith  told reporters in Canberra today. A plan for self-
propelled artillery has been scrapped, saving another A$225
million from the budget that will be unveiled May 8, Smith said.  “That is an example of where a move, a delay, a deferral
of a capability has a significant budget impact,” Smith said.  Prime Minister Gillard says a return to surplus will give
the central bank flexibility to cut  interest rates , and is
seeking a political dividend from lower borrowing costs in a
nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages are variable-rate
loans. Support for her government has fallen to a near-record
low in opinion polls.  “The government has put itself in the position where it’s
put its integrity on the line by promising a  budget surplus , so
it has to achieve it at any cost,” said  John Warhurst , a
professor at the  Australian National University  in Canberra.
“Labor is willing to move heaven and earth to show that it’s
fiscally responsible.”  Poll Slump  Support for Labor, which faces elections by the end of
2013, slumped to within a percentage point of a record low in an
opinion poll published May 1. Labor holds power in the 150-seat
lower house with the backing of independent and minor party
lawmakers.  Australia ’s economy is struggling to accelerate,
unexpectedly posting back-to-back trade deficits as coal and
metal exports slumped, a government report last month showed. In
her bid to get the economy back to surplus, Gillard will cut 40
jobs from her own Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, the
Australian newspaper reported today, citing an e-mail to staff
from the department’s secretary, Ian Watt.  “Delivering a surplus in 2012-13 is appropriate for an
economy returning to trend growth; it is imperative given global
economic challenges,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters in
Canberra after the central bank’s rate cut announcement on May
1. “Returning to surplus ensures the government is not
generating price pressures in the economy and it does give the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia maximum flexibility to cut interest
rates if they think that is appropriate.”  White Paper  The government will begin work on a new defense white
paper, Gillard said today. The paper, used to guide policy, will
be delivered a year ahead of schedule in the first half of 2013,
she said.  “On a five-year timetable, the next paper is not due until
this time in 2014,” Gillard said. “However, because of the
significant developments internationally and domestically since
the 2009 white paper, the government is bringing forward this
schedule.”  Likely earlier-than-forecast troop withdrawals from
Afghanistan, East Timor and the Solomon Islands were among
catalysts for the 2013 white paper, she said.  Australia, a military ally of the U.S., last month allowed
the first of 2,500 Marines to arrive in the northern city of
Darwin after an agreement between President  Barack Obama  and
Gillard to increase cooperation and allow a greater regional
presence for American forces.  The government will provide A$214 million for the next
stage of its Future Submarine Project, which will see 12 Future
Submarines acquired and assembled in South Australia state over
three decades, she said.  In February, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  proposed
delaying the purchase of 179 F-35s beyond 2017 to save $15.1
billion as the Pentagon seeks to cut $487 billion from its
budget over the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  