-- Aviva’s Pay Plan Rejected as UBS, Inmarsat Holders Rebel
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/aviva-investors-reject-insurer-s-executive-compensation-plan.html
European investors are in revolt over
executive pay, voting down insurer  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s remuneration
plans while staging protests at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  for
failing to keep compensation in line with stock performance.  Shareholders yesterday voted down Aviva’s compensation
report with a 54 percent majority, while 37 percent of investors
opposed UBS’s pay plan and 40 percent opposed Inmarsat’s
executive pay plans. The average vote against U.K. compensation
reports was 6 percent last year, according to Pension &
Investment Research Consultants Ltd.  “The difference this time is that more people are becoming
as engaged and as vociferous and as active on this issue as we
have been,” Tim Breedon, chief executive officer of  Legal &
General Group Plc (LGEN) , the biggest investor in the U.K. stock
market, told reporters on a call yesterday. “The collective
leverage is far greater. That’s got to be a good thing.”  Four years of stagnant or negative economic growth since
the financial crash coupled with the  European debt crisis  have
pushed companies’ compensation committees to award executives
bonuses based on operating performance rather than total returns
to shareholders. Aviva plans to amend the “dislocation”
between stock price and executive pay in future, said Scott Wheway, head of the insurer’s compensation committee.  The investor rebellion at Aviva is the biggest since 2009,
when 59 percent of Royal Dutch Shell Plc shareholders voted down
the oil producer’s pay proposals and 90 percent of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc investors rejected the British lender’s
remuneration proposals, according to PIRC.  ‘Different Environment’  “We’re living in a different environment,” said Tom Powdrill, a spokesman for PIRC, which advises clients with 1.5
trillion pounds ($2.6 trillion) of assets on corporate
governance. “Companies need to recognize that fact and engage
seriously with shareholders.”  About 54 percent of Aviva’s shareholders voted against its
executive pay plan even after the London-based company pledged
to consult more widely in future. The vote, at its annual
general meeting in  London  yesterday, isn’t binding.  Almost 37 percent of UBS shareholders voted against the
bank’s compensation report for 2011 at the annual meeting in
Zurich, eight months after management announced a $2.3 billion
loss from unauthorized trading. The loss led to the departure of
CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 68, and the appointment of  Sergio Ermotti ,
51, as his replacement at Switzerland’s biggest bank.  ‘Should Have Done More’  Ermotti, who joined UBS on April 1, 2011, as the head of
business in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa, received 6.35
million francs ($6.9 million) in compensation for 2011,
including a 4.6 million-franc bonus.  Inmarsat, a London-based satellite services company valued
at 2 billion pounds, said 40 percent of shareholders voted
against its pay plans. At  Premier Foods Plc (PFD) , owner of the Hovis
bread and Bisto gravy brands, 26 percent of investors voted
against the directors’ compensation report.  “We could and should have done more to engage with
shareholders,” Aviva’s Wheway, former CEO of Best Buy Co.’s
European unit, said before the insurer’s vote. “Aviva won’t be
taking the same approach to recruitment awards again,” and will
“actively consult” with shareholders, he said.  Aviva CEO Andrew Moss, 54, is under pressure from investors
to improve returns after the stock dropped 58 percent since he
took over in July 2007, making it the worst performer in the
nine-member  FTSE ASX Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  over that period.
While U.K. competitor  Prudential Plc (PRU)  grew in  Asia , Aviva focused
its resources on Europe just as the sovereign debt crisis
gathered pace in 2009.  ‘Like to Apologize’  Moss last week waived a salary increase of 5 percent to 1
million pounds for 2012 after some shareholders said the
company’s performance last year didn’t warrant the rise.
Investors also requested a pay review of new executives
following the firm’s decision to award U.K. head Trevor Matthews
470,000 pounds in cash and 2 million pounds in shares after
joining from Friends Life last year.  A new pay plan will make sure “even if operational targets
are hit we don’t have the dislocation with the share price
described this morning,” said Wheway. “I would like to
apologize to any shareholder that feels their views have not
been adequately represented in the decisions we have made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  