-- Banks May Have to Disclose Profits From ECB Emergency Loans
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-05-04T09:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/banks-may-have-to-disclose-profits-from-ecb-emergency-loans.html
Banks may have to disclose profits
from carry trades derived from 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
in European Central Bank loans and exclude the money from bonus
pools, under draft proposals from European Union lawmakers.  Profit from carry trades, where investors borrow money at a
low  interest rate  to buy higher yielding securities, “should
not count toward computation of remuneration and bonus pools”
at banks, under plans being weighed by European Union lawmakers,
according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News. The measure
is one of dozens of proposed amendments to legislation to
implement global capital and liquidity rules for EU lenders.  The ECB began two rounds of extraordinary three-year loans
at an interest rate of 1 percent in December in its longer-term
refinancing operations to ease funding conditions for European
banks. ECB President Mario Draghi yesterday left open the option
of further stimulus if the region’s economy continues to
deteriorate.  Banks should disclose “profit made from the ECB LTRO
through carry trades” according to proposed amendments from
members of the EU parliament contained in the document.  Lawmakers have proposed measures to shake up bankers’ pay
in the framework, which would implement international capital
standards, known as Basel III, in the European Union.  Sharon Bowles , an EU lawmaker identified as the author of
the LTRO proposal in the document, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment. Chantal Hughes, spokeswoman for EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , declined to
comment on the proposals.  Bonus Proposals  Among the amendments sought by members of the parliament is
one by  Othmar Karas , the Austrian Christian Democrat lawmaker
leading work on the draft rules in the assembly, to ban bonuses
that exceed a banker’s salary.  The document, sent to lawmakers for their comments, also
contained a proposal to give the  European Banking Authority  more
powers. The agency would be able to carry out” surprise
inspections at banks’ major branches, according to a proposal in
the report.  As in a previous draft,  Europe ’s  biggest banks  may need to
hold additional core-capital reserves of as much as 10 percent
under the plans.  National EU finance ministers failed to agree at meetings
that ended yesterday in Brussels on how to set additional
capital buffers for lenders.  Majority Vote  Ministers will try to bridge differences during the next
two weeks, defying a warning by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  that failure to reach decision at this meeting “will
be dangerous.” If no consensus is achieved, a decision could be
taken through a majority vote.  Agreement among finance ministers will serve as a basis for
negotiations with the European Parliament, which could begin
later this month. The EU faces a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for
adopting the rules, agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  Lenders also faced increased disclosure requirements under
the measures proposed by members of the EU parliament.  They may have to reveal their risk management procedures,
lending to small and medium sized businesses as well as detailed
information on senior managers’ bonuses and the links between
their pay and performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net  