-- Barrick Leads Miners Spending Faster Than Earnings Rise
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-03T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/barrick-leads-miners-spending-faster-than-earnings-rise.html
Capital spending by the largest gold
producers is increasing at a faster pace than earnings for a
second straight year as the industry’s biggest mining projects
are beset by delays and surging labor costs.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  said yesterday it’s reviewing cost
estimates for its $5 billion Pascua-Lama gold and silver project
on the Chile-Argentina border because of wage and raw-materials
inflation. Newmont Mining Corp. may have to raise the $4.8
billion budget for its Conga mine in  Peru  after political
opposition.  The two gold miners are building the multibillion-dollar
mines to arrest a decline in output and end the underperformance
of their shares relative to the commodity they produce.
Escalating costs may mean producers reassess other proposed
projects, according to  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG.  “The growth-at-any-cost route, I think, is the wrong way
to go,”  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a telephone interview. “The only people
that are making money off building these new mines are the
employees, the government, contractors. The shareholders aren’t
actually getting any of the rewards here.”  Spending Triples  Barrick, Newmont and  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the three largest
producers by market value, have forecast a combined capital
expenditure of as much as $11.8 billion this year, 24 percent
more than in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Aggregate operating income will climb 12 percent, according to
the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital expenditure at the three companies will be more
than triple what they spent five years earlier. Over that
period, gold prices climbed 156 percent while the NYSE Arca Gold
BUGS Index of gold miners has risen 32 percent.  Barrick, which is based in Toronto, saw its gold production
drop 1.1 percent to 7.68 million ounces last year. It’s
targeting annual output of 9 million ounces in 2016 and said
yesterday 2012 capital spending will be $5.5 billion to $5.9
billion, as much as 19 percent more than last year.  “Everybody’s talking about the same thing: do we need this
much growth, and are the returns worth the risk?” said  David Christensen , chief executive officer of ASA Ltd. in  San Mateo ,
 California , which manages $600 million, including Barrick
shares.  ‘Robust Pipeline’  Newmont (NEM)  will only advance and build projects in its
pipeline “that deliver competitive returns,”  Omar Jabara , a
spokesman for the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based company,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Barrick CEO Aaron Regent said yesterday that Pascua-Lama
and the Pueblo Viejo mine in the  Dominican Republic  that’s
starting up this year will cut overall operating costs and boost
profit. The projects will add $2.5 billion in annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in their
first five years, he said in a presentation at Barrick’s annual
shareholders meeting in Toronto.  Pascua-Lama is located in the Andes mountains at an
elevation of 3,800 to 5,200 meters (12,468 to 17,061 feet).
Barrick raised the estimated cost by $1.4 billion to a range of
$4.7 billion to $5 billion in July. It said at the time that
buildings at the site would require more steel and concrete to
handle the weight of snow and withstand high winds.  Barrick said yesterday it’s reassessing the cost and
scheduling of the project because of rising wages and
commodities prices, competition for skilled workers and “lower-
than-expected  labor productivity .”  Gold Rally  The company is still planning to start production there in
mid-2013, Regent said. Returns from Pascua-Lama will be
“robust” even after cost inflation, he said.  “Yes, the capital cost is up, but remember the gold and
silver price has gone up quite dramatically as well,” Regent
told reporters after the shareholders meeting.  Gold futures for June delivery fell 1 percent to $1,637.20
an ounce at 4:03 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The price has
risen for 11 consecutive years and reached a record $1,923.70 an
ounce on Sept. 6.  Bullion will average $1,772 in 2012 and $1,940 in 2013,
according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The metal’s upward price trend will continue as governments
increase monetary supply,  Peter Munk , Barrick’s founder and
chairman, said yesterday at the meeting. Prices also will rise
as investors buy gold to hedge against inflation, Regent said.  Gold ETFs  Investors have flocked to the metal in recent years. Gold
held via exchange-traded funds backed by the metal have more
than tripled in the last five years, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  By comparison, gold-mining stocks have been less popular.
The 64-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold Index (SPTSGD)  rose 3.2 percent in the
five years through yesterday.  Barrick fell 3.3 percent to C$37.52 at the close in
Toronto, or 8.1  times  earnings, compared with a three-year
average multiple of 16. It yesterday reported first-quarter  net
income  rose 2.8 percent to $1.03 billion and sales increased 18
percent to $3.64 billion. Barrick raised its quarterly dividend
to 20 cents a share from 15 cents.  The company forecasts 2012 gold output of 7.3 million to
7.8 million ounces, compared with 8.6 million ounces in 2006,
the year after it acquired Placer Dome Inc. to become the
world’s largest producer. Newmont expects to produce as much as
5.2 million ounces in 2012, 7.7 percent lower than in 2006.  Goldcorp Halt  Goldcorp’s output dipped 0.2 percent to 2.51 million ounces
last year. The company said last week it’s reviewing its 2012
2.6 million-ounce forecast after lower-than-expected first-
quarter output at a Canadian mine. Vancouver-based Goldcorp also
said work on its El Morro mine stopped after a Chilean court
suspended an environmental permit.  Goldcorp reviews its  capital spending  plans regularly,  Jeff Wilhoit , a spokesman for the company, said in an interview.  “We’ve got the benefit of having a project pipeline that
is quite robust in a variety of economic and financial
scenarios,” he said. “If any factors were to change, we would
take that into account in our decision-making.”  Newmont suspended construction at Conga in November after
clashes between Peruvian police and opponents of the mine.
Newmont said last week it’s evaluating the recommendations of a
government report that said the project needs “substantive
improvements.”  ‘Soul-Searching’  “As an industry, we are working hard basically to stand
still,” Regent said. The difficulty in finding new economic
gold deposits is “considerable” and future projects are more
likely to be located in remote parts of the world, he said.  Barrick’s most advanced projects after Pascua-Lama are
Cerro Casale in Chile and Donlin Gold in Alaska. One option may
to be build Cerro Casale in phases, Regent said. No decisions
have been made, he said.  “I think we are going to see in 2012 a lot more of this
internal soul-searching from companies that ultimately not all
of the projects that are on the drawing board get built,”
Deutsche Bank’s Beristain, who’s based in Greenwich,
Connecticut, said in an interview.  Canada’s  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  said in February it will delay
development of mines in Ecuador and Chile and concentrate on
expanding its Tasiast mine in  Mauritania . The company is using
stricter criteria for spending amid rising costs for labor, raw
materials and equipment, it said.  “At what cost do you have to just put the mine back on the
shelf and say the ore is in the ground, the resource is there,
but based on current market conditions maybe it should be
revisited another day?” Beristain said. “I think we are
reaching the breaking point for some of these mega projects out
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  