-- Basel Seeks Tougher Boundary Between Banking, Trading Books
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-05-03T17:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/basel-seeks-tougher-boundary-between-banking-trading-books.html
Banks face tougher rules on how they
differentiate between assets they keep in their banking and
trading books, making it harder to dodge capital rules, under
proposals published by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  today.  Lenders would have to give regulators evidence of buying
and selling of securities in their trading books and face limits
on their ability to shift assets between books under the  plan .
The risk of credit crunches would also need to be taken into
account in calculations of how much cash they should keep in
reserve against trading losses.  The proposals are “a vital element of the objective to
achieve comparability of capital outcomes across banks,
particularly those which are most systemically important,” the
Basel group said in the report published on its website.  The Basel group, which brings together banking regulators
from 27 nations including the U.K., U.S. and  China ,  agreed  in
2010 to more than triple the core capital that financial firms
must hold. Last year, it also targeted 29 lenders including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , BNP Paribas SA and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
for capital surcharges of as high as 2.5 percent of their assets
in a bid to rein in lenders deemed too big to fail.  Trading books represent portfolios of securities that banks
want to actively trade while banking books contain products that
lenders intend to hold to maturity.  ‘Turn of the Screw’  “This is a further turn of the screw for trading books and
will increase the capital banks have to hold for their trading
positions,” Patrick Fell, a financial regulation specialist at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  London , said in an e-
mailed statement. “As capital requirements rise, the return on
capital will fall and more banks will question their appetite
for trading.”  The committee noted “large differences in  capital
requirements  against similar types of risk” of losses on
securities in the different portfolios, meaning that “the
overall capital framework proved susceptible to arbitrage.”  Banks and other interested parties have until Sept. 7 to
respond with their comments to the proposals, the committee
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  