-- BCE Profit Tops Analyst Estimates as Data Spending Climbs
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-03T21:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bce-profit-tops-analyst-estimates-as-data-spending-climbs.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s second-largest
wireless carrier, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after customers spent more on smartphones
and the company cut jobs and advertising spending.  Profit, excluding charges for severance and other costs,
was 75 Canadian cents (76 cents), the Montreal-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts predicted 73 cents, the
 average  of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 9.9
percent to C$4.91 billion, compared with the C$4.95 billion
average estimate.  Chief Executive Officer George Cope bought two TV companies
and a stake in the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team
in the past year, betting smartphone customers will increase
spending on BCE’s sports and entertainment programming. That is
driving its efforts to distinguish it from new mobile carriers
that offer no-frills calling plans and offset iPhone subsidies
aimed at getting customers to commit to long-term contracts.  Bell Mobility, BCE’s mobile-devices business, added 62,576
phone subscribers on contract last quarter, compared with an
estimate of 65,000 from Jeff Fan, a Scotia Capital Inc. analyst.
The unit generated C$53.84 in average monthly revenue from both
customers on contract and prepaid users, up from C$51.68 a year
earlier. Fan, who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the
stock, estimated C$53.66.  Wireline Business  “The quarter was helped by lower wireless costs,” Fan
said in a research note today. “Looking ahead, we believe the
results will get more challenging given the wireline revenue
pressure.”  Sales at Bell’s wireline business slipped 3.5 percent to
C$2.58 billion as fixed-line long-distance call revenue declined
9.4 percent.  BCE rose less than 1 percent to C$40.31 at the close in
Toronto. The  shares  have lost 5.1 percent this year.  Net income advanced 14 percent to C$574 million, or 74
cents a share, from C$503 million, or 67 cents, a year earlier.  In March, Cope agreed to buy  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  for C$3
billion to acquire French-language programming in  Quebec 
including music and pay-TV channels MusiquePlus and Super Ecran.
In December, BCE teamed up with rival  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) 
in an agreement to buy a controlling stake in Maple Leaf Sports
& Entertainment Ltd., owner of the Maple Leafs team and  National
Basketball Association ’s  Toronto Raptors , for $1.3 billion. A
year ago, BCE paid a similar amount for broadcaster CTV.  iPhone Subsidies  Spending more on content isn’t without risks. Rogers fell
the most in 18 months April 25, after reporting sales and profit
that missed analysts estimates, hurt by iPhone subsidies and a
slowdown in wireless data spending. While early smartphone
adopters racked up bills browsing the Web and watching video,
new smartphone customers are thriftier and are looking for basic
data packages, Rogers CEO Nadir Mohamed said last month.  Rogers wireless first-quarter revenue slipped less than 1
percent to C$1.71 billion while data spending increased 16
percent. By contrast, Bell wireless revenue climbed 5.5 percent
to C$1.31 billion as data revenue jumped 31 percent.  BCE reiterated its forecast for 2012, saying it expects
revenue growth of 3 percent to 5 percent and earnings per share
of C$3.13 to C$3.18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  