-- Bin Laden Letters Show No Direct Link to Pakistan Officials
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-03T16:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bin-laden-documents-reveal-no-direct-link-to-pakistani-officials.html
Osama bin Laden  had little control
over al-Qaeda affiliates or faith in their skills in the last
years of his life, and there was no direct evidence of Pakistani
institutional support for him or his operatives, according to a
report analyzing newly declassified writings and communication
involving the terrorist leader.  Bin Laden’s correspondence also showed that he saw a need
to correct mistakes by regional jihadis who had killed thousands
of Muslim civilians and cost al-Qaeda support among Muslims. And
a year before his death, he continued plotting to kill U.S.
officials, including President  Barack Obama , according to the
correspondence.  The 17 documents were part of a trove of material seized by
the U.S. Navy SEAL team that raided bin Laden’s compound in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan , and killed him a year ago. Electronic or
draft letters, English translations and the  analysis  were
released today by the U.S. Army’s Combating Terrorism Center at
 West Point .  The documents included a May 2010 letter attributed to bin
Laden that said an assassination of Obama would make Vice
President Joe Biden president, and that Biden “is totally
unprepared for that post, which will lead the U.S. into a
crisis.”  ‘Into the Abyss’  In another document, from January 2011, al-Qaeda spokesman
Adam Gadahn talks about a strategy for media coverage of the
10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and offers his
analysis of U.S. media. He concluded that  Fox News  “falls into
the abyss,” that CNN “seems to be in cooperation with the
government more than the others,” and that his impression of
 MSNBC  had become less favorable after the firing of  Keith Olbermann .  “In conclusion, we can say that there is no single channel
that we could rely on for our messages,” Gadahn wrote.  Mention of Pakistan in the declassified documents is
“scarce and inconclusive,” according to the CTC’s executive
summary. “Although references are made about ‘trusted Pakistani
brothers,’ there are no explicit references to any institutional
Pakistani support for al-Qaeda or its operatives,” the summary
said.  As for Iran, al-Qaeda’s relationship with the country “is
not one of alliance, but of indirect and unpleasant negotiations
over the release of detained jihadis and their families,”
including members of bin Laden’s family, according to the CTC’s
summary.  The 175  pages  in Arabic -- 197 pages in English -- span
September 2006 to April 2011. They “likely represent only a
fraction of the materials reportedly taken from the compound,”
retired Army General John Abizaid wrote in the forward to
center’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  