-- Birinyi Bullish as Bears With Deja Vu Can’t Wait to Sell
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-05-04T20:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/birinyi-bullish-as-bears-with-deja-vu-can-t-wait-to-sell-in-may.html
U.S. stock investors,  battered  by
losses in May for two straight years, have never been so sure
that history will repeat itself, a sign to Birinyi Associates
Inc. that it’s time to buy.  Equity mutual funds tracked by the  Investment Company
Institute  recorded $16 billion of outflows with less than a week
to go last month, on pace for the worst April since at least
1984. More than 34 percent of forecasters surveyed by Investors
Intelligence said stocks will fall 10 percent, the highest
proportion at this time of year since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 1989. Options that protect against losses in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index traded at the most expensive level
in five years.  The  S&P 500 ’s 3.5 percent  slump  from a four-year high on
April 2 has spurred bears to predict the gauge will mirror
retreats of at least 15 percent from April peaks in 2010 and
2011 as economic growth slows. Birinyi, Northern Trust Corp. and
Wells Capital Management say increasing investor anxiety is a
contrarian sign that will give way to a rally after  record
profits  left shares 11 percent cheaper than a year earlier.  “Don’t get shaken out by the stories about possible
corrections, the similarity to previous years,”  Laszlo Birinyi ,
the founder of Westport, Connecticut-based research and money-
management firm Birinyi Associates, who was among the first to
suggest buying stocks as the market reached its lows in 2009,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “They are just nice
background music. My attitude has been this market will continue
to surprise you on the upside.”  Jobs Report  He said the S&P 500 will reach 1,500 in 2012, up 9.6
percent from its level now. It fell 1.6 percent to 1,369.10
today after U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast and
services and manufacturing output in the euro region shrank more
than estimated.  Birinyi said in March that the S&P 500 has the potential to
reach a record high of 1,700 this year should the economy grow
faster than estimated. In January 2011, he wrote that the
average size and duration of bull markets suggests the  stock
index  could reach 2,854 on Sept. 4, 2013.  The S&P 500’s decline from April highs during the past two
years is consistent with a historical pattern of lower returns,
first noted by the Stock Trader’s Almanac in 1986, that spawned
the Wall Street axiom to “sell in May and go away.”  Worst Six Months  The S&P 500 has posted its worst six-month return starting
in May, with an average gain of 1.1 percent since 1950,
according to Jeffrey Hirsch, editor-in-chief of the Almanac,
which his father Yale Hirsch created in 1966. That compares with
a 7 percent increase on average from November to April.  S&P’s downgrade of  Spain ’s credit rating on April 26, signs
that the U.S. economic recovery is losing momentum and plans by
the  Federal Reserve  to pare monetary stimulus next month have
fueled speculation that the rally in stocks will be derailed by
the same concerns that sparked last year’s retreat.  The gauge sank 19 percent from April 29 through Oct. 3,
2011, as the Fed ended its second round of bond purchases and
Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit ratings on Portugal and
Ireland to junk levels. The Citigroup U.S. Economic Surprise
Index, a gauge of how much reports differ from economists’
estimates in Bloomberg surveys, turned negative for the first
time in five months on May 2, 2011.  This year, the index fell below zero on April 25, after six
months of positive readings. The Fed’s program to swap $400
billion of short-term securities in its portfolio for longer-
term debt is scheduled to end in June.  Valuations, Central Banks  While the similarities to 2011 and 2010 are “troubling,”
the S&P 500 may rally to 1,500 this year because stock
valuations are low and central banks outside the U.S. are easing
monetary policy to boost economic growth, said  Jim Paulsen , the
chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.  The S&P 500 is  valued  at 13.9 times reported earnings,
lower than the multiples of 15.6 and 17.7 at April peaks in 2011
and 2010, respectively, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The gauge has traded at an average price-earnings ratio of 16.4
since 1954, the data show.  Combined earnings  at S&P 500 companies will climb to a
record $105.05 a share this year, compared with $98.67 a share
during the past 12 months, according to analysts’ projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  While central banks in  China  and  Brazil  were tightening
monetary policy to curb inflation last year, the two biggest
developing nations are now taking steps to stimulate growth.  China, Brazil  The People’s Bank of China cut lenders’ reserve
requirements by one percentage point from a record high of 21.5
percent in December, while Brazil’s central bank has  reduced  its
benchmark  interest rate  by 3.5 percentage points since August to
9 percent. S&P 500 companies get about 47 percent of their
revenue overseas, according to data compiled by  Howard Silverblatt , a New York-based senior index analyst at S&P.  “Conditions today are markedly different than where they
were and those conditions suggest a much more favorable
outcome,” Paulsen, who helps oversee about $333 billion from
Minneapolis, said in a phone interview yesterday. “With all
those people on the sideline waiting for a correction, if it
doesn’t materialize, you could see them re-upping their
commitment to the stock market, making the upside even more.”  Profits at U.S. companies are poised to stall or decline
after they rebounded from the last recession faster than the
average recovery since the 1950s, according to John Higgins, the
senior markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
Price-earnings ratios are unlikely to rise further as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and anticipation of less stimulus by the Fed deters
buyers, Higgins said.  ‘Rear View Mirror’  “Valuations could now be stretched,” Higgins, who
estimates the S&P 500 may end the year at about 1,350, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “The best news for the stock market
is in the rear view mirror.”  Economic data will probably keep disappointing investors
after mild temperatures “inflated” jobs and retail sales data,
according to Hirsch, who’s based in South Nyack,  New York . The
January-to-March period was the warmest first quarter in records
going back to 1895, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration .  “The market appears to be in a topping pattern” that may
lead to losses of 5 percent to 10 percent, Hirsch said in a May
2 phone interview.  Already Sold  Outflows from mutual funds, the growing number of forecasts
for a market retreat and the rising cost to protect against
losses show that many bears have already sold equities or bet on
declines, according to  James McDonald , chief investment
strategist at Northern Trust in  Chicago .  The $16 billion of net redemptions from U.S. equity mutual
funds in the four weeks ended April 25 followed $161.8 billion
of outflows during the previous 12 months, data compiled by
Washington-based ICI show. The proportion of financial
newsletter writers surveyed by  New Rochelle , New York-based
Investors Intelligence calling for a so-called correction in
stocks rose to a 10-month high of 36.6 percent this week.  Options (SPX)  that pay should the S&P drop 10 percent in the next
six months cost 1.57 times more than calls betting on a 10
percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
relationship known as skew reached 1.64 on April 27 and March
13, the highest since May 2007.  “All these negative indicators are actually positive for
the market because it means people have already positioned for a
tough period,” McDonald, whose firm oversees $716.5 billion,
said in a May 2 phone interview. “With economic growth and easy
central bank policy continuing, we think it’s not a May you
should sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  