-- BMW Profit Beats Estimates as 1-Series Drives Its Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-05-03T09:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bmw-profit-beats-expectations-on-record-sales-fueled-by-1-series.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , reported first-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates as demand for the
overhauled 1-Series compact fueled record deliveries.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose 19 percent to 2.13
billion euros ($2.8 billion) from 1.8 billion euros a year
earlier, the Munich-based company said today in a statement. The
figure  beat  the 1.74 billion-euro average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 14 percent to 18.3
billion euros, outpacing the 11 percent rise in deliveries.  “The higher revenue gain shows that prices increased,
which led to higher profit,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok, an
analyst at Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany , who has a “reduce”
rating on the shares. “The sport-utility vehicles did very well
and the 1-Series shot off like a rocket.”  Sales of the 1-Series, which was revamped late last year,
climbed 20 percent and the X3 SUV surged 55 percent, lifting
sales to 425,528 vehicles. BMW is counting on demand for a new
generation of the best-selling 3-Series sedan, which was
introduced in February, to boost deliveries further and offset
development costs for the i3 battery-powered city car, which
will be rolled out in 2013.  BMW shares rose as much as 4.1 percent to 73.95 euros and
were up 3.5 percent as of 11:54 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The
stock has  risen  42 percent this year, making it the  top-
performing  carmaker in the 14-member Euro Stoxx Autos and Parts
Index and valuing the company at 46.8 billion euros.  Luxury Goal  The car and motorcycle manufacturer is expanding to fend
off efforts by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-
Benz to grab the sales lead in luxury autos by the end of the
decade. The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce models will start
production at a second plant in China this month.  BMW has halted a planned factory in  Brazil , as it reviews
regulatory changes by the country’s government, Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today.  The maker of the Z4 roadster stuck to its target of
increasing earnings for the full year, with the auto unit
generating a margin at the upper end of the 8 percent to 10
percent range and sales beating last year’s record. Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said today that it was too
early to adjust the guidance in light of risks that the fallout
from  Europe ’s debt crisis spreads.  Higher Investments  BMW’s auto unit recorded Ebit of 11.6 percent of sales,
down from an 11.9 percent margin a year ago on weaker prices in
Europe and additional development spending of a “low three-
digit-million-euro” amount, Eichiner said. The margin beat
Audi’s 11.4 percent return on sales and Mercedes’s 8.4 percent.  “We are taking advantage of our earnings power to make
targeted investments,” Eichiner said on a conference call.
Additional spending of 800 million euros to 1 billion euros this
year to improve  fuel efficiency  “will secure us a stronger
market position in the future.”  The world’s top three upscale carmakers are all projecting
sales records this year on growth in  China  and recovering
spending in the U.S. BMW is targeting sales of at least 2
million vehicles by 2016 after delivering 1.67 million in 2011.  Backed by the 1- and 3-Series and a new four-door version
of the 6-Series luxury coupe, BMW expects deliveries in 2012 to
rise even as the debt crisis in Europe softens demand in its
home region.  The company has projected sales this year to rise by at
least 10 percent in China and by a “high single-digit” rate in
 North America , offsetting a market decline of as much as 5
percent in Europe. Sales in April rose about 6 percent for the
group, BMW said today.  “All our efforts are clearly geared toward remaining the
leader in the premium segment,” CEO Reithofer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  