-- BMW Joins VW, Daimler Beating Estimates as Porsche Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-05-03T11:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bmw-joins-vw-daimler-beating-estimates-as-porsche-gains.html
Germany ’s car industry has confounded
analyst predictions, again.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury autos, became the third of the nation’s top three
carmakers to beat analyst estimates with a 19 percent increase
in first-quarter profit.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  last week
also said earnings rose, countering expectations for a decline.  Carmakers and their suppliers are the  best performing 
shares in  Europe  this year as demand for BMW, Mercedes and Audi
models thrives in the U.S. and China. The thirst for German
nameplates shows little sign of abating with new models
including the VW Golf, the Audi A3 and the Mercedes-Benz A-Class
all coming to market later in the year.  “For BMW and Volkswagen I see a high probability that they
will raise forecasts after the second quarter,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler. “In
fact, I pretty firmly expect them to do so.”  Munich-based BMW said demand for the revamped 1-Series
model fueled record deliveries and maintained its forecast of an
increase in pretax earnings after a record in 2011. The stock
rose as much as 2.88 euros, or 4.1 percent, to 73.95 euros,
bringing the advance so far this year to 43 percent.  BMW’s auto unit posted  earnings  before interest and taxes
of 11.6 percent of sales, down from an 11.9 percent margin a
year ago. That beat Audi’s 11.4 percent return on sales and
Mercedes’s 8.4 percent. BMW’s auto deliveries rose to a record
425,528 vehicles in the first quarter from 382,758 a year
earlier, as 1-Series sales climbed 20 percent and the X3 SUV
surged 55 percent.  Porsche, VW  Porsche AG, which is combining with VW, also reported an
increase in first-quarter profit today, with Ebit gaining 18
percent. The Stuttgart, Germany-based company said sales of its
revamped 911 model and Panamera four-door coupe led a 32 percent
increase in revenue for the period.  Analysts had expected the first quarter to be the weakest
this year for the German carmakers because of cooling demand in
 China  and investments in new models and factories, such as
Daimler’s 800 million-euro new plant in  Hungary .  Volkswagen provided the biggest surprise, reporting a 10
percent increase in operating profit for the first quarter,
compared with an 8.6 percent decline predicted by analysts on
demand for models from its Audi luxury brand. The stock surged
8.7 percent on April 26. VW shares have almost doubled in the
past five years.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW is thriving even amid Europe’s
debt crisis and is taking market share from rivals with a model
lineup that runs from the Up! subcompact to Lamborghini sports
cars and 50-ton trucks.  German Support  The VW group, whose brands also include Skoda and Seat,
increased first-quarter deliveries 9.6 percent to 2.16 million
vehicles. The gains compare with revenue declines at PSA Peugeot
Citroen and  Renault SA (RNO)  and wider European losses at Fiat SpA.  “Because Germany is up in April, their mix is helped as it
is by far their most important market, more than ten times more
important than the Spanish, French and Italian markets
individually,” said Adam Hull, a London-based analyst at
WestLB. “What they’re being helped by is strong exports to
China, Germany holding up, and the U.S. market growing very
strongly.”  Hull, who rates BMW “neutral” and recommends buying VW,
Porsche and Daimler, said he expects the rate of sales growth to
slow in coming quarters as the pace of Chinese demand slips.  Beating Estimates  Daimler, the owner of Mercedes-Benz cars, also trumped
expectations. The company on April 27 reported an unexpected 4.9
percent increase in first quarter profit and stuck to its goal
of matching last year’s 9 billion euros in operating profit.  By the end of the decade, Daimler aims to recapture its
leading position among the luxury-car makers, pursuing the same
goal as Audi. Mercedes is investing to put 10 completely new
models on the market by 2015 to rejuvenate the brand, including
converting the A-Class compact into a sportier car. The brand
has a target by that year of delivering 1.6 million vehicles.  Mercedes regained the U.S. luxury-vehicle sales lead for
the year over the BMW brand, with April deliveries rising 24
percent. The two German companies, which overtook Lexus last
year, are vying for this year’s U.S. sales crown.  “We are taking advantage of our earnings power to make
targeted investments,” BMW Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said today. Additional spending of 800 million euros to
1 billion euros this year to improve  fuel efficiency  “will
secure us a stronger market position in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  