-- BOE’s King Says U.K. Premier League Needs to Reassess Finances
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-03T13:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/boe-s-king-says-u-k-premier-league-needs-to-reassess-finances.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said U.K. football authorities should review how Premier League
clubs finance themselves as European and lower-division English
teams adopt new rules to put caps on spending.  “They have to think through how they want to organize the
finances of football,” King said in an interview on BBC Radio 4
today when asked if the Premier League and Football Association,
 England ’s governing body, should do more to warn of the risks
from debt in the sport.  King, who supports Aston Villa Football Club, said so-
called  financial fair play regulations  proposed by European
soccer’s governing body UEFA will limit the role money has in
deciding performance on the pitch. The rules came in response to
rising debt levels across the continent and the effect of cash
infusions from wealthy benefactors in its competitions.  England’s Football League, which covers the three divisions
below the Premier League, will also introduce  similar rules  to
cap spending, losses and owner investment. They won’t apply to
the Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most successful
soccer clubs including  Manchester United , owned by the U.S.
Glazer family, and Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  “The great virtue of those rules is that they do give fans
for all teams the chance to think that the outcome won’t depend
on which team has managed to find some rich person from around
the world to come and put money in,” King said. “I think any
football fan has seen clubs get into financial difficulties so
many times over the years and then rescued by some white knight
who comes along, only for that white knight in turn to become
the person who is disillusioned and walks away.”  Rangers Plight  Scotland ’s Rangers Football Club was placed in  bankruptcy
protection  in February as HM Revenue & Customs pursued it for
unpaid taxes. The club’s administrators have said the club has
potential liabilities of more than 134 million pounds ($217
million).  “Lots of them are in debt,” King said, referring to
Premier League clubs. “Britain didn’t have a rich person to
come along and bail us out and that’s why we’re paying for it,
but football clubs seem to find them.”  The governor said  Aston Villa , which is fighting to avoid
relegation from the top competition this season and faces
Tottenham Hotspur on May 6, won’t lose its Premier League
status.  “The main thing is the team has got to focus very hard on
the match against Spurs,” he said. “Take the chances that will
come, there will be chances, and I am confident we’ll stay up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  