-- BOE’s King Says U.K. Economy Will Start Slow Recovery This Year
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-03T08:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/boe-s-king-says-u-k-economy-will-start-slow-recovery-this-year.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said business surveys indicate the U.K. will have a “slow”
recovery this year, as officials prepare for a meeting next week
on whether to extend stimulus for the economy.  “It’s a patchy picture, but there are indeed signs of a
recovery coming,” King said in an interview on BBC Radio 4
today. “We see that in the business surveys and I think also in
the employment data. A reasonable view would be that we would
start to see a steady, slow recovery coming during the course of
the year.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee is due to
hold its “pre-MPC meeting” with economists and other officials
tomorrow ahead of its monthly decision on May 10. While Britain
is in recession, rising  oil prices  are threatening to stoke
 inflation , and mixed data is clouding the outlook as policy
makers decide whether to expand or halt their 325 billion pound
($526 billion) bond-purchase program.  King said late yesterday that the economy isn’t yet “back
to health” and needs the support of low  interest rates .  “We have a difficult challenge and our job is to do our
best to try to steer the economy back onto a steady growth
path,” he said at an event in London. “For the time being that
means low interest rates.”  A report today may show that  growth in services , the
biggest part of the economy, probably slowed in April. An index
of services may have slipped to 54.1 from 55.3, according to the
median of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey A reading above 50
indicates expansion. Similar gauges for manufacturing and
construction earlier this week also declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in Brussels at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  