-- BofA Sees $5 Billion Collateral Need in Credit Downgrade
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bofa-sees-5-billion-collateral-need-in-credit-downgrade.html
Bank of America Corp. , the lender that
has bought back debt to strengthen its balance sheet, said
credit downgrades in a hypothetical scenario may trigger demands
for about $6.2 billion in collateral.  A two-level downgrade of long-term senior  debt ratings 
would have prompted the bank to post about $5.1 billion of
collateral tied to derivatives contracts and other trading
agreements as of March 31, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
firm said yesterday in a regulatory filing. It would have had to
post an additional $1.1 billion of collateral if trading
partners opted to tear up contracts in a two-level cut.  Moody’s Investors Service, which is reviewing banks and
securities firms with global capital markets operations, has
said it’s considering downgrades of lenders including Bank of
America, ranked second by assets in the U.S. While ratings cuts
typically raise borrowing costs and force banks to increase
collateral, analysts have said the change was expected.  Bank of America may be cut by one grade to Baa2, the
second-lowest investment-grade rating, Moody’s said on Feb. 16.
Competitors such as New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  may be cut as
many as three levels, Moody’s said. The ratings company wrote
that credit profiles of investment banks are weakening amid
worsening government finances, economic uncertainty and higher
funding costs.  ‘Evolving Challenges’  “Capital markets firms are confronting evolving
challenges, such as more fragile funding conditions, wider
credit spreads, increased regulatory burdens and more difficult
operating conditions,” Moody’s said in February. “These
difficulties, together with inherent vulnerabilities such as
confidence-sensitivity, interconnectedness and opacity of risk,
have diminished” the industry’s prospects, Moody’s said.  The three major ratings firms -- Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings -- cut Bank of America’s credit grades last
year. The figures in the lender’s hypothetical scenario apply to
future downgrades by all three firms.  A one-level cut would have required the bank to post about
$2.7 billion of collateral tied to derivatives contracts and
other trading agreements and an additional $800 million tied to
the termination of contracts, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rick Green  in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  