-- Bovespa Drops as Commodities Fall, Gerdau Sinks on Earnings Miss
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-05-03T20:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bovespa-drops-as-commodities-fall-gerdau-sinks-on-earnings-miss.html
The Bovespa index fell for the first
time in three days as signs the global recovery may be faltering
pushed down commodities, dimming the outlook for Brazilian
producers, and steelmaker Gerdau SA sank after its earnings
trailed estimates.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA contributed the most to the gauge’s
decline as crude tumbled. Tim Participacoes SA dropped after
Veja reported that the wireless phone company’s chief executive
officer is leaving.  The Bovespa slipped 0.5 percent to 62,104.15 at the close
in  Sao Paulo . Thirty-seven stocks retreated while 27 advanced.
The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.9094 per  U.S. dollar .  A measure of growth in U.S. services industries dropped to
a four-month low, a sign the biggest part of the world’s largest
economy is struggling to accelerate. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the economic outlook has become
“more uncertain” and policy makers didn’t discuss cutting
 interest rates  at their meeting this week.  “Because the biggest companies in the Bovespa are
commodities exporters, any data signaling the American economy,
and therefore demand, is not recovering affects Brazilian
markets,” Eduardo Matsura, an analyst at Souza Barros
Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  In  Brazil , industrial production declined 2.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, compared with a median estimate for a
1.2 percent rise among 37 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials slid 1.4 percent.  Gerdau, Petrobras  Gerdau,  Latin America ’s largest steelmaker, dropped 2.5
percent to 17.37 reais. Net income fell 5.4 percent to 369.6
million reais ($192 million) from 390.8 million reais in the
year-earlier period. Heavy rain in Brazil hindered shipments,
and costs increased more than sales, the company said yesterday
in a statement. It was expected to post a profit of 435.6
million reais, excluding some items, according to the average of
nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras lost 2.7 percent to 21.40 reais. Crude tumbled
the most this year, dropping 2.5 percent on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Tim declined 5.8 percent to 10.65 reais in the biggest drop
in nine months. The company may announce today that Chief
Executive Officer Luca Luciani will leave, Veja reported on its
Radar On-line column, without saying where it obtained the
information. The company’s press office in Sao Paulo didn’t
immediately respond to Bloomberg News request for comment by
telephone.  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure has gained 9.4 percent in
2012, buoyed by local interest-rate cuts, signs of expansion in
the U.S. and speculation  Europe  may be closer to resolving its
sovereign-debt crisis. The Bovespa trades at 10.5 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the 10.6 ratio for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading  volume  was 6.97 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.23 billion reais this year through April
27, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  