-- BP Gulf Spill Judge Orders Jan. 14 Trial on U.S. Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bp-gulf-spill-judge-orders-jan-14-trial-on-u-s-claims.html
The judge presiding over the BP Plc
litigation tied to the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  set a
Jan. 14 trial date to determine fault for the sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and resulting undersea leak.  The initial trial date, set for March this year in New
Orleans, was postponed when BP and lawyers for private parties
reached a $7.8 billion partial settlement of claims. BP and the
plaintiffs’ lawyers asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who
is overseeing the lawsuits, to postpone any trial on liability
until after a Nov. 8 fairness hearing on the settlement.  “Phase 1 of the limitation and liability trial shall be
re-set for Jan. 14, 2013,” Barbier said in a one-page order
yesterday. “The court will issue a revised trial plan.”  Barbier set the new trial date after a closed-door meeting
yesterday with lawyers from BP, other companies involved and
those suing over the spill.  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement establishes two classes, one for economic loss and
the other for injuries related to the spill or the cleanup.  Kurt Mix, a former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer, pleaded not guilty
yesterday in federal court in New Orleans to charges he
intentionally destroyed evidence requested by the U.S. about the
size of the spill.  Criminal Charges  The U.S. said Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts to
estimate the amount of oil leaking from the well, deleted text
messages between him and a supervisor. Mix was charged with two
counts of obstruction of justice, in the first criminal case
arising from the incident.  The  Justice Department  said last week it was continuing the
probe. The charges against Mix are likely to be followed by
others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said May 2 in a press
conference.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, Joan McPhee, his attorney, told the judge.  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of  text
messages ,” McPhee said. The information saved includes flow
rate data, work on the efforts to contain the spill, and his
personal log notes, she said.  The proposed settlement of the private lawsuits, reached
March 2, days before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010
spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of Gulf
Coast states  Louisiana  and  Alabama .  Excluded Claims  It also excludes claims of financial institutions, casinos,
private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and residents
and businesses claiming harm from the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by the spill.  Barbier granted preliminary approval of the settlement on
May 2.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  The U.S. government also sued BP, Transocean and BP’s
partners in the well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging
violations of federal pollution laws. Louisiana and Alabama sued
as well. MOEX has settled the federal pollution claims.  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain after the
settlement reached in March.  Trial Issues  A trial would cover these lawsuits, federal and state
government pollution claims against BP, and cross-claims among
BP and its partner companies involved in the Macondo site and
rig.  Under the settlement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and Halliburton.  The first trial, a nonjury phase before Barbier, would
focus on fault for the incident and the issue of gross
negligence.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 