-- BP Trial Will Be in January, Louisiana AG Caldwell Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-03T16:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/bp-trial-will-be-in-january-louisiana-ag-caldwell-says.html
The first trial over the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil
spill will be scheduled for Jan. 14, Louisiana Attorney General
 Buddy Caldwell  said.  The initial trial date, set for March this year, was
postponed when BP and lawyers for private parties reached a $7.8
billion partial settlement of claims. BP and the plaintiffs’
lawyers asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is
overseeing the lawsuits, to postpone any trial on liability
until after a Nov. 8 fairness hearing on the settlement.  “We got a trial date reset for Jan. 14,” Caldwell said
today in an interview after a closed-door session before
Barbier. An order will be issued soon, Caldwell said.  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement establishes two classes, one for economic loss and
the other for injuries related to the spill or the cleanup.  The proposed settlement, reached March 2, days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of Gulf Coast states
 Louisiana  and Alabama.  Excluded Claims  It also excludes claims of financial institutions, casinos,
private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and Texas, and residents
and businesses claiming harm from the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by the spill.  Barbier granted preliminary approval of the settlement
yesterday.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  The U.S. government also sued BP, Transocean and BP’s
partners in the well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging
violations of federal pollution laws. Louisiana and Alabama sued
as well. MOEX has settled the federal pollution claims.  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain after the
settlement reached in March.  Trial Issues  A trial would cover these suits, federal and state
government pollution claims against BP, and cross-claims between
BP and its partner companies in the Macondo site and rig.  Under the settlement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and Halliburton.  The first trial, a nonjury phase before Barbier, would
focus on fault for the incident and the issue of gross
negligence.  The disaster sent more than 4 million barrels of oil
spewing into the  Gulf of Mexico , according to the U.S., leaving
BP liable for fines as high as $17.6 billion.  The federal Clean Water Act lets the U.S. government seek
fines of as much as $1,100 for each barrel of oil spilled as a
result of simple negligence, often described as a failure to
exercise ordinary care. The maximum increases to $4,300 a barrel
for gross negligence, or a conscious act or omission.  Alabama Attorney General  Alabama  Attorney General Luther Strange flashed a thumbs-up
after today’s hearing.  “It’s good,” Strange said. “A trial date is a trial
date.” Strange asked Barbier this week to set a trial date as
soon as July 16.  “We are pleased with the court’s decisions to date and
continue to have the utmost confidence in the strength of our
case,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman, said in an e-
mail today.  Steve Herman , a lead attorney for plaintiffs, and  Ellen
Moskowitz , a BP spokeswoman, declined to comment after today’s
hearing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 