-- Cablevision Falls After Discounting Leads to Cash Flow Drop
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-03T20:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/cablevision-profit-tops-estimates-as-tv-service-gains-customers.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-
largest U.S. cable provider by subscribers, fell the most in two
months after lower pricing led to a bigger drop in  cash flow 
than some analysts estimated.  First-quarter adjusted operating cash flow declined 7.6
percent from a year earlier to $513.5 million, the Bethpage, New
York-based company said today in a statement.  David Joyce , an
analyst at Miller Tabak & Co., had projected $544 million and
cut his rating on the stock to neutral after the report.  The change in cash flow signals that Cablevision isn’t able
to attract new users without heavy discounts, said  Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. While the
company added 7,000 pay-TV customers in the quarter, the number
has dropped by 49,000 in the past year to 3.26 million.  “The real question is, what’s the sustainability of their
pricing strategy if they stop discounting?” said Mitchell, who
has a hold  rating  on the shares. “Can they keep up the
subscriber growth?”  Cablevision  fell  7.9 percent to $13.54 at the close in  New
York , the biggest intraday drop since Feb. 28. It has lost 4.8
percent this year.  ‘Extremely Weak’  The company added 41,800 broadband subscribers and 42,400
phone customers. Increases in those two groups as well as in
pay-TV users topped analysts’ estimates. Cablevision said the
gains resulted from better  customer service  and the absence of a
rate increase.  Cablevision Chief Financial Officer Gregg Seibert said
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS was less aggressive in its
promotions in the quarter. Cablevision has about a 40 percent
overlap with FiOS services.  Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  said last quarter that
he would stop promotions and discounts by Cablevision.  “To generate growth, Cablevision did exactly what
investors didn’t want: it was giving away the farm,” Vijay Jayant, an analyst at ISI Group, said in a note to clients.
“Given today’s extremely weak financial results, we believe
that investors will question how the company achieves such
strong subscriber metrics.”  Package Deal  To compete with Verizon’s FiOS, Cablevision offered a
package of video, voice and data service for $70 a month for two
years plus a free Apple Inc. iPod Touch media player, Jayant
said. That’s a large discount compared with the average of
$152.53 a month the company receives per basic video customer.
Cablevision ended that promotion in January, according to a
spokeswoman, Kelly McAndrew.  Dolan took over running the company’s operations after
former Chief Operating Officer  Tom Rutledge  left in December to
become  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) ’s CEO. Dolan said during a
conference call that he anticipates running operations through
the end of 2012 “and beyond.”  Cablevision said it is looking to sell money-losing
Clearview Cinemas. The cable operator attempted to find a buyer
for Clearview in 2002 and couldn’t complete a deal.  Clearview operates 230 movie screens in 45 locations in the
New York metropolitan area. Clearview’s business may be worth
about $123 million, on the basis of comparable public-company
valuations, according to  Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg Industries
analyst.  “Clearview is not a strategic asset for us,” Seibert
said. “We think there are others who can do more with that
asset.”  Net income fell to $57.2 million, or 21 cents a share.
Analysts predicted 18 cents, the average of estimates  compiled 
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 0.2 percent to $1.66 billion, compared
with the $1.67 billion analysts projected.  In the first quarter a year earlier, net income was $104.1
million, or 36 cents, before the spinoff of  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) 
That unit added $35 million, or 12 cents, to the profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  