-- Cameron Poised to Benefit as Johnson Set for Re-Election
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e ,   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-03T12:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/cameron-may-get-respite-as-johnson-set-for-london-mayor-win-1-.html
London’s Conservative mayor, Boris Johnson, is poised to win re-election today, providing Prime
Minister  David Cameron  with some relief after more than a month
of damaging headlines.  Polls over the past week have shown Johnson extending his
lead over  Ken Livingstone , the former mayor who is running for
the opposition  Labour Party . That goes against a national trend
that has seen Labour taking support away from the Conservatives.
Labour is likely to gain hundreds of the 4,800 local-council
seats being contested across Britain today.  Support for the Conservatives has slumped to the lowest
since the coalition government came to power two years ago.
Cameron has faced a backlash over the March 21 budget that
raided charities and pensioners to help fund an income-tax cut
for the rich; the economy has slipped back into recession; and
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is under pressure to quit. Labour
has termed it an “omnishambles.” A win for Johnson in London,
where Labour traditionally outperforms, would hearten the
embattled premier.  “In a political environment of cuts, omnishambles and the
mess the government is in, it would be devastating for Labour
for Boris to win,”  Andrew Hawkins , the chairman of polling
company ComRes Ltd., said in a telephone interview. For the
Tories, “it will send the message that they are still electable
in London, despite everything that’s going on.”  Johnson Lead  The  latest poll  in London, carried out from April 30 to May
2 for the Evening Standard newspaper, gave Johnson a lead of 53
percent to 47 percent over Livingstone in the decisive second
round of counting, when second-preference votes from the five
minor candidates are totted up.  YouGov Plc (YOU)  questioned 2,119
Londoners online and its voter predictions are based on the
1,238 respondents who said they were certain to vote. No margin
of error was given.  Polling opened at 7 a.m. and will continue until 10 p.m.
The vote count in the capital won’t start until tomorrow
morning, with the result due in the evening. Before then, most
results will be in from elsewhere in Britain, and they’re likely
to favor Labour.  A national YouGov poll for The Sun newspaper put Labour
ahead of the Tories by 41 percent to 32 percent, extending a
lead that stood at 5 points on budget day. Cameron’s Liberal
Democrat coalition partners were on 9 percent, less than half
their level of support in the May 2010 general election. YouGov
questioned 1,744 adults on April 30 and May 1. No margin of
error was given.  Tory Slide  Labour’s lead is close to the 10-point average in recent
weeks, a figure that may see the opposition party gain about 700
council seats at the expense of the government parties,
according to calculations by local-election analysts Michael Thrasher and Colin Rallings of the University of Plymouth.  The Tories’ ratings have been sliding as the biggest
spending cuts since World War II take effect. More than 700,000
public-sector jobs will be eliminated by 2017 to help slash a
 budget deficit  totaling 8 percent of gross domestic product.
Data last week showed the economy sliding into the first double-
dip recession since the 1970s.  Government missteps have included attempts to prepare for a
possible fuel-truck drivers’ strike that led to panic-buying of
gasoline and a muddle over attempts to deport a terrorist
suspect to Jordan. Hunt’s special adviser resigned last week
after e-mails revealed he leaked sensitive information to  News
Corp. (NWSA)  while his boss was deciding whether to allow  Rupert Murdoch ’s company to take full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   ‘Posh Boys’  Cameron, 45, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , 40, have been denounced as out-of-touch even by members
of their own party. The premier’s personal approval rating has
dropped to its lowest ever.  “Not only are Cameron and Osborne two posh boys who don’t
know the price of milk, but they are two arrogant posh boys who
show no remorse, no contrition, and no passion to want to
understand the lives of others,” Tory lawmaker Nadine Dorries
told BBC television last month.  In London, though, Johnson is benefiting from support that
that crosses party lines. Ten percent of Labour supporters said
they would back Johnson and another 10 percent said they would
not vote for either of the main candidates, according to today’s
YouGov poll. If they all voted for Livingstone he’d defeat
Johnson by 54 percent to 46 percent.  Johnson’s Labour Boost  Almost two thirds of Labour supporters who prefer Johnson
said they disliked Livingstone, showing Labour chose a mayoral
candidate who has “lost his electoral appeal,” YouGov said.
Half of London voters regard Johnson as “charismatic.”  “The Conservatives’ best hope for a victory is  Boris
Johnson  in London, so if he wins they’ll be focusing on that and
trying to use it to draw a line under recent difficulties before
moving on to the Queen’s Speech,” next week’s set-piece event
at which the monarch sets out the government’s new legislative
program, YouGov pollster  Anthony Wells  wrote on his U.K. Polling
Report website.  Even though Labour is set for local-council gains, its
leader,  Ed Miliband , may still come under pressure if defeat in
London is matched by a poor performance in elections in
 Scotland ’s biggest city, Glasgow, a traditional stronghold,
where the  Scottish National Party  has been building in strength.  Miliband’s approval rating is still lower than Cameron’s,
 YouGov surveys show , fueling speculation that he may not head
the party at the next general election in 2015.  Should Livingstone overcome all the odds and pull off a
Labour win in  London , that would raise an unwelcome specter for
Cameron and Osborne: Johnson as a free agent, popular with the
Conservative rank and file and maybe in search of a seat in the
House of Commons as a future contender for the Tory leadership.  “If Boris were not to win, he would put the blame on
George and Dave,”  John Curtice , professor of politics at
Strathclyde University in Glasgow, said in a telephone
interview. “That would be the last thing they would want: to
have Boris running around Westminster on the loose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 