-- Canadian Dollar Declines on Slowing U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-03T21:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/canadian-dollar-climbs-against-major-peers-on-north-america-view.html
Canada ’s dollar declined for a second
day against its U.S. counterpart as weaker-than-forecast U.S.
economic data pointed to diminished demand from the nation’s
biggest export market.  The Canadian currency erased earlier gains against the
greenback after the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing industries decreased, casting doubt about the
durability of the U.S. recovery. The U.S., which consumes 75
percent of Canada’s exports, will report April employment data
tomorrow.  “There’s a little bit of risk aversion after that number -
- it wasn’t great -- and markets are awfully nervous ahead of
tomorrow’s payrolls,” said  Steve Butler , managing director in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit. “Canada
was a bit of a miracle child overnight. The fact that we gave up
all those gains will be disappointing for the bulls.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, fell 0.2 percent
to 98.85 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0116.  Government  bonds  rose, pushing the 10-year yield down two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2 percent. The price
of the 3.25 percent bonds due in June 2021 added 18 cents to
C$110.36.  Economic Differences  The loonie reached highest level in more than a month
versus the euro earlier on speculation North America economic
growth will outpace other developed countries. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers see “downside
risks” to the region’s economic outlook after a policy meeting
today.  The ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low 1
percent, matching the forecast of all 58 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said April 17 rate
increases would be “appropriate” in light of stronger growth.
That contrasts with the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , which this
week cut interest rates by the most in three years, lowering the
overnight cash-rate target by half a percentage point to 3.75
percent.  The loonie was up versus Australian and New Zealand peers.  “The Bank of Canada is talking about removing stimulus --
that puts us in a different space,” Butler said. “We shouldn’t
be surprised to see Canada is a bit of an outperformer.”  Canada’s dollar is up 1.4 percent this year for the third-
best performance among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The loonie, which traded as low as C$1.0319 in January,
will weaken to parity with its U.S. counterpart by the end of
June before strengthening to 98 cents at year-end, according to
the median of 40 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs last month, after hiring
120,000 in March, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s nonfarm payrolls report from the Labor Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  