-- Carlyle Founders’ Stakes Valued at $1 Billion Post-IPO
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/carlyle-founders-stakes-valued-at-1-billion-post-ipo.html
William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and
 David Rubenstein , who founded  Carlyle Group (CG)  LP in 1987, are
sitting on stakes valued at $1.03 billion each as the world’s
second-biggest private-equity firm goes public.  Carlyle sold 30.5 million shares at $22 apiece, below the
initial public offering’s proposed $23 to $25 range, according
to a statement yesterday. The price cut reflects the hesitancy
of investors who have seen the value of other buyout firms fall
after their IPOs.  The offering by the Washington-based firm, which was priced
at a discount to rivals in part to ensure first-day gains,
leaves the three founders with stakes valued below those held by
their counterparts at  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  They
told investors in New York last week they don’t plan to sell
shares in the IPO and that they each plan to give the bulk of
their wealth to philanthropic causes.  “This is their legacy,”  Reena Aggarwal , a finance
professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of
Business in Washington, said in a telephone interview. “They
started the firm from nothing, so their human capital and their
financial wealth are tied up in the company. They need to have
this liquidity event.”  An IPO is one way private-equity founders have cashed out
after building firms that own dozens of companies employing
hundreds of thousands of people. Stephen Schwarzman, who started
New York-based Blackstone in 1985 with  Peter G. Peterson , sold a
portion of his stake for $684 million when the company went
public in June 2007. His remaining stock was valued at more than
$8 billion at its peak that year.  Peterson, 85, sold the majority of his Blackstone shares in
the IPO for $1.92 billion, which he used to fund philanthropic
efforts.  Schwarzman’s Stake  Schwarzman’s stake is valued at $3.07 billion based on
yesterday’s closing price. Forbes magazine ranks the 65-year-old
the 66th-richest American, with an estimated net worth of $5.5
billion. His firm oversees $190 billion, making it the largest
private-equity firm by assets under management.  “Going public would crystallize the value in our work,”
Schwarzman said at a Captains of Industry event last month in
New York. “And I would have something to give to my heirs.”  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , the 68-year-old cousins
who lead KKR, hold stakes worth $1.18 billion. They founded the
New York-based company in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg and haven’t
sold any shares, according to the firm’s regulatory filings.  Record Distribution  Leon Black’s stock in  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the New
York-based buyout firm he founded in 1990, is worth about $1.17
billion.  The founders of the largest private-equity firms already
are billionaires by virtue of profits from their funds known as
carried interest, or carry.  Private-equity funds pool money from so-called limited
partners such as pensions, endowments and sovereign wealth
funds. The limited partners get 80 percent of the investment
profits, with the remaining 20 percent going to the fund’s
managers in the form of carry.  Carlyle returned a record $18.8 billion to its investors
last year, more than three times its distribution in 2010, as it
reaped profits from taking companies it owned public or selling
them to other corporations. The three founders who hold 47
million shares each, earned a combined $413 million in 2011,
mostly from distributions.  The firm’s stock will begin trading today on the Nasdaq
Stock Market under the ticker symbol CG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  