-- Carlyle in Line to Benefit as Citigroup Expands Model
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-05-03T17:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/carlyle-in-line-to-benefit-as-citigroup-expands-model.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , one of the lead
underwriters on  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s initial public offering,
expanded the way it values managers of hedge funds and private
equity, a change made before the IPO that may make the
Washington-based firm’s shares more attractive.  An analyst team led by  William Katz  issued a report
explaining the new valuation approach on April 23, while Carlyle
executives were traveling to pitch prospective investors on
yesterday’s IPO. The report didn’t address Carlyle, as Katz’s
team hasn’t initiated coverage of the company. It reassessed
four of Carlyle’s publicly traded peers and said investors were
undervaluing them.  Carlyle, which started trading today after pricing its
stock at $22 a share, has been trying to get  Wall Street  and
investors to focus on its ability to distribute profits from
buyouts, while downplaying the use of valuations that put more
weight on income tied to fees. If other banks follow Citigroup,
the shift may benefit Carlyle, which has struggled to match
rivals such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in producing management fees.  “Our analyst added a supplemental valuation model to his
existing sum-of-the-parts valuation technique for his entire
coverage universe of alternative asset managers,” said Sophia
Stewart, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup. “There
were no meaningful changes to his target prices. The change
addressed a significant appetite for an additional valuation
methodology by investors in the stocks he currently covers.”  Buyout Dependent  Carlyle’s fee-related earnings, which exclude the firm’s
cut of profits from buyout investments, have lagged behind those
of Blackstone and KKR & Co. during the past three years. Carlyle
depends on private equity for more than half of its revenue,
compared with almost 18 percent at Blackstone.  Investors see earnings tied to management fees, usually 1.5
percent to 2 percent of assets under management, as a steadier
income stream. Beyond the ability to exit holdings and generate
reliable performance fees, investors are concerned that rising
taxes and pressure from private investors to lower fees may hurt
industry profits, according to the Citigroup analysts.  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.
The firm didn’t seek the model change from Citigroup, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  New Model  Securities firms are supposed to maintain separation
between banking and research, known as the “Chinese Wall.”
Still, analysts help bankers vet prospective corporate clients
and price IPOs, and for specific transactions can suspend
research coverage while they work with bankers on a stock sale
or merger. In 2002, 10 securities firms paid $1.4 billion to
settle allegations by then-New York Attorney General  Eliot
Spitzer  that they used research to improperly promote stocks.  Citigroup’s new distributable earnings discount model is
driven mainly by an asset manager’s ability to generate cash by
exiting investments through sales or IPOs. Publicly traded
buyout managers are undervalued because investors are assuming
the “realization cycle will never improve,” Citigroup wrote in
its note.  Carlyle executives, in their pre-IPO roadshow, said payouts
from deals will remain strong.  Carlyle will exit 62 percent of its $62 billion in “carry
fund” investments over the near term and cash “is going to
come flying out” of the company, Chief Operating Officer Glenn Youngkin said at a pre-IPO presentation in New York on April 26,
according to a person present who asked not to be named because
the event wasn’t public. Its carry funds include buyout, growth
capital and distressed-debt pools while excluding  hedge funds ,
structured credit and funds of funds, according to the firm’s
regulatory filings.  Investor Skepticism  Last year, Carlyle distributed a record $18.8 billion to
its private backers.  Potential investors in the stock, who would share in those
profits, have expressed skepticism that the pace of exits is
sustainable, according to people with knowledge of the roadshow.  Citigroup’s new metric uses forecasts of asset growth to
project future distributions and puts less emphasis on earnings
tied to management and performance fees, an area in which
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, excels. The
bank lowered its 12-month price prediction for Blackstone to
$18.50 from $19.  Carlyle generated distributable earnings of $881.6 million
in 2011, adjusted for the effects of the IPO and the acquisition
of AlpInvest Partners NV, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The comparable figure at Blackstone was $696.7
million.  Fee Earnings  Citigroup’s older analysis focused on earnings and included 
unrealized fees, and has little to do with cash generation. 
Citigroup’s new price targets reflect a blend of both 
methodologies.  Under the sum-of-the-parts method, investors assign a low
multiple on buyout profits, the 20 percent of gains from
investments, because they’re unpredictable, especially in an
economic slowdown when it’s difficult to sell. The stocks are
trading at multiples of two to five times those earnings on that
basis, according to Citigroup the note.  “When we speak with investors as to why they assign such a
low multiple the responses are the same: 1) complexity; 2)
volatility; 3) uneven realization outlooks,” the analysts
wrote.  Banking Relationship  Carlyle and Citigroup, which is joined by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG as the IPO’s lead underwriters,
have a long history doing business. When Carlyle’s publicly
traded credit fund fell victim to the housing crisis in 2007,
Citigroup led a group of banks that extended a $875 million
 credit line  in an unsuccessful effort to help rescue the fund.  Citigroup and JPMorgan helped the firm secure a second
investment from Mubadala Development Co., part of the Abu Dhabi
government, in 2010. The firm paid out most of the proceeds from
the Mubadala deal to its owners that year.  After Carlyle filed to go public last September, the three
lead underwriters, which are also the firm’s lenders, agreed to
increase the revolving credit line to $750 million from a prior
limit of $150 million. According to a copy of the borrowing
agreement, revised again in December, the banks will no longer
require the management and carried interest fees that Carlyle
and its partners pledged as collateral once the IPO is completed
and Mubadala is repaid.  Carlyle originally sought $23 to $25 a share in the IPO.
The stock rose 0.3 percent to $22.07 at 1:35 p.m. in  New York  in
the first day of trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  