-- McClendon Used Wachovia in Personal Sale After Chesapeake
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-05-03T19:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mcclendon-used-wachovia-in-personal-sale-after-chesapeake.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  agreed to sell $88 million of
his personal oil and gas interests to investment vehicles
created by Wachovia Corp. three weeks after his company used the
bank in a similar $600 million deal, a court filing shows.  The same Wachovia bankers worked on both August 2008
transactions, known as volumetric production payments, according
to documents filed last year by Chesapeake in a  Manhattan 
federal court. The deals came after a separate January 2008
Wachovia transaction that yielded McClendon $44 million, the
documents show.  Chesapeake’s board is scrutinizing McClendon’s efforts to
finance his personal holdings after media reports on his
borrowings led Chesapeake to strip him of his chairman’s title
and end a special program that allowed him to invest in company
wells. The board said last week it’s examining McClendon’s
arrangements with any company that did business with Chesapeake.  “It’s in the interest of the other parties to give him a
break on his transaction if they get a break on larger
transactions with the company,” said  John Coffee , a law
professor at  Columbia University , who’s written on corporate
governance. “There’s a concern,” especially if the
transactions weren’t disclosed to shareholders, he said.  Since 1993, McClendon has had the right to invest alongside
Chesapeake in every well that it drills, buying as much as a
2.5 percent working interest. He said on April 26 that he had
loans of $846 million outstanding on his personal holdings as of
Dec. 31.  “The VPP sales were separate, arms-length transactions
that were independently negotiated on market-sensitive terms,”
Chesapeake said in a statement.  Ron Hutcheson , a spokesman for
McClendon, declined to comment.  Finance Drilling  Volumetric production payments allow the owner of wells to
get cash up front in exchange for future production of oil and
gas, delivered according to a schedule over a period of years.
Chesapeake has been a frequent user of VPP’s to finance its
well-drilling program, completing 10 transactions since 2007 to
raise $6.4 billion.  Buyers of VPP’s are usually special-purpose vehicles set up
by Wall Street investment banks, according to the complaint in a
2010 lawsuit filed against  Oklahoma City , Oklahoma-based
Chesapeake in federal court in  New York . The banks typically
syndicate loans linked with the VPP’s to other banks or hedge
funds, according to the complaint.  The plaintiff in the case, Mary McCall, said she was a
holder of a minority interest in some Chesapeake wells. She
argued Chesapeake’s and McClendon’s VPP transactions were
selling gas that rightly belonged to her.  Support Motion  Chesapeake and McClendon filed the documents detailing the
VPP transactions to support their request to have the case
dismissed. A judge granted that motion last year, and McCall is
appealing.  The documents show that Wachovia helped set up at least
three VPP transactions in 2008 -- two for McClendon’s personal
holdings, and one for Chesapeake.  On Jan. 31, 2008, a partnership owned by McClendon, called
Chesapeake Investments LP, agreed to sell rights to future gas
production from some of McClendon’s interests to a new entity
known as TW Investors LLC for $44 million, the court papers
show. The new entity shared an address with Wachovia’s
headquarters in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina (NII) , according to the
documents.  Two Wachovia bankers, Robert Christensen and William Eustis, were the only people listed as officers of TW in the
documents. Wachovia also set up commodity swap transactions to
facilitate the deal, the documents show.  Provided Swaps  Then on Aug. 1, Wachovia helped set up the $600 million VPP
transaction with Chesapeake, known as Sooner Gas Trust, the
filings show. This time, a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  that
handles asset-backed securities was named as the entity’s
“owner trustee.” Sooner’s officers were listed as three
Wachovia bankers, including Christensen and Eustis, as well as a
group from Capital One Financial Corp.’s energy-finance unit.
Wachovia also provided swaps as part of the transaction.  On Aug. 21, McClendon’s personal company sold another VPP
through Wachovia, for $88 million, the court documents show. The
new entity was called Blue Devil Trust, and Wells Fargo was
again the “owner trustee.” Wachovia’s Christensen and Eustis
were designated as Blue Devil’s officers, and again the bank
provided commodity swaps.  Wachovia was sold to Wells Fargo in 2009.  Mary Eshet , a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman, declined to comment or to make the
bankers available for interviews. Neither Christensen nor Eustis
returned phone calls seeking comment.  Personal Interests  Chesapeake has disclosed some details of its own VPP’s in
securities filings. It said in a filing last month that it
doesn’t “review or approve financings of Mr. McClendon’s
personal assets.” It added that disclosures about revenue from
his personal well interests “include revenue attributable to
volumetric production payments owed to third parties under
transactions that Mr. McClendon has entered into from time to
time.”  Reuters reported on April 18 that McClendon arranged to
borrow as much as $1.1 billion against his personal well
holdings. His largest personal lender was EIG Global Energy
Partners, which has also financed Chesapeake, the report said.  The Wall Street Journal reported that McClendon has
personally borrowed from Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
and Bank of America Corp., all of which have been awarded
investment banking business from Chesapeake.  The court documents in New York show that McClendon used
the same deal team -- Chesapeake executives, bankers, and
lawyers -- for both his personal transactions and the company’s.  Legal Counsel  That includes outside legal counsel from C. Ray Lees, of
Oklahoma City-based Commercial Law Group PC, and financial
advice from  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  Doug Jacobson, identified as an
executive vice president at Chesapeake Energy, signed the Sooner
Gas transaction on behalf of his company, and is also listed as
an officer of McClendon’s personal company in both of those VPP
transactions.  Lees and Jacobson didn’t return phone calls seeking comment
on the transactions. A Jefferies spokesman, Richard Khaleel,
declined to comment.  The case is McCall v. Chesapeake Energy Corp., 1:10-cv-
08897, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  