-- CFTC Said to Delay Derivatives Exchange Rule Opposed by CME
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-03T21:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/cftc-said-to-delay-derivatives-exchange-rule-opposed-by-cme.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  will delay a final vote on a rule governing
derivatives exchanges amid internal dissent that it may restrict
 CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures exchange,
according to four people briefed on the matter.  The rule, proposed in 2010, sought to require at least 85
percent of a contract’s trading to occur on a central market.
The agency will meet on May 10 to approve a series of other
exchange requirements, the CFTC said. The commissioners will
delay the provision setting percentage levels, said the people,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the rulemaking
process is not public. Under the proposal, an exchange would be
forced to de-list a contract if it didn’t meet the 85 percent
level.  The proposed rule would restrict CME’s ClearPort service,
which acts as a clearinghouse for swaps traded outside of the
company’s central market, Chicago-based CME  said last year .
ClearPort, which generates the highest fees per contract at CME,
allows energy swaps, for example, to be converted into cleared
futures contracts. Clearinghouses reduce risk in trades by
guaranteeing trades between buyers and sellers.  “The 85 percent requirement will significantly deter the
development of new products by existing exchanges like CME
Group, and likewise deter any new futures exchanges from being
established,” the company said in a February 2011 letter to the
CFTC. The proposed level would force many of CME’s energy
contracts off the company’s exchange and onto different trading
platforms or into the private bilateral market, CME said.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Adequate Trading  The commission proposed the threshold to ensure that there
would be adequate trading in a central market to allow for price
discovery in a contract. “The commission believes that the
price discovery process in the centralized market is jeopardized
where off-exchange transactions become the exclusive or
predominant method of establishing or offsetting positions in a
particular market,” the agency said in the rule proposal.  De-listed contracts could be traded on other types of
trading platforms known as swap-execution facilities. The CFTC
has yet to finalize rules governing those trading systems.  “It’s appropriate we delay this to have a comprehensive
discussion of trading in futures and swaps,”  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican CFTC commissioner, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  