-- Chinese Dissident Seeks U.S. Visit ‘To Rest for a While’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-04T12:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chen-s-change-of-heart-puts-u-s-on-defensive.html
China  said  Chen Guangcheng  can apply
to study abroad, signaling the government may be seeking to
resolve a crisis that flared after the legal activist fled house
arrest for the American embassy.  If Chen “wants to study abroad, he can, like any Chinese
citizen, go through proper channels and relevant departments and
procedures according to law,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said today according to a statement. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , who is in Beijing for annual talks with Chinese
leaders, confirmed Chen wanted to study in the U.S. and said she
was “encouraged” by progress in his case.  China’s state-run media earlier criticized the way the
administration of President  Barack Obama  has handled the case,
which has overshadowed the minister-level talks. The dispute
over Chen comes ahead of a once-in-a-decade leadership change in
China later this year and has fed into the U.S. presidential
campaign, with Republicans attacking Obama over his handling of
the affair.  The U.S. is “encouraged by the official statement issued
today by the Chinese government,” Clinton said. “Over the
course of the day, progress has been made to help him have the
future that he wants and we will be staying in touch with him as
this process moves forward,” she said, referring to Chen.  Phelim Kine, senior Asia researcher at New York-based Human
Rights Watch, called the developments today “a very positive
sign.”  “These signals are encouraging,” Kine said in a telephone
interview. “The Chinese government could just as easily dig in
its heels and provoke a bitter and protracted standoff over
Chen’s safety and security.”  Criticism Reversed  Liu’s comments, posted on the website of China’s Foreign
Ministry, came after a number of Chinese and U.S. government
vehicles showed up at the Beijing hospital where Chen was
admitted on May 2 after a six-day stay at the U.S. embassy.  Chen yesterday reversed earlier criticism of the U.S.
handling of his case, telling lawmakers in Washington via a
telephone call that he appreciated U.S. efforts to secure the
safety of his family and asking that he be allowed to travel to
the U.S. “to rest for a while.” Chen has an invitation to
visit  New York  University, a friend Guo Yushan said in a Twitter
message translated and forwarded to reporters by the State
Department.  “I want to meet with Secretary Clinton, I hope I can get
more help from her and also want to thank her face to face,”
Chen said in the phone call yesterday to a congressional panel
in Washington. Clinton is in Beijing for two days of cabinet-
level talks that end today.  Forced Abortions  Chen was imprisoned for more than four years after
representing villagers who opposed forced sterilizations and
abortions, and then was held under house arrest until he escaped
in late April. He told American diplomats during a weeklong stay
in the U.S. embassy in Beijing that he wanted to remain in
China, and later left the compound in a deal worked out in talks
with Chinese leaders, U.S. officials said.  After leaving the embassy to be reunited with his family
May 2 at a Beijing hospital, Chen told friends and journalists
by telephone that he became fearful for his wife and children
and that the family now wants to go to the U.S. In an interview
with  CNN , he said he had felt pressured to leave the embassy and
was disappointed with the U.S. government.  In the account of the conversation between Chen and his
friend Guo that was posted on Twitter and released by the State
Department, Guo said that Chen told him he felt “extremely
sorry for the pressure brought to the relevant parties including
the U.S. embassy,” that he only wanted to visit the U.S.
temporarily, and that he left the embassy on May 2 of his own
free will.  Not ‘Tricked’  Asked at a briefing today in Beijing if the U.S. had
apologized, as China had demanded, over Chen being sheltered at
the embassy, Liu said: “We notice that the U.S. side has
repeatedly said that it takes seriously China’s concerns and
demands and will prevent similar incidents from happening
again.”  In an interview today with The  Washington  Post, Chen
shifted from criticism of the U.S. to praise, saying the U.S.
embassy helped him “a lot” and that the Chinese government
wasn’t upholding its side of the agreement. He said he wasn’t
“tricked” into leaving the embassy and could have stayed if
he’d wanted. Chen wants to go to the U.S. only temporarily,
according to the Post.  Chen had agreed to a deal the U.S. brokered with Chinese
authorities that would have let him relocate within China and
study law on a scholarship, Locke told reporters traveling with
Clinton.  Dangerous Situation  Chen told the  Associated Press  in a telephone interview
today that U.S. officials had been barred from visiting him and
he felt his situation was “dangerous.”  At around 12:40 p.m. today in Beijing, a U.S. diplomatic
vehicle entered the hospital in eastern Beijing where Chen was
staying. Deputy Chief of Mission Robert Wang met with Chen’s
wife in person in a car outside the hospital yesterday, a U.S.
official said on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the matter.  China stepped up its criticism today of Chen and the U.S.
role. The Beijing Daily, a newspaper under the city’s Communist
Party leadership, said in a commentary that Chen “has become a
tool and a pawn of American politicians to discredit China” and
questioned the intentions of U.S. Ambassador to Beijing  Gary Locke . Commentaries critical of the U.S. also appeared in three
other Beijing newspapers.  ‘Backstage Boss’  “He really represents the interests of his backstage boss,
western anti-China forces,” the Beijing Daily commentary,
written by an author identified as Zhen Wen, said in reference
to Locke. “This situation makes one wonder if the ambassador is
really committed to the development of Sino-U.S. relations.”  Speaking today at the conclusion of the two-day talks,
Clinton said the U.S. “continues to raise human rights because
we believe that they are essential for every country to uphold
and we raise specific matters of individuals and situations
whenever necessary.”  Chinese State Councilor Dai Bingguo said human rights
issues shouldn’t be “an excuse” to intervene in the “domestic
issues” of other countries.  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
criticized the Obama administration’s handling of Chen’s
situation, citing Chen’s complaints that he felt pressured to
leave the safety of the U.S. embassy.  ‘Dark Day’  “If these reports are true, this is a dark day for freedom
and it’s a day of shame for the Obama administration,” Romney
said during a campaign appearance yesterday in Portsmouth,
Virginia.  Representative Frank Wolf, a Virginia Republican, said he
would seek diplomatic cables and other documents on the U.S.-
Chinese discussions over Chen when the activist was in the U.S.
embassy. “The most generous reading of the administration’s
handling of this case is that it was naive in that it accepted
assurances from a government that has a well-known documented
history of brutally repressing its people,” Wolf said.  No U.S. officials would comment about the possibility of
granting asylum to Chen and his family. To leave China, they
would need to get exit permission and passports from Chinese
authorities, as well as a visa from the U.S., where he could
apply for asylum after arrival. Under normal passport-
application rules, they would have to return to their home in
Shandong province, which Chen fled after house arrest and
alleged beatings by local authorities.  “I can tell you unequivocally that he was never pressured
to leave” the U.S. embassy in Beijing, Locke said yesterday.
“We waited for him to make his decision.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Beijing at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  