-- Chen Seeks to Leave China, Criticizes U.S. Officials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-03T10:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chen-seeks-to-leave-china-criticizes-u-s-officials.html
U.S. diplomats defended their handling
of a deal that led legal activist Chen Guangcheng to give up the
safety of the American embassy, after he said he’d been
pressured to leave and now fears for his family’s wellbeing.  Chen, who earlier decided that he wanted to remain in
 China , had a “change of heart” and U.S. officials spoke with
him and his wife twice today about what to do next, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters. Chen, a
blind activist who had protested forced abortions and
sterilizations in China, was taken to a hospital in Beijing
yesterday, after he escaped extralegal detention at his home in
eastern China late last month and fled to the embassy.  “We need to consult with them further, get a better sense
of what they want to do and together, consider their options,”
Nuland said. Ambassador  Gary Locke  said earlier today Chen “was
never pressured to leave” and that officials had “waited for
him to make his decision.”  Chen’s reversal upended an agreement worked out between
China and the U.S., overshadowing annual talks in Beijing that
are being attended by U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner . His criticism of the
way the U.S. negotiated his case may expose President  Barack Obama  to accusations from Republicans that he’s failing to
protect a prominent Chinese rights activist.  “This is a big win for the Chinese authorities because the
attention ought to be focused on the wrongdoing which was
apparently done by either national or local officials to Chen,”
said Bates Gill, director of the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute. “These developments will become a U.S.
domestic political distraction to criticize Obama and his
approach to China.”  Tied to Chair  Chen told  CNN  that after his escape his wife had been tied
to a chair in the family home for two days by police who
threatened to beat her to death. In an interview with The
 Associated Press , he said that while he’d been told he would be
safe in China, he began to fear for his family’s safety and felt
the U.S. had pressured him to leave the embassy.  In remarks she delivered at the opening of the Strategic
and Economic Dialogue talks today, Clinton shortened a section
of her prepared text that touched on human rights, saying the
U.S. “raises the importance of human rights and fundamental
freedoms” because it believes all governments must heed their
citizens’ “aspirations for dignity and the rule of law.”  In
the prepared remarks, she said the U.S. continued “to look to
China to meet its international obligations to protect universal
human rights and fundamental freedoms.”  Cooperative Partnership  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said his country and the U.S.
should “prove that the traditional belief that big powers are
bound to enter into confrontation and conflicts is wrong” and
that they should be committed to a “cooperative partnership.”  After Chen left the embassy, U.S. officials described a
deal with Chinese authorities permitting him and his family to
relocate in China so he could study law in safety, and said the
U.S. would monitor China’s compliance.  “The embassy kept lobbying me to leave and promised to be
with me at the hospital,” Chen told CNN, according to a
transcript. “But this afternoon soon after we got here, they
were all gone. I’m very disappointed at the U.S. government.”  Locke said Chen’s wife had urged him to come to the
hospital to be reunited.  ‘Let’s Go’  “We asked him what did he want to do, did he want to
leave, was he ready to leave,” Locke said. “We waited several
minutes and suddenly he jumped up very eager, very ready and
said, ‘Let’s go,’ in front of many, many witnesses.”  U.S. officials said China promised that Chen would be
treated humanely. The foreign ministry demanded the U.S.
apologize for allowing Chen into the embassy.  Chen’s flight to the U.S. Embassy came as the Communist
Party investigates  Bo Xilai , the Chongqing party secretary whose
wife Gu Kailai is suspected of involvement in the murder of
British businessman Neil Heywood. The allegations about Heywood
were exposed by Bo’s former Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun,
who spent a night at the U.S. consulate in Chengdu in February
and was later taken into custody by Chinese authorities.  On the way to the hospital yesterday, Chen, a self-taught
lawyer, asked to speak with Clinton by phone, U.S. officials
said yesterday. He expressed gratitude for her support, told
Clinton he was prepared for the struggle ahead and said in
English, “I want to kiss you,” they said.  Chinese Probe  “Mr. Chen has a number of understandings with the Chinese
government about his future, including the opportunity to pursue
higher education in a safe environment,” Clinton said,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Making these
commitments a reality is the next crucial task.”  The arrangement would remove Chen from persecution by local
officials in Shandong province. Chinese officials also agreed to
investigate his extralegal detention and alleged abuses by local
officials, according to U.S. officials.  Jerome Cohen, a friend of Chen’s and professor at the  New
York  University School of Law, said he spoke with the activist
during his embassy refuge. Chen was told by U.S. diplomats that
a prolonged embassy stay would become a form of incommunicado
detention, cut off from his family and unable to rely on the
embassy for communications, Cohen said in a conference call with
reporters.  Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, a
Washington policy group, said a message that Chen’s family would
be returned to Shandong if he didn’t leave the embassy could be
seen as a veiled threat given their previous treatment by local
authorities.  ‘Very Bad’  “That seems bad, very bad,” Cheng said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Bob Fu, president of Midland, Texas-based ChinaAid, a human
rights group, said yesterday he had spoken with three people who
have had contact with Chen. “We can clearly tell you that  Chen
Guangcheng  wants to leave China with his family,” Fu said.  Fu said Chen’s comment to Clinton was misunderstood and he
had said, “I want to see you,” not “I want to kiss you.” The
U.S. has “abandoned” the activist, Fu said in a telephone
interview.  Chen had injured his foot after jumping over a wall during
his escape from detention at his home. He had been held under
house arrest without charges since he was released from prison
in September 2010.  Chen made his way to the U.S. embassy “via abnormal
means” and China is “strongly dissatisfied,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Liu Weimin said yesterday in a statement that also
demanded a U.S. apology.  Chen, who was blinded by a fever in infancy and was
illiterate until his 20s, was jailed for more than four years
after filing a lawsuit protesting forced sterilizations. After
his release in September 2010, he and his wife were confined to
their home. In a video recorded after his escape, Chen said
reports that he and his family were beaten during his house
arrest were true.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Beijing at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  