-- Chesapeake Seen Offering Biggest Gain in U.S. Shale Boom: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-04T20:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chesapeake-seen-offering-biggest-gain-in-u-s-shale-boom-energy.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , battered by a
glut-driven collapse in natural-gas prices and growing investor
distrust of its management, still is the cheapest way of buying
into the U.S. shale revolution.  Investors can lay hands on the equivalent of one barrel of
oil reserves from Chesapeake for $3.58, compared with $9.07 a
barrel at  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  or $30.47 at  Continental Resources
Inc. (CLR) , the dominant player in  North Dakota ’s crude-rich Bakken
Shale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On a price-to-
cash flow basis, Chesapeake also is less expensive than any
other major U.S. shale explorer.  Now that the board of the Oklahoma City-based company has
said it will remove Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon 
from the chairman’s post and examine his personal transactions
for any conflicts, analysts such as Bob Brackett at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said the focus is on how well the CEO follows
through on promises to raise cash by selling assets in Texas,
Oklahoma and  Kansas . An incipient gas rally also portends well
for a company whose output is 81 percent gas and that holds
reserves vast enough to satisfy four years of U.S. household
demand.  “Chesapeake is going to bounce back,” said  Gianna Bern ,
president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in  Chicago , who
owns shares of Chesapeake’s publicly traded pipeline business,
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP. (CHKM)  “There is no substitute for
good geology and Chesapeake has leading positions in many of the
richest American shale plays.”  Largest Onshore Leaseholder  Chesapeake is the largest holder of onshore drilling leases
with 15.6 million acres under its control, an area half the size
of New York state. The company has amassed the biggest
leaseholds in 11 of the 15 richest U.S. oil-shale formations,
and three of the four biggest gas-shale regions. Chesapeake held
proved reserves at the end of 2011 equivalent to 3.13 billion
barrels of oil.  Chesapeake  lost 43 percent  of its market value in the past
year as new wells in shale fields unleashed more gas than
utilities, manufacturers and residential consumers could burn.
The  supply surplus,  aggravated by a mild U.S. winter that curbed
furnace usage, pushed prices to a 10-year low of $1.902 per
million British thermal units on April 19.  The stock had its steepest drop in three years on May 2 as
investors punished the company for an unexpected $71 million
first-quarter loss and concern about conflicts between
McClendon’s personal finances and professional duties.  Inquiries Under Way  Chesapeake was the best performer on the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Energy Index (S5ENRS)  today. The  shares rose  1.2 percent to $17.39 at
the close in New York. Chesapeake’s price-to-cash flow ratio is
less than half of Devon or  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Range Resources Corp. (RRC) , which drills shale
formations in Appalachia, has a ratio more than seven times
bigger.  The board is examining whether McClendon’s use of personal
stakes in company-operated wells as collateral to obtain
hundreds of millions of dollars in loans put the CEO at odds
with shareholders’ interests. Chesapeake is searching for
someone outside of the company to replace McClendon in the
chairman’s spot.  The U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission has opened an
informal inquiry, according to a company statement yesterday.
Investigators will look into whether McClendon failed to
disclose possible conflicts of interest, a person briefed on the
matter said on May 2, asking not to be named because the matter
isn’t public. Chesapeake and McClendon are cooperating.  Tom Nelson, who has $13.5 million in Chesapeake shares
among the $450 million he co-manages at Guinness Atkinson Asset
Management Ltd. in  London , is looking past the corporate-
governance dust-up to what a recovery in U.S. gas prices will
mean for Chesapeake’s  cash flow  and profits.  Gas on the Rise  “One thing that everyone is choosing to discount is a
continued recovery in the gas price,” Nelson said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “If and when that comes to pass,
and we think it will in the next 24 months, then Chesapeake is
in a very strong position.”  The gas recovery may already have begun: The benchmark
futures contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rose 19
percent in the past two weeks to settle at $2.291 per million
British thermal units. By the first quarter of next year, the
price is expected to reach $3.60, based on the median of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, 53 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price.  The glut isn’t going to last long because power generators
in the U.S. are burning gas at a rate not usually seen until
June, said  Ben Smith , president of First Enercast Financial, a
Denver-based gas broker. As utilities eschew coal in favor of
cleaner burning gas, Smith expects domestic gas demand to meet
or exceed the record levels reached during June to September
2011.  Debt Reduction Outlook  “I’m very bullish on gas,” Smith said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We’re seeing a significant demand
response. Any price under $3 is too low.”  Even with gas close to a 10-year low, Chesapeake expects to
fulfill its pledge to reduce net debt to $9.5 billion by the end
of this year from $12.6 billion at the end of the first quarter,
Jeffrey L. Mobley, Chesapeake’s senior vice president of
 investor relations  and research, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  After raising $2.6 billion from asset sales during the
first four months of this year, the company plans to sell
another $9.5 billion to $11 billion in oilfields and other
properties, including everything it owns in  Texas ’ Permian
Basin, Mobley said.  “Our plan is still intact and on track to achieve the
goals we set forth,” Mobley said.  Volatility Remains  Some analysts, such as  James Sullivan  of Alembic Global
Advisors in New York, are cautioning investors that Chesapeake’s
stock may be prone to volatile swings for some time to come.  “We think there’s going to be a lot of headlines in the
weeks and months to come and we’d rather let some of that get
resolved first,” Sullivan, who initiated coverage of the
company May 2 with a neutral rating, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We’re also looking to see some concrete
action on debt reduction and some of the other financial
metrics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  