-- Chicago Gasoline Tumbles Against Futures on Refinery Selling
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-03T20:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chicago-gasoline-tumbles-against-futures-on-refinery-selling.html
Chicago  gasoline weakened as refiners
sold fuel in the  spot market , a regional supply consultant said.  Conventional gasoline to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
in Chicago tumbled 11.5 cents to a discount of 15 cents a gallon
against futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at
4:22 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s refinery selling,” Steve Mosby, vice president of
supply consultant ADMO Energy LLC in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said
in a telephone interview. “I’m going to say it’s BP out there.
They’ve had the biggest chainsaw lately.”  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 420,000-barrel-a-day Whiting refinery in  Indiana 
fixed a pump malfunction that prevented it from delivering
products on the West Shore pipeline near Chicago, Kevin Good, a
Houston-based spokesman for the line’s operator  Buckeye Partners
LP (BPL) , said yesterday.  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  also restored operations
at the Lima refinery in  Ohio  over the weekend following repairs.  BP’s 160,000-barrel-a-day Toledo refinery in Ohio flared
sulfur dioxide May 1 after a relief valve lifted on the EPA wash
tower, a notice to the Toledo Division of Environmental Quality
showed. Operations were “readjusted” to stop the release, the
filing shows.  Motor  gasoline inventories  in the Midwest, known as the
Padd 2 region, dropped 3.2 percent to 50.1 million barrels in
the week ended April 27, the Energy Department said yesterday.
That’s 5.2 percent higher than stocks at this time a year ago,
the agency said.  Gulf Coast  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the  Gulf Coast  slipped
1.37 cents to a discount of 20 cents a gallon against futures at
4:14 p.m. in New York.  Delek US Holdings Inc. (DK)  cut runs at the El Dorado refinery
in  Arkansas  to 69 percent of capacity after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
shut the North Shore pipeline, which supplies crude to the
plant. Refinery throughput has been reduced to 55,000 barrels a
day, Mark Cox, the company’s chief financial officer, said in a
conference call with investors.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is keeping a fluid catalytic cracker
shut at the Meraux refinery in  Louisiana  as it determines
whether to run only the cracker at the nearby St. Charles
refinery instead, Bill Klesse, the company’s chief executive
officer, said during an interview in  San Antonio .  BP planned to restore operations at an ultracracker at the
Texas City refinery today, the company said in a filing with the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality yesterday.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New York Harbor slipped
1.25 cents to a discount of 9.5 cents a gallon against futures.  The same fuel in the Midwest, or Group 3, fell 0.25 cent to
14.75 cents a gallon below futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  