-- Chilean Policy Makers Debated April Rate Rise, Minutes Show
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-03T14:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chilean-policy-makers-debated-april-rate-rise-minutes-show-2-.html
Chilean policy makers debated raising
their benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter point to 5.25 percent
last month before deciding to leave it unchanged because they
didn’t want to surprise investors.  The five policy makers were unanimous in their decision to
keep the benchmark rate at 5 percent on April 17, minutes of the
meeting published today by the central bank showed. Eighteen of
19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected rates to be left
on hold, while one forecast a quarter-point increase.  “That the monetary-policy rate was at a normal or neutral
level allowed space for gathering data before beginning a new
rate move,” one of the bankers said. “Any course of action
other than holding would be a surprise and probably difficult
for the market, which  overwhelmingly expected  a pause, to
absorb.”  The central bank said in its monetary-policy report last
month that it expected interest rates to rise in line with the
expectations expressed by market yields. At the time, the market
was pricing in a rate increase towards the end of this year.
Yields have since fallen after data showed manufacturing slowed
in March, and the swaps market is no longer pricing in a rate
increase in 2012.  Setting the Stage  The minutes “set the stage for rate hikes later in the
year,” Bret Rosen, a Latin American strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  New York , said in an e-mailed note.  After slower-than-forecast price rises in March, the
central bank still sees a risk that rising fuel costs and higher
inflation expectations may feed through into generalized price
increases, the minutes showed.  “The risk of an acceleration of underlying inflation, as a
result of the tight conditions in the labor market and use of
installed capacity, still remained,” the bank said. “For the
moment, those risks hadn’t materialized.”  Inflation will ease to 3.5 percent by December after
exceeding the upper limit of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4
percent target range in three of the past four months, according
to the bank’s forecasts.  Chile ’s two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from
the difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on
 interest-rate swaps , rose four basis points to 3.21 percent at
9:09 a.m. in Santiago. The rate is little changed from 3.22
percent on April 17, the day of the monetary policy meeting. The
two-year interest-rate swap rose five basis points to 5.20
percent today, the biggest gain in two weeks.  Inflation Risks  While short-term inflation risks have risen in Chile,
external risks remain significant, Vergara told an economic
forum in Santiago today. The bank works under the
“supposition” that borrowing costs will evolve in line with
market forecasts, he said.  Chilean traders and investors surveyed by the bank on April
24 were split on whether policy makers would raise rates or keep
them unchanged within six months. Rates will be 5.25 percent by
May 2013 and 5.5 percent in the next year, according to the
poll.  Demand in the world’s top  copper producing nation  has shown
little sign of slowing after retail sales surged 9.5 percent in
the first quarter from last year, according to calculations made
by Bloomberg based on government data. The sustained “vigor”
of internal demand poses a risk to consumer prices, bank board
member Enrique Marshall said April 24.  “A rise in the monetary-policy rate would be a major
surprise, which would communicate to the market an increased
concern about the dynamism of activity and inflation risks, as
well as the possibility of faster and bigger future rises,”
policy makers said in the minutes. “That could have undesirable
consequences on the yield curve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 