-- China Shibor Drops Most in 2 Weeks as Central Bank Injects Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-03T09:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/china-six-month-swap-rate-drops-after-pboc-conducts-reverse-repo.html
Chinese banks’ borrowing costs dropped
as the central bank added cash to the financial system by
offering reverse-repurchase agreements.  The People’s Bank of China sold 65 billion  yuan  ($10.3
billion) of seven-day reverse-repo contracts today at 3.53
percent, according to a statement on its website. That was 27
basis points lower than the similar-maturity rate in the
secondary market yesterday.  “The reverse repo is part of the easing policy,” said Shi Lei, head of fixed-income research in Beijing at Ping An
Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s second-biggest insurance
company. “The central bank is using the reverse repo to guide
market rates lower.”  The  Shanghai  interbank offered  rate  that banks charge one
another for one-month loans fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 3.97 percent, according to a daily fixing
announced at 11:30 p.m. by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest decline since April 17.  The six-month swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis point to 3.40 percent
as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 3.33 percent earlier.  The central bank is set to inject a net 117 billion yuan
into the market this week, the most in more than three months,
said  Frances Cheung , a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong
Kong .  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, increased four basis points to 3.85
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  “The reverse repo today could be a signal of the
uneasiness of the PBOC on the current near 4 percent seven-day
repo fixing levels,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a report today.
“Our view is for seven-day repo fixings to edge lower, closer
to 3 percent.”  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bonds due June
2016 was steady at 3.13 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen , Kyoungwha Kim. Editors: Andrew Janes, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  