-- Bright Food Buys 60% of U.K. Cereal-Maker Weetabix
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-03T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/china-s-bright-food-to-buy-60-of-british-cereal-maker-weetabix.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  China ’s second-
largest food company, agreed to buy a 60 percent stake in
British cereal maker Weetabix Ltd. from private equity firm Lion
Capital LLP as part of a drive to increase overseas sales.  The deal values the maker of Ready Brek and Alpen cereals
at about 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion), the Chinese company
said in a statement yesterday, without providing details.  Bright Food, backed by the Shanghai government, has been
seeking foreign acquisitions and last year agreed to buy 75
percent of  Australia ’s Manassen Foods from Champ Private Equity.
Chairman Wang Zongnan said in a February interview that he
expects to make one to two overseas deals this year in the
sugar, dairy, wine and casual food industries.  “It makes sense for Bright Food to take a majority stake
in Weetabix and it is in line with the company’s long time
ambition to become a world class foodmaker,” Olive Xia, an
analyst at Core Pacific Yamaichi in Shanghai, said by phone.
“Weetabix would benefit from Bright Food’s vast distribution
network across the country.”  Missed Deals  Bright Food, which has interests that span food and
beverage, farming and retailing, lost to General Mills Inc. for
a stake in French yogurt maker Yoplait last year and was outbid
by  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  for  CSR Ltd. (CSR) ’s sugar unit,
Australia’s largest producer in 2010.  The Chinese company and its subsidiaries make candy, dairy
products, alcohol, canned meats and operate a taxi company in
Shanghai. The company doesn’t currently make cereal and will
expand the Weetabix brands in China and overseas, spokesman Pan
Jianjun said by phone.  “We’ll be focusing on bringing Weetabix’s products to the
rest of the world,” Wang said in yesterday’s statement.  Weetabix, which was founded in 1932, currently employs
about 2,000 people and sells its products in more than 80
countries, according to its  website . In 2004, a unit of Lion
Capital, a London-based private-equity firm focused on consumer
brands, acquired all of the issued share capital of Weetabix,
the website shows.  Lion Capital , which manages a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion)
fund, this week entered into exclusive talks to buy French
eyeglass retailer Alain Afflelou for about 800 million euros.  Weetabix Chief Executive Officer Giles Turrell said, in a
separate statement, there are “substantial opportunities to
further grow the business internationally, in  North America ,
 Asia  and beyond.” In 2010, the British company’s share of the
breakfast cereals market was 1.8 percent worldwide and 9.6
percent in  Hong Kong  and China, according to data from
Euromonitor International.  Shanghai-based Bright Food plans to increase sales from
outside China to as much as 30 percent of revenue in five years
from 5 percent, Wang said in an interview last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  