-- China Reduces Solar Subsidy on Declining Costs of Components
-- B y   F e i f e i   S h e n
-- 2012-05-03T06:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/china-cuts-subsidies-for-solar-projects-21-on-declining-costs.html
China , the world’s biggest maker of
solar panels, cut the subsidy for demonstration sun-power
projects approved this year by 21 percent amid a decline in the
prices of components.  The government reduced the incentive to 5.5  yuan  (87 cents)
a watt from the 7 yuan set in February, according to a  statement 
on the central government’s website. The subsidy applies only to
projects whose developers will consume the power for their own
use under the so-called Golden Sun program.  A supply glut in all parts of the solar manufacturing chain
has led to declining prices as European governments cut back on
subsidies. The average spot price of polysilicon has fallen by a
third since September, wafers are 35 percent lower and silicon-
based solar panels are 25 percent cheaper, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data shows.  “The reduction in the subsidy is significant and is likely
to discourage developers that applied when it was higher,” Lian
Rui, a senior analyst for the research company Solarbuzz, said
today by phone. “Developers will only get about a 10 percent of
internal rate of return with the new rate.”  The nation chose  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and about 100 other developers of
projects with 1.7 gigawatts of combined capacity to be eligible
for the subsidy under the program in 2012. China began offering
financial assistance for projects under the program in 2009 to
bolster the use of renewable energy and cut reliance on fossil
fuels.  The projects that are approved this year must be completed
by the end of 2012, the Ministry of Finance said in February.
Developers who qualified for the assistance under the Golden Sun
program last year can make amendments to or withdraw their
projects if they can’t make “reasonable” returns, the ministry
said.  Governments in Germany and  Italy , the two biggest markets
for solar energy, are cutting subsidies after incentives for the
industry created an installation boom.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7528 or
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Baldave Singh at 
 bsingh35@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  