-- Christie Says Vouchers Are Needed to Repair Poor Schools
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-03T19:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/christie-says-vouchers-are-needed-to-repair-poor-schools-2-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said school vouchers are needed to repair a public-education
system that has left students unprepared for college and work.  The first-term Republican said he will push the Democratic-
controlled Legislature to pass a test program by July 1 that
would offer private funding to help parents send students in
failing districts to other schools.  The governor has been urging lawmakers for more than a year
to approve his proposed education overhaul, which also would
institute merit pay for teachers and make it easier for
administrators to fire educators deemed inadequate. The voucher
program is “the tool that has the chance to get the most
change, the most quickly,” Christie said during a speech in
 Jersey City  to advocates of so-called school-choice programs.  “Parents cannot wait for us to get it together anymore,”
Christie said. “In New Jersey, we’ve been trying to figure this
out for 30 years. We’ve spent hundreds of billions of dollars
and we still haven’t got it.”  Christie, who took office in January 2010, has feuded with
leaders of the state teachers union over his proposals and has
accused Democrats of being recalcitrant on efforts to fix the
state’s schools.  ‘Entrenched Interests’  New Jersey spends more than $17,000 per pupil per year, the
most of any U.S. state, yet 100,000 students attend schools that
don’t meet educational standards, Christie has said.  Newark , New
Jersey’s largest city, spends $24,000 per pupil, and just 23
percent of the kids who entered ninth grade this year will get a
diploma in four years, the governor said.  People “cannot trust entrenched interests” such as the
teachers union to repair public education, Christie said at the
 American Federation of Children ’s National Policy Summit.  The group’s chairman, Betsy DeVos, is a former chairman of
the Michigan Republican Party. Other scheduled speakers during
the two-day conference include Newark Mayor  Cory Booker ,
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  and state legislators from as
far away as  California . Kevin Chavous, a senior adviser to the
group, said education is the “civil-rights issue of the 21st
Century,” and 14 states and Washington D.C., have implemented
school-choice programs.  ‘Red Meat’  Steve Wollmer, a spokesman for the  New Jersey  Education
Association, the union whose leaders Christie has called
“political thugs,” said research doesn’t support his
proposals. Vouchers sap money from public schools as children
leave, Wollmer said in a telephone interview.  “We’re used to it, but now he’s playing on a national
stage,” Wollmer said. “He was giving out red meat and telling
them what they wanted to hear.”  Wollmer denied Christie’s statement that union leaders are
“bullies” who have blocked changes to the education system in
part by using a “slush fund” created by $130 million in member
dues each year. The spokesman said the organization collects
about $100 million each year that is used to fund teacher
training and represent educators.  Christie, who proposed tougher high school-graduation tests
earlier this week, said current student diplomas “don’t
represent what we tell them” and twelfth graders are being
tested for reading and math at eighth-grade levels. A failing
education system will lead to dysfunctional families, drug
abuse, higher crime “and even worse, despondency,” he said.  “This year my budget proposes $8.8 billion in direct aid
to K-12 education, the highest amount ever proposed by any
governor in our state’s history, and yet I know that much of
that money will be wasted,” Christie said. “How much longer
are we going to permit that to happen?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  