-- Chrysler Minivan No. 1 for 29 Years Profits Marchionne
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-07T15:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/chrysler-minivan-no-1-for-29-years-profits-marchionne.html
(Corrects sales history in the 22nd paragraph of article
published May 3.)  Almost 30 years after the minivan was
introduced, after attacks from all sides, Chrysler Group LLC
remains on top. Now, CEO  Sergio Marchionne  will have to decide
how best to sustain the success.  So far, the moves made by Marchionne, who is preparing to
merge Chrysler with majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , have paid off. The
choice he faces now: whether to merge Chrysler’s two remaining
minivans into one and whether to dramatically redesign one or
both. Either way, Marchionne and his dealers are committed to
Chrysler’s signature product.  “I don’t care if the minivan market shrinks as long as I’m
 King Kong  in it,” Chuck Eddy, a Chrysler dealer in Austintown,
Ohio, said in a phone interview. “That is Chrysler’s attitude,
too. The minivan is here and the minivan won’t ever go away.”  Just four years after a 1979 government bailout, Chrysler
Chief Executive Officer Lee Iacocca introduced the Dodge
Caravan, and minivans soon joined Ram pickups and Jeep sport-
utility vehicles as the company’s most important product lines.
To some extent, Chrysler created the minivan and the minivan
saved the company.  Three decades later, Chrysler maintains its sales lead in
minivans. It’s one of the longest runs atop a vehicle segment in
the U.S., along with the 35-year pickup reign of  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s F-Series line. The long-lasting supremacy, along the lines
of Coca-Cola and Kleenex, has made the minivan a symbol of the
company.  “When people think Chrysler, is minivan a product that
comes to mind? The answer is ‘absolutely,’ ”  Alexander Edwards ,
president of the automotive practice at San Diego-based
Strategic Vision, a marketing and branding company, said in a
phone interview. “Most everybody that is in the minivan segment
recognizes Chrysler as the creator.”  Onslaught of Entries  Chrysler has kept the title despite an onslaught of entries
from Ford,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Honda Motor Co. and the
predecessor of  General Motors Co. (GM)  Ford and GM eventually quit
the segment, and Chrysler has claimed at least 40 percent of the
U.S. minivan market every year since 2007.  Marchionne is closing in on deciding whether Chrysler still
needs two entries for the U.S. minivan market. He led a complete
overhaul of Chrysler’s lineup in the 19 months after its U.S.-
backed bankruptcy in 2009, introducing 16 new or refreshed
models. The  Jeep Grand Cherokee  and Chrysler 300 sedan have
drawn praise from critics, including Consumer Reports.  The revamp has led to 11 months of U.S. sales gains
exceeding 20 percent and made Chrysler the biggest gainer of
market share through April. Deliveries climbed 33 percent in the
first four months, boosting market share by 2 percentage points
to 11.6 percent.  Profit Growing  Chrysler’s first-quarter profit quadrupled from a year
earlier to $473 million, the company said April 26. It was the
company’s most profitable period since 1998’s third quarter.
Marchionne reiterated Chrysler’s forecast that full-year net
income will grow eightfold to about $1.5 billion, from $183
million in 2011.  With its minivans, the company is “studying all options,”
including eliminating one of its models and then broadening the
target market for the other one, Saad Chehab, president of the
Chrysler brand, said in a phone interview. Right now, the
company aims to sell the Dodge Grand Caravan for less than
$30,000 and its Chrysler Town & Country, which has more
equipment standard, for more than $30,000.  Marchionne would have to decide which will survive.  “If it is one, you have to look at can Dodge go up to the
upper-market world of minivans, and same thing, can Chrysler
really go down to capture the markets that  Dodge Caravan  does,”
Chehab said. “It’s a difficult answer.”  Lower Prices  Buyers paid an average price of $32,735 for the Town &
Country in March, less than the $33,032 paid for Toyota’s Sienna
and $32,949 for Honda’s Odyssey, according to Edmunds.com data.
Grand Caravans sold for $27,151 on average.  Chrysler offers more-generous incentives on minivans than
its competitors. The average incentive per Town & Country sold
was $3,106 in March and $2,236 for Grand Caravan, compared to
Sienna’s $1,650 and Odyssey’s $974, according to researcher
Edmunds.com.  Those four models have accounted for 90 percent of minivan
sales so far this year in the U.S., where, over the past decade,
many buyers have switched to car-based SUVs, such as the
Chevrolet Traverse and redesigned Ford Explorer.  Segment Stigma  “Some folks have still some concern of the stigma with
what the minivan is,” Chehab said. “If we resolve the styling
element, it would be a big hit whether we stay with one or two
vehicles. Even if we do go with two vehicles in the future, we
have to continue to separate the brand image.”  Chrysler has reason to tread carefully in choosing the fate
of the namesake brand’s Town & Country and Dodge’s Grand
Caravan. For all the shrinking the segment has done since its
2000 sales peak of 1.37 million deliveries, automakers sold
472,398 minivans in the U.S. last year.  Minivans represent a significant portion of Chrysler’s
sales. The Town & Country and Grand Caravan accounted for 15
percent of the automaker’s 1.37 million deliveries in the U.S.
last year, according to Autodata Corp. Odyssey was 9.3 percent
of Honda’s 2011 sales, and Toyota’s Sienna was 6.8 percent of
its total.  “Buyers are still in a somewhat more pragmatic head space
than they’ve been in the past,” Ed Kim, an analyst at industry
researcher AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,  California , said in a
phone interview. “Vehicles like minivans therefore have the
potential to experience something of a small resurgence. It’s
practical, functional transportation.”  No. 1 Again  Chrysler sold a combined 84,152 Town & Country and Grand
Caravan minivans this year through April, a 21 percent increase
from a year earlier, according to Autodata. The gain outpaced
the 5 percent sales rise by Honda’s Odyssey and the 9.2 percent
drop for Toyota’s Sienna, according to the  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based researcher.  The Grand Caravan also is on pace to help Chrysler reclaim
minivan leadership on an individual-model basis for the second
time since 2007. Odyssey was the leader in 2008 and 2009, and
Sienna topped the minivan market last year. Town & Country was
No. 1 in 2010.  Consumer Reports  has consistently rated Chrysler’s minivans
of lesser quality than Toyota’s or Honda’s, after cost-cutting
by former parents Daimler AG and Cerberus Capital Management LP,
 David Champion , the magazine’s senior director of automotive
testing, said in an interview. Chrysler maintained sales
leadership because their minivans were cheaper and because of
the company’s reputation as inventor of the segment, he said.  Factory Delay  Chrysler’s Windsor, Ontario,  assembly plant  is the sole
producer of Grand Caravan and Town & Country. The factory was
scheduled to close for 10 weeks beginning in October 2013 to be
overhauled for making the next-generation minivan, said Rick
Laporte, president of the Canadian Auto Workers  Local 444 , which
represents workers at the plant.  The automaker told the union that down time has been pushed
back to 2017, Laporte said in a phone interview. That forced the
CAW to delay bargaining with four supplier plants in Windsor
that provide instrument panels, tires and rims, axles and front-
end modules until Chrysler provides the union with more
information about future product, he said.  If Chrysler pares its lineup to one minivan, it would leave
the U.S. with six entries in the segment, compared with 22 in
2004, according to researcher R.L. Polk & Co. Chrysler told
Margaret Zewatsky, a product manager for Polk, at the  Detroit
auto show  in January that 2012 will be the  last model year  for
the Dodge Grand Caravan, she said. The automaker once sold five
minivans, including Plymouth models.  Concept Criticized  Chrysler showed a concept minivan called the 700C at the
 Detroit  auto show that was a starting point for improving the
styling of the company’s minivans, Chehab said. The concept’s
design was more swoopy than the box-shaped Town & Country or
Grand Caravan. The pillar between the 700C’s leaf-shaped side
windows sloped back diagonally to the roof.  Automotive News, an industry trade publication,  called the
concept  a “train wreck,” with a “snoutlike hood” and “goofy
proportions.”  Not all aspects of the 700C will make their way into
production, Marchionne told reporters at the National Automobile
Dealers Association’s convention in February.  “The oval window in the back was not a big hit,” he said.  Chrysler will introduce a “completely overhauled” minivan
architecture by 2014, Marchionne told reporters on April 30 in
Detroit.  The minivan segment has been limited by its reputation as a
favorite of soccer moms who demand utility features such as
extra storage, low cabin-entry points and  DVD players .  “People buy it because they need it,” Chrysler’s Chehab
said.  Big Family Hauler  Americans like Anna Chiang, a mother of five under 8 from
Rolling Hills Estates, California, don’t want to see minivans
like Chrysler’s go extinct. Chiang and her husband, Mason,
bought a new Town & Country in the past month to replace their
2005 Honda Odyssey. While they looked at a Chevrolet Suburban
while shopping for a new vehicle, the large SUV had less storage
space and sold for thousands of dollars more.  “I couldn’t see myself spending all this extra money for a
vehicle that’s not going to suit all my needs,” Chiang said in
a phone interview. “The minivans suit our lifestyle. They’re
lower to the ground so our kids can enter and exit. It’s roomy
and accommodates all of us as a family.”  While there may still be a place for the minivan in the
U.S. market, Edmunds.com analyst Jessica Caldwell said, the
 Santa Monica , California-based researcher’s data suggests the
segment may still end up shrinking further. Edmunds data show
minivan shoppers consider purchasing from different segments,
while fewer buyers from other segments shop minivans.  ‘Hard Case’  “The way the volumes are now, it’s a hard case for
Chrysler to produce two minivans, especially when they have so
many other plans,” Caldwell said in a phone interview.
“Chrysler is going to be changing a lot in the foreseeable
future. You can only put so many resources in certain places.”  Eddy, the  Ohio  dealer, said there was a need for two
minivans when Chrysler had fewer of its retailers carrying all
of the company’s brands under one roof. He would like to see
Chrysler take the spending that goes into producing and
marketing a second minivan and shift it to investing in a new
product such as a small SUV or crossover.  “It ties up floor space, dollars and blacktop when you’ve
got a row of Caravans and row of  Town & Countrys  and you’re
trying to have a lease point, price point and incentive package
that works for each vehicle,” he said. “If you go to one
vehicle, it frees up the ability to market and spend dollars on
another product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  