-- Clariant Says 2012 Goals Intact, Even With Lagging Businesses
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-05-03T09:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/clariant-says-2012-goals-intact-even-with-lagging-businesses.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , which acquired catalyst-
maker Sued-Chemie for $2.7 billion last year, said its full-year
goals remain achievable, even while unprofitable textile- and
paper-chemical businesses are still part of the company.  Profitability levels will hold steady this year, driven by
growth in non-cyclical businesses like oil and mining chemicals,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick Jany said on a call. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization before
one-time items fell 15 percent to 236 million Swiss francs ($258
million), the Muttenz-based company said today. Analysts
predicted 240.5 million francs.  “The result was not as bad as everyone was expecting,”
Martin Schreiber, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank, said by
telephone. Investors were braced for more pronounced declines
from seasonal businesses like de-icing chemicals and refinery
additives due to unfavorable weather, he said.  Clariant is refocusing on higher margin catalysts,
additives for the oil industry and ingredients for personal-care
products. The Swiss chemicals maker said in February that it is
looking for ways to exit “structurally challenged businesses”
such as paper and textile operations.  The company could take “months or quarters” before
declaring its intentions for the businesses, and whether they
will be divested or a joint-venture partner sought, Jany said.  Clariant shares traded 1.6 percent higher at 11.9 francs in
Zurich as of 10:46 a.m.  The Ebitda margin excluding one-time items narrowed to 12.1
percent, missing the company’s guidance of “sustained
profitability” at 13.2 percent for the year. Clariant had
forecast a sluggish start to 2012.  Oil & Mining Growth  Sales in the first quarter rose 13 percent to 1.95 billion
francs. Analysts estimated 2 billion francs. Sales growth was
driven by the Oil & Mining unit and by demand at the two units
formed from the acquisition of Sued Chemie: Functional Materials
and Catalysis & Energy. Sales in the remaining six units
declined.  Clariant is in the midst of carving out the businesses
earmarked for a potential exit. The units generate a total of
about 1 billion francs in revenue.  “Once they get rid of these units, the whole perception of
Clariant will be different,” Patrick Rafaisz, an analyst at
Bank Vontobel, said yesterday. “The management know that paper
and textiles are weighing on their valuation. I would expect an
announcement in the next 12 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  