-- CME Raises Margins for Non-Hedged Accounts to Meet CFTC Rule
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-03T05:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/cme-raises-margins-for-non-hedged-accounts-to-meet-cftc-rule.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, is raising futures margins for non-hedged
positions to comply with new regulations.  Members will be treated as speculators for outright
positions, paying a higher margin, said the exchange, which
trades everything from energy, agriculture and metals to
 interest rates  and equity indexes. Members are now treated as
hedgers rather than speculators even if they have a speculative
position. The change is effective May 7, it said in a  statement .  President  Barack Obama  last month urged Congress to bolster
federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger penalties
for market manipulation and greater power for regulators to
increase the money traders must put up to back their bets.
Regulators are seeking to limit speculation in commodities and
ban so-called proprietary trading at banks.  “Guys that are highly leveraged would have to find more
capital or they’ve got to bring their position size down,”  Adam
Davis , a commodity trader at Merricks Capital Services Pty, said
from Melbourne today. “You can reduce a position size in two
seconds. Finding more capital might take you two months.”  The exchange is implementing a Commodity Futures Trading
Commission rule for all speculative trading accounts that are
regulated as futures or swaps, said the CME yesterday.  “The CFTC rule takes away the implicit hedge status of
members, forcing them to pay a higher margin to take flat price
and spread positions home overnight,” said Roy Huckabay, the
executive vice president for the Chicago-based Linn Group, a
CFTC-registered futures clearing firm for individual traders,
hedgers and funds. “This would by nature reduce the number of
contracts they trade unless they put up additional collateral.”  CFTC Rule  The CFTC approved a regulation last year that would cap the
number of contracts a derivatives trader can have. European
regulators are also seeking limits on derivatives after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  demanded steps to curb speculation,
which he blames for driving up world food prices.  Trade associations representing companies including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  have sued to overturn the CFTC regulation, one of the
financial industry’s highest-profile challenges to the 2010
Dodd-Frank law that bolsters regulation of derivatives.  Obama has asked Congress to fund a six-fold increase for
surveillance and enforcement staff at the CFTC to put “more
cops on the beat” overseeing oil markets. He is seeking to give
the CFTC authority to raise margin requirements for traders' 
positions and stiffen civil and criminal penalties for those
guilty of manipulation to $10 million from $1 million.  “For the highly-leveraged speculators, depending on the
magnitude of the increase in margins, they may have to resize
their portfolios down,” said Davis from Merricks Capital,
referring to the CME announcement yesterday. “Certainly it’s
not conducive to higher prices in the short-term. In the long-
term it will have little impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  