-- Coffee Declines on Speculation Supplies Will Be Ample
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-03T19:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/coffee-declines-on-speculation-supplies-will-be-ample.html
Coffee futures fell the most in six
weeks on speculation that supplies will be ample, especially
from  Brazil , the world’s top producer. Cocoa also slid, while
sugar rose.  Brazil’s coffee crop will be 1.7 percent larger than
forecast for the season that starts in July, Volcafe Ltd., a
unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., said in a
report on April 20. The Brazilian real fell today to the lowest
since late September, which may encourage exporters to boost
shipments sold for dollars.  “All producers, not only Brazil, have a lot of coffee to
sell,” Hernando de la Roche, director of futures at INTL
FCStone in Miami, said in a telephone interview. “The real has
fallen a lot this year, and the weak global economy is
pressuring all commodities.”  Arabica coffee for July delivery tumbled 3.8 percent to
settle at $1.758 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest drop since March 22. The commodity posted the
biggest drop among the 24 raw materials tracked by the Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Spot Index.  Prices have tumbled 43 percent from a 14-year high of
$3.089 on May 3, 2011, as slowing economic growth eroded demand.  Shares of  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  plunged as
much as 51 percent today after the company said profit will be
less than it expected amid the slowest sales growth in five
years.  Slowing Demand  In the 13 weeks ended March 25, U.S. retailers sold 4
percent fewer units of non-decaffeinated ground coffee than a
year earlier, according to Chicago-based researcher SymphonyIRI.
Ground coffee accounts for more than half of domestic demand in
the U.S., the biggest consumer.  The drop in ground-coffee sales shows “demand is
hurting,” Judy Ganes-Chase, the president of J. Ganes
Consulting in Katonah, New York, said in an e-mail.  Cocoa futures for July delivery slumped 1.5 percent to
$2,307 a metric ton on ICE, the first drop in three days.  Raw-sugar futures for July delivery increased 0.5 percent
to 20.65 cents a pound in  New York , the first advance in six
sessions.  In London futures trading, robusta coffee, cocoa and
refined sugar declined on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  