-- Colin Powell Says Iraq ‘Blot’ Teaches Need for Skepticism
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/colin-powell-says-iraq-blot-teaches-need-for-skepticism.html
Colin Powell  says his erroneous
address to the  United Nations  about Iraq having weapons of mass
destruction provides a lesson to business leaders on the
importance of staying skeptical and following their intuition.  “Yes, a blot, a failure will always be attached to me and
my UN presentation,” the former U.S. secretary of state writes
in a new book of leadership parables that draws frequently on
his Iraq war experience. “I am mad mostly at myself for not
having smelled the problem. My instincts failed me.”  Powell, 75, laments that no intelligence officials had the
“courage” to warn that he was given false information that
Iraq had such weapons during preparations for his February 2003
speech before the U.S. invasion the following month. Regrets are
sprinkled through “It Worked For Me,” along with lessons
gleaned from a career that carried him from foxholes in  Vietnam 
to senior positions at the Pentagon and the State Department.  In uncorrected page proofs of the book scheduled to be
published May 22 and written with Tony Koltz, Powell advises on
the virtues of kindness for a leader and a balanced life that
shuns an obsession with work. He recommends taking care of and
getting to know the “troops,” citing State Department garage
attendants he paid a surprise visit and impromptu chats with
employees.  Powell, born in  New York  City to Jamaican immigrants,
served as secretary of state from 2001 to 2005, after 35 years
in the military. A four-star general, he was chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1989 to 1993. A Republican, Powell
endorsed Democrat  Barack Obama ’s campaign for president in 2008.  Powell is now a strategic adviser to Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm based in  Menlo Park ,
California, that backed  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)   ‘Cheap Clock Radio’  Powell, who travels giving paid motivational speeches,
offers indirect advice to hoteliers with his preferences as a
frequent traveler: “Please give me a cheap clock radio; not one
that needs printed instructions and plays my iPod. Please, oh
please, don’t get fancy shower controls with handles that give
you no clue how to turn it, push it, or pull it on and off. I
only need one showerhead, not a sprinkler system.”  Commenting on the quirks of fame, Powell recounts receiving
portraits given to him by world leaders over the years.  The depictions were a “near-sure giveaway of where they
came from,”  Powell writes in the book from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
HarperCollins. The “one from Romania kind of makes me into
Dracula.”  Reagan’s Gaze  Powell, who served as national security adviser to
President  Ronald Reagan , recalls a morning in 1988 when he went
to see Reagan and described a problem that needed to be solved
that day. Reagan gazed past him at squirrels picking up nuts he
had put out for them in the morning by the  Rose Garden .  It was a lesson in delegating authority and trusting his
team to make the right decision, Powell says. “The president
was teaching me: ‘Colin, I love you and I will sit here as long
as you want me to, listening to your problem. Let me know when
you have a problem that I have to solve,’” Powell writes.  Powell lists among the top accomplishments of former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration that “we got rid of
the horrific Hussein” regime in  Iraq  and ousted the Taliban
from power in  Afghanistan . Still, he says “there would have
been no war” in Iraq if Bush and his advisers had known that
country’s regime had no weapons of mass destruction.  “There is nothing worse than a leader believing he has
accurate information when folks who know he doesn’t don’t tell
him that he doesn’t,” Powell writes in a chapter entitled,
“Tell Me What You Know.”  ‘Flawed Evidence’  Powell’s UN speech, part of the Bush administration’s
public case for the U.S. invasion of Iraq, with its unsupported
assertions of mobile Iraqi biological-warfare labs and a
“sinister nexus” between Iraq and al-Qaeda terrorists, was
based on “deeply flawed” evidence, Powell writes.  “So why did no one stand up and speak out during the
intense hours we worked on the speech?” Powell writes. “Some
of these same analysts later wrote books claiming they were
shocked that I have relied on such deeply flawed evidence.”  Powell, who has quarreled over policy for years with former
Vice President  Dick Cheney , writes that Cheney had his chief of
staff, Lewis “Scooter” Libby, make the case for Iraq having
weapons of mass destruction “as a lawyer’s brief and not as an
intelligence estimate.”  Because Libby’s material was “unusable,” Powell writes,
he enlisted the help of the Central Intelligence Agency to
prepare for his UN speech. Powell didn’t know that “much of the
evidence was wrong,” he says.  ‘Get Over Failure’  While Powell returns to Iraq repeatedly in the book, he
advises leaders to “try to get over failure quickly. Learn from
it. Study how you contributed to it. If you are responsible, own
up to it.”  Bush wanted to keep lower-level officials and workers in
Iraq who had the education, skills and training needed to run
the nation even though he wanted the U.S. to dissolve the ruling
Baath party after  Saddam Hussein ’s fall, Powell writes.  “The plan that the president had approved was not
implemented,” Powell says. Instead, he writes, Secretary of
Defense  Donald Rumsfeld  and Paul Bremer, who headed the
Coalition Provisional Authority, eliminated all the officials
and institutions “we should have been building on, and left
thousands of the most highly skilled people in the country
jobless and angry -- prime recruits for insurgency.”  ‘Pottery Barn Rule’  Powell says that violated the leadership lesson that has
become known as his “ Pottery Barn  Rule.”  “If you break it, you own it,” Powell said in cautioning
Bush about the consequences of invading Iraq and its aftermath.  “It was shorthand for the profound reality that if we take
out another country’s government by force, we instantly become
the new government, responsible for governing the country and
for the security of its people until we can turn all that over
to a new, stable and functioning government,” he writes. “For
me the rule is all about personal responsibility; when you are
in charge you have to take charge. The rule has nothing to do
with Pottery Barn or any other store.”  The media dubbed it the “Pottery Barn Rule,” which Powell
says made the home-furnishings retailer owned by  Williams-Sonoma
Inc. (WSM)  unhappy because it had no such policy.  “Truth to tell, I wasn’t sorry,” he writes. “Pottery
Barn got spectacular publicity out of their non-policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  