-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Declines to Lowest Level in Two Months
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-03T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-declines-to-lowest-level-in-two-months.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last week
to a two-month low as more Americans grew concerned about their
personal finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 37.6 in
the week ended April 29 from minus 35.8, surrendering gains that
had lifted it to a four-year  high  last month. Views on finances
sank to the lowest point since January and more households said
it was a bad time to buy needed items.  A downshift in hiring and economic growth may be casting
doubt on Americans’ ability to sustain spending after purchases
grew last quarter at the fastest pace in more than a year. The
drop in confidence indicates the run-up in gasoline prices since
the start of the year may be starting to pinch even as the cost
of fuel has retreated from a 10-month high.  “The reversal of gains in confidence has been particularly
pronounced in middle-income groups that are likely caught
between sluggish wage increases and rising inflation that has
eroded their real purchasing power,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. The deterioration
“does not bode well for household consumption.”  The comfort index has averaged minus 15.3 since its
inception in December 1985. Even with the latest decline, the
gauge is in its 12th consecutive week above minus 40, the most
sustained breakout since sentiment soured in early 2008.  The decrease over the past two weeks doesn’t bode well for
other measures of confidence that also had been climbing. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s index of  sentiment 
increased to 76.4 in April, the highest level in a year.  Claims Drop  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, easing concern the job market
was taking a turn for the worse, Labor Department data showed
today.  Jobless claims  fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28, a one-month low, from a revised 392,000 the prior
period. The median forecast of 46 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for 379,000 applications.  Stocks were little changed as the drop in claims tempered
concern about  Europe ’s economic outlook. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index decreased 0.1 percent to, 1,400.85 at 9:40 a.m. in New
York.  Two of the three components of the comfort index declined
last week. The gauge of personal finances fell to minus 6.6 from
0.4 the week before, and a measure of the  buying  climate fell to
minus 42 from minus 41.5.  While Americans remained pessimistic about the overall
economy, their views did improve with the index rising to minus
64.3 from minus 66.4.  Economy Cools  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, slower than the 3 percent pace
at the end of 2011, the Commerce Department reported last week.
The growth was led by the biggest gain in  consumer spending 
since the last three months of 2010.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest payments network, said yesterday
that fiscal second-quarter profit surged 47 percent as customer
spending on credit and debit cards rose. The company boosted its
profit outlook.  “Visa’s business continues to expand at a healthy pace,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders said in
a statement.  Confidence among upper-income Americans has been climbing,
bucking the recent trend among all groups. The sentiment gauge
for households making more than $50,000 a year rose last week to
the highest level since January 2008. Those with incomes greater
than $100,000 were the only ones in a positive frame of mind
with a reading of 7.6, up from 3.7.  Employment Gains  Slowing progress in the labor market might be weighing on
moods. Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in five
months and half the 240,000 gain in February.  Tomorrow, the government will release jobs data for April,
a report that is projected to show payrolls increased by about
160,000 and the jobless rate held at 8.2 percent, according to a
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
numbers have raised concern that the job market is cooling,
mimicking a slowdown in early 2011.  Confidence measures for registered Democrats and
independents have dropped the most over the past two weeks after
both reached the highest levels in more than four years.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Langer Research Associates LLC in  New York  compiles the
index for Bloomberg. Field work is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  