-- Cosan Buys BG Stake in Comgas for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-05-03T17:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/cosan-buys-bg-stake-in-comgas-for-1-8-billion.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which
runs the world’s largest sugar-cane processor with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , agreed to buy  BG Group Plc’s (BG/)   stake  in a Brazilian
natural-gas unit for $1.8 billion as it expands in fuel supply.  The two companies signed an accord for the purchase of BG’s
60.1 percent stake in  Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo , known as Comgas,
and expect to complete the deal by the end of this year,
Reading, England-based BG said in a statement today. The
acquisition hinges on approval from Comgas shareholders, Sao
Paulo-based Cosan said in a separate statement.  “The deal is in line with Cosan’s plan to diversify away
from the volatile, hard-to-anticipate swings in sugar and
ethanol prices,” Erick Scott Hood, an analyst with SLW
Corretora who rates the stock buy, said in a telephone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “Although the acquisition doesn’t bring
immediate synergies, it’s positive in the long term.”  Brazilian billionaire Rubens Ometto, the founder and
chairman of Cosan, has sought to expand from sugar cane-based
ethanol to fossil fuels since the company’s purchase of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s distribution assets in  Brazil  for $826 million in
2008. Cosan has since derived most of its sales from fuel and
lubricant distribution.  The acquisition of BG’s stake in Comgas, if approved, will
be Cosan’s largest since its initial public offering in 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asset Sales  Comgas is Brazil’s largest gas distribution company. Shell,
which jointly controls ethanol producer and fuel distributor
Raizen with Cosan, holds an 18.1 percent stake in Comgas, BG
said.  BG is seeking to raise $5 billion through asset sales to
focus on investments in oil and gas fields in Brazil, the  North
Sea  and  Australia .  “We look forward to concluding this deal as part of our
plans to release some $5 billion of capital in the next two
years through strategic divestments,” BG Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Chapman  said in the statement.  In March, Cosan agreed to pay $100 million for Exxon’s
Comma Oil and Chemicals in the U.K. In October, it acquired
Exxon’s lubricant distribution assets in Bolivia, Paraguay and
Uruguay for an undisclosed amount.  Cosan rose 0.7 percent to 33.06 reais at 2:23 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. It’s up 22 percent this year, more than the 9 percent
increase in the benchmark Bovespa index.  Ometto is the world’s largest sugar-cane grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  