-- Counting Starts in U.K. Local Polls; London Result Due Tomorrow
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-05-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/counting-starts-in-u-k-local-polls-london-result-due-tomorrow.html
Counting got under way in local
elections in the U.K. that may produce losses for Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservative Party after more than a month of
damaging headlines.  Results are being tallied overnight in cities including
Birmingham and Manchester. The count in the highest-profile
contest, for mayor of London, will start tomorrow morning, with
the winner due to be declared during the evening.  Polls in London showed the Conservative mayor,  Boris Johnson , extending his lead over  Ken Livingstone , the former
mayor who is running for the opposition  Labour Party . That went
against a national trend that saw Labour taking support from the
Conservatives. Labour is likely to gain hundreds of the 4,800
local-council seats being contested outside the capital.  Support for the Conservatives has slumped to the lowest
since the coalition government came to power two years ago.
Cameron has faced a backlash over the March 21 budget that
raided charities and pensioners to help fund an income-tax cut
for the rich; the economy has slipped back into recession; and
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is under pressure to quit.  The latest poll in London, carried out from April 30 to May
2 for the Evening Standard newspaper, gave Johnson a lead of 53
percent to 47 percent over Livingstone in the decisive second
round of counting, when second-preference votes from the five
minor candidates are totted up. YouGov Plc questioned 2,119
Londoners online and its voter predictions are based on the
1,238 respondents who said they were certain to vote. No margin
of error was given.  Nationally, Labour’s has widened its lead over the Tories
to about 10 percentage points on average in recent weeks, a
figure that may see the opposition party gain about 700 council
seats at the expense of the government parties, according to
calculations by local-election analysts Michael Thrasher and
Colin Rallings of the University of Plymouth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 