-- CTC Gains as First-Quarter Sales Beat Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-03T22:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ctc-media-gains-as-first-quarter-sales-beat-analysts-estimates.html
CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Nasdaq-listed
Russian television company, rose to the highest level in a month
after reporting better-than-estimated first-quarter sales.  CTC, owner of  Russia ’s fifth-most watched television
channel among viewers 4 years and older, rose 3 percent to
$11.34 in New York, the highest closing price since April 3. The
stock gained as much as 6.6 percent earlier today.  Moscow-based CTC  said  revenue increased 15 percent in the
first quarter to $191.1 million, beating the $181 million median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
rose 43 percent in the first three months to $32.6 million,
according to the company’s website.  “The company has reported very strong financial results in
the first quarter -- higher than the market expected,” Vladimir Kuznetsov, analyst at UniCredit SpA in Moscow, said by phone.
“CTC media has a Western-style strategy and is one of the
friendliest companies in the country to minority shareholders.”  Russian advertising revenue, CTC Media’s main source of
income, grew 14 percent in the first quarter in ruble terms,
compared with the same period a year ago, according to the
statement.  Ad Growth  CTC Media’s advertising revenue is growing faster than the
total Russian television ad market, which is estimated to have
expanded about 10 percent in the first quarter from a year ago
in ruble terms, Boris Podolsky, the company’s interim chief
executive officer, said during a conference call with investors
and analysts today.  The company’s television channels Domashniy and Peretz won
the highest audience on record during the first quarter, at 3.7
percent and 2.6 percent respectively, CTC said in the statement.
The company also operates a television channel in  Kazakhstan .
CTC Media broadcasts its programming in  Israel  and  North America 
via satellite.  The average daily audience of CTC, the company’s biggest
television channel and its biggest source of revenue, rose to
12.1 percent among viewers 14 to 44 years old in the first
quarter, compared with 12 percent a year ago, according to the
statement.  CTC Media paid $20.6 million in dividends in the first
quarter and reiterated it will pay about $80 million in
dividends for 2011 in equal quarterly portions in 2012,
according to the statement. CTC will pay about $21 million in
dividends, or 13 U.S. cents per share bought before June 1,
2011, in the next payment on June 20, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  