-- Czech Austerity Splits Central Bankers With Rate-Cut Demand
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-05-04T13:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/czech-austerity-raises-prospect-of-first-rate-cut-since-2010.html
The Czech government’s austerity drive
is raising the prospect of policy makers lowering borrowing
costs for the first time in two years as the economy struggles
to emerge from a recession.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the  benchmark  two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent yesterday, having
left it steady since a cut in May 2010. Four rate setters voted
for no change, two sought a decrease to 0.5 percent and one
wanted an increase to 1 percent, Governor Miroslav Singer told
reporters in Prague after the decision yesterday.  “Support for more easing was the real surprise,”  Roderick Ngotho , an economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
 London , said in an e-mail. “A combination of high inflation and
disappointing economic data led to the unprecedented split among
policy makers in their latest meeting.”  Austerity measures aimed at stemming  Europe ’s debt crisis
have pushed economies from the Netherlands to the  Czech Republic 
back into recession. Policy makers in Prague signaled potential
monetary easing as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
yesterday left open the option for further stimulus if the euro
area’s economy continues to deteriorate.  Investors raised bets on a Czech interest-rate cut after
yesterday’s meeting, with forward-rate agreements fixing the
three-month interbank rates in six months falling to 1.044
percent today from 1.223 percent on May 2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The three-month interbank offered rate, or Pribor, was 1.24
percent today. The koruna weakened as much as 0.4 percent to the
euro yesterday, trading little changed at 25.038 against
Europe’s common currency as of 3:27 p.m. in  Prague .  Austerity Plan  The outlook for the economy and interest rates is shaped by
Prime Minister Petr Necas’s plan to push through measures
including a sales-tax increase to cut the  fiscal deficit  to less
than the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year. The plan contributed to his ruling coalition
unraveling last month.  Borrowing costs have remained unchanged as the economy slid
into a recession in the second half of 2011 and a tax increase
at the start of this year spurred  inflation  to the fastest in
more than three years.  While raising the levy a second time in as many years would
boost inflation, it also would cut household demand, curtail
economic growth and point to lower  interest rates , the central
bank said yesterday.  “The Czech economy will stagnate this year because of a
significant slowdown in foreign demand and continued domestic
fiscal consolidation,” Singer said. “Domestic factors,
including weak domestic demand and slow wage growth, are
currently taming price developments.”  ‘Rate-Decline Scenario’  The economy, which exports about 80 percent of its output,
 contracted  in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 as
government spending cuts outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made
vehicles, car parts and electronics goods. The  inflation  rate
rose to 3.8 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s 2
percent target for a sixth month.  “Real-economy developments in the euro area, together with
fiscal measures currently making their way through the Czech
government, are returning the rate-decline scenario again,”
 Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna,  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) ’s Czech unit, said in an e-mail yesterday.  While the economy returned to a recession, Necas’s 20-
month-old administration wants to push through 57 billion koruna
($3 billion) worth of budget measures to narrow the deficit to
2.9 percent of GDP next year from 3.1 percent last year. Necas
on April 27 won backing for his austerity program with the
support of lawmakers who split from a former coalition party.  Economic Forecasts  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, was 2.7 percent in March, the central bank said. It
forecasts monetary-policy inflation moving “slightly below”
the 2 percent inflation target in 2013.  The central bank left its economic-growth forecast
unchanged from the previous outlook in February, when it saw a
stagnant economy this year and a 1.9 percent expansion in 2013.
It said the inflation rate in the second quarter of 2013 will be
1.5 percent, before falling to 1.4 percent in the next three-
month period.  The Czech central bank has prepared an “alternative”
forecast scenario, which assumes the government pushing through
the value-added tax increase as of next year, projecting a
deeper decline in interest rates in 2013, before they rise again
in the second half of the year.  “Given there are good chances of an increase in VAT next
year, we may need to start looking at the alternative scenario
more closely,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts Pasquale Diana and
Jaroslaw Strzalkowski said in a note to clients. “Lower implied
rates in the alternative scenario than in the base scenario
therefore introduce some downside risks to our forecast that
rates will be on hold for an extended period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  