-- Czech Central Bank Holds Rates and Signals Drop on Economy
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-05-03T14:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/czech-central-bank-holds-main-rate-for-16th-meeting-on-recession.html
The Czech central bank left its main
interest rate unchanged for a 16th meeting and signaled
borrowing costs may decline further this year as the
government’s austerity measures curtail economic growth.  Four policy makers at the Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka
voted to keep the two-week  repurchase rate  at a record-low 0.75
percent today, a quarter point below the  European Central Bank ’s
main benchmark, Governor Miroslav Singer told reporters. Board
members differed in assessing inflation risks as two voted for a
cut to 0.5 percent, while one wanted an increase to 1 percent.
All 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast no change in
rates, which have been steady since a cut in May 2010.  Czech borrowing costs have remained unchanged as the
economy slid into a recession in the second half of 2011 and a
tax increase at the start of this year spurred  inflation  to the
fastest in more than three years. The bank’s new economic
forecasts assume a decline in market  interest rates  this year,
with a deeper drop if the government pushes through a second
value-added tax increase in as many years, Singer said.  “The Czech economy will stagnate this year because of a
significant slowdown in foreign demand and continued domestic
fiscal consolidation,” Singer said. “Domestic factors,
including weak domestic demand and slow wage growth, are
currently taming price developments.”  Koruna Steady  Forward-rate agreements fixing the three-month interbank
rates in six months fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
points, to 1.12 percent after Singer comments, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The three-month interbank offered rate,
or Pribor, was 1.25 percent today. The koruna weakened 0.2
percent, reversing an earlier gain, to trade at 25.013 per euro
as of 3:35 p.m. in Prague.  The bank left its economic-growth forecast unchanged from
the previous outlook in February, when it saw a stagnant economy
this year and a 1.9 percent expansion in 2013. It said the
inflation rate in the second quarter of 2013 will be 1.5
percent, before falling to 1.4 percent in the next three-month
period.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, was 2.7 percent in March, the central bank said. It
forecasts monetary-policy inflation moving “slightly below”
the 2 percent inflation target in 2013.  Tax Effect  A government plan to push through another VAT increase at
the beginning of 2013, after raising the  tax rate  this year,
would probably constrain household consumption and slow economic
growth compared with the baseline forecast, the central bank
said in its forecast.  “Interest rates would react, with lower reading from the
end of 2013, to anti-inflationary pressure stemming from slower
GDP growth,” it said.  Policy makers across  Europe  are weighing risks to economic
growth, with the European Commission forecasting a contraction
in the euro area this year, against inflation pressures amid the
sovereign-debt crisis.  Romania ’s central bank has cut the
benchmark rate four times since November to 5.25 percent while
Poland left its main rate at 4.5 percent for a 10th month on
April 4.  The Czech economy, which exports about 80 percent of its
output,  contracted  in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 as
government spending cuts outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made
vehicles, car parts and electronics goods. The  inflation  rate
rose to 3.8 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s 2
percent target for a sixth month.  “Growth is extremely weak and it is very hard to see any
inflationary pressure,”  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  AS said in a note to
clients. “We therefore believe that there is plenty of room for
monetary easing in the  Czech Republic , especially taking into
account that the Czech government is now pushing through further
austerity measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  