-- Dangdang Leads Decline as Services Stall: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-03T21:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/dangdang-leads-decline-as-services-stall-china-overnight.html
An  index  of Chinese equities traded in
the U.S. retreated from a five-week high, led by Internet
companies, as data signaled service-sector growth in the world’s
two largest economies is slowing.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. lost 1.4 percent to 103.44 in New
York yesterday, after reaching the highest level since March 27
on May 2.  E-Commerce Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , an online bookseller known
as Dangdang, slumped while social networking website Renren Inc.
slid the most in more than a week.  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp (SMI)  fell to trade at the biggest  discount  of
dual-traded companies to its  Hong Kong  shares.  Service industries  in China grew last month at the slowest
pace since January, while a similar gauge for the U.S. non-
manufacturing sector expanded the least in four months. China’s
government is predicting the weakest economic growth since 2004
as exports slow and property prices fall. Of the 17 companies
that have reported earnings since April 16, nine have come in
short of analysts’ estimates, including Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.
and China Telecom Corp.,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.  “Today’s non-manufacturing PMI was a huge drop compared to
March and reflects concerns about European demand but also that
Chinese real estate prices continue to come down,” Daniel Lenz,
the chief emerging-markets strategist at DZ Bank AG in
Frankfurt, said in a phone interview. “These changes in the
economy will have a negative impact on service-sector earnings
estimates.”  SouFun Slips  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real-estate
website owner, fell the most in almost three months, falling 6.4
percent to $17.25 in New York, the biggest decliner on the
Bloomberg China-US gauge.  Chinese  home prices  in April fell to a 14-month low,
according to Beijing-based SouFun, which began compiling the
figures in July 2010. Residential values dropped 0.3 percent
last month from March, the eighth month-on-month decrease,
SouFun said on May 2. Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated in March
that China will “resolutely” maintain curbs on the  property
market  even as the economy slows.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 1 percent to $37.92,
paring its gain this year to 8.7 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  declined to the lowest level since April 25.  A U.S. non-manufacturing index fell to 53.5 in April from
56 in March, the Institute for Supply Management said yesterday.
China’s purchasing managers’ index was at 56.1 last month, from
58 in March, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
yesterday in Beijing.  ‘Didn’t Help’  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi held off
adding more monetary stimulus yesterday, saying that the recent
economic data showing recessions in the Netherlands and Spain
isn’t enough to change the bank’s view about a gradual recovery
this year in the region.  Internet companies fell as slowing growth in China will
prompt advertisers to pare spending, said Qi Guo, an analyst at
ThinkEquity Partners LLC in San Francisco.  “Investors see a slowdown in advertising and remain
concerned about just how much Chinese growth is slowing,” Guo,
who covers Chinese Internet companies, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The fact that the U.S. also showed signs of slowing
didn’t help Chinese Internet stocks either.”  American depositary receipts of  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of
China’s largest Internet search engine,  slipped  0.7 percent to
$133.11, declining for the first time in three days.  ‘Downside Risk’  Dangdang dropped 4.7 percent to $8.26, the biggest one-day
drop since April 24.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Chinese social networking
website, fell 3.9 percent to $6.34.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , operator of
China’s third-biggest online video site, fell to a one-month
low, declining 2.7 percent to $48.41.  The Bloomberg China-US index has gained 15 percent this
year, and Dangdang and Renren have each jumped more than 75
percent.  Investors should be cautious buying big-name Chinese
Internet stocks following this year’s rally, said Kevin Pollack,
a  fund manager  at Paragon Capital LP.  “Today isn’t the best timing to invest in large-cap
Internet stocks,” Pollack, who holds Chinese stocks traded in
the U.S., said by phone from New York. “There’s significant
downside risk for the global markets.”  Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , in Brussels yesterday
after a Europe-China meeting on energy, said the global economy
is going through “deep adjustments” as the financial crisis
continues.  ‘Crisis Lingers’  “Although there are some signs of recovery in the world
economy, the underlying impact of the international financial
crisis lingers,” Li said.  Chinese policy makers lowered their 2012 economic growth
target to 7.5 percent on March 5 from an 8 percent target over
the previous seven years.  Semiconductor Manufacturing, a Shanghai-based circuit
maker, fell 4.7 percent to $2.41 in New York. The ADRs traded at
a 4.1 percent discount to its shares in Hong Kong, the most
since April 10.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based chip
designer, surged 15 percent to $15.51 by 5:09 p.m. in trading
after markets closed. The stock slipped 2.3 percent to $13.43
during normal hours.  The company said revenue in the second quarter will be
between $170 million and $175 million, according to earnings
results released after the New York close. The median of seven
analysts’ estimates is for $161.7 million of sales in the
quarter, data compiled Bloomberg show.  Seaspan Corp. (SSW) , a Hong Kong-based container ship operator,
declined 3.2 percent to $17.14. The company is scheduled to
report earnings today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  