-- Democrats Backing Christie Buoy Governor as N.J. Trails
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/democrats-backing-christie-buoy-governor-as-n-j-trails.html
Chris Christie , the first Republican
elected New Jersey governor since 1997, owes much of his record
popularity to Democrats.  They’ve backed him even as the state has lagged behind the
U.S. economic rebound and the 49-year-old governor has battled
teachers, pressed for tax cuts and blocked a commuter-rail
tunnel to  New York .  Christie has peeled away enough Democrats, who outnumber
Republicans in New Jersey by a ratio of about  3-2 , to gain an
all-time high approval rating of 59 percent, polls show. Almost
a third of those registered with the opposing party support him
as he campaigns through dozens of town-hall meetings, Twitter
posts and YouTube videos to “turn Trenton upside down” by
cutting taxes and controlling spending.  “I hear often that people don’t always agree with me,”
Christie said at a Plainsboro school on April 30. “But they
think I’m telling the truth as I see it. I think they find that
unusual in recent  New Jersey  political history.”  Christie, who has forged alliances across the state with
Democratic leaders such as Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , has seen
approval from opposition voters almost double to 30 percent in
April from 17 percent a year earlier, according to polls by
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut . At about the same
point in former Governor  Jon Corzine ’s term, the Democrat had
support from 23 percent of Republicans and 37 percent  overall .  Democrats Angered  Christie has garnered Democratic favor even after losing
$400 million in federal education aid in 2010 because of an
application error. Last year, he urged reporters to “take the
bat out” on Loretta Weinberg, a 76-year-old Democratic senator,
and called teachers’ union leaders “political thugs.”  The governor, who vetoed a Democratic bill to legalize gay
marriage and wants to put the issue to a vote, told its
supporters in January that blacks would have been pleased to
have their civil rights decided that way. That remark was
denounced by  John Lewis , the Democratic congressman and civil-
rights leader, and won an apology from Christie.  In April, the U.S. Government Accountability Office said
that Christie inflated cost estimates in October 2010 when he
stopped construction of the Hudson River rail tunnel backed by
Democratic U.S. Senators  Frank Lautenberg  and  Robert Menendez .  The public meetings, YouTube and Twitter have given
Christie an opportunity to connect with voters in a way his
predecessors didn’t. He has more than 110,000 Twitter followers
and his YouTube videos have been viewed 4.4 million times.  “Some people find they can respect him despite the fact
that they disagree with him, because he doesn’t mince his words
and he stakes out his position,” said  Peter Woolley , professor
of political science and director of the PublicMind polling
institute at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison.  ‘Man of Action’  Mitch Slater, a Democrat on the school board in Westfield,
where a majority of voters backed Christie in the November 2009
election, said he comes across as a “man of action and that he
actually does what he says he’s going to do.”  “I’ve been very fed up with politicians in this state for
the past 20 years, and I’ve voted for most of them,” Slater
said. “He’s the first Republican I ever voted for in my life.”  Christie, a former U.S. prosecutor who won corruption
convictions or guilty pleas against 130 public officials, ousted
Corzine in 2009 as voters rejected the one-term Democrat’s
handling of a recession that left New Jersey with a  9.8 percent 
unemployment rate, the highest in three decades.  Public Forums  Corzine, a former co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
tried to use town-hall meetings to win support for his plan to
reduce debt and fund roadwork by raising tolls as much as 800
percent. That effort backfired, in part because Corzine didn’t
display a sense of humor and “did not seem as direct or
engaging,” Woolley said.  “What you see is what you get,” Christie said during a
June 2011 town-hall meeting at a Fair Lawn community center.
“You didn’t elect me for my charm and good looks.”  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s press secretary, said the
governor is a “naturally gregarious” person who has been able
to engage people and win them over during the public forums.  “The media coverage he gets from town halls or our use of
new media extends his brand of honesty, bluntness and
effectiveness as a governor,” Drewniak said in an e-mail.  Since Christie took office on Jan. 19, 2010, New Jersey’s
economic recovery has continued to lag behind the nation,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The state’s unemployment
rate stood at 9 percent for a third straight month in March,
above the U.S. average of 8.2 percent.  State Bonds  New Jersey taxpayers pay a penalty on  state  and local debt
over top-rated municipal securities that has risen 37 percent
since Christie took office, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, even as tax-free bond yields have fallen close to
their lowest levels since the 1960s.  The three main credit evaluators downgraded the state’s
general-obligation rating last year by one step to their fourth-
highest grades, partly because of growing pension and health-
care obligations.  Christie first began holding town-hall meetings in
September 2010 to pitch his case for overhauling education and
pensions and tightening ethics rules. He has accelerated the
pace to nearly one forum a week as he tries to win support for
his 10 percent across-the-board income-tax cut.  “He puts on a good show,” said  Maurice Carroll , director
of the Quinnipiac polling institute. “People like them and they
think he talks straight from the shoulder.”  Millionaire’s Tax  Each town-hall meeting starts up with a video clip of
Christie taking on critics, followed by a 45-minute speech and
then a question-and-answer session of about the same length.
They have been held in churches and senior centers, an airplane
hangar and on a military base. Salem County, in southern New
Jersey, is the only one of 21 counties where he hasn’t held one.  Christie has made a name for himself by lighting into
Democratic lawmakers, calling some “jerk,” “idiot” and
“numbnuts.” He has refused to consider Democratic proposals to
raise taxes on millionaires.  At the same time, Christie has allied with prominent
Democrats including Booker on public education changes, Essex
County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo for his pension overhaul and
southern New Jersey Democratic leader George Norcross for plans
to reshape the state university system.  Christie’s tax cut, which Democratic lawmakers say favors
the wealthy, is part of a $32.1 billion budget for next fiscal
year that counts on revenue increasing 7.3 percent, the most
since before the recession that began in December 2007.  Standard
& Poor’s  and the Legislature’s chief budget forecaster say
Christie’s revenue estimates are too optimistic.  Public Unions  Christie was in  Wisconsin  on May 1 to stump for Governor
 Scott Walker , a Republican who is fighting a recall after he and
the Republican-dominated Legislature imposed collective-
bargaining restrictions on most public employees.  Christie became a national political figure last year after
campaigning for fellow Republicans. Party leaders and donors
urged him to run for the White House. Christie said in October
that he wouldn’t seek his party’s nomination.  The governor has scoffed at suggestions he might be a vice
presidential candidate, though he has refused to rule it out. He
told students on April 30 that Republican candidate  Mitt Romney 
is “a convincing guy,” less than a week after Christie told a
resident at a Springfield town-hall meeting that he loves his
job and is “not going anywhere.”  Straight Path  At the Springfield forum on April 26, Christie told a crowd
of 400 people that 115 tax and fee increases by Democrats had
left his state unaffordable and driven people out.  “Personality-wise, he seems to pick his path and stay on
it,” said Richard Novak, 69, a Democrat from Union who attended
the meeting, Christie’s 75th since becoming governor 27 months
ago.  The governor’s growing popularity has drawn more jokes from
late-night television comics about being overweight. At the
White House Correspondents’ Assocation’s dinner April 28, Jimmy Kimmel made three cracks about Christie’s girth, including
telling the governor the state’s nickname is “not the Olive
Garden State.” Christie, who has acknowledged weighing more
than is healthy, told reporters afterward he wasn’t upset by the
jokes.  Christie’s level of support will wane as the 2013 election
draws closer, said Assemblyman John Wisniewski, chairman of the
Democratic State Committee.  The governor has been able to woo independent and
Democratic voters through the “Christie Show” rather than his
policies, Wisniewski said.  “People are not viewing this dynamic in the context of who
they’ll vote for, for governor,” Wisniewski said in a May 1
telephone interview. “They’re viewing it in the context of what
they’re hearing in the street without regard to what direction
the state will take in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  