-- Diageo Third-Quarter Revenue Rises on Emerging Markets
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-05-03T07:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/diageo-third-quarter-revenue-rises-on-emerging-markets.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, reported third-quarter sales growth, as sales in
emerging markets and higher-priced spirits in the U.S. offset
declines in  Europe .  So-called organic sales growth, which excludes the effect
of acquisitions and currency fluctuations, rose 6 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the company  said today . That’s a
faster pace than the 5 percent median estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Diageo had “solid” organic revenue growth,  Melissa
Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote. She increased her
estimates for full-year sales and earnings before interest and
tax after the report.  Sales grew fastest at London-based Diageo’s Latin America
and Caribbean unit during the first nine months of the year,
advancing 18 percent.  North America  showed a 5 percent
improvement compared with last year as consumers drank more
expensive spirits. The U.S. is the biggest market for distilled
drinks.  The company said consumer trends continued to be “robust”
in Latin America even as changes in shipments cut the third-
quarter growth rate. The effect is expected to reverse in the
fourth quarter.  Cautious on Europe  European revenue fell 1 percent in the first three
quarters, Diageo said. The company is “cautious” about the
outlook for western Europe despite a “strong performance” in
 Germany  in the quarter. Economic conditions in Spain and Greece
are stinting sales for distillers in southern Europe.  “Diageo is well-positioned with our balance of businesses
across categories and with a large and increasing presence in
the faster-growing  emerging markets ,” Chief Executive Officer
Paul Walsh said today in the statement, saying performance this
year was in line with the company’s forecasts.  Diageo’s shares slid 0.6 percent to 1,580.5 pence as of
8:29 a.m. in London. The stock has increased 12 percent this
year.  The volume of drinks sold in the quarter rose 3 percent,
matched by price increases and consumers choosing more expensive
products, Diageo said. It expects foreign exchange movements,
primarily a weak  U.S. dollar , to cut full-year operating profit
by about 25 million pounds ($40 million).  The maker of Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie Walker whisky has a
goal for organic sales growth of 6 percent in the “medium
term” and to widen its operating margin by 2 percentage points
in the next three years.  Competitor Pernod Ricard SA reported a 3 percent sales
boost during the same three-month period after some French
purchases were booked before a tax increase on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  