-- Disabled Americans Shrink Size of U.S. Labor Force
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-03T14:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/disabled-americans-shrink-size-of-u-s-labor-force.html
Michael White  says he wishes he still
could pluck the bass line to Hank Williams Jr.’s “Born to
Boogie” and pay bills with money he earns himself. High
unemployment -- along with ailments that he says render his
fingers inoperative and make him cough up blood -- have dashed
his hopes.  White is among the  1.6 million  Americans who’ve claimed
Social Security Disability Insurance, or SSDI, since the 18-
month recession began in 2007. When the slump reduced demand for
tow-truck drivers, the 60-year-old  Fort Myers ,  Florida ,
resident, who has also worked as a musician, lost the job he’d
held for five years and started collecting unemployment
benefits.  Complications from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
or COPD, diabetes and other medical problems then made it
impossible for him to return to a labor market that lacks
opportunities for people with health problems and those in
better shape.  “I can’t stress enough that I’d rather be working, but my
health has gotten the worst of me, and any place I would have
applied wouldn’t have hired me,” White says.  The number of workers receiving SSDI jumped 22 percent to
8.7 million in April from 7.1 million in December 2007, Social
Security data show. That helps explain as much as one quarter of
the decline in the U.S.  labor-force  participation rate during
the period, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Morgan Stanley.  Expiring Benefits  The participation rate -- the share of working-age people
holding a job or seeking one -- was  63.8 percent  in March after
falling to a three-decade low of 63.7 percent in January.
Disability recipients may account for as much as 0.5 percentage
point of the more than 2 point drop since the end of 2007, the
economists calculate, and that contribution could  grow  when some
extended unemployment benefits expire at the end of this year.  “How we measure and understand what’s going on in the
economy can be influenced by the degree to which various public-
support programs are available and being used,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan in New York. “With a
rising number of disability beneficiaries, there are both lower
unemployment rates and lower participation rates.”  More light may be shed tomorrow on the participation rate,
when the Labor Department releases its April payroll report.
Employers probably added 160,000 new workers last month, while
the jobless rate held at  8.2 percent , according to the median
forecasts of economists in Bloomberg News surveys.  Nearing Exhaustion  The White House argued in December that emergency
unemployment  insurance  should be continued, partly because some
recipients probably would apply for SSDI as their  benefits 
neared exhaustion. Congress extended the payments in February.  “Workers on SSDI rarely return to the labor force,
resulting in a loss to society of the economic contribution
those workers could have made,” said the  report , which was
written by the National Economic Council, Domestic Policy
Council, Labor Department and President’s  Council of Economic
Advisers . “Thus, keeping the long-term unemployed in the labor
force should be a priority.”  More than 99 percent of all SSDI beneficiaries remain in
the program until  retirement age ,  David Greenlaw , a managing
director in New York at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a March
research note, citing government data. The program provides an
average of $1,111 in monthly income to eligible workers with a
physical or mental impairment that will last at least 12 months
or result in death, according to Social Security.  Record Applications  The number of people collecting disability surged as the
economy contracted, with the share of the  U.S. population 
between the ages of 25 and 64 on SSDI climbing to a record-high
5.3 percent in March from 4.5 percent in 2007. Applications per
1,000 working-age people rose to 18 last year from 8 in 1990.  The gain follows a pattern typical of recessions because
Social Security requires that claimants be unable to “engage in
any substantial gainful activity,” a  stipulation  more easily
satisfied when jobs are scarce and wages get cut, according to
Virginia Reno, vice-president for income security policy at the
National Academy of Social Insurance in  Washington .  “Impediments to work are compounded for people with
disabilities when the economy turns sour and there are simply
fewer jobs and greater competition for the jobs that remain,”
Reno said. Her group researches the impact of social insurance
on economic security.  Unemployment Among Disabled  Unemployment  among the disabled rose by 7.6 percentage
points to 16.9 percent -- in August 2009 and June 2011 -- from
9.3 percent in June 2008, when the government began tracking the
data. The comparable measure for healthy people climbed 4.8
points to a peak of 10.4 percent in January 2010.  White’s weekly income fell to about $800 as the recession
struck, even though he often worked every day, from as much as
$2,000 when the towing business was booming, he says. As towing
jobs contracted nationally to 48,300 in 2010 from a peak of
52,800 in 2008, he was laid off and filed for  unemployment
insurance  in September 2009, receiving about $1,200 a month.  Meanwhile, White says his health deteriorated: His COPD
morphed into emphysema, he was diagnosed with diabetes, his
fingers began to ache from neuropathy and he obtained a
breathing device to combat sleep apnea. The former bass player
for cover band Boston Post Road no longer could hold his guitar.  White says he routinely searched for eight to 10 jobs a
week, more than required to keep his  unemployment benefits , and
would have taken any available position so long as his health
permitted. No opportunities came up in the tight labor market,
and anticipating his unemployment would run out, he applied for
SSDI. He says he was approved in about five months.  Difficult Decision  The decision to go on disability can be difficult for
people who’ve lost their job and then realize their health
prevents them from working, said Sean Libby, vice president of
corporate development at Freedom Disability, the advocacy
company that helped White obtain SSDI. Unemployment insurance
requires that applicants search for job opportunities, while
disability insurance requires they be unable to work.  “You’re trying to make something gray into something black
and white by saying, ‘On this date I woke up and I could no
longer work,’” Libby said.  That gray area may be working to the advantage of some
unemployed, according to economists David Autor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge and  Mark Duggan  at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in
Philadelphia. Because SSDI awards have soared even as the health
of Americans has improved, SSDI “appears in practice to
function like a nonemployability insurance program for a subset
of beneficiaries,” they wrote in a 2006 research  paper .  Lax Screening Procedures  Less-stringent screening procedures, more attractive
benefits and a waning need for less-skilled workers have
bolstered SSDI rolls, they said. In addition, “difficult-to-
verify disorders,” including muscle pain and mental illness,
more easily qualify for SSDI under program reforms, Autor  wrote 
in a 2011 paper. The aging baby-boom population, changes in
Americans’ health conditions and the entry of women into the
workforce weren’t the driving forces behind the gain in SSDI,
Autor wrote.  Kia Green, a Social Security spokeswoman, hadn’t responded
to an e-mail request for comments as of 7:30 p.m. yesterday.  Based on current trends, 7 percent of the nonelderly adult
population could be receiving disability benefits by 2018,
Richard Burkhauser and Mary Daly wrote in the spring issue of
the Journal of Policy Analysis and Management. That’s two years
after the SSDI program will run through its  trust fund ,
according to an April  report  by the Social Security trustees.  Costs Increase  Costs have increased with the rolls: The program  spent  $132
billion last year, more than twice as much as in 2000. Once the
trust fund dries up, the program’s incoming revenue will be
enough to cover only about 80 percent of scheduled benefits, the
trustees said.  To help reduce the strain on the system and make it
possible for more disabled people to remain in the labor force,
Burkhauser, a policy professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,
 New York , and Daly, associate research director at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  San Francisco , argued SSDI should be modified.
They said raising taxes on businesses with a larger share of
employees on SSDI would provide an incentive for these companies
to offer the employees better accommodations and rehabilitation
programs that prolong their ability to work.  The current program, which assumes that disability and
employment are “mutually exclusive” is “both archaic and
fiscally unsustainable,” they said. “Fundamental reforms, if
done well, can lower projected long-term costs for taxpayers,
make the evaluative tasks of disability administrators less
difficult and, importantly, improve the short- and long-run
opportunities of people with disabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  