-- Dollar Advances Versus Most Major Peers Before Jobs Data
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-03T21:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/dollar-advances-versus-most-major-peers-before-jobs-data.html
The dollar gained versus most of its
major peers after data showed growth slowed in U.S. services
industries, boosting demand for safety before a report tomorrow
that may show U.S. payrolls increased last month.  Higher-yielding currencies, including  Australia ’s dollar,
fell as stocks and commodities slumped amid a drop in risk
appetite. The euro rose after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers didn’t discuss cutting  interest
rates  at their meeting. New Zealand’s dollar tumbled after the
jobless rate climbed more than forecast.  “The risk-off is probably due to the ISM services data
that came out this morning; that was pretty disappointing,”
said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York. “If there is a decline in the jobs
tomorrow, then the market might expect more quantitative easing,
so the dollar would actually weaken.”  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 80.18 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, paring a 0.5 percent gain. It added 0.1 percent to $1.3152
per euro after earlier rising as much as 0.5 percent and falling
0.2 percent. The shared currency was unchanged at 105.46 yen
after advancing earlier as much as 0.6 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 0.8 percent, and
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials dropped
0.9 percent.  Australia’s dollar lost 0.7 percent to $1.0264, and
 Canada ’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 98.85 cents per  U.S. dollar .  ISM Index  The dollar pared an advance against the yen after the
Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-manufacturing
industries , which account for almost 90 percent of the  U.S.
economy , decreased to 53.5 in April from 56 a month earlier. The
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s measure was projected to decline to
55.3, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  The greenback had gained earlier as data showed initial
claims for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. declined by 27,000
to a one-month low of 365,000 in the week ended April 28.  The Labor Department’s nonfarm payrolls report tomorrow
will show U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs last month, after a
120,000 increase in March, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Markets are going into the U.S. payrolls after a series
of back and forth, and they could react if we see a strong
surprise,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York .  The dollar has traded in a range of $1.30 to $1.35 per euro
since the start of February.  ‘Downside Risks’  The ECB kept its main  refinancing rate  at a record low 1
percent, as predicted by all 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. While the ECB still expects a gradual economic recovery
this year, “downside risks” prevail and the outlook has become
“more uncertain,” Draghi said.  “The market was looking for something on potential
interest-rate cuts,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “We got
nothing, so the euro is rallying as a result.”  The euro fell earlier today as Spanish borrowing costs
increased at a note sale.  Spain  auctioned 765 million euros of
notes due in January 2017 at an average yield of 4.75 percent,
versus 3.57 percent at a previous sale of five-year securities
on Feb. 2. It auctioned three-year debt at an average rate of
4.037 percent, compared with 2.617 percent on March 1.  Biggest Loser  Europe ’s shared currency weakened 7.1 percent over the past
12 months, the worst performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar climbed 5.7 percent, and the yen gained 4.6 percent.  The yen fell earlier today on wagers the nation’s exporters
are waiting for the currency to fall further before buying it.
Japanese markets are shut today and tomorrow for holidays.  “Our internal flows have shown that exporters’ bid for yen
has been absent for some time,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “This may suggest perhaps that they still anticipate
that the yen could weaken further and are looking for better
levels to buy.”  New Zealand ’s currency, known as the kiwi, dropped against
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts after unemployment
exceeded the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The  jobless rate  climbed to 6.7 percent in the first
quarter from a revised 6.4 percent in the previous three months,
 Statistics New Zealand  said.  The kiwi slid 1.4 percent to 79.97 U.S. cents and reached
79.88 cents, the weakest level since Jan. 17.  Down Channel  A so-called down channel is leading the yen to strengthen
versus the dollar, reclaiming some of its losses this year that
are the worst among the 16 most-traded currencies, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The yen is poised to appreciate toward 79.55 per dollar, a
key support level for the U.S. currency, Niall O’Connor, a New
York-based technical analyst with JPMorgan wrote in a note to
clients. “Deeper support levels” for the dollar against the
yen appear on charts at 79.15 and 78.35, he wrote.  “There hasn’t been a sense of a real turn in the economic
picture,” O’Connor said in a telephone interview. “If the
economic atmosphere in the U.S. gets worse, it’s a negative for
the dollar, and thus the yen will probably outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  