-- Draghi Leaves Door Open For More ECB Action if Needed
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/draghi-leaves-door-open-for-further-ecb-action-as-elections-loom.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left open the option of further stimulus if the economy
continues to deteriorate as investors await the outcome of
elections in Greece and  France .  While policy makers didn’t discuss lowering  interest rates 
at a meeting in Barcelona yesterday, Draghi pointed to new
growth and inflation forecasts next month that may change the
ECB’s policy stance. Uncertainty about the commitments of future
leaders in Greece and France to fiscal reforms, paired with
worsening economic data and renewed tensions in financial
markets, may force the ECB’s hand.  “There are significant downside risks to the ECB’s growth
outlook,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “Draghi indirectly hinted at next month’s ECB
meeting when the bank will publish its new projections. Since
the ECB may lower its growth forecasts, the rate-cut discussion
will stay with us.”  Austerity measures aimed at stemming the debt crisis have
pushed euro-area economies from the Netherlands to  Spain  back
into recession and may embolden Greek politicians who are
challenging the country’s commitment to spending cuts. ECB
officials, who have flooded financial markets with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to avert a credit crunch, have
signaled they’re reluctant to do more for now as they press
governments to enact reforms.  Rate-Cut Bets  The euro rose after Draghi said policy makers didn’t
discuss lowering the  benchmark rate  from 1 percent, already a
record low. It climbed as high as $1.3180 from $1.3117 before
his press conference started. Investors had increased bets on
rate cuts after Draghi last week indicated the ECB was
reassessing the growth and inflation outlook.  “We’ve discussed quite extensively the monetary policy
stance” which “we found accommodative in view of an economic
outlook that becomes more uncertain,” Draghi said yesterday.  That suggests that the ECB will wait to see how its lending
to banks will feed into the real economy, said Jens Sondergaard,
senior European economist at Nomura Plc in  London .  While there is “a compelling case for further policy
loosening,” the ECB will probably “err on the side of
hawkishness and delay any rate cuts for as long as possible,”
he said. “Economic conditions need to deteriorate significantly
in the weeks ahead before the ECB will consider loosening
monetary policy further at the June meeting.”  Latest Data  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing plunged in April to the
lowest in almost three years, according to London-based Markit
Economics. The index, based on a poll of  purchasing managers ,
shows that manufacturing activity has contracted for nine
straight months.  Euro-area  unemployment  rose to a 15-year high of 10.9
percent in March, and an economic confidence indicator published
by the European Commission fell last month to the lowest level
since December.  “We saw stabilizing economic activity at low levels in the
first three months” of the year, Draghi said. “The most recent
survey indicators show uncertainty prevailing. We will be
clearer in our assessment next month.”  In March, the ECB revised down its 2012 outlook for the 17-
nation euro economy to a contraction of 0.1 percent from an
expansion of 0.3 percent.  Draghi’s assessment “seems to be a rather positive gloss
on the latest news,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. It will take a
sustained further weakening in economic data to trigger policy
action, and “unfortunately that could very well happen,” he
said.  Greek Elections  Elections in  Greece  on May 6 could empower smaller, anti-
bailout parties that promise an end to austerity measures and
threaten membership of the euro, even as a majority of Greeks
say they don’t want a return to the drachma. The two main
parties, New Democracy and Pasok, are polling around 45 percent
of the vote. Anti-bailout parties have about the same level of
support.  With the decisive second round in France’s presidential
election two days away, challenger  Francois Hollande  leads
incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion polls. Hollande has
criticized  Europe ’s German-led austerity push and argued for the
renegotiation of Europe’s fiscal compact.  Angela Merkel , who said yesterday that opponents of
austerity display “old thinking,” faces two regional elections
in the next nine days, one in  Germany ’s most-populous state.
Merkel’s debt-cutting message is helping her  Christian Democrats 
close the gap on incumbent social democrats, according to polls.  ‘Utmost Importance’  “It is of utmost importance to ensure fiscal
sustainability and sustainable growth in the euro area,” Draghi
said. “Most euro-area countries made good progress in terms of
fiscal consolidation.”  He said the ECB has “full confidence” that Spain will
undertake actions to shore up its banking system and reduce its
deficit. “The track record is good,” he said. “We have no
doubt whatsoever that the action will be taken and will be as
speedy and transparent as in other countries.”  In  Italy , Draghi said “remarkable progress has been
achieved,” and the government “should be encouraged in its
efforts.”  “The pain threshold of the ECB for more policy action is
high and has not been reached,” said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “However, Draghi
maintained that the ECB never pre-commits. Deteriorating survey
data may be revisited at the next meeting, leaving the door for
policy action at the June meeting open very slightly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  