-- Draghi Says Rates Accommodative as Economic Outlook Worsens
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-03T15:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/draghi-says-euro-area-economic-outlook-subject-to-downside-risks.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said interest rates remain supportive and policy makers
still expect a gradual economic recovery this year even as
recent data cloud the outlook.  Latest indicators “are not enough to change our baseline
scenario, which foresees a gradual recovery in the course of the
year,” Draghi said at a press conference in Barcelona today
after the ECB held its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low
of 1 percent. “We didn’t discuss any specific move in interest
rates but we did discuss our general monetary policy stance,
which we found accommodative in view of an economic outlook that
becomes more uncertain.”  Austerity measures aimed at stemming the debt crisis have
pushed euro-area economies from the Netherlands to  Spain  back
into recession. While the ECB is reluctant to add to stimulus as
it presses governments to enact reforms, Draghi left open the
possibility of further action when policy makers have updated
economic projections in June.  “By highlighting prevailing major economic uncertainties,
acknowledging that the risks to the euro-zone growth outlook are
slanted to the downside and indicating that risks to the
inflation outlook are now broadly balanced, the ECB does appear
to be leaving the door open to an eventual further  interest-rate 
cut,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London .  Rate-Cut Bets  The euro rose after Draghi said policy makers didn’t
discuss a rate reduction today, climbing as high as $1.3180 from
$1.3117 before his press conference started. Investors had
increased bets on rate cuts after Draghi last week indicated the
ECB was reassessing the growth and inflation outlook.  “We saw stabilizing economic activity at low levels in the
first three months” of the year, Draghi said today. “The most
recent survey indicators show uncertainty prevailing. We will be
clearer in our assessment next month.”  After rising in January and February, a gauge of euro-area
manufacturing plunged in April to the lowest in almost three
years, according to London-based Markit Economics. The index,
based on a poll of  purchasing managers , shows that manufacturing
activity has contracted for nine straight months.  A report yesterday showed euro-area  unemployment  rose to a
15-year high of 10.9 percent in March, and an economic
confidence indicator published by the European Commission fell
last month to the lowest level since December.  Economic Projections  In March, the ECB revised down its 2012 outlook for the 17-
nation euro economy to a contraction of 0.1 percent from an
expansion of 0.3 percent. The central bank also raised its 2012
inflation forecast to 2.4 percent from 2 percent.  Inflation will remain above the ECB’s 2 percent limit this
year before slowing in 2013, Draghi said. He dropped last
month’s reference to short-term “upside risks” to inflation,
saying they are now “broadly balanced.” The economic outlook
remains subject to downside risks, Draghi said.  The ECB, which has pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the financial system in an effort to avert a
credit crunch, wants governments to press ahead with fiscal
tightening to restore investor confidence.  “Addressing divergences among individual euro-area
countries is the task of national governments,” Draghi said.
“As concerns the monetary policy stance of the ECB, it has to
be focused on the euro area. Our primary objective remains to
maintain  price stability  over the medium term.”  Spanish Yields  Investor concern over Spain’s ability to reduce its budget
shortfall has increased since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
announced in March that the country will miss a 2012 deficit
goal set by the European Union. That pushed Spanish 10-year
yields above 6 percent last month and propelled the cost of
insuring the country’s bonds against default to a record.  Draghi said the ECB has “full confidence” that Spain will
undertake actions to shore up its banking system and reduce the
deficit. “The track record is good,” he said. “We have no
doubt whatsoever that the action will be taken and will be as
speedy and transparent as in other countries.”  In  Italy , Draghi said “remarkable progress has been
achieved,” and the government “should be encouraged in its
efforts.”  He indicated the central bank’s emergency lending measures
will remain in place for the time being.  “Any exit strategy remains premature,” Draghi said,
adding that the ECB will make an announcement in June about its
policy of lending banks as much money as they need in
refinancing operations.  The ECB said in October the full-allotment policy would be
kept in place at least until around the end of the second
quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  