-- Dropbox Leads Cloud Storage Startups in Race With Google: Tech
-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e
-- 2012-05-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/dropbox-leads-cloud-storage-startups-in-race-with-google-tech.html
Silicon Valley startups used to
tremble when  Google Inc. (GOOG)  released a product similar to their
own. Now? Not so much.  On April 24, Google Inc. unveiled its long-awaited Drive
service, which lets people store files online and synchronize
them across all their devices. Drew Houston, the chief executive
officer of file-syncing service provider Dropbox Inc., goaded
the juggernaut with a tweet: “In other news, @Dropbox is
launching a search engine. :)”  Box Inc., another cloud-storage provider, hosted a
previously planned party on a Manhattan rooftop on April 25.
Chief Executive Officer Aaron Levie shimmied in suit and
sneakers while Elijah Wood -- yes, that Elijah Wood -- manned
the turntable. If the Box chief was panicked, he hid it well,
 Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its May 7 issue.  Houston and Levie have earned the right to be confident.
Their companies have lured Silicon Valley’s premier investors
and tens of millions of customers.  Sequoia Capital ,  Greylock
Partners  and even Bono have contributed to a total of $257
million in funding for Dropbox, valuing the company at about $4
billion.  Los Altos , California-based Box has attracted
$162 million from firms including Draper Fisher Jurvetson and
Andreessen Horowitz. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
Businessweek, is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Technology ‘Everyone Needs’  “This is the kind of technology -- a la the phone, Web
browser, and e-mail -- that everyone needs, and there just
aren’t many products like that,” said Josh Stein, a managing
director at Draper Fisher Jurvetson.  Box and Dropbox -- along with about a dozen other startups
as well as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Amazon.com Inc., and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  --
are engaged in a fight with huge ramifications for the future of
computing.  Every year, people create more and more photos, videos,
Word documents and other files. Increasingly, those data are
scattered across phones, tablets, computers and other devices.
The storage startups and their competitors are vying to be the
central control panel for all this information.  “All of these companies see this future where your devices
are basically portals to all your stuff,” said Tom Kleinpeter,
the former chief technology officer at FolderShare, a file-
syncing service acquired by Microsoft in 2005. “And whoever
holds on to all that stuff has a huge advantage.”  The story of FolderShare shows how hard it is to get a
simple-seeming technology such as cloud storage to work
properly. Founded in 2002, the company let people sync as many
folders as they wanted among multiple computers -- a freedom
that was overwhelming to some.  ‘Big Mistakes’  “One of our big mistakes was letting people do whatever
they wanted,” said Kleinpeter. Many customers failed to even
grasp the basic syncing concept: that their computers needed to
be online at the same time to swap files.  San Francisco-based  Dropbox , founded in 2007, picked a
simpler approach. When users install its desktop or mobile apps,
the service creates a single folder -- a dropbox -- on each
device. Anything saved in that file is available on every other
device.  While FolderShare required an Internet connection to work,
Dropbox stores copies of each file on the computer or mobile
device where it was created and on servers the company rents
from  Amazon. (AMZN)  That means users can work offline and sync
everything later.  Single Folder  “Dropbox was brilliant picking that single folder thing,”
said Kleinpeter. The startup now has more than 50 million users,
though it doesn’t disclose how many people pay for storage above
the 2 gigabytes given away.  Yesterday, Dropbox announced a partnership with Samsung
Electronics Co. to preload its application on smartphones and
tablets running Google’s Android operating system. The company
has already signed similar deals for its app with HTC Corp. and
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications.  Box’s Levie opted not to focus on the consumer market --
rightly foreseeing that it would place him in a brutal cost war
with giants such as Google and Microsoft -- and has instead
aimed to help office workers.  Companies pay about $15 per worker per month so their
employees can store such things as PowerPoint presentations,
pictures for marketing campaigns and legal documents.  Box’s
tools  allow them to grant access to select co-workers, customers
and partners and collaboratively edit documents.  Collaborative Editing  At the Manhattan party, Levie was hyping the Box Innovation
Network -- the universe of third-party software apps that rely
on Box for storage or collaborative editing. Finished tweaking
the font size on a memo using Quickoffice for iPad? The app
connects with Box so you can send the final result to a co-
worker or  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  contact without resorting to bulky e-
mails.  Levie sermonizes about this post-PC functionality -- the
27-year-old college dropout basically thinks he can replace
decades of  business software  produced by industry veterans --
Microsoft,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  -- with this new breed of nimbler software that tightly
ties together mobile and desktop computers.  The saying used to be that no one got fired for buying IBM
products, Levie told his troops.  “We’re not quite there yet, but we’re moving to a world
where you will get fired for buying IBM,” he said.  Fending Off Bids  Both startups have fended off acquisition bids -- including
 Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS) ’s more than $500 million offer for Box --and
say they want to remain independent in anticipation of initial
public offerings.  Such ambitions make it all the more important for the
storage stars to outpace offerings from the tech giants. While
Dropbox gives away 2 gigabytes of storage space today, Google
and Microsoft give away 5 gigabytes and 7 gigabytes,
respectively, and charge lower prices for expanded memory. The
startups’ hope is that customers care about more than sheer
storage capacity. Box offers security features prized by
corporations in addition to its collaboration tools, for
instance. Dropbox, so far, has focused on usability.  “The general philosophy at Dropbox is that it’s OK to
write lots of extra code if you can get rid of one choice the
user has to make,” said Tom Meyer, a former senior software
engineer at Dropbox. “You don’t want people to have to make any
decisions at all.” Especially the decision to switch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  