-- Drug Shortages Cut in Half in U.S. After New FDA Powers
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-03T16:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/drug-shortages-cut-in-half-in-u-s-after-new-fda-powers.html
New U.S. drug shortages have fallen by
more than half this year after President  Barack Obama  gave
regulators the power to head off potential scarcities, the head
of the  Food and Drug Administration  said.  There have been 42 new shortages in 2012, compared with 90
at the same time last year, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg 
said today on the  agency’s website . Obama directed the FDA Oct.
31 to gather information earlier from drugmakers about potential
shortages to help find alternate sources, increase production or
start new manufacturing before patients’ lives are threatened.  “I am both amazed and delighted to see the progress that’s
been made,” Hamburg said. “Early notification to FDA of
potential disruptions in drug supply has made a huge difference
in our efforts.”  The agency has used stopgap approvals to address some
shortages, such as the importation of an Indian replacement for
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Doxil, an ovarian cancer treatment. Hamburg
said the FDA is now concerned about a short supply of anesthesia
drugs, including benzodiazepines and fentanyl injections.  One anesthetic,  Hospira Inc. (HSP) ’s propofol, was saved by early
notification that allowed the FDA to work with other makers to
keep the drug available for surgery patients, Hamburg said.  Before Obama’s executive order, the agency received an
average of 10 monthly notifications of potential drug shortages
from January 2011 to October 2011, according to the FDA. The
number jumped to 60 from November to April. The agency prevented
128 shortages since Obama’s order, Hamburg said. The reporting
on potential shortages is voluntary.  Drug shortages almost tripled to 178 in 2010 from 61 in
2005, according to an FDA report released in October. Sterile
injectables account for 80 percent of the shortages the FDA
studied, 28 percent of which were cancer drugs.  Manufacturing was the main reason in 43 percent of the
cases reported to the FDA for shortages, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  