-- DSM Agrees to Buy Kensey Nash in U.S. for $360 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-05-03T07:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/dsm-to-buy-u-s-based-biomedical-business-for-360-million-1-.html
Royal DSM (DSM)  NA agreed to buy U.S.-based
 Kensey Nash (KNSY)  for $360 million in cash to drive expansion in the
market for medical devices and materials engineered from
proteins and synthetic polymers.  Kensey Nash’s board is recommending the $38.5-a-share
offer, which is 33 percent higher than the company’s close on
May 2, Heerlen, the Netherlands-based DSM said today. The
purchase should add to earnings from 2013, it said.  The U.S. biomedical company is DSM’s second major purchase
in under two years, extending Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma’s refocus of DSM onto value-added products that are
less susceptible to economic swings. Kensey Nash, with margins
exceeding 30 percent, adds $90 million to DSM’s sales and will
provide a base to expand in biomedical equipment following
advances in regenerative medicine and tissue engineering.  “It puts DSM Biomedical clearly on the map,” Sijbesma
said on a call.  DSM climbed 0.9 percent to 44.23 euros at the open of
trading in Amsterdam.  Kensey Nash, a 25-year-old company based in Exton,
 Pennsylvania , will become part of DSM Biomedical division and
help the company meet its goal of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
in sales from its so-called emerging business areas. The Dutch
company will become one of the largest suppliers of biomedical
materials in the U.S. following completion of the deal, expected
at the end of the current quarter.  More to Come  Sijbesma, a trained biologist, said that with more than 2
billion euros of cash on DSM’s balance sheet, the search for
additional targets will continue as Kensey Nash “doesn’t
fulfill all our ambitions.” DSM paid $973 million for health-
food ingredients company Martek Biosciences in December, 2010.  DSM spent a year wrapping up its approach on Kensey, and is
paying an enterprise value multiple relative to earnings of
about 10 times, based on this year’s expected results, rising to
11 to 12 times on next year’s predicted $36 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Rolf-
Dieter Schwalb said on the call.  Victrex Plc (VCT) , a rival supplier
of biomaterials for medical implants, is currently valued at
10.16 times, according to Bloomberg data.  “In acquisitions in the highly innovative fields we
sometimes might have to pay slightly higher multiples but the
growth of the business and growth of profitability is so
strong,” Schwalb said.  Citigroup advised DSM on the Kensey Nash deal, with Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton providing legal counsel. Jefferies
advised Kensey Nash, with Katten Muchin Rosenman serving as
legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  