-- Duff Said to Struggle to Raise Money for Massif Fund
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/duff-said-to-struggle-to-raise-money-for-massif-fund.html
Philip N. Duff, founder of hedge fund
FrontPoint Partners LLC, is struggling to attract assets for his
latest money-management venture. More than half of his three
dozen employees have left or been cut, according to two people
with knowledge of the company.  Massif Partners, launched last year, has been trying
unsuccessfully to raise money from pension funds, endowments and
foundations, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the information is private.  Jim Creighton, founder of Creighton Capital Management, and
his five-person team departed in March, Creighton said in a
telephone interview. Massif’s  website  showed that the firm had
35 employees in March. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm has
just 15 today, including Duff.  “Creighton Capital is no longer affiliated with Massif,”
Creighton said in a telephone interview.  Massif is Duff’s third venture in 12 years, and the second
firm he’s founded that has set up offices, hired dozens of
workers, then had difficulty raising money. At Massif, Duff and
a group of partners put up  about $20 million to hire employees,
buy equipment and rent  office space , one of the people familiar
with Massif said. Duff, who profited from the $400 million sale
of FrontPoint to Morgan Stanley in 2006, has been covering
Massif’s payroll himself since February, when the seed money ran
out, one of the people said.  Low-Cost Funds  Massif planned to put institutional clients in a wide range
of investments, including low-cost exchange-traded funds and an
in-house group of hedge funds. Massif has given up on raising
money for the hedge funds or even eventually offering them to
clients, the people said.  Duff, 55, declined to comment.  He started Massif last year in Greenwich, where he lives.
Like FrontPoint, the name comes from one of Duff’s pastimes:
Mountaineering. A massif is the backbone of a mountain range.
Front-pointing means to climb a steep glacier using the toe-end
tips of one’s crampons.  Massif is still trying to market its money-management
services to about 50 pension funds, insurance companies,
endowments and foundations, according to the people.  It is selling something called liability-driven investing,
where, for example, a pension fund matches its future payment
obligations to retirees with investments that can make up for
shortfalls and then preserve capital. That approach differs from
traditional money managers, who tend to focus on achieving a
specific level of returns.  BlackRock Inc. , Pacific Investment
Management Co. and other firms are offering similar products.  Pension Fund Bargain  Massif plans to charge no more than 50 basis points, or
0.50 percent, of assets under management. That’s about half of
what pension funds now pay for traditional managers. It’s also
far less than what most  hedge funds  charge: 2 percent of assets
as a fee, plus 20 percent of any profits.  The in-house hedge funds were supposed to support Massif by
managing money for a range of clients while the lower-margin
pension business got off the ground.  Rather than round up smaller clients, Duff hoped to get one
large one to commit several hundred million dollars, the two
people with knowledge of  the company said. The strategy had
worked at FrontPoint. XL Capital Ltd., the insurer now called XL
Group Plc., hired FrontPoint to manage $500 million in 2001,
shortly after FrontPoint started.  Duff made his name with FrontPoint, which he started in
2000. At its peak in 2005, FrontPoint managed $6.3 billion and
made $70 million in profit, according to an internal document.
Duff sold it to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  for $400 million in 2006.  One-Stop Shop  His second company, Duff Capital Advisors LP, was going to
be a one-stop shop for pension funds looking to boost returns
and diversify their holdings. Duff planned to vet each manager
and monitor the risks each took.  Duff Capital had a sterling start. It raised $100 million
from New York buyout firm Lindsay Goldberg LLC just to get set
up and hire workers. Duff used the money to lease 43,400 square
feet (4,030 square meters) of office space in downtown Greenwich
for $5.5 million a year, according to a person familiar with the
matter. He installed a custom food court and a skylight that
adjusted to bright sunlight to keep traders from squinting at
their computer screens.  At its peak, Duff Capital had more than 100 employees.
Then, in 2008, credit markets froze, stock markets swooned, and
Duff couldn’t raise money. The firm closed in 2009, having never
moved into its new office.  Undaunted, Duff started Massif in 2011. Nowhere on the
Massif Partners website does the company mention Duff Capital,
not even on Phil Duff’s own biography page.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net 
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  