-- DuPont Joins Suntech in Lobby Supporting Solar Energy Deployment
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-03T16:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/dupont-joins-suntech-in-lobby-supporting-solar-energy-deployment.html
A group of eight industrial companies
including  DuPont Co., (DD)   Siemens AG (SIE)  and Suntech Power Holdings Co.
Ltd. joined to create a lobby group supporting solar energy and
opposing dumping complaints that could slow installations.  The Global Solar Council aims to promote photovoltaic power
worldwide in a “sustainable and cost-competitive way,”
especially in developing nations, according to a statement
today. The companies favor government support for the industry
and wants to work against inter-government disputes holding back
trade.  The group adds weight to voices in the solar industry
opposing complaints from companies including SolarWorld AG,
which say Chinese companies are dumping low-cost panels on U.S.
and European markets. The complaint led to tariffs on panels
that may drive up the cost of solar power for consumers.  “The council’s mission is to promote the global
development and growth of solar energy,” Roland-Jan Meijer, its
newly appointed executive director, said by e-mail. “One of its
objectives, therefore, is to create awareness among stakeholders
that free and open market conditions are essential to maintain a
thriving global market.”  In March, the U.S. Department of Commerce imposed duties on
panels imported from  China  after seven manufacturers led by
 SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said Chinese makers benefit from unfair government
subsidies. A final ruling on May 16 may impose additional anti-
dumping duties.  A similar complaint to that in the U.S. is being discussed
in  Europe , and there’s speculation China may retaliate by
looking into the imports of polysilicon, said Jenny Chase, head
of solar analysis at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Neither are
likely to come to much, she said.  Another group of U.S. companies, the Coalition for
Affordable Solar Energy, is lobbying against the duties, arguing
that they would increase panel prices and cost jobs.  The other five founding members of the Global Solar Council
are  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , Dow Corning Corp.,  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) ,
as well as  India ’s  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  and  Germany ’s  Phoenix
Solar AG. (PS4)  The invitation-only group is talking to other
companies and aims to have no more than 15 members, according to
the director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  