-- The Violent, Scandalous Origins of JPMorgan Chase
-- B y   D a v i d   O .   S t e w a r t
-- 2012-05-03T16:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/the-violent-scandalous-origins-of-jpmorgan-chase.html
Americans like to imagine that the
Founding Fathers were virtuous and civic-minded giants
bestriding the continent. But many of them kept a sharp eye on
the main chance, alert to opportunities for personal profit.  The birth of the mega-bank  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may be
traced to two such figures: Aaron Burr, the dark star of
America’s early years, and his longtime nemesis,  Alexander Hamilton , the first secretary of the Treasury.  In the 1790s,  New York  was emerging as the nation’s
commercial center, but it had only two banks: the Bank of New
York and a branch of the Bank of the  United States . Both were
dominated by wealthy Federalist merchants. Republicans such as
Burr often found the banks’ credit windows closed tightly
against them.  A gifted lawyer, Burr pondered the problem at length. A new
bank would require a formal charter from the New York
legislature. Controlled by Federalists, the legislature would
never knowingly approve a bank that would benefit Burr and his
allies.  The Water Scheme  So Burr developed a subterfuge. The city’s well water was a
scandal -- foul to the taste, vile-smelling and suspected of
carrying disease. An outbreak of yellow fever in 1798 raised
demands for clean, healthy water.  Burr wheeled out his brother-in-law, Dr. Joseph Browne.
Browne proposed incorporating a private firm to pipe fresh water
from the Bronx River to the city’s residents, who were clustered
at the lower tip of Manhattan. The city’s Common Council adopted
the proposal. In early 1799, it sought state permission to
undertake the job itself.  Burr countered with a committee of six prominent  New
Yorkers  who argued for a private-company solution, stressing the
city’s lack of funds. Half the committee members were
Federalists, including none other than Hamilton, who had
resigned from the Treasury in 1795.  Confronted by such worthies, the city reversed itself and
embraced the private approach. At the tail end of the 1799
legislative session, Burr arranged for an ally to submit the
bill chartering a water company.  But Burr’s bill included a gaping loophole. The water
business, to be called the Manhattan Company, could use its
“surplus capital” to buy stock or invest “in any other monied
transactions or operations not inconsistent” with law, “for the
sole benefit of the company,” the bill said.  In late March, New York’s legislators averted their eyes
from this loophole and approved the bill on voice votes, without
dissent. Under New York’s constitution, one more step remained.
The Council of Revision, consisting of the governor and senior
state judges, had to approve the law.  Chief Justice John Lansing objected. Burr’s open-ended
clause, he insisted, was an outrage. But Lansing’s dissent was a
lonely one. No one joined him, certainly not Chancellor Robert
Livingston, who held an option on 2,000 shares in the new
company.  Burr’s new  Manhattan  Company opened in 1799. It sold its
shares for a mere $50, within the reach of smaller merchants and
professional men who had never been welcome at Federalist banks.
Over the next five years, its thriving business included loans
to Burr of more than $60,000.  New York’s water supply fared less well. The Manhattan
Company never piped in water from the Bronx River. Instead, it
dug new wells in Lispenard’s Meadow, near where Spring Street
and Broadway cross in what is now SoHo. By 1840, the water
system was obsolete and shuttered.  The Manhattan Company, however, grew through several name
changes to become JPMorgan Chase & Co., now the largest and most
profitable bank in the U.S.  Dueling Pistols  But its opening chapter included a final macabre element.
The company’s original 12 directors included Burr and Hamilton’s
brother-in-law, John Barker Church, an Englishman with a yen for
financial speculation. At a private dinner, Church alleged that
Burr had been bribed in connection with a frontier land
development. Burr demanded a duel and Church swiftly accepted.  On the day after the bank opened, the two men faced off at
the riverside dueling grounds in Weehawken,  New Jersey . When
both men missed their first shots, Church ended the dispute by
expressing regret for his “indiscreet” remark.  Five years later, Burr and Hamilton squared off at the same
spot. Their duel was triggered by Hamilton’s assertion that he
deemed Burr “despicable,” a term that then implied sexual
irregularity. The men took up pistols owned by Church. On this
second journey to Weehawken, Burr’s aim was better. Hamilton
died the following day.  In a final symmetry, Church’s granddaughter  sold his
pistols  to the bank that Burr had created. JPMorgan Chase still
owns them.  (David O. Stewart is author of three books on American
history, most recently “American Emperor: Aaron Burr’s Challenge
to Jefferson’s America.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To read more online from Echoes, Bloomberg View’s economic
history blog,  click here .  To contact the writer of this article: David O. Stewart at
 davidostewart@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 