-- EADS, Finmeccanica Encourage ATR to Work on Larger Turboprop
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-03T15:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/eads-finmeccanica-encourage-atr-to-work-on-larger-turboprop.html
European Aeronautic, Defense & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the owners of Avions de Transport
Regional, are encouraging the turboprop planemaker to work on
plans for a larger model to capture demand for aircraft that
guzzle less fuel than jets.  ATR’s 42- and 72-seat turboprops have been in service since
the mid 1980s and ATR’s only remaining competitor in that market
is Bombardier’s Q-Series capable of carrying 74 passengers. Both
Bombardier and ATR have been eyeing a 90-seat version as rising
oil prices drive demand for more fuel-efficient turboprops.  After rapid sales in the late 1980s and early 1990s, orders
for turbopropeller planes petered as airlines chose faster-and
quieter jets. Demand is now surging as higher fuel costs make
turboprops much cheaper to operate on short routes.  “We want to encourage ATR to work on plans for developing
its future,” EADS Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  said
today at a ceremony to mark the 1,000th delivery of an ATR
plane. “Shareholders will take a decision based on priorities
of financial and technical resources, and will consider a
partnership.”  Air Nostrum, a franchise partner of Iberia, received
today’s landmark delivery.  Saab and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s predecessor British Aerospace
exited the turboprop market. Jet fuel, which is derived from
crude oil, today comprises on average between 30 and 40 percent
of airlines’ operating costs. A decade ago, jet fuel represented
only between 10 percent and 12 percent.  Engine Talks  ATR has fared far better than Bombardier since the
resurgence of demand, partly because the Q Series is better
adapted for longer routes. ATR’s backlog at the end of last year
was 224 aircraft worth $5 billion, boosted by a record order
tally in 2011 when the manufacturer won orders for 157 planes,
with another 79 options, which ATR CEO Filippo Bagnato today
said was an 80 percent market share.  Bagnato, in an interview, said he is currently talking with
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Pratt & Whitney  about developing an
engine for a larger turboprop. A future plane may be somewhat
larger than 90 seats, he added, without being specific.  Giuseppe Orsi, CEO of Finmeccanica, also said he would
encourage ATR to move forward.  “Turboprops are no longer considered a niche market; the
regional turboprop is expanding and in this aeronautical
business, nobody can rest,” Orsi said. “We are listening to
customers and closely examining the business case for a
new project. We’ll take a decision at the right time.  Bombardier, as of Dec. 31, had 24 firm orders and 118
options for turboprops. The company won just seven turboprop
orders in the 11-month period ended Dec. 31.  ‘‘ATR is eating Bombardier’s lunch,” said  Nick Cunningham ,
managing partner at Agency Partners in  London . “Funny thing is,
everyone wrote the market off a decade ago and now people love
turboprops and can’t make them fast enough.”  ATR in 2011 delivered 54 planes and had total revenue of
$1.3 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  