-- Health Net Falls Most in 20 Years After Cutting Forecast
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-05-03T20:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/health-net-sinks-after-lowering-2012-forecast-on-claims-change.html
Health Net Inc. (HNT)  plunged the most in 20
years after the insurer said 2012 earnings would be lower than
 forecast  after a change in claims processing spurred the company
to set aside more money to pay for last year’s bills.  Health Net dropped 25 percent to $27.26 at the close of New
York trading, its biggest single-day decline since May 1992. The
 Woodland Hills ,  California  based company cut its annual earnings
projection by more than 25 percent, to $2.35 to $2.50 a share.  A change in regulations covering claims processing led to a
delay in medical bills reaching Health Net last year. As a
result, the company put aside an additional $67 million in the
first quarter and increased its assumptions for medical costs in
the rest of the year, Health Net said today in a statement.  “It very well could be a one-time issue and the company
can maybe get back off to the races,” Chris Rigg, a Susquehanna
Financial Group analyst in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “But at this point, there’s a credibility issue.
That’s what the market is telling you.”  Health Net reported a first-quarter  net loss  of $26.6
million, or 32 cents a share, compared with a loss of $108.2
million, or $1.16, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items,
profit was 10 cents a share, missing the  average estimate  of 60
cents from 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “We were deeply disappointed in the first quarter
results,” Chief Executive Officer Jay Gellert told analysts on
a  conference call . “All of us know that we have to execute
consistently through the rest of 2012 to regain your trust.”  Health Net also expects to lose business this year as a
result of rival insurers offering “aggressive” discounts,
Gellert said. The company now has the processing issues
“essentially resolved” and sees claims coming in at a more
typical level, he said.  The problems stem from new national standards for
electronic processing of medical claims, known as  HIPAA 5010 ,
which took effect Jan. 1. The change may have caused more
problems for Health Net than other insurers because the company
receives claims from companies known as clearinghouses that act
like middlemen rather than directly from doctors, Gellert said.  In the future, “we’ll be much tighter about making sure
we’ve checked every nook and cranny of what can go wrong,” he
said. “It’s a lesson that we had to learn and a very painful
one.”  Health Net had previously  predicted  profit excluding some
items of $3.30 to $3.40 a share this year. Analysts had
estimated $3.38.  The  shares  have fallen 17 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  