-- ECB’s Draghi Says Economic Outlook Has Become More Uncertain
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-03T13:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ecb-s-draghi-says-economic-outlook-has-become-more-uncertain.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the region’s debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Barcelona
today after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low of 1 percent.  On the economic outlook:  “Inflation rates are likely to stay above 2 percent in
2012. However, over the policy-relevant horizon, we expect price
developments to remain in line with price stability. Consistent
with this picture, the underlying pace of monetary expansion
remains subdued. Available indicators for the first quarter
remain consistent with a stabilization in economic activity at a
low level. Latest survey indicators for the euro area highlight
prevailing uncertainty. Looking ahead, economic activity is
expected to recover gradually over the course of the year. At
the same time, as we said previously, the economic outlook
continues to be subject to downside risks.”  “Latest signals from euro-area survey data highlight
prevailing uncertainty. At the same time, there are indications
that the global recovery is proceeding. Looking beyond the short
term, we continue to expect the euro-area economy to recover
gradually in the course of the year, supported by foreign
demand, the very low short-term interest rates in the euro area,
and all the measures taken to foster the proper functioning of
the euro-area economy. However, remaining tensions in some euro-
area sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit
conditions, as well as the process of balance-sheet adjustment
in the financial and non-financial sectors and high
unemployment, are expected to continue to dampen the underlying
growth momentum.”  “This economic outlook continues to be subject to downside
risks, relating in particular to an intensification of tensions
in euro area debt markets and their potential spillover to the
euro area real economy, as well as to further increases in
commodity prices.”  On monetary policy:  “Inflation expectations for the euro area economy continue
to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining
inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium
term. Over the last few months we have implemented both standard
and non-standard monetary policy measures. This combination of
measures has helped both the financial environment and the
transmission of our monetary policy. Further developments will
be closely monitored, keeping in mind that all our non-standard
monetary policy measures are temporary in nature and that we
maintain our full capacity to ensure medium-term  price stability 
by acting in a firm and timely manner.”  On inflation:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  