-- Teenage Girls Using Contraception More Often, U.S. Study Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-03T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/teenage-girls-using-contraception-more-often-u-s-study-shows.html
Fewer teenage girls have sex, and more
of those that do are using effective contraception, said U.S.
researchers who are urging medical professionals and schools to
provide more counseling.  In 2010, 57 percent of female teens ages 15 through 19 had
never had vaginal intercourse, an increase from 49 percent in
1995, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a
study published in the  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report .
Among those who were sexually active, 60 percent reported using
the most-effective contraceptive methods such as hormonal  birth
control  or intrauterine devices, compared to 47 percent in the
earlier study.  The birth rate for teenagers was at its lowest ever in
2010, a previous report found. That’s probably due to the
increased abstinence and higher use of the more effective
contraception, today’s study said. Even with the decline, the
U.S. has one of the highest birth rates for teenagers in
industrialized countries.  “Teen pregnancy might be reduced further if health-care
professionals provide culturally competent, evidence-based
sexual and reproductive health counseling on the importance of
correct and consistent use of contraception,” the authors of
the report wrote.  To decrease teen pregnancy further, schools and communities
should provide reproductive health education, support parents in
speaking to children about delaying sex and pregnancy, and
connect teenagers to reproductive  health services , the  CDC  said.  Condoms, the method used by many teens, aren’t used on a
consistent basis by half of the girls surveyed, the report said.
Condoms are popular because they don’t require a visit to the
doctor.  The Atlanta-based CDC has a goal of reducing teen pregnancy
by 10 percent by 2020, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 