-- Legal & General Sales Miss Estimates on U.K. Savings Revenue
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-03T06:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/legal-general-sales-miss-estimates-on-u-k-savings-revenue-1-.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the U.K.’s
fourth-biggest insurer by market value, reported first-quarter
revenue that missed analyst estimates as lower sales of savings
products in Britain outweighed increased demand from overseas.  Sales were 434 million pounds ($702 million) in the first
three months of this year, compared with 433 million pounds in
the same period a year earlier, the London-based firm said in a
statement today. That missed the 443.5 million-pound estimate of
six analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Legal & General, the biggest investor in the U.K. stock
market, raised its dividend 35 percent in March as growth in its
U.S. division and investment-management unit boosted  cash flow 
in the past 12 months. At home, the company is betting aging
Britons will buy more savings and annuity products as the
government cuts state retirement provisions. Internationally,
the insurer is trying to expand Legal & General Investment
Management, its money-management business.  “The strength of Legal & General’s diversified model has
enabled us to deliver strong sales in risk, increased net
inflows to LGIM and another good performance on cash generation
this quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Breedon said in the
statement today. “Despite the challenging economic backdrop we
have strong positions in our chosen markets.”  LGIM’s assets under management rose 3.2 percent to 383
billion pounds over the first three months of the year, boosted
by net flows of 2.6 billion pounds.  Sales of savings products in the U.K. dropped 6 percent to
300 million pounds while revenue from the company’s
international units climbed 37 percent to 56 million pounds.
Sales at Legal & General’s risk business, which includes
annuities and income protection, rose 8 percent to 78 million
pounds.  The insurer’s net cash generation was little changed in the
first quarter at 210 million pounds compared with 209 million
pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  