-- Egypt Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-03T15:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/egypt-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-1-.html
Egypt’s central bank left its key
 interest rates  unchanged as the economy struggles after more
than a year of unrest.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight deposit
rate at 9.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at 10.25
percent, the central bank said today on its website. All seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated the move.  Investment hasn’t recovered as political instability
persists after the revolt that forced  Hosni Mubarak  from power
in February last year. The bank has kept rates on hold since an
increase in November that some economists saw as an effort to
avert a run on the Egyptian pound as the country’s currency
reserves plunged.  Reserves “are still at dangerously low levels, and if
political conditions get worse, they could start to fall rapidly
again,” Said Hirsh, London-based Middle East economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in response to e-mailed questions.
“Last year’s hike did nothing to stop capital outflows.”  Net international reserves dropped to $15.1 billion at the
end of March and have fallen almost 60 percent since the start
of 2011. Economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the final
quarter of 2011.  Egypt  requested a $3.2 billion loan from the IMF in
January. Talks have yet to conclude and the IMF said yesterday
that Egypt has yet to mobilize enough political support for an
economic program that will form the basis of the loan accord.  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, the
largest bloc in parliament, is demanding the ouster of the
military-appointed government and says it shouldn’t be the
recipient of IMF money.  The dispute has added to political tensions, including
violent clashes in Cairo this week, as the country prepares for
its first presidential elections since Mubarak’s departure. The
vote is due to start on May 23, and the ruling generals say they
will hand over power after its completion next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  