-- Telecom Italia Owners Agree on New Financing
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-05-04T10:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/telecom-italia-owners-said-to-approve-telco-capital-increase.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s main investors
including  Telefonica SA (TEF)  agreed on a 3.4 billion-euro ($4.5
billion) financing package to help repay loans obtained in 2007
to buy stakes in  Italy ’s biggest phone company.  Telco SpA, representing a group of investors owning 22.4
percent of Telecom Italia, approved a proposed 600 million-euro
capital increase for the holding company at a meeting in Milan,
it said yesterday. The group also agreed to subscribe to 1.75
billion euros in new bonds, and borrow 1.05 billion euros from
banks to refinance debt.  Telco’s owners, Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,
 Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , are trying to rescue
their investments as they bought their stakes for 4.1 billion
euros, more than three times the current market value. Telco
yesterday posted a loss of 1 billion euros in the nine months
through January after writing down the value of its Telecom
Italia stake by 901 million euros. Telco had already written
down the value by more than 1 billion euros in 2010.  “Telco’s investors must continue to play this game because
they have already lost a lot of money,” said Emanuele Vizzini,
who manages 800 million euros as chief Investment officer at
 Investitori SGR . “ There is no way out. They still need to
justify this purchase at a time when there aren’t investors
available to buy shares at a decent price.”  Tougher Conditions  Telco lowered the book value of its Telecom Italia holding
to 1.50 euros per share. The stock today dropped as much as 2.3
percent to 83 euro cents in Milan trading and was unchanged as
of 12:21 p.m. Telefonica rose as much as 2.4 percent in  Madrid .  Telecom Italia shares have lost 61 percent of their value
in the past five years, making the Milan-based operator the
second-worst performer of the Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunications Index. Telefonica has lost 35 percent in that
period.  Challenging Conditions  The extra yield investors demand to hold Telecom Italia’s
750 million euros of 4.75 percent bonds due 2018 rather than
government debt has fallen from 434 basis points on April 30 to
410 basis points today, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The yield-spread on the company’s 1.25 billion euros of
2022 bonds dropped 16 basis points from 476 basis points
yesterday to 460 basis points today, the prices show.  Telco’s choice to raise capital “could suggest the vehicle
is currently facing refinancing conditions that may be too
challenging given the current market woes,” analysts at
 Espirito Santo (BES)  wrote in a note May 1.  Telco has reduced its bank exposure as lenders in the
country are asking higher returns to lend money and are reducing
loans to companies and projects to meet capital targets set by
the European Banking Authority.  Dividend Cuts  The investors’ debt included 1.3 billion euros of bank
loans with a pool of lenders led by UniCredit SpA expiring May
31, 600 million euros of loans with  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA  expiring June 28, and 260 million euros of loans with
 General Electric Co. (GE)  maturing in October.  Telco investors, who agreed in February to renew their
shareholding agreement for three years through February 2015,
used Telecom Italia’s dividends to pay interests on their debt.
In 2010, the group paid interests on debt for 124 million euros
and received dividends for 174 million euros, according to
Telco’s annual report.  Telefonica is searching for ways to safeguard shareholder
payouts after it reduced its 2012 dividend forecast by 14
percent in December, the first in a decade, because of
“significantly” changed market conditions. At the same time,
the operator is halting major mergers and acquisitions activity
and selling non-core assets to cut debt.  ‘Darned Bottom’  “Telefonica’s Chairman is a former broker who probably
cannot bear to sell at the bottom. The question is where is that
darned bottom?” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst
at Sanford C Bernstein. “I think they have more writedowns to
come.”  In February, Telecom Italia cut its dividend payout for
2011 to lower debt to 27.5 billion euros and to retain its
 credit rating . Executive Chairman Franco Bernabe said April 4
that a spin-off of the company’s fixed-line network was one of
several studies being considered to help raise cash.  The company last month posted a 4.73 billion-euro net loss
for 2011 because of a goodwill writedown as the  European debt
crisis  sapped demand from consumers in its home market. The
company, alongside rivals including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , has
struggled in the Italian market as the new government implements
spending cuts and tax increases.  “All European phone companies are suffering from lower
margins and high debt,” said Giulio Baresani Varini, head of
 wealth management  at millennium SIM. “I don’t see improvements
in the short terms that can positively affect the shares, so I
don’t rule out further writedowns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  