-- Emerging Stocks Slide From 1-Month High as Global Woes Sink Oil
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-03T22:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/emerging-market-stocks-drop-on-global-jobs-china-services-data.html
Emerging-market stocks slipped from a
one-month high, led by energy producers, as concern a global
recession will cut demand pushed oil and commodities prices
lower and reduced the appeal of riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.5 percent to
1,024.27 by 4:30 p.m. in  New York , after reaching the highest
level since April 6 yesterday. Brazil’s Bovespa Index fell on
speculation Tim Participacoes SA may lose its chief executive
officer. Russia’s Micex index retreated to the lowest level in
almost four months as OAO Novatek and OAO Mechel extended losses
for a third day.  Crude slid for a second day in New York as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  kept the region’s benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low and said the economic outlook in the euro
area had become “more uncertain.” Non-manufacturing industries
in  China , where the government is predicting the slowest
economic growth since 2004, expanded at a slower pace in April
than in March, while  service industries  in the U.S. also grew
less last month, data today showed.  “The news flow in global markets has deteriorated sharply
over the past few days, starting with the data,”  Benoit Anne ,
the head of global  emerging-markets  strategy at Societe Generale
SA in  London , wrote in an e-mailed client note. “If this goes
on, the fears of a global recession will resuscitate, and that
will almost be the guarantee of a sharp sell-off in risky
assets, including global emerging markets.”  ETF Drops  The MSCI Emerging Markets  gauge  has added 12 percent this
year and trades for 10.6 times estimated profit of member
companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
multiple of 12.4 times for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed
countries, which has gained 8.6 percent in 2012.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
fell 0.7 percent to $42.10 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, rose 3.3 percent to 25.23.  Crude for June delivery fell $2.68 to settle at $102.54 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
percentage decline since Dec. 14. Prices have dropped 6.6
percent since closing at a peak of $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24.  Draghi said at a press conference in Barcelona that the
region’s economic forecast is subject to downside risks, though
the ECB still expects a gradual economic recovery this year.  Brazil Declines  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.5 percent in  Sao Paulo , the first
loss in three days of trading. Tim Participacoes, the Brazilian
unit of Telecom Italia SpA, declined 5.8 percent, the most since
Aug. 8. Without attributing its source of information, magazine
Veja, in an online column, reported Chief Executive Officer Luca Luciani may announce he will leave the company.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , Latin America’s largest steelmaker, slid 2.5
percent after reporting first-quarter profit fell to 369.6
million reais ($193.7 million), compared with a median of 410
million reais from nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gafisa SA, a Brazilian real estate developer, led gains in
the Bovespa after it advanced 7.6 percent to 3.95 reais, the
equivalent of $2.07. The company’s shares rose on speculation
the Brazilian government will announce changes to savings
account rules to facilitate deeper interest-rate cuts.  The Micex Index fell 0.2 percent in Moscow after OAO
NovaTek, Russia’s second-largest gas producer, fell 3.6 percent
to the lowest since February 2011. Bank of America Corp. cut the
stock to neutral from buy, citing a government plan to raise
taxes for independent gas producers.  Mechel, the country’s biggest coking-coal producer, dropped
3.8 percent. The company led declines in Russia’s benchmark
gauge.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
gained 1.7 percent as  Barclays Capital  initiated coverage of the
stock with an equalweight recommendation, the equivalent of
hold.  India, Turkey  India’s  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  plunged 7.7 percent, the most
since 2009, to 2,073.05 rupees, or the equivalent of $38.81. The
New Delhi-based company posted fourth-quarter net income of 6.04
billion ($113 million) yesterday, compared with the 6.2 billion-
rupee median of 48 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 0.9 percent, while
the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.6 percent in Istanbul.
 Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, climbed 3.9 percent after saying that first-quarter
profit climbed 56 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  retreated 0.3 percent,
while the  BUX Index (BUX)  fell 0.8 percent in Hungary.  Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  both
slumped after Temasek Holdings Pte., Singapore’s state-owned
investment company, sold $2.48 billion of shares in the lenders,
according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.4
percent, the biggest loss in a week.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage points, to 338, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  