-- Merkel Says Budget Critics Show Old Thinking as State Votes Near
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-03T14:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/merkel-says-budget-critics-show-old-thinking-as-state-votes-near.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
attacked opponents of austerity for displaying “old thinking,”
saying that reducing debt is a core lesson of Europe’s financial
crisis.  Merkel, in a newspaper interview published today before an
appearance at an election rally in North Rhine-Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state, sharpened her criticism of the
main opposition Social Democrats for embracing “the principle
of first spending more money and only later tackling the debt.”  “The constant turn of the debt screw was unfortunately all
too commonly used by politicians over the past 40 years,”
Merkel told the Cologne-based Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper.
“No good can come of it in the long run; worse, such policies
are to the detriment of our children and our grandchildren
because it robs them of any financial room for maneuver.”  Merkel, facing two state elections in the next 10 days, is
turning her success in persuading most European leaders to sign
up to a budget-discipline accord into a campaign theme. While
polls suggest her stance is popular with domestic voters, it
clashes with  Francois Hollande , the French Socialist
presidential front-runner, who says her austerity medicine is
worsening Europe’s economic plight as it grapples with the
sovereign-debt crisis.  Fiscal Pact  Asked if Hollande’s stated intention to reopen the fiscal
pact meant the German-inspired accord was “wobbling,” Merkel
said: “I don’t see it.” The pact was signed by 25 of the 27
European Union leaders, has been ratified in two countries and
is going through parliament in most other EU states, she said.  “We did that because we know that stronger rules on budget
discipline have to be a lesson from the crisis,” Merkel was
cited as saying. At the same time, “we are united in  Europe 
that solid budgets alone can’t bring growth and employment. That
requires smart structural reforms and the right impulses.”  Merkel has honed her message on cutting debt over at least
10 appearances so far in North Rhine-Westphalia and in the
northern state of Schleswig-Holstein, which goes to the polls on
May 6. North Rhine-Westphalia, with about a quarter of Germany’s
82 million population, votes May 13 in the biggest test this
year of her handling of the debt crisis, offering a foretaste of
voter sentiment before the next federal election due in 2013.  Greek Bailout  The chancellor, who is due to address an election rally
today in the town of Hamm, is campaigning to recapture North
Rhine-Westphalia after the  Social Democrats  took the state from
her  Christian Democratic Union  in May 2010, days after she
backtracked and agreed to a first bailout in  Greece . The result
deprived Merkel of her majority in the national parliament’s
upper house, the Bundesrat, where states are represented. While
polls suggest the SPD will retain power with the Greens as
junior partner, they show the CDU closing the gap.  The chancellor sought in the newspaper interview to
contrast the “new, better answers to budget problems” espoused
by the CDU, led at state level by federal Environment Minister
Norbert Roettgen, with SPD Prime Minister Hannelore Kraft’s
regional government, which she said spends first and worries
about debt later.  “It’s therefore high time to turn away from this old
thinking,” Merkel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Hamm,  Germany , via 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  