-- Hertz Says It Has ‘Material Agreement’ on Advantage Sale
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-03T20:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hertz-says-it-has-material-agreement-on-advantage-sale.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , which has
been trying to acquire  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  for
more than two years, said today it reached a “material
agreement” to divest its Advantage rental-car brand.  Selling Advantage is a key step toward getting antitrust
clearance for a  Dollar Thrifty  acquisition, analysts have said.  “We have agreed on the material terms of a divestiture of
our Advantage business with a potential buyer and have provided
those terms to” the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Mark Frissora, Hertz’s chief executive officer, said on an earnings
conference call today.  Hertz has been trying to divest the Advantage brand to help
smooth approval to acquire Dollar Thrifty, the fourth-largest
U.S. rental-car chain. That would solidify its position behind
closely held Enterprise Holdings Inc., the largest U.S. car-
rental company. The company has made “substantial progress” in
obtaining antitrust approval, Frissora said today.  In October, Hertz said it withdrew its exchange offer for
Dollar Thrifty because of market conditions and the target
company’s share-repurchase program. Dollar Thrifty said Oct. 11
it wanted to take itself off the market and would begin to buy
back as much as $400 million in shares after Nov. 1.  Hertz in October it would continue to pursue FTC approval
to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty, and would assess
the proper offer price based on the buyback, market conditions
and Dollar Thrifty’s performance.  Hertz, based in  Park Ridge ,  New Jersey , fell 3.5 percent to
$15.66 at the close in  New York . Dollar Thrifty rose 0.3 percent
to $81.97. Dollar Thrifty has risen 17 percent this year,
compared with a 34 percent gain for Hertz.  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s takeover
proposal in September 2010. Hertz, after calling that bid
“final,” renewed its pursuit with an offer in May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  