-- Metro Posts Loss After Cutting Its Prices on Electronics
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-05-03T10:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/metro-posts-wider-than-estimated-loss-on-pricing-of-electronics.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer,
reported a wider-than-expected first-quarter loss after cutting
prices of electronics goods to win back shoppers.  The net loss was 82 million euros ($108 million) compared
with a 3 million-euro loss a year earlier, the Dusseldorf-based
company said today in a statement. The average estimate of nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg was a deficit of 55.6 million
euros. Metro reiterated that earnings this year are likely to
equal those of last year, while sales will increase.  Earnings were hurt by “extensive price investments” at
the Media-Saturn electronics unit, plus higher expansion costs,
Metro said. Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch is seeking to
address declining sales at Media-Saturn, which started selling
electrical goods online last year, a decade after U.S.
competitor Amazon.com Inc. entered the market.  “We are moving in the right direction, but it’s still very
early days and we have a lot of work to do,” Koch said today on
a call with analysts.  The  shares  rose as much as 2.5 percent in Frankfurt,
rebounding from an earlier decline of as much as 4.8 percent.
They were up 1.1 percent at 24.35 euros as of 11:55 a.m.  Metro posted a loss before interest and tax of 9 million
euros compared with earnings of 142 million euros last year,
missing the average estimate for a 55.6 million-euro profit.  ‘Better Prices’  “During the past few months we have invested massively
into better prices and additional customer services,” Koch said
in the statement.  The CEO expects headcount to fall at Metro’s Dusseldorf
headquarters as the retailer seeks to save about 100 million
euros a year, he told journalists on a conference call today.
Koch didn’t give an estimate of how many jobs may be cut.  First-quarter revenue  rose 2.2 percent to 15.6 billion
euros, matching analysts’ estimates, led by growth in the
emerging regions of eastern Europe, and Asia and  Africa . Sales
in the first four months of the year rose 1 percent from a year
earlier, Metro said today. “In the second quarter we will make
progress regarding sales performance,” Koch said.  Sales in Germany, where Metro gets almost 40 percent of
revenue, rose 1.6 percent, helped by online sales at Media-
Saturn and an increase in customer visits to the Cash & Carry
chain. German retail sales rebounded in March as declining
unemployment, slowing inflation and higher wages bolstered
households’ purchasing power, according to a report on April 30.  Shrewd Strategy  In western  Europe  excluding Germany, revenue fell 1.2
percent. Economic confidence in the euro area declined more than
economists forecast in April as the region’s slump showed signs
of deepening, a report showed on April 26.  Sales at Cash & Carry, Metro’s biggest unit, rose 3.7
percent to 7.3 billion euros, the retailer said.  Metro said in March that it will focus on Cash & Carry and
Media-Saturn and cut investment in Kaufhof department stores and
Real supermarkets. Koch said he doesn’t see any immediate
disposals of the units, which he qualified as “non-core.”  “The strategy adopted by the new CEO to focus on top-line
growth is certainly a shrewd one, but could take a toll on the
margin in the short term,” Pierre-Edouard Boudot, a Paris-based
analyst at Natixis, wrote in a report today. “We believe the
company will be penalized by a significantly non-food
product/format mix and a rather unfavorable country mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  