-- EU Elections Spur Uncertainty, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-03T15:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/eu-elections-spur-uncertainty-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
European elections are driving up
market uncertainty as austerity measures have slowed economic
growth while failing to resolve the region’s crisis, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  “There is much more awareness of what needs to be done,”
El-Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“That’s the good news. The bad news is you’re doing it in a
very difficult political context.”  Leading demands for a revised strategy, French Socialist
Francois Hollande tops President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the polls
with the warning that putting debt-cutting over expansion is
“bringing desperation to people.” Greeks are turning to anti-
austerity parties, and  Germany  has a regional parliament
election in Schleswig-Holstein that risks the control of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition.  “If Sarkozy somehow managed to win in France, if the Greek
elections produce a stable coalition of the traditional parties,
and if in Germany the Merkel coalition does well in the regional
election, the markets are going to be really relieved,” El-
Erian said.  The euro area’s push to revive confidence in its economy
and financial markets by cutting budget deficits will be
challenged at the ballot boxes of  France  and  Greece  on May 6 as
the region’s economy skids toward its second recession in three
years and unemployment nears 11 percent. Germany’s regional
election is also next week.  Alternative Scenario  “If however the Greek elections produce extreme parties in
control, then the markets are going to start to price in exit
risk for Greece,” El-Erian said. “If Hollande wins, the
markets are going to ask what is the coalition between Hollande
and Merkel going to look like, and if in Germany Merkel’s
coalition gets a setback, there’s going to be questions there.”  French  government bonds  due in 10 years yield 1.3
percentage points more than similar-maturity German bunds,
compared with 0.88 percentage points on Feb. 9, the tightest
spread this year. Average yields of Greek, Irish, Italian,
Portuguese and Spanish debt have climbed to 4.2 percentage
points more than bunds as of May 2, compared 3.7 percentage
points at the end of March, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  