-- EU Said to Plan Debate on CO2-Auctions Delay in Mid-July
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-03T14:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/eu-said-to-plan-debate-on-co2-auctions-delay-in-mid-july.html
The European Union may submit to its
 member states  by the middle of July a proposal to delay some
sales of carbon permits starting in 2013 to tackle oversupply,
according to an official with knowledge of the matter.  Representatives of EU national governments in the Climate
Change Committee could discuss the draft at their July meeting,
with a view to voting on the proposal in September, said the
official, who declined to be identified, citing policy.  The 27-nation bloc is considering options to improve the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade carbon market after a recession
cut industrial output and pollution prices slumped to a record
low earlier this year on oversupply. The EU is moving toward
auctioning allowances in the third phase of the emissions
trading system, or ETS, after giving most of them to companies
for free in the first two trading periods since 2005.  “The prospect of a September vote is bullish, as it would
likely allow for the proposal to pass before the start of Phase
3,” Konrad Hanschmidt, a carbon-markets analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in  London , said in an e-mail. “It
nevertheless leaves the market with the key question of how the
delay will be implemented. Prices will not go much higher until
we get this critical information.”  EU permits for December pared losses and traded 0.7 percent
lower at 7.17 euros a metric ton as of 3:26 p.m. on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract has lost 60 percent in the
past year on concerns that the ETS will be oversupplied for most
of the next trading period from 2013 to 2020.  ‘Golden Opportunity’  The emission caps that the EU program imposes on more than
12,000 facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic
slump. The ETS will be oversupplied by permits covering around
1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred into Phase 3.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month
that the European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, is planning
to bring forward an annual report on the emissions trading
system and that will be a “golden opportunity” to look into
the auctioning regulation.  The planned review of the auctioning rules would change the
timing of sales, while keeping intact the amount of allowances
to be sold in the eight-year phase through 2012, the commission
has said.  After a vote in the Climate Change Committee, EU measures
subject to this procedure need to undergo a three-month scrutiny
by the European Parliament and national governments. The process
typically takes about five months from a vote to adoption.  Carbon Permits  Separately, EU member states and the parliament are in
talks about amending a draft energy savings law by including in
it an option for the commission to propose a temporary set-aside
of carbon permits as of 2013. National governments have signaled
they object to the amendment, opposing a link to the ETS rules
in a directive on a different policy area which  energy
efficiency  is.  Any eventual permanent cancellation of permits that could
be temporarily withheld under a set-aside proposal would require
a revision of the ETS law in a separate process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  