-- Euro Risks Highlighted as Elections Show Political Swing
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-04T09:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/euro-risks-highlighted-as-votes-show-swing-in-political-pendulum.html
Four elections this weekend have the
potential to reshape the European political map and show how the
response to the financial crisis remains hostage to the whims of
voters on both sides of the region’s economic divide.  Recession-weary Greeks will pick a new government and polls
show the French will probably install a Socialist president for
the first time since 1981. Local elections will test Italy’s
political pulse, and voters in a northern German state may deal
a symbolic blow to Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition.  The May 6 elections capture the popular agitation in debtor
and donor countries alike, after emergency loan packages worth
386 billion euros ($507 billion) and a focus on deficit
reduction failed to halt the debt crisis. Instead, Europe has
been sundered in two economically, with Greece’s unemployment
rate of 21.7 percent contrasting with Germany’s 6.8 percent.  “We have to look out for political risk still in Europe,”
 Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said on Bloomberg Television. “We’ve been in a
situation frankly in the last year where the politics has really
been quite favorable to push through structural economic
reforms, to push through fiscal tightening. My concern is the
political pendulum is starting to swing back.”  Market Unease  The gathering political storm has already swept away the
phase of calm in financial markets that was ushered in by the
 European Central Bank ’s lending of more than 1 trillion euros to
banks in two operations in December and February.  Bond yields in Spain, which ousted its Socialist government
in November, have become a day-to-day barometer of whether
Europe is climbing out of the crisis or sinking back into it.
Ten-year yields rose above 6 percent on April 23 and were at
5.80 percent at 10:45 a.m. Brussels time today. The euro headed
for its biggest weekly decline in a month, trading at $1.3129,
down 0.8 percent for the week.  The vote in Greece, the epicenter of the euro crisis, may
amplify the mutiny against the wage and spending cuts and tax
increases that are conditions for drawing on financial aid and
staying in the currency.  “The biggest risk for markets is that in  Greece  we just
don’t get a government and it becomes completely unclear whether
or not Greece will be able to comply with the austerity
program,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg
Bank in London. “If we’re unlucky on Monday morning, markets
may wonder whether Greece will be out of the euro within a few
months.”  Political Horse Race  Greece’s first ballot since then-newly installed Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  uncovered a 20 billion-euro  budget
hole  in October 2009 may yield a parliament with as many as 10
parties, making it hard to form a government with a clear
mandate.  Papandreou was replaced by non-partisan former central
banker  Lucas Papademos  last November after an aborted call for a
referendum on budget cuts led  Germany  and France to make a
precedent-setting threat to expel Greece from the euro.  Greece’s best-case scenario would be a coalition of
convenience between Pasok and  New Democracy , the two parties
that have alternated in power since military rule ended in 1974
and are signatories of the austerity program, Schmieding said.  The two parties, never before joined in a unity government,
would combine for 32.6 percent of the vote, possibly enough to
eke out a majority under Greek electoral rules, according to the
final pre-election poll on April 20.  ‘Merkozy’ Doubts  Europe’s crisis pervades the presidential campaign in
France, with incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  vowing to match Germany’s
economic successes and claiming that Socialist Francois Hollande
would make the country look more like Greece.  France’s loss of its AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s  in
January and Sarkozy’s vote-seeking tilt against austerity have
shattered the image of the German-French “Merkozy” duo in
command of  Europe ’s crisis management.  Sarkozy began the campaign planning on joint appearances
with Merkel to burnish his European leadership claim, only to
end it by denouncing Muslim immigration and bashing the ECB’s
German-tinged inflation-fighting orthodoxy.  Hollande, ahead in the polls throughout the campaign, has
echoed the criticism of the central bank and promised to
renegotiate a deficit-limitation pact at the core of Merkel’s
approach to the crisis.  In the only pre-election debate, on May 2, Hollande claimed
credit for shifting the conversation from “austerity” to
“growth.” The challenge to Merkel is mostly rhetorical, said
Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York .  “It’s going to be easy for Merkel to sign up to Hollande’s
growth agenda because it means very little in terms of actual
substance,” Rahman said. “However, on the fiscal side, much of
Merkel’s agenda is now codified in EU legislation.”  State Votes  Merkel has her own electoral business to attend to, with
her party vying to hold on to a share of power in the northern
state of Schleswig-Holstein and to re-enter the government of
North Rhine-Westphalia, the largest state, a week later.  In  Italy , mayoral elections on May 6-7 in more than 1,000
cities will be a first gauge of the mood since  Mario Monti  took
over from  Silvio Berlusconi  as prime minister in November and a
corruption scandal shattered the top ranks of the  Northern
League , Berlusconi’s former coalition partner.  Monti’s technocratic government has imposed 20 billion
euros in savings, deepening Italy’s fourth recession since 2001.
An economics professor and former European commissioner, Monti
has said he won’t run in national elections due by May 2013.  “It is rare that a single day offers the chance to gauge
the political mood in the euro zone so widely,”  Janet Henry ,
chief European economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a
research note. “This election blitz could have far-reaching
consequences for further efforts to tackle the debt crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  