-- Euro Set for Biggest Weekly Decline in a Month
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-05-04T11:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/euro-set-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-a-month-before-elections.html
The euro weakened for a fifth day
against the dollar after a European report showed the region’s
manufacturing and services industries shrank in April more than
economists predicted.  The 17-nation currency extended its daily losing streak to
the longest since September as  France  and  Greece  prepared to
hold elections this weekend, creating uncertainty about the
two nations’ commitment to austerity measures. The dollar
strengthened against most of its major counterparts before a
U.S. report that economists said will show employers stepped up
hiring last month.  “If it’s going to go in any one direction, it’s going to
be to the south,”  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. in  London , said of the euro. “We are in
all likelihood going to see a Greek government, and potentially
a French president, talk more openly about a move away from this
fiscal compact.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.3133 at 7:11 a.m.  New York 
time having declined 0.9 percent this week. The shared currency
dropped 0.1 percent to 105.35 yen and weakened 0.2 percent to
81.12 U.K. pence, after sliding to a 22-month low of 81.03
yesterday. The dollar was little changed at 80.21 yen.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing dropped to 46.7 from 49.1
in March, London-based Markit Economics said. That’s below an
initial estimate of 47.4 on April 23. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The euro “could easily challenge the $1.30 levels,”
should it weaken below $1.3075, Bank of New York’s Mellor said.  France, Greece  France and Greece will hold elections on May 6, with French
voters casting ballots in the final round of the country’s
presidential race and Greeks set to decide on a new parliament.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger for the French
presidency who is leading incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion
polls, has called for a re-negotiation of the budget pact
crafted by European leaders in March, saying it needs to place
more emphasis on growth. He has rejected Sarkozy’s plan to
increase  sales tax  to fund a cut in payroll charges.  In Greece, neither of two major political parties that have
supported the nation’s international bailouts -- New Democracy
and Socialist Pasok -- is likely to win an outright majority.  The French and Greek votes “add to the uncertainty” in
the euro area, said Kurt Magnus, executive director of foreign-
exchange sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The euro has slumped 3.9 percent over the past six months,
the worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 1.5
percent, and the yen fell 1.3 percent.  Dollar Rises  The dollar rose the most against the Swedish krona and
Norwegian krone before the Labor Department releases its non-
farm payrolls figures today.  U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs last month after a
120,000 increase in March, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate held at
a three-year low of 8.2 percent, economists predict.  “It’s a battle between U.S. dollar weakness and euro
weakness, which is the reason the euro is so stuck,” Nomura’s
Magnus said. The payrolls figure may be around 200,000, and that
would help drive up the  Dollar Index (DXY)  to about 79.8, he said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.1 percent to 79.28, having risen 0.7
percent this week.  Volatility Declines  Implied volatility for three-month options on the euro
versus the dollar dropped 0.8 percent to 9.6725 percent. It fell
to 9.47 percent on April 27, the lowest since August 2008.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  The euro may extend gains versus the  New Zealand dollar 
after rising above the March high of NZ$1.6399 yesterday,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The break of the NZ$1.64 resistance area and March high
suggests a deeper corrective phase is underway” for  New
Zealand ’s currency, Niall O’Connor, a technical analyst in New
York at JPMorgan, wrote in a research note.  The focus now is the NZ$1.6560-1.6570 range that includes
the 38.2 percent retracement of the New Zealand’s dollar drop
from November to February, O’Connor wrote, citing Fibonacci
theory. Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory prices rise or
fall by certain percentages after reaching a new high or low.  The euro was little changed today at NZ$1.6429.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  