-- Ex-BP Worker Pleads Not Guilty to Destroying Spill Evidence
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-03T20:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ex-bp-worker-pleads-not-guilty-to-destroying-spill-size-evidence.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer pleaded not
guilty to charges he intentionally destroyed evidence requested
by the U.S. about the size of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The U.S. said Kurt Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts
to estimate the amount of oil leaking from the well, deleted
text messages between him and a supervisor. Mix was charged with
two counts of obstruction of justice, in the first criminal case
arising from the incident.  “I plead not guilty,” Mix said at his arraignment today
in federal court in New Orleans.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Knowles accepted the plea. He
restricted Mix’s travel to  Texas ,  Louisiana , Massachusetts and
 New York  after lawyers for the U.S. said the defendant may flee
if released.  The  Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010, said last week it was continuing the
probe. The charges against Mix are likely to be followed by
others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said yesterday in a
press conference.  ‘Time Frame’  “We expect there will be others,” Holder told reporters
in  Washington . “I wouldn’t want to put a time frame on when
charges will be brought.”  A federal grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Barbara
O’Donnell said in a sworn statement filed in the Mix case last
week.  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in a sworn statement that was
filed April 23.  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 despite receiving
multiple notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the
spill, “which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type,
that instant messages and  text messages  needed to be
preserved,” the U.S. said in its indictment of Mix issued
yesterday.  ‘Hundreds’ of Messages  The text streams involved “hundreds” of messages, Derek
Cohen, a Justice Department attorney, told Knowles at the
arraignment. “Obviously, it’s in dispute over his intent.”  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, Joan McPhee, his attorney, told the judge.  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of text
messages,” McPhee said. The information saved includes flow
rate data, work on the efforts to contain the spill, and his
personal log notes, she said.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in  New Orleans .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 