-- Exxaro Resources Considers Fast-Tracking Congo Iron-Ore
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-05-04T16:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/exxaro-resources-considers-fast-tracking-congo-iron-ore-project.html
Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , a South African
coal company, is studying speeding up an iron-ore project in the
Republic of Congo after its 20 percent stake in a mine producing
the commodity contributed more than half its earnings last year.  “We’re looking at the geology, the plans, the product, the
possible start date, the size,” Chief Executive Officer Sipho Nkosi said in an interview in  Pretoria  yesterday, referring to a
revised production schedule due in July.  Exxaro, South Africa’s second-largest coal company, plans
to boost profitability by expanding into iron ore at the Mayoko
project and elsewhere after a failed bid for Australian producer
Territory Resources Ltd. The coal miner’s holding in Kumba  Iron
Ore  Ltd.’s Sishen mine added 4.5 billion rand ($582 million) to
after-tax profit in 2011, or 58 percent of the total.  “We’re going to look beyond this one over a period of time
for other opportunities,” Nkosi said. “ Australia  will always
be a very good destination, and so is  South America .”  Exxaro is reviewing work at Mayoko by African Iron Ltd.,
which it bought for A$313 million ($321 million) in March, and
will negotiate with Congo on access to rail and port facilities
and upgrade costs once revised plans are complete, he said.  The port at Pointe-Noire will have to be expanded to handle
an estimated 40 million to 50 million tons of ore annually for
Exxaro,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Equatorial Resources Ltd., Nkosi said.  Equatorial Resources  Exxaro has a “very good working relationship” with
Equatorial, developer of the adjacent Mayoko-Moussondji project,
he said, adding there may be scope for further cooperation.  “Whether that will result in something else, it’s going to
depend on what their long-term view is,” he said. “Whether
they want to be miners, or they want to do something else.”  Macquarie First South Securities (Pty) Ltd., which last
month said African Iron planned initial output by mid-2013 of an
annual 5 million tons, sees opportunities for Equatorial and
Exxaro to collaborate on infrastructure or merge their projects.  “Such consolidation, which we expect would be driven by
Exxaro, would also then give Exxaro the next leg of a broader
West Africa iron-ore strategy with access to Equatorial’s
Badondo project in the northeast of the Congo, leveraging Exxaro
into the middle of another emerging iron-ore project cluster
with export options via Cameroon or Gabon,” it said in a note.  Eskom Talks  For its coal business, Exxaro is ready to start delivering
from the Grootegeluk mine to the Medupi power plant, being built
by South African state power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,
when a supply contract becomes effective this month, Nkosi said.  The two companies are in talks over the supply contract
following delays to the construction of Medupi, with the first
unit now expected to be commissioned in the next 12 months,
according to Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba .  “Our view and their view is that we deliver,” Nkosi said.
“We start deliveries until we finalize” negotiations with
Eskom, which are at a “critical stage,” he said.  Exxaro expects the country to grant environmental approval
for its Fairbreeze mineral-sands mine in KwaZulu-Natal province
by July, after initially expecting output last year, Nkosi said.  The delay won’t affect completion of a deal with Oklahoma
City-based  Tronox Inc. (TROX)  to combine the companies’ mineral-sands
assets and benefit from economies of scale, he said.  “The transaction doesn’t hinge on that, but ideally it is
important that the project gets approved,” the CEO said.  The deal can be closed once Tronox shareholders vote this
month, Nkosi said. The vote won’t be affected by  South Africa ’s
failure so far to approve a transfer of ownership, he said.  Exxaro fell 3.1 percent to 205.50 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, paring its gain in 2012 to 22 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  