-- MF Global Independent Counsel Sought by Republican Lawmaker
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-03T18:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mf-global-independent-counsel-sought-by-republican-congressman.html
A U.S. House Republican lawmaker has
asked colleagues to support his request that the Department of
Justice appoint an independent counsel to investigate the
failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   Representative Michael Grimm of  New York  circulated a draft
letter yesterday asking Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint
the counsel to “take over the investigation into possible
wrongdoing surrounding the collapse of MF Global,” according to
the letter.  Grimm’s letter, which has not been sent to the  Justice
Department , cites potential conflicts between the firm’s former
Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, the former Democratic
senator and governor from  New Jersey , and his relationships with
government officials like  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as well as his past
fundraising for President  Barack Obama ’s campaign. Gensler, who
has recused himself from his agency’s investigation into the
firm, worked with Corzine at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “There’s too many things that have gone on that lead to an
inference of impropriety and for that reason a special
prosecutor is warranted,” Grimm said today in an interview on
CNBC. The letter states that the lawmaker has “no direct
evidence” that the Department of Justice is providing special
treatment in the case.  Eighth-Largest Bankruptcy  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31 after getting margin calls and bank demands for money at its
brokerage unit, MF Global Inc.  U.S. lawmakers, the Department of Justice and federal
regulators are probing the collapse of the firm and the role of
Corzine. Four congressional panels have held hearings on the
bankruptcy of the firm that has left a customer funds shortfall
estimated at $1.6 billion.  “An independent counsel would be in the best interest of
getting customers justice,” James Koutoulas, chief executive
officer of Typhon Capital Management and counsel for the firm’s
former brokerage customers, said in a telephone interview today.  The letter was first reported by Fox Business News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  