-- Facebook’s Sandberg Says Mobile Advertising Growth Area
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-04T15:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/facebook-s-sandberg-says-mobile-advertising-is-key-growth-area.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will play up its
prospects for expanding in mobile advertising when it begins
pitching its initial public offering to investors in New York,
Boston and Silicon Valley next week.  “Mobile is a key area of growth for Facebook,” Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said in a  video  posted
yesterday to accompany the investor road show. The shares are
scheduled to start trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol FB on May 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives are meeting with the social-networking service’s
lead underwriters at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  today in New York to go over talking
points ahead of the IPO, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter. JPMorgan pasted a Facebook sign flanked by two of
the website’s signature thumbs-up icons on the front of its Park
Avenue headquarters to welcome the management team.  Facebook intends to raise as much as $11.8 billion in the
IPO that would value it as high as $96 billion. Founded in 2004,
the company makes most of its sales from online advertising for
businesses that want to reach a user base of more than 900
million. It began this year to sell marketing messages tailored
for mobile devices, part of a push to keep it from losing
business to competitors including Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Sponsored Stories  “They’re really going to have to prove that they can start
to monetize these 900 million users, not just in a desktop
environment, but more importantly in a mobile environment, which
is even more questionable,”  Eric Jackson , president and founder
of investment firm Ironfire Capital LLC, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  Facebook executives highlighted other ways they’re trying
to help advertisers reach users in the road show video. These
include so-called Sponsored Stories, marketing messages woven
into the status updates and other information on people’s
profile pages.  “Sponsored Stories enable businesses to increase the reach
and distribution of stories about their brand,” Sandberg said.
“Today only a small fraction of our impressions are sponsored
stories, which gives us lots of room to grow.”  The Menlo Park, California-based company had 488 million
users who logged onto Facebook via mobile devices as of the end
of March, according to its IPO  filing.   ‘Heavy Investment Stage’  The video presentation includes pitches from Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  as well as David Ebersman, the
company’s chief financial officer. Facebook plans to hold
meetings with investors on May 7 in  New York , May 8 in Boston
and May 11 in Palo Alto,  California , according to a road show
schedule.  The company is in “heavy investment stage,” Ebersman said
in the video. Stepped-up spending may have an impact on margins,
he suggested. The company’s operating margin slipped to about 36
percent in the first quarter from as high as about 60 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last month, Facebook announced that it was acquiring
mobile-photo service Instagram for $1 billion, the company’s
largest purchase.  “While we aspire for Facebook to be a high margin business
over the long run, we won’t hesitate to make additional
incremental investments needed to drive user engagement,”
Ebersman said. “Mobile is a good example of this investment
approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  