-- Facebook Executives Said to Meet With Underwriters Tomorrow
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-03T22:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/facebook-executives-said-to-meet-with-underwriters-tomorrow.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will meet with its
underwriters in New York tomorrow to discuss the social-
networking service’s planned initial public offering, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Facebook will hold a so-called teach-in at each of its main
banks, starting with Morgan Stanley and then moving on to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the plan is
private. Executives will use the sessions to go over Facebook’s
 growth prospects  and other talking points for its IPO road show,
the person said.  Facebook plans to hold meetings with investors on May 7 in
New York, May 8 in Boston and May 11 in Palo Alto, California,
according to a road show schedule.  Spokesmen for the underwriters declined to comment.
Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Facebook has hired 33 banks to manage the IPO, including
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the lead underwriter. In its initial  filing  on
Feb. 1, Facebook named Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Barclays Plc and Allen & Co. to handle
the deal and later added more banks.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company is seeking to
raise as much as $11.8 billion in its offering, scheduled to
price May 17. The company plans to pay underwriters a 1.1
percent fee, two people with knowledge of the company’s plans
said in March. Based on that percentage, underwriters would
share about $130 million assuming Facebook sells stock at the
top end of its proposed price range. The lead bank typically
earns a bigger cut of the total.  At 1.1 percent, Facebook would be paying its banks about
one-fifth the typical rate for U.S. IPOs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With larger IPOs, banks can often afford
to take a smaller percentage fee, and high-profile offerings
such as Facebook can lead to future business, making securities
firms willing to accept less. Facebook won’t disclose the fees
for its bankers until the IPO is completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  