-- Facebook Valuing Itself at Up to $96 Billion in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-03T22:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/facebook-valuing-itself-at-up-to-96-billion-in-internet-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s most
popular social-networking site, is valuing itself at as much as
$96 billion in an initial public offering, the largest on record
for an Internet company.  Facebook and its holders plan to sell about 337.4 million
shares at $28 to $35 each, according to a regulatory filing
today. At the high end of the range, the  Menlo Park , California-
based company would raise $11.8 billion, topping the record 2.92
billion euro ($2.8 billion) IPO for German Internet company T-
Online International AG in 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Under 27-year-old Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
and Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , Facebook has
amassed more than 900 million users and pushed revenue to more
than $4 billion in the 12 months through March 31. The top end
of the IPO range values Facebook at 24 times revenue on that
basis, compared with 5 times for rival  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Bloomberg
data show.  “It’s still a rich valuation, and unless they are going to
monetize their user base, it’s going to take a whole lot of
growth to justify that,” said  Barry Ritholtz , CEO of FusionIQ,
an equities research firm in  New York .  Facebook is scheduled to price the offering May 17,
Bloomberg data show. The company was considering an IPO
valuation of as high as $100 billion, people with knowledge of
the matter have said. At that amount, Facebook would have a
market  capitalization  about half as high as Google’s -- even
though it has one-10th the sales.  Offering’s Origins  Facebook is offering 180 million shares, while existing
owners such as  Accel Partners  and Digital Sky Technologies are
offering 157.4 million, according to the filing. Zuckerberg is
offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million shares. The majority
of his net proceeds will be used to pay taxes associated with
exercising a stock option.  Zuckerberg may control about 57 percent of the voting power
of Facebook’s outstanding capital stock after the offering,
according to the filing. Sandberg, who isn’t selling in the
offering, holds 1.9 million shares.  Facebook will have 2.14 billion Class A and B common shares
outstanding following the IPO, worth about $75 billion at the
top end of the  price range . Including restricted stock units,
options and common stock to be issued following the purchase of
Instagram Inc., the shares outstanding would total 2.74 billion,
implying a market value of $96 billion at the high end.  Facebook’s Float  Facebook isn’t pursuing the so-called “low-float”
strategy employed by some Internet companies to boost initial
demand for their stock. The company is making 16 percent of its
class A and class B common stock public in the sale, a higher
proportion than Internet peers Groupon Inc., LinkedIn Corp. and
Pandora Media Inc. sold in their IPOs, Bloomberg data show.
Taking into account other shares, options and restricted stock
units that may be added, the float would be about 12 percent.  On average, the 28 Internet companies that have completed
U.S. IPOs since the beginning of 2011 have floated 17 percent of
their shares, Bloomberg data show. In a typical initial offer,
investors receive shares worth closer to 20 percent of the
company, according to Paul Deninger, a senior managing director
at New York-based investment bank Evercore Partners Inc.  Google Comparison  Facebook filed for the IPO Feb. 1, using a placeholder
amount of $5 billion. Zuckerberg, a co-founder, is the company’s
top holder, filings show. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading Facebook’s IPO. The
shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol FB.  The initial share sale would dwarf the 2004 IPO of Google,
Facebook’s biggest competitor for online ads and the world’s
most valuable  Internet company . Google’s offering, the same year
Zuckerberg helped found Facebook, raised $1.9 billion and valued
the company then at about $23 billion. The company currently has
a market value of almost $200 billion.  Facebook follows fellow Internet companies such as Zynga
Inc. and Groupon in going public. Zynga, the maker of Internet
games such as “Farmville,” raised $1 billion in its December
IPO, while online-coupon provider Groupon raised $805 million,
including an overallotment option, in November. Both stocks are
trading below their offer prices.  Harvard Beginnings  Zuckerberg co-founded Facebook with his college roommates
at  Harvard University , developing a site that let students
socialize over the Web. He later made the service accessible to
everyone, intensifying competition with sites such as MySpace
and Friendster.  Both eventually succumbed to Facebook, which lured users
with innovative features like News Feed, which lets people check
on friends’ activities in a single place.  News Corp ., which
bought MySpace in 2005, sold the site last year for a fraction
of the price it paid. Friendster revamped itself as a social-
gaming platform following its 2009 purchase by Malaysia’s MOL
Global Ltd.  Facebook’s revenue surged 88 percent last year to $3.71
billion, with online advertising accounting for almost all of
it. The company also is sharpening its focus on the mobile
market as users spend more time accessing the site through
Internet-ready handheld devices such as the  iPhone . In the first
quarter of 2012, sales climbed 45 percent to $1.06 billion.  “Some people will buy Facebook stock no matter what --
they’ll just buy it,” said  Francis Gaskins , president of
researcher IPOdesktop.com in Marina Del Rey,  California .
“There’s going to be an initial push of enthusiasm and money,
but ultimately, in a year or so, it will come down to valuation
metrics. It has to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  