-- Facebook Seeks Up to $11.8 Billion in Biggest Web IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-03T20:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/facebook-seeks-as-much-as-11-8-billion-in-biggest-internet-ipo.html
(Corrects T-Online sale amount to euros in second
paragraph.)  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s most
popular social-networking site, is seeking as much as $11.8
billion in its initial public offering, the largest on record
for an Internet company.  About 337.4 million shares are being sold at $28 to $35
each, according to a regulatory  filing  from  Menlo Park ,
 California-based Facebook . That compares with the 2.92 billion
euro ($2.8 billion) IPO for German Internet company T-Online
International AG in 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Founded in 2004 and led by 27-year-old Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook has amassed more than 900
million users and  reported  a 24-fold increase in sales over the
past four years. The company’s popularity as a tool for staying
connected online will spur demand for the stock, even as some
investors steer clear of a valuation they deem too high, said
Francis Gaskins, president of researcher IPOdesktop.com.  “Some people will buy Facebook stock no matter what --
they’ll just buy it,” said Gaskins, who is based in Marina Del
Rey,  California . “There’s going to be an initial push of
enthusiasm and money, but ultimately, in a year or so, it will
come down to valuation metrics. It has to.”  The company was considering an IPO valuation of as high as
$100 billion, people with knowledge of the matter have said. At
that amount, Facebook would have a market  capitalization  about
half as high as Google’s -- even though it has one-10th the
sales.  Offering’s Origins  Facebook is offering 180 million of the shares, while
existing owners such as  Accel Partners  and Digital Sky
Technologies are offering 157.4 million shares, according to the
filing. Zuckerberg is offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million
of shares in the sale. The majority of his net proceeds will be
used to pay taxes associated with exercising a stock option.  Facebook filed for the IPO Feb. 1, using a placeholder
amount of $5 billion. Zuckerberg, a co-founder, is the company’s
top holder, filings show. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading Facebook’s IPO. The
shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol FB.  The initial share sale would dwarf the 2004 IPO of Google,
Facebook’s biggest competitor for online ads and the world’s
most valuable  Internet company . Google’s offering, the same year
Zuckerberg helped found Facebook, raised $1.9 billion and valued
the company then at about $23 billion.  Facebook’s History  The social-network operator follows fellow Internet
companies such as Zynga Inc. and Groupon Inc. in going public.
Zynga, the maker of Internet games such as “Farmville,” raised
$1 billion in its December IPO, while online-coupon provider
Groupon raised $805 million, including an overallotment option,
in November. Both stocks are trading below their offer prices.  Zuckerberg co-founded Facebook with his college roommates
at  Harvard University , developing a site that let students
socialize over the Web. He later made the service accessible to
everyone, intensifying competition with sites such as MySpace
and Friendster.  Both eventually succumbed to Facebook, which lured users
with innovative features like News Feed, which lets people check
on friends’ activities in a single place.  News Corp ., which
bought MySpace in 2005, sold the site last year for a fraction
of the price it paid. Friendster revamped itself as a social-
gaming platform following its 2009 purchase by Malaysia’s MOL
Global Ltd.  Facebook’s revenue surged 88 percent last year to $3.71
billion, with online advertising accounting for almost all of
it. The company also is sharpening its focus on the mobile
market as users spend more time accessing the site through
Internet-ready handheld devices such as the  iPhone .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  