-- Facebook ‘Labyrinthian’ Policy Addles Users, Report Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-03T13:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/facebook-labyrinthian-policy-addles-users-report-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking service, isn’t clear enough in
telling its 150 million users in the U.S. how to protect
personal information, according to Consumer Reports.  About 13 million of those users haven’t set online privacy
controls, indicating that many people can’t find the settings or
don’t understand the need to guard data, Consumer Reports said
in the June issue of its magazine. The report says Facebook has
“labyrinthian policies and controls.”  The magazine adds to the scrutiny that Facebook is
receiving, a week before the  Menlo Park , California-based
company is due to start marketing a $5 billion  initial public
offering , Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Blog. One pillar of
Facebook’s strategy is helping advertisers target audiences that
can be identified because users share data on matters such as
dating habits and hobbies.  “A lot of things about the service are not very
transparent to non-technical people,” Jeff Fox, technology
editor of  Consumer Reports , said in a telephone interview.
“Facebook is the custodian of all this information -- they have
a social responsibility to people who use this service.”  Consumers who do use privacy settings may not be aware of
the kinds of information Facebook collects from users and non-
users, such as reports for every visit to a website with a
“like” button on it, according to the report.  The consumer organization, based in Yonkers,  New York ,
released its most extensive review of Facebook after a January
survey of about 2,000 adults with a home Internet connection.
The participants were part of an online panel convened by TNS, a
custom-research agency.  Extrapolated Figures  An estimated 39 million U.S. users of Facebook have
identified a family member on the website, while 4.8 million
have disclosed where they’re going on a certain day,  Consumer
Reports  said, using figures extrapolated from the survey
respondents’ answers.  About 4.7 million pressed a button to “like” a page about
a health condition, revealing information an insurer might use
against them, according to the report. The magazine also
estimated that in 2011, seven million households had security
issues such as someone using their log-ins, a 30 percent
increase from the year before.  All the information can build up a file. The Facebook file
for one Austrian law student included 1,222 pages of data for
three years of activity, according to the magazine. The data
were in 57 categories, including the date and time of log-ins
and longitude and latitude of last known geographic location,
Consumer Reports said.  ‘Detailed Information’  Facebook  collects “the same type of detailed information
on American users,” the magazine reported, citing documents
released by the company to Boston police.  Facebook users’ friends can transfer data to a third party
using one of the applications tied to the site’s platform, even
if a user made that information private, Consumer Reports said.  “Even users who adjust those settings can be surprised by
where their information winds up,” according to the article.  While children less than 13 years old aren’t allowed on the
site under Facebook rules, about 5.6 million of them use it
anyway, according to the article. Facebook removed about 800,000
such accounts in the last year, Consumer Reports estimated.  Facebook appreciates publicity on the issue of children’s
use of the site because the attention may help ensure that
younger kids don’t lie about their ages, said Andrew Noyes, a
company spokesman, in an e-mail.  Reminder to Kids  “Just as parents are always teaching and reminding kids
how to cross the road safely, talking about Internet safety
should be just as important a lesson to learn,” Noyes said.  Facebook said last month it would let its 901 million users
get reports enabling them to see more of their own personal data
that it gathers as they navigate the site. That move may give
consumers more control over how information is used.  “We believe more than 900 million consumers have
voluntarily decided to share and connect on Facebook because we
provide them options and tools that place them in control of
their information and experience,” said Noyes. “As part of our
effort to empower and educate consumers, we always welcome
constructive conversations about online privacy and safety.”  Facebook and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the most-used search
engine, are among companies facing scrutiny over their handling
of consumer data. The Obama administration is pushing Congress
to enact a privacy bill of rights giving individuals more
control of their personal information online.  Because some users are becoming wary, about a quarter of
Facebook’s U.S. members falsify information in their profiles,
according to Fox, the technology editor. That’s a jump from 10
percent two years ago, he said.  “That just suggests that people are becoming self-
defensive or feeling they need to resort to that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  