-- Fed’s Plosser Says He’s ‘Optimistic’ With 3% Growth Forecast
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-03T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/fed-s-plosser-says-he-s-optimistic-with-3-growth-forecast.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  forecast U.S. economic growth of about
3 percent for this year and next, saying he’s more sanguine
about the outlook than many other U.S. policy makers.  “My own views place me in the slightly more optimistic
camp,” Plosser said today in the text of remarks given in  Santa
Barbara ,  California . He predicted inflation “near or slightly
above 2 percent,” and said his “optimism is most evident” in
his forecast that the  unemployment rate  will decline to 7.8
percent by the end of this year from 8.2 percent in March.
Joblessness will fall to “near” 7 percent in 2013, he said.  The odds of more Fed stimulus diminished this week as four
central bankers, including Plosser, said such action probably
won’t be needed and U.S. manufacturing showed unexpected
strength. The  Federal Open Market Committee  left policy
unchanged after its April 24-25 meeting, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that further easing is unlikely unless the
economy deteriorates.  The FOMC repeated last month that borrowing costs will
probably remain “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014. Fed officials raised their projections for the economic
expansion at the April meeting, forecasting growth of 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent this year, up from a January prediction
of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent. They also lowered their forecast
for unemployment to 7.8 percent to 8 percent this year, down
from a January projection of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent.  Near-Term Outlook  “It is fair to say that the projections in April
represented an upgrade in the near-term outlook compared to the
January projections,” Plosser said.  The Philadelphia Fed chief reiterated his view that the
Fed should “provide information about the factors that will
influence its policy decisions,” and voiced his support for the
central bank’s adoption of an inflation target and the release
of policy makers’ appropriate paths for  interest rates .  “While we cannot predict the future, we can and should
clearly communicate our objectives and how we are likely to
react to future events,” Plosser said.  “Clarity and transparency are important for achieving our
objectives, and I believe that the committee will continue on
this journey as it seeks to improve the clarity and
effectiveness of its communications,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  