-- Fed’s Williams Says Restoring Full Employment Will Take Years
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/fed-s-williams-says-restoring-full-employment-will-take-years.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President John Williams said the  U.S. economy  will probably take
years to return to maximum employment, making it “essential”
for the central bank to sustain record accommodation.  “The  unemployment rate  will remain above the natural rate
for several more years,” Williams said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in Santa Barbara, California. “It’s
essential that we keep strong monetary stimulus in place for
quite some time.”  Fed officials last week upgraded their forecasts for
growth, unemployment and inflation even as they said the economy
will require low interest rates through at least late 2014. Data
released since the April 24-25 meeting of policy makers have
pointed to a mixed outlook, with a report today showing that
fewer Americans filed for  unemployment benefits  last week.  “We are still very far from our maximum employment
mandate,” Williams said at an event hosted by the University of
California, Santa Barbara.  Jobless claims fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28, a one-month low, from a revised 392,000 the prior
period, according to Labor Department figures released today.
Still, a separate report today from the Institute for Supply
Management showed service industries expanded in April at a
slower pace than economists projected.  Stocks fell for a second day after the services report
fueled concern the expansion is slowing. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.4 percent to 1,396.11 at 12:21 p.m. in  New
York .  The San Francisco Fed chief reiterated today that the
aftermath of the housing crash, tight credit and a contraction
in government spending has inhibited growth. The slow recovery
means  unemployment  will only “gradually” decline, reaching
about 7 percent at the end of 2014, he said.  Over the long-term, the so-called natural rate of
unemployment will “settle” at 5.5 percent, Williams said. The
unemployment rate in March was 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  