-- First Solar, SunPower See 2012 Gains After Quarterly Loss
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-05-03T23:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/first-solar-sunpower-see-2012-gains-after-quarterly-loss.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) ,
the two largest U.S. solar companies, said restructuring efforts
this quarter will improve 2012 results after posting first-
quarter losses that exceeded analyst’s estimates.  First Solar raised its 2012 earning forecast, due to cost
savings it expects from firing 30 percent of its workforce, the
company said yesterday in a statement. SunPower said its average
cost of producing solar panels will drop after it closes an
older plant in the  Philippines  this year. First Solar also
promoted  James Hughes  to chief executive officer.  The two companies are seeking to streamline operations
after increasing competition from  China  drove down  prices  for
solar panels 49 percent in the past year and waning government
support in  Europe  slowed demand, said  Mark Bachman , an analyst
at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston .  “This quarter was difficult for the entire industry, but
First Solar and SunPower are trying to right-size their
operations and cut costs,” Bachman said in an interview. “This
is not the market anyone was expecting a few years ago but some
painful restructuring might help you survive.” He has neutral
ratings on both companies.  First Solar, the world’s largest thin-film solar company,
expects net income this year to range from $4.00 to $4.50 a
share, up from an earlier forecast of $3.75 to $4.25, “based on
reductions in our ongoing cost structure related to
restructuring initiatives,” the company’s Chief Financial
Officer Mark Widmar said yesterday on a conference call.  Plant Closings  First Solar, based in Tempe,  Arizona , said March 17 it
would fire about 2,000 workers worldwide, close a plant in
 Germany  and reduce production at a factory in  Malaysia .  The “basic imbalance between supply and demand requires
First Solar to seek a new strategy for delivering profitable
growth that can be sustained over an extended period,” Chairman
 Mike Ahearn  said on the call.  Ahearn became interim CEO in October after the company
ousted Rob Gillette, is now stepping aside for Hughes. The new
CEO, 49, joined First Solar in March as chief commercial
officer.  The higher guidance may not signal a recovery in the solar
industry, said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New
York, said in an interview. “I think that the raised guidance
just reflects the one-time savings from the layoffs and
closures.”  Falling Production Costs  SunPower announced April 16 plans to shutter this year its
oldest factory, in the Philippines, and shift production to
facilities with more efficient equipment. The move will reduce
by 2 cents a watt its average cost of producing solar panels,
 Tom Werner , the  San Jose , California-based company’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call yesterday.  “We are confident of achieving or beating our cost target
of 86 cents per watt, on an efficiency-adjusted basis, by the
end of 2012,” Werner said. SunPower’s costs were $1.08 a watt
in the fourth quarter  SunPower, which is 67 percent-owned by Total SA, also said
gross margins are increasing. The company’s profit after
production costs will be 11 percent to 13 percent in the current
quarter, up from 9.2 percent in the first quarter and 6.8
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011. That’s still less than
the 19.6 percent it reported for the first three months of 2011.  SunPower reported a net loss of $74.5 million, or 67 cents
a share in the first quarter, exceeding by 17 cents the average
of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales increased 9.4
percent to $494.1 million from a year earlier.  Restructuring Charges  Excluding $401 million in restructuring charges and $43
million for warranty expenses, First Solar reported a first-
quarter loss of 8 cents a share. The company was expected to
earn 48 cents a share, according to the average of 29  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 12 percent to $497 million.  The companies’ efforts to adjust to slowing demand may not
help, said Theodore O’Neil, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities
Inc. in  New York .  “Once you start restructuring in a business where everyone
else is restructuring and margins are falling, you get stuck in
a downward spiral,” O’Neil said in an interview. “Your move,
designed to make you more competitive, only puts you on the same
footing as your competitor once again. It’s a race to the bottom
as every company lowers prices, restructures and lowers again in
an agonizing, lather, rinse, repeat cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  