-- Florida Will Enforce Anti-Cuba Contract Law, Governor Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-05-03T20:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/florida-will-enforce-anti-cuba-contract-law-governor-says-1-.html
Florida  Governor  Rick Scott  said today
he will enforce a new law blocking governments in the state from
hiring companies that do business in Cuba or Syria,
contradicting a letter he wrote earlier in the week saying the
measure wouldn’t take effect.  “I’m going to enforce the law in Florida,” Scott said
during an interview in his state Capitol office in Tallahassee.
“But the odds are it will end up in litigation.”  Scott had said in a May 1 letter to Secretary of State Ken Detzner the law “will not go into effect” without a federal
law that lets states impose sanctions against Cuba and Syria.
The letter said the measure may conflict with federal law.  Asked during the interview about why his position shifted,
Scott said the U.S. government should treat  Syria  and Cuba the
way it treats  Iran . The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions on
Iran.  The law, which Scott signed May 1 and takes effect July 1,
applies to contracts of $1 million or more. Scott said in
remarks prepared for the bill signing that the ban is aimed at
“undeniably repressive” governments in the two countries.  The measure may punish one of  Brazil ’s largest builders,
Odebrecht SA, which is bidding on a proposed $700 million hotel
and retail complex at Miami International Airport and is
renovating Cuba’s Port of Mariel. An employee in the Odebrecht’s
press office, who declined to be identified, citing company
rules, had no immediate comment.  Cuban-American Support  Scott’s initial statement that he wouldn’t enforce the law
sparked complaints from U.S. Representative David Rivera and
several fellow Republicans in the state Legislature, who called
for the measure to be put in place.  The law was pushed by elected officials from the
politically active Cuban-American community in Miami-Dade, the
state’s most populous county, which Scott lost in his primary
and general election races.  “He’s just starting to establish a relationship with the
Cuban-American community and he’s already caused that effort
great harm,” said Ana Navarro, a Miami-based political
consultant who was co-chairwoman of 2008 Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain ’s Hispanic advisory council. “Most Cubans
felt used and fooled and now he’s backtracking.”  Brian Burgess, Scott’s communications director, said the
governor didn’t intentionally mislead Cuban-Americans.  Scott’s Platform  “We all have to do a better job communicating,” Burgess
said after the interview.  Scott, 59, a former chief executive officer of  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA) , won office in 2010 on a platform that he would decrease
Florida’s  unemployment  rate by making it easier to do business
in the state.  William Reinsch , president of the Washington-based  National
Foreign Trade Council , a business group in  Washington , said in a
May 1 interview that the state can’t enforce the law, citing a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  The court in 2000 ruled in favor of the NFTC when the group
sued over a Massachusetts law blocking government deals with
companies doing business in Burma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  