-- Ford Opens Thailand Plant to Expand Southeast Asian Export Hub
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-03T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ford-opens-thailand-plant-to-expand-southeast-asian-export-hub.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  opened a $450 million
plant in  Thailand  that can make 150,000 cars a year, expanding
its export hub to meet rising demand in neighboring countries.  The automaker will begin producing its new Focus compact at
the Rayong factory in eastern Thailand next month, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said in a statement today.  The facility increases Ford’s annual capacity in Thailand
to 445,000 vehicles as the automaker aims to boost  global sales 
to 8 million units by 2015 with one-third of deliveries in  Asia 
by 2020. The Rayong plant is capable of producing six vehicle
models as Ford expects to widen its lineup in ASEAN countries,
 New Zealand  and  Australia  to compete with bigger rivals  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The new factory presents a “sizable export” opportunity,
Joe Hinrichs, president of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa, said in
an interview yesterday. New Focus compact cars made in the plant
will be exported to ASEAN countries, Australia and New Zealand,
he said.  The Rayong plant is one of eight new factories Ford aims to
open across the Asia Pacific and Africa under the mid-term plan
ending 2015. The region accounted for about 7.5 percent of the
automaker’s first-quarter revenue, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The plant “will allow us to meet the enormous growth in
vehicle demand across this region in the coming years,”
Hinrichs said in the statement.  Ford’s production was hurt by Thailand’s worst flooding in
almost 70 years last October, causing losses of more than $80
million, Hinrichs said.  Thailand Floods  “We lost a lot of production in the fourth quarter and
coming into the first quarter, we still felt the languishing
effects of that,” Hinrichs said. “But it hasn’t changed our
fundamental strategy, which is our commitment to Thailand, as an
export and manufacturing hub.”  The Asia Pacific and  Africa  business posted an operating
loss of $95 million in the three months ended March, compared
with $33 million profit a year earlier. This followed a loss of
$83 million and $43 million in the fourth and third quarter last
year respectively.  Thailand’s total car production rose 11 percent to a record
190,935 units in March from a year earlier, according to the
Federation of Thai Industries.  Ford’s Rayong plant may add as many as 11,000 new jobs,
including 2,200 direct jobs with Ford and 8,800 jobs through its
supplier and dealer networks.  The company estimated local purchases of components will be
worth as much as $800 million.  Ford last month said it would invest an additional $27
million with partner  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  in AutoAlliance Thailand,
where it makes the Ford Ranger pickup and Ford Fiesta
subcompact. The investment will be used to increase capacity by
20,000 units a year, the companies said in a joint statement
April 25.  Outside of Thailand in the region, Ford is considering
 Indonesia  for possible expansion, Henrichs said.  “Indonesia has great potential to be our important market
tomorrow,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  