-- Fortress First-Quarter Profit Falls on Hedge Fund Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-03T20:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/fortress-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-hedge-fund-fees.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded private-equity and hedge fund manager in
the U.S., said first-quarter profit fell 45 percent on lower
management fees and incentive income.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, declined to $57 million, or
11 cents a share, compared with $103 million, or 20 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 10-cents  average estimate  of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fortress joins Blackstone Group LP and Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC in reporting falling profit as financial
markets pause amid the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe . Fortress
is under the leadership of co-founder Randal Nardone after
former chief executive officer  Daniel Mudd  resigned in January
amid a government lawsuit stemming from his tenure as the chief
of mortgage financing company  Fannie Mae .  “I have great confidence in our ability to grow our assets
and generate substantial, stable cash flows,” Daniel Bass,
Fortress’s chief financial officer, said on a call today with
analysts and investors. “When the market is more conducive to
realizations, we have a large amount of embedded earnings, both
in our funds and through our balance sheet.”  Fortress fell 0.6 percent to $3.62 in New York trading. The
stock has risen 7.1 percent this year. The shares are down 80
percent since Fortress’s February 2007 initial public offering,
when the company sold stock at $18.50 a share to become the
first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund manager.  Blackstone (BX) ,
which followed four months later, has lost more than half of its
value.  Assets Rise  Global hedge funds rose 4.4 percent on average in the first
quarter,  according to  data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, which tracks the largest U.S. companies, rose
12 percent in the first quarter.  Fortress said assets under management rose to $46.4 billion
from $43.7 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. Assets in
the private-equity business rose to $13.2 billion from $12.5
billion during the same period, as the value of holdings gained.  The company gathered $2.9 billion from 150 investors during
the quarter, the most in any quarter since 2008. Fortress’s base
of limited partners is growing, with 30 percent of the
commitments coming from new investors and 30 percent coming from
outside the U.S., Nardone said during the conference call.
Fortress may begin raising a new buyout fund in the second half
of the year,  Wesley Edens , the firm’s co-chairman, said on the
call.  Blackstone, Och-Ziff  Fortress’s distributable earnings don’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules, the
company’s net loss attributable to Class A shareholders narrowed
to $30 million, or 16 cents a share, from $103 million, or 58
cents, a year earlier.  The firm also said it will pay a dividend of 5 cents a
share to unitholders on May 21.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest buyout company and a
bellwether for the private-equity industry, last month reported
economic net income fell 24 percent to $432.3 million as its
private-equity holdings rose at a slower pace.  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , the hedge fund run
by Daniel Och, yesterday reported a 12 percent drop in first-
quarter distributable profit on lower incentive income.  Mudd Resigns  Private-equity firms pool investor money with a mandate to
use it to buy companies, using mostly debt, with the intention
of later selling the companies or taking them public for a
profit. Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on the price of assets. Managers of both types of
funds charge annual management fees, traditionally 1.5 percent
to 2 percent, and receive a portion of investment gains equal to
20 percent.  Nardone, a Fortress principal, is serving as interim chief
executive officer after Mudd resigned to respond to allegations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that he
understated by hundreds of billions of dollars the subprime
loans held by Fannie Mae, where he was CEO from 2004 to 2008.
Fortress last month said it paid Mudd $4.6 million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  