-- Fracking Fluids May Migrate to Aquifers, Researcher Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/fracking-fluids-may-migrate-to-aquifers-researcher-says.html
Chemically treated drilling fluid can
migrate through thousands of feet of rock and endanger water
supplies, said a hydrologist whose research calls into question
the safety of hydraulic fracturing for natural gas.  The fluids can migrate faster that previously thought, Tom
Myers, a Reno, Nevada, researcher, said yesterday. His study,
published in the online journal  Ground Water  on April 17, says
fluids can reach shallow drinking-water aquifers in as little as
three years.  “If contaminants reach natural fractures under pressure,
the upward flow has the potential to be enhanced greatly,”
 Myers , an independent consultant who has worked for conservation
groups and governments, said. “It can flow upward if there’s a
pathway and unless it’s completely impermeable, there’s always a
pathway. It’s just a question of how long it takes.”  The safety of water supplies is a key concern of critics of
fracking, a drilling technique in which water, chemicals and
sand are pumped deep underground to free trapped natural gas.
Fracking, which has boosted supplies and sent prices to their
lowest in a decade, is being investigated by the  U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency  for possible impacts on water.  Drillers say there has been no documented case of fluids
reaching drinking water.  Commissioned by Environmentalists  Gas industry officials were quick to point out that the
study was commissioned by  Catskill Mountainkeeper , a
Youngsville, New York-based environmental group that opposes
fracking, and The Park Foundation in Ithaca, which offers
research grants. Computer models used by Myers contain errors
that skew his results, according to Terry Engelder, professor of
geosciences at The  Pennsylvania State University  in  University
Park .  “This is considered settled science,” Simon Lomax,
research director for  Energy in Depth , a Washington-based
industry group, said in an interview. “There are thousands of
feet of rock between deep-shale formations and shallow aquifers,
and it’s precisely that barrier that keeps these fluids miles
away from shallow drinking-water sources.”  Catskill Mountainkeeper commissioned the study after a 2009
finding by New York regulators that fracking fluid couldn’t
migrate into drinking water, according to Ramsay Adams,
executive director of the environmental group. The New York
 Department of Environmental Conservation  is drafting rules for
hydraulic fracturing and has so far not allowed the drilling
technique.  New York Water  The Myers study bolsters the group’s claim that fracking
isn’t safe for  New York  state, home to unfiltered aquifers that
provide water to  New York City  and Syracuse.  “We know less about what’s underground than we know what’s
at the bottom of the deepest oceans,” Adams said in an
interview. “That blanket statement that there’s this
impermeable wall that will keep these chemicals down there is
false and it changes everything.”  While New York regulators are reviewing the Myers study,
they have concluded that “no significant adverse impact to
water resources is likely to occur due to underground vertical
migration of fracturing fluids,”  Emily DeSantis, a department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The high salinity of native
water in the Marcellus and other Devonian shales is also
evidence that fluid has been trapped in the pore spaces for
hundreds of millions of years, implying that there is no
mechanism for the movement of fluids between formations.”  Computer Model  Myers used computer models to predict how fracking fluid
will react in the Marcellus Shale after it is used to shatter
rock and free trapped gas. He found that a process in which
water migrates through naturally occurring faults over tens of
thousands of years may be accelerated by fracking.  The Marcellus formation, which stretches from New York to
 Tennessee , may hold enough gas to supply the U.S. for three
years. Over 4,000 wells have been drilled by fracking in
 Pennsylvania  since 2009.  Engelder said Myers used an “unrealistically high” number
for permeability of rock above the shale layer that contains
gas. That produced results that greatly exaggerated the time it
could take for fluid to migrate from the fracking zone.  Myers also assumed that pressures created by fracking will
drive fluids away from the gas-bearing rock when in fact they
will do the opposite, Engelder said.  “In my view the issue is settled, which is that it can’t
happen on a time scale that is important to mankind,” Engelder
said in an interview.  Chances ‘Remote’  A  report  last year from a  task force  named by U.S. Energy
Secretary Steven Chu found that while fracking poses
environmental risks “the likelihood of properly injected
fracturing fluid reaching drinking water through fractures is
remote.”  A study last year by consultants  ICF International (ICFI)  for New
York found that layers of sandstone between shale formations and
aquifers assure that fracking in New York poses no “foreseeable
risk” to drinking water.  Myers said drillers should map fracking zones for the
presence of faults, and use monitoring wells to track hydrology
before fracking begins.  “I am suggesting that over a 50 to 100 year time period,
that we could be creating lots of places where this stuff could
come out,” Myers said. “I don’t think you’ve found a dedicated
monitoring well anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  