-- France Telecom Benefits From Roaming Fees as Profit Drops
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-03T09:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/france-telecom-quarterly-profit-falls-8-1-on-wireless-rivalry.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s
largest phone company, said it will bring in revenue faster than
forecast from  Iliad SA (ILD)  after roaming fees from the wireless
rival helped first-quarter sales beat analyst estimates.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier to 3.43
billion euros ($4.5 billion), Paris-based France Telecom said
today. Revenue slipped 2.7 percent to 10.9 billion euros,
exceeding the 10.8 billion-euro average estimate of 12 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is proof France Telecom was better prepared than
Bouygues Telecom or SFR,” said Will Draper, an analyst at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, citing units of Bouygues SA and
 Vivendi SA. (VIV)   Iliad, operating under the Free brand, became France’s
fourth mobile-phone operator in January, prompting price cuts
and stealing subscribers from SFR and  France Telecom , which
sells wireless packages under the Orange brand. France Telecom
lost 615,000 wireless customers last quarter in its home market,
where the operator generates about half of its revenue.  “We lost a lot of clients until mid-March, after Free came
in,” Chief Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said during a
conference call. “We made up for most of the negative effect of
the fourth entrant on our mobile revenue with the proceeds from
our roaming contract with Free.”  ‘Worst is Over’  The roaming agreement will bring in 1 billion euros in
revenue for France Telecom over three years, Pellissier said
today, accelerating from an earlier prediction for the same
amount over six years.  France Telecom rose 2.3 percent to 10.47 euros at 11:15
a.m. in Paris. The stock fell 16 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with declines of 3.9 percent for  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and 4.7 percent for  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   “Revenue in France was better than we expected, and France
Telecom’s getting more revenue than planned from its roaming
agreement with Free,” said Espirito’s Draper, who recommends
buying France Telecom shares with a target of 17.25 euros. “We
think the worst is over in terms of competition from Free
mobile.”  The French operator’s first-quarter Ebitda compared with
the 3.44 billion-euro average estimate of 12 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. The profit margin slipped almost 1.9 percentage
points to 31.4 percent, the company said.  Revenue from France declined 4 percent to 5.4 billion euros
during the quarter. France Telecom’s wireless market share fell
1.5 percentage points. Its mobile customer base shrank 0.7
percent to 26.5 million users at the end of March.  France  Telecom confirmed its forecast to have “close to”
8 billion euros in operating cash flow this year.  ‘Pricing Impact’  While rivals have turned to cost cuts to make up for profit
lost to Iliad, France Telecom’s Pellissier said no “brutal”
cost reductions are planned in 2012. The company reduced
marketing spending in the quarter. It announced a longer-term
 plan  for costs in February, with projected savings of 2.5
billion euros by 2015 through network sharing, changes in
logistics and reducing client service costs.  “Maybe it won’t be enough to fully compensate the pricing
impact of the fourth entrant, but it’s something,” said
Pellissier. “Either way we’ve said we will not cut jobs in
France in the short term.”  SFR is reviewing its strategy and cost structure to offset
a projected slump in earnings and yesterday appointed Michel Combes of Vodafone Group Plc as chief executive officer to
develop a new strategy.  Bouygues SA (EN)  has announced 300 million
euros in cost cuts.  France Telecom is refocusing its business on faster-growing
 emerging markets  as mobile revenue in Europe stalls. The
operator last month won approval from Egyptian regulators to buy
out the remaining publicly traded shares in its wireless venture
with billionaire Naguib Sawiris, part of a $2 billion
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  