-- Freddie Mac Says Mortgage Refund Demands Hit $3.2 Billion
-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-03T20:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/freddie-mac-says-mortgage-buyback-requests-rose-to-3-2-billion.html
Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance
company operating under U.S. conservatorship, said its pending
requests to lenders for refunds on faulty mortgages rose about
19 percent in the first quarter to $3.2 billion.  The new total included 38 percent that were outstanding for
more than four months, the McLean, Virginia-based company said
today in a securities  filing . The sum represents the unpaid
balance on requests to sellers and servicers of single-family
home loans, and the increase is measured from the end of 2011.
The total decreased from $3.4 billion in the first quarter of
last year.  Costs tied to faulty mortgages have cost the nation’s
biggest banks more than $72 billion since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and lenders say the
threat of more “putbacks” is deterring them from making new
home loans backed by Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae .  Most banks “are actively exiting the mortgage market and
have steep declines in their mortgage portfolio,”  Meredith
Whitney , head of the self-named advisory firm, said today in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “The big issue is, do you want to be in bed with
an agency that is going to come back and sue you? No.”  A Federal Reserve  survey  released this week asked senior
loan officers to explain why they were less likely than in 2006
to originate a conventional home loan that meets standards of
the so-called government-sponsored enterprises. More than half
the respondents “noted the higher risk of putbacks of
delinquent mortgages by the GSEs as an important factor, and
that factor was listed as the most important one by the largest
number of banks,” the Fed reported.  Investors who buy mortgages typically are entitled to ask
for refunds or compensation if they later discover that data on
home values or the borrower’s income is wrong. Freddie Mac was
seized in 2008 by the U.S. to stave off its collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  