-- French Soft Wheat Rated as Good or Excellent Gains to 65%
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-03T15:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/french-soft-wheat-rated-as-good-or-excellent-gains-to-65-.html
French soft wheat rated as “good” or
“excellent” increased to 65 percent in the latest week from 63
percent a week earlier, crop office FranceAgriMer said.  The soft wheat rated “good” advanced to 52 percent of the
crop in the seven days ended April 30 from 51 percent a week
earlier, while 13 percent was rated “excellent” from 12
percent the previous week, Montreuil-sous-Bois, France-based
FranceAgriMer  wrote  on its website.  Soil-water reserves in France, the European Union’s largest
wheat grower, improved in April as more rain fell than usual,
the  Agriculture Ministry  said. Crops benefited from rain that
relieved drought stress for some winter grains, crop researcher
Arvalis Institut du Vegetal said last week.  The ratings are the average for eight regions representing
54 percent of French soft-wheat production, according to the
crop office. France accounted for 5.9 percent of the world wheat
crop last year, based on International Grains Council data.  In the Alsace region, where fields were damaged by extreme
cold in February, the crop rated “good” or excellent’’
advanced to 44 percent from 40 percent, while in Lorraine 33
percent of wheat fell into those categories, from 29 percent the
previous week. In Centre, the country’s main wheat-growing area,
64 percent of soft wheat matched the two top ratings, from 61
percent.  France ’s durum wheat rated “good” or “excellent”
increased to 49 percent of the crop from 46 percent the previous
week, FranceAgriMer wrote.  Durum Wheat  Durum wheat rated “excellent” was unchanged at 5 percent,
while the crop rated “good” climbed to 44 percent from 41
percent, based on three regions making up 58 percent of French
production of the grain.  Winter barley rated “good” and “excellent” remained at
48 percent and 10 percent of the crop, respectively, based on
conditions in seven regions that represent 56 percent of the
average national output.  For spring barley, the “excellent” rating rose to 19
percent of the grain from 18 percent a week earlier, while grain
rated “good” fell 1 percentage point to 60 percent. The
ratings are based on data from five regions that on average grow
47 percent of the French crop, according to FranceAgriMer.  Spring barley in the Lorraine region continued to improve,
with the portion rated “excellent” climbing to 24 percent,
from 19 percent last week and 7 percent two weeks ago, according
to FranceAgriMer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  