-- Fuel Policies Bedevil Asia as Price Increases Hurt Poor: Economy
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g ,   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-05-03T07:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/fuel-policies-bedevil-asia-as-price-increases-hurt-poor-economy.html
For K. Indrani, who cleans homes in
 Colombo  to support her invalid husband and 16-year-old daughter,
living on the 600 rupees ($4.70) she earns a day just got harder
because the Sri Lankan government raised fuel prices in February.  “We have only three lights in our house, but we try to
keep them off as much as possible,” the 46-year-old said.
“This is affecting my daughter’s studies. We are forced to keep
the fridge running, but we are having to cut down on food as we
can now afford less on the same pay.”  Indrani’s plight highlights the dilemma for Asian
governments from Indonesia to  India  as they struggle to rein in
rising subsidies for energy and food that are inflating budget
deficits. Sri Lanka’s  inflation  doubled to 5.5 percent in March
after the island raised fuel prices the previous month to curb
the  trade gap , and concern that higher costs will distress the
poor and spur voter anger has restrained increases elsewhere.  Even as a 33 percent jump in crude  oil prices  since
September strained budgets, India hasn’t boosted gasoline prices
since November, and diesel, kerosene and cooking gas since June.
Allies of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s ruling Congress party
have opposed a provisional plan to deregulate diesel prices, the
Hindustan Times reported, and rising living costs have prompted
rallies and strikes in recent years. Indonesia’s plan to raise
fuel prices earlier this year was derailed by the biggest public
protests since 2008, the time of the last increase.  ‘Budget Blowouts’  “It’s very difficult to roll back these subsidies,” said
 Agost Benard , a credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , which
lowered India’s rating outlook and held off from boosting
Indonesia’s in April. “Governments find themselves pressurized
by rising costs of subsidies and budget blowouts and the
political backlash they face.”  Malaysia’s government, facing elections by early 2013,
hasn’t announced further changes to its retail fuel policy since
reducing subsidies for 95-RON gasoline, diesel and liquefied
petroleum gas in 2010, when it also stopped paying to keep
prices of the highest grade 97-RON gasoline low.  Subsidies account for about 10 percent of India’s annual
budget, according to government estimates, and about 15 percent
of state spending in Indonesia, according to  Capital Economics 
Ltd. India’s budget deficit widened to 5.9 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ended March 31, from a target of
4.6 percent. Failure by Indonesia to pare spending on energy
subsidies would boost the budget deficit to 3.5 percent of GDP,
from 1.3 percent last year, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
has said.  Hurting Development  “If you look at Indonesia and India, the degree of
subsidies is now compromising the development expenditure of
these countries,” said Sanjay Mathur, Singapore-based head of
research and strategy for non-Japan  Asia  at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “They need to start effecting fuel price
increases.”  The cost of insuring Indonesia’s sovereign debt for five
years using credit-default swaps has climbed about 30 basis
points to 172.59 basis points yesterday in  New York  from a
seven-month low reached in March, according to data provider CMA.  The contracts, which typically climb as investor confidence
deteriorates and decrease as it improves, pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The cost of insuring Malaysia’s debt against non-payment
has advanced about 18 basis points to 109.96 basis points from
March, when it fell to its lowest level since August. Credit-
default swaps on  State Bank  of India have risen 45 basis points
to 325.21 basis points since Feb. 20, when the rate was the
lowest since Nov. 1. Some investors consider the state-owned
lender, the nation’s biggest, a proxy for the sovereign.  Upgrade Delayed  Some Asian countries keep fuel and food costs low for
consumers by paying suppliers to sell goods below the market
price. Governments can also lose out on revenue from state-owned
companies that are forced to sell at regulated prices.  In  Indonesia , S&P kept the country’s credit rating
unchanged last month, refraining from joining  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service in raising the Southeast Asian nation
to investment grade after parliament rejected a proposal for a
33 percent increase in subsidized-fuel prices from April 1.  Lawmakers instead allowed the government to raise rates
only if the Indonesia Crude Price exceeds the state budgetary
assumption of $105 a barrel by 15 percent over a six-month
period. President Yudhoyono’s administration now plans to cap
the sale of below-market-rate fuel for certain vehicles.  “The failure to push through reform of the fuel subsidy
regime is also bad news for Indonesia’s long-run growth
prospects,” said Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at
Capital Economics. A large subsidy bill “will leave the
government with fewer resources to spend on things such as
badly-needed infrastructure upgrades and better education.”  Policy Impact  In India, S&P lowered the sovereign credit outlook to
negative last month amid concern that Asia’s third-largest
economy will fail to stem a growth slowdown and widening budget
and current-account deficits.  Beyond the political backlash, the impact on monetary
policy and the economy provides another disincentive for
governments considering lower subsidies. Rising prices would put
pressure on central banks across Asia to tighten monetary policy
even as the region grapples with persistent threats to growth
from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in  China ’s expansion.  The euro remained lower following a three-day decline on
bets that European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will hint
at further stimulus measures to counter the region’s debt crisis
after today’s policy meeting. The ECB will keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 1 percent today, according to all
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Services Growth  Indian services expanded at close to the slowest pace in
five months in April, the Purchasing Managers’ Index released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed today. In China, a
survey by the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing indicated non-manufacturing
industries grew at a slower pace in April.  Still, fewer Americans probably filed initial applications
for  unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims fell by
9,000 to 379,000 in the week ended April 28, a Bloomberg News
survey of 46 economists showed before a report due today.  Taiwan reported April 30 GDP grew 0.36 percent last quarter,
the smallest gain since 2009, and rising fuel and electricity
prices may hurt consumption and damp growth in the three months
ending June 30, said Katrina Ell, a Sydney-based economist at
Moody’s Analytics. Indonesia’s economy probably expanded 6.31
percent last quarter, the slowest pace since 2010, according to
the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Halted Easing  Thailand , Indonesia and the  Philippines  have halted
interest-rate cuts in recent weeks as elevated oil costs revived
inflation risks. India’s central bank said price risks might
limit the room for further cuts even as it reduced borrowing
costs by a more-than-forecast half a percentage point in April.  Sri Lanka  has raised rates twice this year and let its
currency weaken to a record low in the biggest overhaul of
economic policy since the end of its civil war in 2009. Ceylon
Petroleum Corp., the state oil company, increased petroleum
prices from Feb. 12, leading to a 20 percent jump in bus fares
and a fuel surcharge on electricity bills.  The persistence of subsidies also creates uncertainty for
businesses as they play a guessing game on when prices would be
adjusted.  Teddy Yuliandy, who owns a garment company on the outskirts
of Jakarta, says fabric suppliers hoard their materials when
they expect fuel costs to increase, hoping to sell at a higher
price when the fuel adjustment occurs. He now prices his T-
shirts weekly instead of monthly, because he doesn’t know when
the government will change its subsidy policy.  Taxis Protest  In Thailand, taxi and truck drivers blocked streets and
barricaded government compounds with their vehicles earlier this
year, demanding higher transport fares to counter rising fuel
costs.  While the country gives tax deductions on diesel prices and
has agreed to raise fares for intercity bus services, it has
refrained from increasing prices for Bangkok buses and taxis to
shield consumers recovering from the nation’s worst floods in
almost 70 years. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government
continues to subsidize natural gas for vehicles and cooking gas.  Sawake Paipun, a single father 51-year-old taxi driver with
two sons from Sisaket province in the northeast, says he may
turn to farming within two years as it’s too hard to make ends
meet in Bangkok.  “We are suffering from higher costs of everything from oil
to food,” he said. “What the government is doing now is not
helping us much. I think subsidizing will just prolong the
problems. They should let the people face the truth and let the
prices adjust in line with their costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  