-- LG Display Declines After Reports of Prosecutors’ Raid
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-05-03T10:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/lg-display-falls-after-reports-of-prosecutors-raid-seoul-mover.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest flat-panel maker, fell the most in more than seven
months in Seoul trading after local media reported that
prosecutors searched its headquarters in relation to a
competitor’s display technologies.  LG Display dropped 6.6 percent to 23,500 won at the close,
the biggest decline since Sept. 23, while  Korea ’s benchmark
Kospi index slipped 0.2 percent.  South Korean prosecutors checked LG Display’s Seoul
headquarters on April 26 to probe whether the company illegally
obtained organic light-emitting-diode technologies from Samsung
Mobile Display Co., media including Korea Economic Daily, Asia
Economy Daily and Edaily reported today. Claire Ohm, an LG
Display spokeswoman, declined to comment, and a spokesman at the
prosecutors’ office wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “The stock is falling mostly because of the prosecutor
issues,” Hwang Joon Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo
Securities, said by telephone. “It’s hurting investor
sentiment.”  Police are questioning current and former employees of both
companies over allegations that Samsung Mobile workers leaked
OLED technologies to LG Display, according to Edaily, which
cited unidentified people at the prosecutors’ office and from
the industry.  “It’s an illegal activity by a competitor to steal our
technologies,” Jun Eun Sun, a spokeswoman for Samsung Mobile
Display, said by phone. “We hope their criminal activity is
clearly exposed through prosecutors’ investigation.”  She didn’t elaborate.  LG Display and Samsung Mobile, the unit of  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  that makes screens for mobile devices, are
competing for leadership in OLED panels for televisions.  LG Electronics Inc., the parent of LG Display, and Samsung
Electronics both plan to start selling OLED TVs this year that
can be as thin as 4 millimeters (0.16 inches) and produce
sharper images than liquid-crystal-display sets.  LG Display reached a settlement with eight U.S. states and
consumers over claims that it colluded with other LCD makers to
fix prices, the company said April 30. The settlement may also
be negative for LG Display since its costs may rise, Hwang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  