-- Gamesa to Add India Wind-Turbine Plant as China Loses Appeal
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-03T13:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/gamesa-plans-new-wind-turbine-factory-in-india-s-chennai.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest wind-turbine maker, will open a third factory in
India as manufacturing costs fall below those in the larger
market of China.  Gamesa will build a 2 billion-rupee ($37 million) plant in
southern Chennai to produce its new 2-megawatt machines, Ramesh Kymal, head of the Spanish company’s Indian unit, said today in
Mumbai. The site will get 70 percent of its supplies locally by
year-end, driving down output costs by 18 percent, he said.  Competition among turbine makers in China has grown amid a
supply glut, putting pressure on prices as manufacturers seek to
contain costs. India has now become the wind industry’s largest
growth market by volume after  China  tightened project approvals
and Europe and the U.S. reined in financing amid burgeoning
debt, the Global Wind Energy Council said last month.  Gamesa got 20 percent of its sales in India last year and
expects that share to climb, targeting 711 megawatts in sales by
the end of December, according to Kymal. Recent orders include a
150-megawatt contract from  Mytrah Energy Ltd. (MYT) , part of a 2011
accord to buy 2,000 megawatts of machines from Gamesa by 2016.  “We’re sold out for the year and have booked orders to
September of next year,” Kymal said. An 18 percent reduction in
output costs is “even more efficient than in China,” where the
the selling price remains lower because of cheaper financing and
other expenses, he said.  Gamesa, whose largest competitor is  Denmark ’s Vestas Wind
Systems A/S, already produces turbine blades and towers at two
plants in India. Its new factory will have an annual capacity of
1,500 megawatts and export turbines to markets including North
Africa and  Sri Lanka , as well as supplying local developers,
Kymal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  