-- Gasoil Stockpiles Fall to Four-Month Low in Europe’s Oil Hub
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-05-03T15:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/gasoil-stockpiles-fall-to-four-month-low-in-europe-s-oil-hub-1-.html
Gasoil stockpiles in independent
storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,  Europe ’s oil-trading
hub, dropped to the lowest in almost four months, according to
PJK International BV.  Gasoil inventories declined for a fourth week, falling 5.1
percent to 2.4 million metric tons in the week to today,
according to PJK, a researcher in the Netherlands. That’s the
lowest level since Jan. 19. Supplies of the fuel, which includes
heating oil and diesel, were sent to the Mediterranean and West
Africa while cargoes arrived from Germany and  Russia , PJK said.  Gasoline stockpiles plunged 14 percent to 631,000 tons as
cargoes were sent to  Mexico , the U.S. and West Africa, according
to PJK. That’s the lowest level since March 22. Supplies arrived
from  France , Russia, Turkey and the U.K.  Gasoline declined as it’s “the more wanted product because
of the summer,” Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK, said by phone.
Gasoil fell because of the backwardation, where later-dated
deliveries are cheaper than near-term supplies, “which doesn’t
initiate replenishing of stocks,” he said.  Naphtha stocks gained 24 percent to 104,000 tons on imports
from Russia, PJK data shows. That’s the most since March 29.  Fuel oil  decreased 10 percent to 571,000 tons, the lowest
level since Jan. 12, as a very large crude carrier is loading
and scheduled to sail early next week, PJK said. Supplies
arrived from  Estonia ,  Finland , France,  Lithuania , Russia and the
U.K., it said.  Jet fuel  increased 7.1 percent to 420,000 tons as cargoes
arrived from  India ,  Japan ,  South Korea , the United Arab Emirates
and the U.S., PJK data showed.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha, fuel oil and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  