-- Geithner Says Yuan Gains Would Aid China Economic Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-03T09:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/geithner-sees-need-for-1970s-style-shift-in-china-economy.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said further appreciation in the yuan is important to
aid a reshaping of  China’s economy  as significant as the
nation’s opening of its markets in the 1970s.  “A stronger, more market-determined” currency would
“reinforce China’s reform objectives of moving to higher value-
added production, reforming the financial system and encouraging
domestic demand,” Geithner said today at U.S.-China talks in
Beijing. “Future economic  growth  will require another
fundamental shift in economic policy” akin to that of more than
30 years ago, he said.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s remarks in March that the yuan
may be near an equilibrium and the currency’s failure to gain
against the dollar this year suggest that Geithner could be
disappointed. The economic talks today and tomorrow are being
overshadowed by the case of blind Chinese legal activist  Chen Guangcheng  after a deal that ended his stay in the U.S. embassy
began to unravel.  Zhou Xiaochuan , governor of China’s central bank, said the
market “has its own power to correct” any imbalances in the
exchange rate. Zhou said he thought there were “no big
differences” in the U.S. and China positions on the  yuan  even
as they choose different words on the topic.  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters that the rate
has little impact on the nation’s trade surplus with the U.S.,
instead blaming U.S. export controls. “I hope I have enough
patience for such a day” when controls will ease, Chen said.  Tilting Growth  Wen and the ruling Communist Party are trying to tilt
growth more toward consumption and away from  exports  and
investment, while gradually loosening controls on financial
markets and the yuan, without harming their grip on power in a
country of 1.3 billion people.  “The United States has a strong interest in the success of
these reforms, as does the rest of the world,” Geithner said in
opening remarks to the discussions. In separate comments to an
economic session today, he said that boosting the value and
relaxing controls on the yuan “will provide China the
independence and flexibility to respond to future changes in
growth and inflation.”  The yuan strengthened 0.03 percent against the dollar to
6.3050 today. Geithner highlighted the currency’s 13 percent
gain over the last two years as a sign of progress by China.  Both Geithner and Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  called
for deeper cooperation between the world’s two largest economies.
Wang said the global economic situation remains “complicated
and severe” and that the nations have “continuously deepened
relationships” in trade and investment while dealing “hand-in-
hand” with the financial crisis and European debt turmoil.  Ensuring Growth  “We must continue to enhance coordination of macro-
economic policies, work together to meet global challenges, and
ensure economic growth and  job creation  in both our countries so
as to contribute to a strong and sustainable recovery of the
world economy,” Wang said.  Wang called on the U.S. to “take concrete steps to relax
control on high-tech exports to China, expand infrastructure
cooperation, increase financial  market access  and avoid
politicizing economic issues.”  Companies that may benefit from increasing domestic demand
in  China  include Yum! Brands Inc., the U.S.-based operator of
 Pizza Hut  and KFC restaurants, and Tingyi ( Cayman Islands )
Holding Corp., China’s biggest maker of packaged food.  Officials making public remarks at the talks today,
including Geithner, Wang, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Chinese President  Hu Jintao , didn’t mention Chen’s
case by name. The talks were closed to press following opening
comments.  Human Rights  Amid the controversy over the fate of Chen, who was
transferred to a local hospital yesterday after spending nearly
a week under U.S. protection at the embassy, Clinton stripped
down her reference to human rights at the opening of today’s
talks to two sentences from the five in an advance copy of her
remarks.  “The  United States  raises the importance of human rights
and fundamental freedoms because we believe that all governments
do have to answer to citizens’ aspirations for dignity and the
rule of law and that no nation can or should deny those
rights,” Clinton said, standing on stage next to senior Chinese
officials, including Wang.  Later in the day,  Gary Locke , the U.S. ambassador to China,
told reporters that Chen made it “very, very clear from the
very, very beginning” that he wanted to stay in China. The U.S.
was intent on carrying out Chen’s needs, Locke told reporters.  The late Chinese leader  Deng Xiaoping  began rolling out
free-market policies in 1978 that saw the nation become the
world’s biggest exporter and the largest contributor to global
growth.  Market Role  The government’s steps toward letting the currency trade
more freely include giving markets a bigger role in setting the
 exchange rate . The central bank on April 16 widened the yuan’s
trading band against the dollar to 1 percent from a daily range
of 0.5 percent in place since 2007. Economic growth slowed in
the first quarter to 8.1 percent, the least in almost three
years.  Geithner, in a speech last week outlining U.S. objectives
in China, called on the country to loosen control of its
financial system and to raise the ceiling on deposit interest
rates.  The U.S. last month delayed a report on the exchange-rate
policies of trading partners, including China, until after
global meetings including this week’s sessions in Beijing.  The Treasury Department frequently delays the report. The
last one, due Oct. 15, was released Dec. 27. The previous one,
due April 15, 2011, was released May 27.  The Obama administration says China uses an undervalued
currency to give its exporters an unfair advantage in overseas
markets. In the December report, the Treasury called for China
to adopt “greater exchange-rate flexibility” while declining
to brand it a currency manipulator.  --Ian Katz. With assistance from Yidi Zhao, Michael Forsythe,
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan, Zheng Lifei and  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Ian Katz in Beijing at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  