-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Climb by Most in Three Weeks
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-03T21:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/general-motors-default-swaps-decline-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
A benchmark gauge of corporate credit
risk rose by the most in almost three weeks after data showed
 service industries  in the U.S. expanded less than forecast as
the economic recovery struggles to gather pace.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 95.9
basis points at 4:39 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest jump since the measure
recorded an increase of 4.8 basis points on April 13.  The gauge climbed as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing  index  fell to a four-month low of 53.5 in
April from 56 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data
showed today. Earlier, the  European Central Bank  kept its
benchmark rate at a record-low 1 percent as  Mario Draghi , the
bank’s president, said the economic outlook remains uncertain.  “The service numbers were a disappointment, and Draghi’s
comments continue to keep  Europe ’s economic health top of
mind,”  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York said. “That’s
a cocktail which pushes risk measurements higher.”  The median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a decrease to 55.3 in the non-manufacturing
gauge. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  GM Swaps Drop  Credit-default swaps on  General Motors Co. (GM)  dropped by as
much as 21 basis points to a mid-price of 308.5 basis points as
the company reported earnings that beat analyst estimates. The
contracts tied to the world’s largest automaker climbed later in
the day to be unchanged at 329.5 basis points, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc.  GM, which is rated one level below investment-grade by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, may be in line
for a step up after Ford Motor Co. was raised to high grade by
 Fitch Ratings  on April 24. The automaker reported first-quarter
profit, excluding some items, of 93 cents a share, which beat
the 85-cent average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “You are going to see many more rising stars in the
automotive industry,”  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. credit
analyst, said in a telephone interview before the earnings
report. “There are pluses and minuses on GM and Ford, but when
you look at it, both have investment-grade credit profiles.”  Default swaps on GM have fallen from a high of 490 basis
points at the start of the year, while swaps on Ford have
declined by 136.4 basis points as of 5:01 p.m., CMA prices show.  Chesapeake Bonds Gain  Chesapeake Energy Corp (CHK) ’s $1.3 billion 6.775 percent notes
due in March 2019 rose by 0.375 cent on the dollar to 96.125
cents to yield 7.50 percent, after falling yesterday to the
lowest level since they were issued in February.  JPMorgan raised its recommendation on the debt of the oil
and gas driller to “buy” from “hold,” “based on cheap
valuation,” because the company can overcome liquidity
concerns, analysts at the bank led by Gregg Brody wrote in a
note on May 2.  Credit-default swaps on the company dropped 1.7 percentage
points to 7.2 percent upfront as of about 4:15 p.m., CMA prices
show. That means it would cost $720,000 initially and $500,000 a
year to protect $10 million of Chesapeake’s debt for five years.  The 12-month-trailing speculative-grade corporate default
rate in the U.S. rose to 2.6 percent in April from 2.5 percent
in March, S&P said in a research note today.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  