-- General Maritime Plan to Be Approved by Bankruptcy Judge
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-03T19:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/general-maritime-plan-to-be-approved-by-bankruptcy-judge.html
The judge overseeing the bankruptcy of
 General Maritime Corp. (GMRRQ)  said he will approve its reorganization
plan, giving Oaktree Capital Management LP most of the shipping
company’s new stock after it reached a last-minute agreement to
sell one of its vessels.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  New York  today
approved an amended version of the Chapter 11 plan for the
second-largest U.S. owner of oil tankers, subject to final
modifications.  “The plan is fair and equitable,” Glenn said, noting that
it restructures more than $1.3 billion in pre-bankruptcy debt.
The plan’s terms will cancel all of General Maritime’s old
stock, giving nothing to holders of 121.7 million common shares.
Secured debt will be repaid in full and converted to equity in
the reorganized company, giving 98 percent of stock in a new
firm to Los Angeles-based Oaktree.  General Maritime, which operates in more than 230 ports in
more than 70 countries, filed for bankruptcy in November. The
company listed assets of $1.71 billion and debt of
$1.41 billion in its Chapter 11 petition. In February, when
Glenn approved a draft of the plan, he told creditors to either
prepare evidence for a fight over the final plan or negotiate an
agreement.  An amended version of the plan resolved objections from
most unsecured creditors, improving their estimated recovery
from as much as 1.88 percent to a maximum of 5.41 percent. The
majority of creditors voted in favor of the plan and Glenn
overruled the three objections that remained at the opening of
today’s hearing.  Meet Terms  Douglas Mannal, a lawyer for General Maritime, told the
judge that in order to meet the terms of its bankruptcy
operating loan, the New York-based operator of more than 30  oil
tankers  made a last-minute decision to sell one of its ships,
the Alexandra, for an estimated $6 million to $8 million. The
firm reached an accord with all creditors on the sale, he said.  “The money will go to pay down the debtor-in-possession
loan and give greater liquidity to the company on emergence,”
Mannal said.  The revised plan will cut the company’s debt by
$600 million and involve two new credit facilities totaling $783
million, Mannal said.  Unsecured creditors had initially objected to the plan’s
terms, which they said will grant a legal shield to the
directors and officers of the company and Oaktree, a pre-
bankruptcy lender which is also a sponsor of the reorganization.  Initially Objected  Unsecured creditors also initially objected that Oaktree
had a deal with the company “locked up” and that the
reorganization proposal wasn’t made in “good faith,” citing a
long relationship between Oaktree and General Maritime Chairman
Peter Georgiopoulos. Oaktree has had dealings with General
Maritime since 1999, when it provided the company with a
$15 million loan, creditors said in court papers.  After a probe showed that they could file lawsuits against
parties to some of the company’s loans, unsecured creditors
negotiated improved terms, said Pedro Jimenez, a lawyer for the
committee of unsecured creditors. The new terms give them
$4 million to $6 million in cash and 2 percent of the common
stock in the new company, with warrants to potentially increase
their share, Jimenez said.  Remaining Objections  Today’s remaining objections came from senior noteholders
and equity holders, General Maritime said in court papers.
Donald Marro, the holder of senior notes with a face amount of
$50,000, sought to give general unsecured creditors more
benefits. Shareholders objected that the plan gave them no
recovery.  Marro’s objection should be overruled because 69 percent of
claims like his, and 97 percent of his class by dollar amount,
voted to accept the plan, General Maritime said in court papers.
The company also said shareholders couldn’t get a recovery
because creditors in line before them under bankruptcy law won’t
be repaid in full.  General Maritime shares, which traded at 1.4 cents before
today’s hearing, dropped as much as 12 percent afterward to
1.2 cents in over-the-counter trading. The company’s 12 percent
notes due in 2017 traded at 2.78 cents on the dollar on April
19, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re General Maritime Corp., 11-15285,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  