-- German Majority Ready to Help Pay Down State’s Debts, Poll Shows
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-03T08:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/german-majority-ready-to-help-pay-down-state-s-debts-poll-shows.html
A majority of German voters said they
are prepared to help the state pay down its debt, according to a
poll that provides backing for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s stance
during the financial crisis.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents said they were ready to
accept personal sacrifices so that the federal government, the
states and municipalities didn’t have to take out new debts, the
TNS Emnid poll for the Berlin-based Initiative for a New Social
Market Economy showed today. Voter magnanimity didn’t extend to
accepting tax increases.  Ninety percent said it was important that the three levels
of government are prevented from piling up more debt, with 55
percent saying it was “very important.” More than half the
respondents said they would probably or almost certainly vote
for a party that advocates savings, even if it meant having a
personal impact. Twenty-three percent said they probably
wouldn’t vote for a party with such a platform and 16 percent
said definitely not.  The results underscore the domestic backing for Merkel’s
insistence that deficits must be addressed to get at the core
cause of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis even as international
calls grow for her to shift away from austerity. The poll
results “are a clear message to politicians,” said Hubertus
Pellengahr, head of the INSM.  “Whoever seriously sets about tackling the problem of new
debt knows they’ll have the majority of voters behind them,”
Pellengahr said in an e-mailed release.  Even so, 72 percent of respondents said tax increases were
unacceptable to resolve state debts, the poll found. Eighty
percent of voters said any cuts needed to reduce debt should
focus on administration and 65 percent said subsidies should be
targeted. Thirty-one percent identified cultural spending, 27
percent social benefits, 25 percent infrastructure and 12
percent education and research.  TNS Emnid said it surveyed 1,002 voters in April. No margin
of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  