-- GM First-Quarter Profit Falls as Losses in Europe Widen
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-03T20:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/gm-profit-falls-less-than-estimates-on-increased-sales.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, said first-quarter profit slid 61 percent on
widening losses in  Europe .  Net income declined to $1.32 billion from $3.37 billion a
year earlier, Detroit-based GM said today in a statement.
Excluding some items, profit slipped to 93 cents a share, down
from 95 cents a year earlier. That beat the 85-cent average
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The adjusted operating loss in Europe, including Opel,
totaled $256 million compared with a $5 million profit a year
earlier, GM said. Not included in the loss is $590 million in
writedowns, according to the company. GM said fixing Europe will
require a series of efforts and may not come all at once. GM
shares fell to the lowest intraday price in almost four months.  “We lack confidence that this is the bottom of the bottom
of the cycle in Europe,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co, wrote in a report.  The first-quarter results, GM’s ninth straight profitable
quarter, resemble  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s profit, which fell 45 percent
to $1.4 billion as North American income was countered by losses
in Europe, as well as a higher  tax rate . Slowing growth in China
and increasing competition in  South America  exacerbate the
companies’ reliance on their home market.  The company’s adjusted operating profit in  North America 
rose 35 percent to $1.69 billion from $1.25 billion a year
earlier while profit from international operations, which
includes China, fell to $529 million from $586 million. The
year-earlier North American figure excludes a gain of $1.6
billion related to the sale of GM’s interest in Delphi
Automotive LLP.  ‘Soft’ Results  GM’s North American profit was “a bit soft,”  Itay Michaeli , a New York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in
a note to investors. GM fell 2.4 percent to $22.37 at close in
 New York , the lowest price since Jan. 5.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM at $33 a
share in a 2010 initial public offering and still holds 32
percent of the common stock, acquired in the $50 billion bailout
by the Obama administration. The U.S. wants to sell for at least
the IPO price, people familiar with the matter have said.  The company defended the results.  “This is a solid quarter,” Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann told reporters. “Revenue growth, profit growth, margin
growth, cash-flow improvement, another step in the right
direction.” Second- and third-quarter results for North America
should be similar to the year’s first three months, Ammann said.  Rising Sales  Revenue rose 4.4 percent to $37.8 billion from $36.2
billion, exceeding seven analysts’ $37.5 billion average
estimate.  The company’s global vehicle sales rose 2.7 percent
to 2.28 million units from 2.22 million a year earlier. GM
remains ahead of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which sold 2.16 million vehicles
in the quarter, an 8.7 percent increase from a year earlier.  GM’s first-quarter U.S. sales climbed 2.7 percent to an
industry-leading 608,320, helped by the Chevrolet Cruze and
Malibu sedans, while the company spent 11 percent less on
incentives per vehicle, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
Market share fell as Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has
emphasized profit margin over unit volumes.  North America Improvements  Improved pricing, especially in North America, helped
bolster earnings by $800 million compared with a year earlier,
GM said.  “These new products that are rolling out, that are a bit
up contented, we are able to hold price and get a premium,”
Akerson said on a conference call with analysts. He pointed to
the  Chevrolet Sonic , which he said is getting about $1,000 more
per car in the segment.  In South America, GM had a profit of $83 million, down from
$90 million.  Europe has been a persistent problem for GM. After board
members, including Akerson, decided not to sell the company’s
German-based Opel unit in 2009, losses have continued.  The European operations were on target to break even last
year until November when the company said those plans were off
track as the economy worsened.  GM Europe  had a 2011 loss of $747
million before interest and taxes. The first-quarter writedowns
in Europe were related to  interest rates  and employee benefit-
related obligations, GM said.  In February, GM announced an agreement to acquire 7 percent
of  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  as part of an alliance that includes
purchasing and vehicle development as part of an effort to
revitalize its European operations. That effort is separate from
fixing Opel, which the company said would take a couple of
months.  No ‘Big Bang’  “Everyone is waiting for a big bang, and I’m not sure
there’s going to be a big bang per se,” Ammann told reporters
today, referring to a European turnaround plan. “You’ll see
things as we go along. There will be actions and perhaps some
announcements, but it’s a series of actions that we’re taking.”  Ammann declined to provide a forecast for Europe in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  “We still have not matched production to demand,” Akerson
told analysts today. “I think before the next quarter’s report,
you’ll see some more information coming out from the company.”  GM is considering buyouts for workers at Opel, Karl- Friedrich Stracke, head of the Opel unit, said during a separate
conference call today.  “You’re going to see headcount coming out on a continual
basis,” Ammann said of Europe. “There’s a fixation on plant
closings and so on, but those take time and are challenging as
demonstrated across the industry.”  Europe Fall  In the January-to-March quarter, GM’s car sales fell  12
percent  to 271,711 in the 27-member European Union plus
 Switzerland , Norway and Iceland while the total market declined
7.3 percent, according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  “Europe remains the anchor around their neck,”  Matt Collins , a St. Louis-based analyst at  Edward Jones , wrote in an
e-mail. “It’s critical for them to right-size that business
since the European market seems likely to get worse before it
gets better. Management’s guidance was underwhelming.”  GM’s vehicle sales in  China  rose in the first quarter 8.7
percent to 745,152, including joint ventures. Akerson last week
announced GM plans to open 600 new dealerships in China this
year and said that the automaker plans to introduce one new
Cadillac model in the country every year through 2016. Including
minority-owned joint ventures, GM is the top foreign automaker
in the market.  Following the PSA deal, Isuzu said GM is among the
companies with which it is considering forming an alliance.  “Don’t always believe what you read,” Akerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  