-- MGM Resorts Loss Widens After Tax Expenses in Macau
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-03T17:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mgm-resorts-loss-widens-after-tax-expenses-in-macau.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the largest
casino operator on the  Las Vegas Strip , reported a wider first-
quarter loss after tax costs related to its business in  Macau ,
China.  The net loss expanded to $217.2 million, or 44 cents a
share, Las Vegas-based MGM Resorts said today in a  statement .
Excluding an MGM China dividend tax and other items, the per-
share loss was 9 cents. Analysts projected a loss of 16 cents,
the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  MGM customers won more money than anticipated in March,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Murren said in a
telephone interview.  “We expect to be a growing company for the rest of the
year,” Murren said, citing improving casino and
hotel revenues. First-quarter sales rose, benefiting from growth
in  China  and improving Nevada tourism.  Gambling revenue on the Las Vegas Strip rose 5.4 percent
industrywide through eight months of the fiscal year that began
July 1, according to the Nevada Gaming Control Board.  MGM Resorts holds 51 percent of MGM China Holdings Ltd.,
which owns a casino in Macau, the only part of China where
gambling is legal. April casino revenue in Macau rose 22 percent
to 25 billion patacas ($3.13 billion), the Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau said yesterday.  Sales Rise  MGM Resorts’ first-quarter sales rose 51 percent to $2.29
billion. Analysts projected $2.25 billion, the average of 16
estimates. The company lost $89.9 million, or 18 cents a share,
in last year’s first quarter.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were $430 million in the quarter, $44 million below
estimate, according to Joseph Greff, casino analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The disappointment was due to fewer conventions in  Las
Vegas  in March and greater than expected winnings on the part of
MGM customers, Greff said in a research note today.  “We recommend purchase on weakness today as we think the
low hold and March-specific softness are, to a large degree,
one-time in nature,” he said.  MGM will introduce social games based on its casino brands
this quarter, Murren said, and expects to get approval to build
a $2.5 billion casino on the Cotai Strip in Macau this year.  The company’s Las Vegas room revenue is expected to
increase 8 percent this year as the convention business
improves, Steven Wieczynski, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in
Baltimore, wrote in a note yesterday. He previously had forecast
growth of 6 percent and recommends buying the stock.  MGM Resorts fell 4.1 percent to $12.99 at 1:44 p.m. in  New
York . The stock gained 30 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  