-- Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Some Claims in CIFG Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-04T01:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/goldman-sachs-wins-dismissal-of-some-claims-in-cifg-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won dismissal
of some claims in a lawsuit brought by CIFG Assurance North
America Inc. over $275 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The insurer sued Goldman Sachs in  New York  State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  in August, accusing the investment bank of
making misrepresentations in connection with the securitization
of a portfolio of 6,204  mortgage loans .  Goldman Sachs asked the court in October to dismiss six of
the eight claims in the suit, arguing that CIFG was informed of
the risks associated with the investments, failed to conduct due
diligence on its own, and hasn’t sought contractual remedies
that would allow it to seek the repurchase of certain loans.  New York State Supreme Justice O. Peter Sherwood, in an
order filed today, granted Goldman Sachs’s motion to dismiss
three counts, including one for fraudulent inducement, while
denying the New York-based investment bank’s motion to dismiss
three other claims for breach of contract.  “CIFG rightly contends that it provided enough support for
the claimed breaches by providing a statistical sampling with
documentation demonstrating the pervasive nature of the
collective breaches in the underlying loans,” Sherwood said in
the order. “The complaint need not make specific
representations as to each of the individual loans.”  Sherwood also granted a motion by Buffalo-based  M&T Bank
Corp. (MTB)  to remove it as a defendant in the suit.  Considering Options  “Obviously, we’re disappointed that the court dismissed
the fraud charge, but we’ll consider our options going
forward,” David Berger, a lawyer for CIFG, said in a phone
interview. The insurer’s lawyers were still reviewing the ruling
and hadn’t decided whether to appeal, he said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the ruling in an e-mail.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  