-- Goldman Sachs May Play Pivotal Role in American’s Fate
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/goldman-sachs-may-play-pivotal-role-in-american-s-fate.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may emerge as
a pivotal participant in deciding the fate of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
 American Airlines  in bankruptcy.  The firm, an AMR bondholder, is among creditors being
lobbied by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to back a possible takeover
bid, said people with knowledge of the matter. Goldman Sachs has
encouraged other debt investors to meet with US Airways to see
if a merger would recoup more than AMR’s stand-alone plan, said
one person, who asked for anonymity because details are private.  Goldman Sachs is seen as an important stakeholder in the
case because of the size of the New York-based firm’s holdings
in AMR and its influence with other debt investors, the people
said.  US Airways  is also seeking the backing of creditors
including Appaloosa Management LP,  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY)  and
Claren Road Asset Management LLC, the people said. Some
investors have been trying to form ad-hoc committees and are
discussing hiring advisers to negotiate with AMR and US Airways,
the people said. Oppenheimer is one of the largest holders of
AMR municipal debt, one person said.  Winning over important bondholders would boost efforts by
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways to build support on AMR’s
unsecured creditors committee, which can shape the bankrupt
company’s decisions. US Airways said last week it was targeting
panel members after American’s three major unions endorsed a
merger.  No Timetable  Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker hasn’t said when US
Airways may make an offer to  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR, which
sought protection from creditors on Nov. 29, listing $29.6
billion in debt.  The prospect of mounting a takeover for AMR, the third-
largest U.S. carrier, has helped more than double the shares of
No. 5 US Airways this year, leading gains among U.S. airlines.
The stock rose 4.4 percent to $10.71 yesterday at the close in
 New York , while Goldman Sachs fell 2 percent to $111.53.  American’s $177.7 million of 6.977 percent pass-through
certificates due May 2021 rose 1 cent to 91 cents on the dollar
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Until recently, Goldman Sachs was also advising  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  on whether to make a competing bid for AMR, said
another person. Delta told some outside advisers more than a
month ago to halt work on the effort because the carrier wasn’t
likely to proceed with an offer, this person said.  Balance-Sheet Investment  Banks sometimes find themselves confidentially advising a
client on a situation that its traders also hold a position in,
and have rules to prevent employees from talking to each other.
Goldman Sachs’s holding in AMR bonds is a balance-sheet
investment, meaning it was made by the sales and trading group
for its own account, said a person familiar with the matter.  Spokeswomen for New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Oppenheimer declined to comment, as did spokesmen for US Airways
and Delta. Telephone messages left with Appaloosa and Claren
Road weren’t immediately returned.  Sean Collins , an American spokesman, declined to comment,
beyond citing CEO  Tom Horton ’s remarks in an April 23 employee
letter in which he said the airline’s fate would be resolved
“in a disciplined manner and process.”  US Airways’ plan for a merger with American would produce
higher returns than AMR’s strategy and create a more valuable
company after bankruptcy, CEO Parker said on April 25.  Merger Savings Seen  President Scott Kirby said the same day that a takeover
would produce at least $1.2 billion a year in cost savings and
increased revenue. Those savings would occur even after US
Airways raised wages for most employees of a combined airline,
Kirby said.  While Horton has said American prefers to remain an
independent airline, a banker at AMR adviser Rothschild Inc.
testified last week that a merger probably would be considered
as the company seeks to get the best deal for stakeholders.  American’s unions hold three of nine seats on the
creditors’ committee. Bondholders are represented by
Manufacturers & Traders Trust,  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s Wilmington Trust
and Bank of New York Mellon Group.  The  Allied Pilots Association , Transport Workers Union and
Association of Professional Flight Attendants are urging AMR’s
board to “engage with US Airways management now” and proceed
with a merger. The unions made that argument in advertisements
being published today in the Wall Street Journal and in the
hometown Dallas Morning News and Fort Worth Star-Telegram.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  