-- Goldman’s Hawker to Cut Debt $2.5 Billion in Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/goldman-s-hawker-beechcraft-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-1-.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the private-
jet maker owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,
plans to reduce debt by about $2.5 billion while in bankruptcy
under an agreement with lenders and bondholders.  Hawker, bought for $3.3 billion in 2007, listed more than
$1 billion in assets and debt in Chapter 11 documents filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . The company
reported net losses totaling more than $900 million in the past
two years as U.S. military contracts and plane sales declined.  “Restructuring our balance sheet and recapitalizing the
company in partnership with our debtholders will dramatically
improve Hawker Beechcraft’s ability to compete in a rapidly
changing environment,”  Steve Miller , Hawker’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement.  Hawker, based in Wichita,  Kansas , said a financial
restructuring plan supported by more than two-thirds of its
senior secured lenders and senior bondholders will eliminate
about $2.5 billion in debt and about $125 million a year in cash
interest expenses.  Under the proposal, “equity ownership in Hawker will be
transferred to holders of the company’s secured debt, bond debt
and certain other unsecured creditors,” according to the
company’s statement.  Loan Commitment  The jetmaker obtained a $400 million loan commitment from a
group of senior lenders to fund operations while it seeks court
approval of the turnaround plan. Service will remain
uninterrupted and all orders will be fulfilled, Hawker said.  Hawker  said  it may need to seek court approval to terminate
its pension plans to exit bankruptcy. The three pension plans
are 56 percent-funded, with $769 million in assets to cover
about $1.4 billion in benefits, according to the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp.  The PBGC said it would cover $533 million of the
$611 million shortfall and will work with Hawker to keep the
plans alive.  “We are committed to working with Hawker Beechcraft and
its creditors so that the company can reorganize successfully,
while also maintaining the retirement security of its nearly
20,000 workers and retirees,” J. Jioni Palmer, an agency
spokesman, said in a  statement  on its website.  March Loan  The company announced a $120 million loan in March to use
while it negotiated with creditors to avoid a default. Lenders
holding about 70 percent of Hawker’s bank debt also agreed to
waive certain covenants and accept a delay in interest payments
until June 29, the company said in a statement that month.  Hawker and its affiliates collectively owe its 50 largest
unsecured creditors at least $914.9 million, court papers show.
The PBGC is listed as the first unsecured creditor, owed an
undisclosed amount. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co., as the
administrative agent for three separate series of unsecured
notes, is owed a total of about $663.6 million.  Hawker’s annual report, filed April 13 with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, “reflects the combined effect of the
prolonged weakness in our market that has continued to affect
our business and the heavy debt burden the company has operated
under since 2007,” Miller said in a statement that day. Hawker
filed the report after the March 30 deadline to continue
negotiations with lenders.  Sales Decline  Hawker’s aircraft include the Hawker 4000 business jet and
the  Beechcraft King Air  propjet. The company reported a net loss
of about $632.8 million on sales of $2.4 billion last year,
compared with a net loss of $304.9 million on sales of $2.8
billion in 2010.  The 13 percent drop in sales was “largely attributable to
lower commercial aircraft deliveries and sales prices as a
result of depressed demand across the general aviation market
and supply disruptions,” the company said in the regulatory
filing.  Hawker in February named turnaround specialist Miller as
CEO. Miller, 70, was designated in 2010 to serve as interim
chief executive at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, in the event that
current CEO  Robert Benmosche  had to step down while fighting
cancer. Benmosche has said he would like to remain CEO past
2012, longer than previously planned.  At Hawker, Miller succeeded Bill Boisture, who remained
chairman of unit Hawker Beechcraft Corp. Hawker hired Perella
Weinberg Partners LP as a financial adviser in December.  Hawker’s $145.1 million of 9.75 percent bonds due in April
2017 fell to 1 cent on the dollar on March 28, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Air Force Contract  Hawker said in December it would challenge the exclusion of
its Beechcraft AT-6 from a U.S.  Air Force  competition for a $1
billion aircraft contract. In February, after Hawker sued, the
Air Force set aside the contract it had awarded to Sierra Nevada
Corp. for a light-attack plane for the Afghan military.  The award would have boosted Hawker’s shrinking revenue
from U.S. military contracts. Hawker’s prime, or direct,
contracts with the Pentagon plunged 47 percent to $536 million
in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30, from $1.02 billion in
fiscal 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company fired 300 workers in November, blaming reduced
defense spending worldwide and little sign of growth in the
airplane markets in which the company competes. In March and
April, the company said it would begin to furlough certain
employees on a rolling basis. Furloughs will occur for one to
two months and last 30 to 45 days, according to the  SEC filing .  Depression-Era Origins  Hawker traces its history partly to  Walter and Olive Beech ,
who started Beech Aircraft Corp. during the Great Depression in
1932, according to the company’s  website . With designer  Ted
Wells , they built the Beech Model 17, a biplane for business
executives that sold for about $15,000, according to the U.S.
Centennial of Flight Commission.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank’s private-equity arm, and Toronto-based Onex bought Hawker
Beechcraft in 2007, giving the New York-based bank and  Canada ’s
largest buyout firm equal stakes of 49 percent each. Affiliates
of GS Capital Partners VI LP and Onex Partners II LP own about
$159.4 million of Hawker notes, according to the SEC filing.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  