-- Google's Street View to Be Discussed by EU Regulators
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-03T17:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/google-s-street-view-to-be-discussed-by-eu-regulators.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s data collection for its
Street View location service will be discussed by European Union
privacy regulators following allegations that some Google
employees may have known it would gather personal information.  The so-called Article 29 Data Protection Working Party,
which includes privacy agencies from the EU’s 27 nations, will
meet as soon as next week to discuss allegations that Google was
aware it was gathering and storing personal information it
didn’t need, according to an EU press officer who couldn’t be
identified in line with official policy.  The U.S.  Federal Communications Commission  sought a $25,000
fine after claiming that Google impeded and delayed an inquiry
into how the company gathered personal e-mails,  text messages 
and other materials for Street View. An unidentified engineer
told colleagues and disclosed in an internal report that the
software program would access so-called payload data, which
includes personal information such as e-mails, according to an
FCC report.  The owner of the world’s biggest search engine never had
“a company plan to collect payload data,” said Al Verney, a
spokesman for Google in Brussels. “We made a mistake, we
admitted it and we have cooperated with regulators around the
globe to put this matter behind us.”  Google has been targeted by data-protection agencies across
the EU over Street View, which lets users click on maps to see
photographs of roadsides. Last year, it was fined 100,000 euros
($131,460) in  France  for violating the country’s privacy rules.  The  New York  Times reported that EU regulators were 
reviewing the issue earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 