-- Google Argues for Dismissal of Authors’ Book-Scan Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-03T18:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/google-argues-for-dismissal-of-authors-book-scan-lawsuit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a judge to dismiss a
lawsuit by an organization representing authors over the search-
engine company’s digital scanning of millions of books, saying
the group can’t represent the owners of the books’ copyrights.  U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in Manhattan heard arguments
today on motions by Google to deny the authors the right to
proceed as a class and to dismiss the organization’s case. Chin
last year rejected a $125 million settlement between the two
sides and the parties have been unable to reach a new agreement.  “It would be a terrible burden on the court if each
individual author was forced to litigate,” Joanne Zack, a
lawyer for the Authors Guild, told the judge. “A class action
is superior.”  Google announced in 2004 a plan to digitally scan books
from public and university libraries to provide short snippets
of text to people who use its Internet search engine. The
Authors Guild, individual authors and publishing companies sued
in 2005, claiming  Mountain View , California-based Google hadn’t
sought authorization from the owners of the works.  Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is
fair use under copyright law. Chin asked Google today why it was
important at this stage of the case to determine the ownership
of the copyrights.  ‘Ultimate Question’  “The ultimate question is who owns the rights to display a
small excerpt of the work,” Daralyn Durie, a lawyer for Google,
told the judge. “Many authors contracted that right away to
publishers.”  Google said in court papers that because the guild
doesn’t claim to own the copyrights at issue, it can’t sue on
behalf of authors. Google’s lawyer also said today that the
company’s scanning project has been an “economic benefit” to
many authors.  Zack, the authors’ lawyer, told the judge there was “no
evidence of a conflict among class members on financial
benefits.”  Among the plaintiffs are three individual authors: Jim Bouton, the former  New York  Yankees pitcher who wrote “Ball
Four,” Joseph Goulden and Betty Miles.  “We are fully prepared to litigate this case against the
three individual plaintiffs,” Durie said in court.  The judge said he would rule later on the motions.  Jury Trial Sought  Chin has said the two sides can submit motions for judgment
without a trial and that he will hear oral arguments on those
proposals in September. The authors have asked for a  jury trial .
Chin was assigned the case in 2009 while he was a district
judge. He has retained it since being appointed to the federal
appeals court.  A related lawsuit was brought by several organizations
representing visual artists. Chin also will consider a motion by
Google to dismiss their case.  Google said it’s still in talks about a possible settlement
with book publishers including  McGraw Hill Cos., (MHP)  Simon &
Schuster Inc. and  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  Today’s hearing didn’t
involve the publishers.  “We’re hopeful we can reach agreement with the
publishers,” Megan Lamb, a Google spokeswoman, said after the
hearing.  Google said in a February court filing that it has scanned
more than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts
in English from more than 4 million. The project began with the
digitizing of books from the libraries of the  University of
Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University , Oxford
University and the  New York Public Library .  Google rose $2.38 to $609.64 at 1:53 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the
visual artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers
v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  