-- Groupama Seeks About $660 Million for Champs Elysees Site
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-03T13:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/groupama-seeks-about-660-million-for-champs-elysees-site.html
Groupama SA plans to sell a building
on Paris’s Avenue des  Champs Elysees , Europe’s most expensive
shopping street, for more than 500 million euros ($660 million),
according to three people with knowledge of the sale.  The French insurer hired  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  to offer
 52 Avenue des Champs Elysees , a 1930s building that includes a
Virgin Megastore, a Monoprix SA supermarket, a shopping arcade
and offices, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the sale is confidential.  Jones Lang’s head of French  capital markets , Stephan von Barczy, declined to comment. Groupama didn’t return two
telephone calls seeking comment.  Potential buyers have until tomorrow to submit initial
bids, the people said. Dozens of international investors
including sovereign-wealth funds and large international real
estate asset managers have expressed interest in the property,
the people said without identifying any bidders.  Groupama is selling assets after incurring a 1.8 billion-
euro loss last year caused by writedowns for its Greek
 government bonds  and other investments. The Paris-based company
received a bailout from  France ’s state-owned bank Caisse des
Depots et Consignations to help it meet  capital requirements .  In December, the insurer agreed to sell its stake in office
park operator Silic SA to Caisse des Depots-controlled  Icade SA. (ICAD) 
It also plans to sell Gan Eurocourtage, its private-equity funds
and U.K. insurance unit, and last week entered exclusive talks
to sell most of the unit to Allianz SE.  Prime retail assets in locations like the Champs Elysees
are attracting shoppers even as France’s economy  falters . Stores
in the best locations command higher rents, boosting values, as
retailers compete for space to open flagship stores. Marks &
Spencer Group Plc opened a new store at 100 Champs Elysees in
November as part of a drive to expand in France.  The avenue, which runs from Place de la Concorde to the Arc
de Triomphe at Place Charles de Gaulle, was  Europe ’s most
expensive shopping strip in a global ranking compiled by Cushman
& Wakefield Inc. in September. At the end of last year, zone A
rents, an industry benchmark of the most valuable store-front
space, varied from 5,000 euros a square meter to as much as
10,000 euros a square meter on the Champs Elysees, CBRE Group
Inc. estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  