-- Libya’s Agoco to Cut Oil Production If Protest Mediation Fails
-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-05-03T11:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/libya-s-agoco-to-cut-oil-production-if-protest-mediation-fails.html
Libya ’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will
press ahead with plan to halt crude oil production by the end of
today unless a week-long protest blocking the entrance to its
headquarters is cleared, a company official said.  “Today is the deadline, it is May 3,” Abdul Jalil Mayuf,
the state-run company’s information department manager said in a
telephone interview from Benghazi. He said the company had given
a final day for attempts to mediate a solution.  “We have to
wait until the end of the day. In the meantime, there are
attempts by Benghazi civil society to solve the problem.”  Protesters are demanding jobs for unemployed youth, greater
transparency from the government over how  Libya’s oil  revenues
are spent, and payment for security guards who say they are owed
wages.  Agoco faces higher logistical costs, such as staff
relocation to temporary offices and communication with oil field
employees, as a result of the protests, he said.  The demonstrations are concentrated at the company
headquarters and Mayuf said there were no reports of attempts to
blockade company production facilities.  The company is currently producing 375,000 barrels of crude
a day, and is expected to reach its full capacity of about
425,000 barrels a day in mid-May, Mayuf said.  Libya’s government said late yesterday it was considering
security options to protect the company headquarters.  “The prime minister’s office, along with the defense and
interior ministry, are meeting and we are trying to find a
solution to that problem, and to prevent any kind of protest to
happen there,” Nasser El-Maneh, a spokesman for the prime
minister, said in a televised news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen via Cairo at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net 
Saleh Sarrar via Cairo at   ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  