-- Lilly $80 Million Drug Theft Leads to Arrests, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-03T22:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/lilly-80-million-drug-theft-leads-to-arrests-u-s-says.html
Two Cuban brothers were arrested and
charged with helping steal about $80 million in pharmaceuticals,
including Prozac and Zyprexa, from an  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  warehouse
in  Connecticut , federal prosecutors said.  Amaury Villa, 37, and Amed Villa were arrested today in
Florida on charges of theft and conspiracy for their role in the
March 2010 break-in of the warehouse in Enfield, Connecticut,
U.S. Attorney  David B. Fein  in Hartford, Connecticut, said in a
statement.  “We believe that a prolific cargo theft ring has been
dismantled,” Fein said.  Amaury Villa was also indicted in federal court in Miami
with 10 others in an alleged scheme to sell the stolen Eli Lilly
drugs. His brother Amed was also charged in an indictment
unsealed today in Peoria, Illinois, where he’s accused of
stealing $8 million worth of cigarettes from a warehouse in
Tazewell County,  Illinois , in January 2010.  In Connecticut, the conspirators cut a hole in the roof of
a warehouse belonging to Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly, according
to an indictment. After disabling part of the security system,
they took about 49 pallets of drugs, the government said.  Each of the four theft charges carries a maximum penalty of
10 years in prison, and the maximum penalty for conspiracy is
five years, according to prosecutors.  The pharmaceuticals taken from Eli Lilly’s warehouse were
recovered and will be destroyed when they’re no longer needed as
evidence, the company said in an e-mailed statement from Maria Crowe, president of manufacturing operations.  The cases are U.S. v. Villa, 12-00040, U.S. District Court,
District of Connecticut (Hartford); U.S. v. Villa, 12-20234,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami); and
U.S. v. Villa, 10-10113, U.S. District Court, Central District
of Illinois (Peoria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 