-- Import Rule Seen Weakening Mad Cow Safeguards, Group Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/import-rule-seen-weakening-mad-cow-safeguards-group-says.html
A proposed U.S. Department of
Agriculture rule designed to boost beef exports would ease some
mad cow disease import restrictions and weaken protections
against the illness, a  coalition of 31  mostly farm and rancher
groups said.  Under the rule, proposed in March, the USDA would adopt the
same criteria used by the  World Organization for Animal Health 
to identify a country’s risk status for mad cow disease, or
bovine spongiform encephalopathy. This creates a loophole in
which beef or cattle could be imported from nations that don’t
have effective feed bans, the main U.S. safeguard against BSE,
Bill Bullard, chief executive officer of R-CALF United
Stockgrowers of America, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “We were astounded that USDA would propose to further
weaken our already weakened BSE protections,” Bullard said, a
week after the agency announced that the nation’s first case of
mad cow disease had been found in six years. The groups, which
include ranchers in  Kansas ,  Colorado ,  Nevada  and other states
along with the Center for  Food Safety , have written to the USDA
asking that the rule’s comment period, set to expire May 15, be
extended for 60 days.  Some trading partners have cited inconsistencies between
U.S. and international standards as a reason to maintain
restrictions on American beef imposed after the first U.S. mad-
cow case in 2003. The most recent infection, in a California
dairy cow, has prompted  Indonesia  to restrict trade while  South
Korea  has sent a delegation to examine U.S. safeguards against
the fatal brain-wasting illness.  The USDA declined to comment in response to an inquiry
about R-CALF’s request.  Cattlemen Respond  Bob McCan, vice president of the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association , the largest U.S. rancher group, said the proposed
rule should be made final without delay. The proposal is
“science-based,” something the cattlemen have been pushing for
since the first U.S. BSE case almost a decade ago, he said.  The Paris-based World Organization for  Animal Health , known
by its French acronym of OIE, classifies countries as having
 “neglible,”  “controlled” or “undetermined” risk for BSE
based on the number of cases they’ve found and the quality of
their safeguards, which include a verifiable ban on feed made
from other mammals, a practice that may spread the disease to
animals that eat it.  Controlled Risk  The U.S. is classified as a controlled-risk country for
BSE. Under the USDA’s rule, the agency may still ban livestock
and beef from areas it believes pose a BSE danger. The  rule  does
not affect domestic safeguards.  “USDA’s proposal maintains the safeguards that have been
in place in the U.S. for years and served us well,” Jim Hodges,
executive vice president of the American Meat Institute, an
industry group that includes  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and JBS Swift &
Co., said in an e-mail. “To allege that the proposal will
weaken safeguards is simply not supported by the facts.”  People can contract a fatal form of BSE by eating tissue
from infected animals. There has never been a confirmed human
fatality from consuming U.S. beef. Global cases of infected
animals, which peaked at more than  37,000  in 1992, last year
totaled 29, according to the OIE.  The U.S. exported $11.9 billion of red meat last year, more
than double the $5.4 billion in imports, USDA data show.  USDA Investigation  In a related development, the USDA said yesterday that
investigators had located a calf of the infected California cow
in another state and that the animal tested negative for the
disease after being euthanized.  Investigators also learned that another calf born to the
cow in the last two years was stillborn, the USDA said in an e-
mail, without saying if there were other progeny.  Two dairies associated with the case are now quarantined,
and a calf ranch where the infected cow had been raised 10 years
ago is also being investigated, the USDA said. No animals from
the cow’s birth cohort have been found.  Ten feed firms identified as suppliers to the dairy where
the diseased cow was located are being investigated, the USDA
said. Meat and bone-meal distributed from the rendering facility
to which the carcass of the cow was being delivered meet federal
labeling requirements, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  