-- India’s Quest for Coal Stalls as Red Tape Kills Mining Takeovers
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   L a r r y   R e i b s t e i n
-- 2012-05-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/india-s-quest-for-coal-stalls-as-red-tape-kills-mining-takeovers.html
India ’s quest for natural resources to
power its growing economy and compete with China has met the
enemy: Its own red tape.  Thwarted by lengthy bureaucratic delays for approvals,
Indian state companies have lost out on or walked away from at
least seven purchases of overseas coal and mining assets in the
last two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They have
completed just a single overseas deal between them in that time.  In one would-be deal, International Coal Ventures Ltd., a
venture of state-owned companies, had to run a gauntlet of seven
ministries and a committee, called the Empowered Committee of
Secretaries, to seek approval to buy a  coal mine  in  Australia ,
two people with knowledge of the matter said. The company is
still awaiting a sign-off after four months, as the overseeing
committee hasn’t met for three months to discuss the $300
million deal. The delay has cost International Coal its status
as exclusive bidder for the mine, owned by Aquila Resources
Ltd., said one of the people.  “We have found ourselves struggling in the global arena,”
said Sanjeev Krishna, an  executive director  at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Mumbai who focuses on mergers and
private equity. State-controlled companies “have suffered as a
result of not having the independence to make these
acquisitions.”  Trailing China  The balky approval process highlights the challenge facing
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  as he jostles with China for
resources needed to reduce India’s reliance on imported coal,
copper and other raw materials. Chinese companies have completed
$21 billion of overseas acquisitions of coal and mining assets
in the past two years, more than four times the value of India’s
deals, including private purchases, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  India’s domestic coal production, which fires more than
half of its power generation, is falling behind demand. In five
years, the country will need 981 million metric tons annually
compared with output of 715 million tons, the government
estimates. Environmental restrictions and approval delays have
stymied efforts to expand production.  To offset the gap this year, India may import more than 118
million tons of coal, a volume that would see it overtake  China 
as the world’s biggest buyer, according to Daniel Hynes, a
director of commodity research at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.  Projects Delayed  The scarcity is hampering India’s ability to fuel power
generation and steel-making capacity. Companies have already
delayed a total of $36 billion of power-plant projects planned
for the next five years, according to the Association of Power
Producers. It blames a lack of coal from state-owned  Coal India 
Ltd., which accounts for more than 80 percent of India’s output
of the fuel, and higher prices of imported coal.  At risk is India’s economic growth, which already trails
that of China. Singh wants to accelerate economic output, most
recently at a three-year low of 6.9 percent, to an average 9
percent annually in the next five years. Meeting that target is
unlikely, the  Asian Development Bank  said in an April report,
citing in part “bottlenecks relating to fuel and power
shortages.”  The shortages exist even though privately owned Indian
companies, unencumbered by the need for state approvals, have
been snapping up coal assets. In September, GVK Group,
controlled by billionaire GV Krishna Reddy, agreed to pay $1.2
billion to acquire coal projects from Australia’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty.  By contrast, four state-owned companies --  Coal India, NMDC
Ltd. (COAL) ,  National Aluminium Co. (NACL)  and  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  -
- can point to only one purchase among them: A $20 million deal
by NMDC, India’s largest iron ore producer, in December to buy a
50 percent stake in Australia’s Legacy Iron Ore Ltd., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Late Approval  More typical is NMDC’s failure in 2011 to purchase a
Siberian coal deposit from Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov 
-- a deal that would have added 363 million metric tons of
reserves. The company got beat out partly because government
approval took a year, a person with knowledge of the matter
said. Energy trader Gunvor Group Ltd., based in Cyprus, and
Volga Resources of  Luxembourg  won the deal.  Coal India, 90 percent owned by the government, last year
entered talks to buy a 30 percent stake in PT Golden Energy
Mines from  Indonesia ’s  Sinar Mas Group . The government gave
approval for the deal in October -- two months after privately
owned Indian rival GMR Energy Ltd. had agreed to buy the asset,
said former Coal India Chairman Nirmal Chandra Jha, who retired
in January.  $19 Billion Cash  Money isn’t the issue. The four state-owned companies hold
a combined $19 billion of cash and equivalents. Instead,
executives at state-owned companies are reluctant to push ahead
with acquisitions abroad because they fear getting penalized by
the government should deals go wrong, said Rana Som, who retired
as chairman of  NMDC (NMDC)  in December, in an April 2 telephone
interview from  New Delhi .  “In my opinion, the problems in acquisitions of overseas
assets are not external, but internal,” Som said. “There is a
lack of courage and conviction on the part of decision makers to
go ahead.”  Officials at Coal India, Steel Authority, NMDC and National
Aluminum either declined to comment or didn’t respond to calls
and e-mails. Requests for comment from India’s finance ministry
went unanswered.  ‘Policy Paralysis’  India has taken steps to speed up deals, prodded by the
country’s industrialists, including Tata Group Chairman  Ratan Tata , who met with Singh in January. State-run companies were
granted greater powers to acquire coal, oil and other mineral
assets without first consulting the government.  “Availability of raw material is a prerequisite not only
for the growth of the manufacturing sector, but for the economy
as a whole,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Ambika Soni
said, citing a decision taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in
October.  The easing was the latest twist in India’s official policy.
In March 2010 the government said it was considering raising a
sovereign wealth fund to help state companies compete for
overseas energy assets. The fund has yet to be created. In
December 2010, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said buying coal
mines was a “top priority,” later traveling to  Europe  to seek
coal assets and mining technology. Then in September last year,
Jaiswal changed course and said Coal India, the world’s largest
producer of the commodity, should focus on boosting domestic
production rather than on overseas purchases.  “There has been a policy paralysis in the government in
the past six to eight months,” said Krishna of PwC. “It’s the
heavy-footedness by the Indian government that caused some of
these challenges.” 