-- Indonesia Ban on Unprocessed-Metal Exports Effective May 6
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a ,   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-05-03T12:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/indonesia-ban-on-unprocessed-metal-exports-to-proceed-as-planned.html
Indonesia  will ban exports of 14 raw
minerals effective May 6, with an exception for miners that plan
to build local processing facilities. Those miners will be
assessed an average tax of 20 percent on ore shipments.  The regulation applies to copper, lead, nickel, gold,
silver, zinc, chromium, bauxite, manganese, molybdenum, platinum,
antimony, iron ore and sand iron, Energy and Mineral Resources
Minister Jero Wacik said at a press briefing in Jakarta today.  The largest nickel-ore and bauxite supplier to  China 
announced the prohibition in February, two years ahead of
schedule. The new rules apply to holders of mining business
licenses issued after 2009. Companies with a so-called contract
of work, including Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  and Newmont Mining Corp., will be allowed to ship ores
until 2014.  “Miners will still be allowed to export after meeting
some requirements, including obtaining permits, Edi Prasodjo, a
director of coal at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry,
said at a conference in Jakarta earlier today. “The IUP must be
clean and clear, paying taxes and royalties,” Prasodjo said,
referring to a mining business license by its Indonesian
initials.  ‘Killing Us Slowly’  “We were shocked when the government announced in February
that nickel ore would be banned, I. D. Susantyo, a member of the
board of directors at the Indonesian Nickel Association, said in
an interview. “Now they said we can still export but we have to
pay tax and meet other complicated requirements. It’s still
killing us slowly because it will cut our margin because our
buyers will pay the same price based on the international
benchmark.”  The government hasn’t decided whether to tax some coal
shipments, Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa
said at the briefing.  “There are things that need to be studied,” he said.
“For example, will it be necessary to apply an export tax to
producers that pay lower royalties.”  The government will order miners exempted from the ban to
sign a letter of commitment that they will stop all ore
shipments by 2014, Thamrin Sihite, director general of minerals
and coal at the energy ministry, said last month. The exporters
must also obtain an export permit from the Trade Ministry, said
Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign trade at the ministry.  Reduced Shipments  The Indonesia Mining Association estimated in March that
the ban will cut nickel-ore and bauxite exports by as much as 75
percent this year. Indonesia shipped 33 million metric tons of
nickel ore and 40 million tons of bauxite last year, according
to Syahrir Abubakar, the group’s executive director.  The curbs, aimed at lifting the value of shipments and
boosting local smelting capacity, apply to exports of raw metals
including  iron ore , gold, and silver, and bring them in line
with the rules that have applied to tin since 2002, with only
refined exports permitted. Indonesia is the world’s biggest
shipper of tin, used in packaging and as solder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  