-- Infineon Raises Forecast as Profit Surges on Car Chips
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-03T11:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/infineon-raises-forecast-as-profit-surges-on-car-chips.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  dropped as
much as 3.5 percent in  Frankfurt  as  Europe ’s second-largest
semiconductor maker said research investments will make it
difficult to improve profitability for years.  Infineon’s upgrade of factories and investments in research
for technologies such as 300-millimeter wafers won’t start to
pay off until 2015 or 2016, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer 
said on a conference call today. Increasing gross margins will
be difficult, Chief Financial Officer Dominik Asam said.  Infineon, whose customers include carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and consumer electronics company  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA) , is betting on chips that replace mechanical
parts in cars, manage power in home appliances and windmills,
and make passports and contactless payment cards secure. The
 Neubiberg , Germany-based company needs to invest in research to
stay competitive, Bauer said.  ‘We want to and must maintain these investments to secure
the future of Infineon,” he said. “We’re consciously making
investments that don’t benefit earnings on a quarterly basis,
but rather over three to five years.”  Infineon dropped as much as 26.2 cents to 7.26 euros and
was down 2.7 percent as of 12:37 p.m. Before today, the stock
had rallied 29 this year, making Infineon the fourth-best
performer on the 27-company  STOXX Europe 600 Technology Index. (SX8P)   Global Demand  The company today also said revenue will decline less in
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. than initially forecast and
profitability will be higher. Operating profit rose 2.1 percent
to 144 million euros ($189 million) from 141 million euros in
the fiscal second quarter, beating the 131.1 million-euro
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey among analysts.  “They’re clearly turning around the chip-card and power
management divisions,” said  Janardan Menon , an analyst at
 Liberum Capital  in  London , who recommends buying the shares.  Growth in global revenue from semiconductors will
accelerate to between 6 percent and 7 percent this year, after a
3.7 percent increase to $301 billion in 2011, research company
IDC said this week.  Infineon boosted its market share in the automotive-chip
segment by one percentage point to 9.8 percent over the past
year.  The company said it will spend more on research and
marketing to add additional market share for its divisions. The
industrial power control unit posted a second-quarter revenue
drop.  Raised Forecast  Net income in the quarter rose 16 percent from the previous
three months to 111 million euros.  “Business was better in the second quarter than
expected,” Bauer said in the statement. “Three out of four
segments increased revenue.”  Infineon now predicts revenue will decline by a “low
single-digit” percentage in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.,
compared with a previous forecast for a “mid single-digit”
percentage drop. The operating profit margin will reach a “mid-
teens” percentage, compared with a previous forecast for a
“low to mid-teens” percentage, it said.  Before today, the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey
among analysts was for a full-year sales decline of 2.8 percent
euros and an operating margin of 14.4 percent.  The company said today it predicts sales and operating
profit to be “broadly flat” in the third quarter.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest chipmaker, on April
24 forecast rising sales in the current quarter.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker, on
April 17 forecast a second-quarter gross margin that was lower
than some analysts estimated as spending on a new production
technique erodes profitability. It said demand from companies
and  emerging markets  remained relatively strong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  