-- Iran Embargo Impossible to Meet as Ships Need Its Oil
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-03T14:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/iran-embargo-impossible-to-meet-as-ships-need-its-oil.html
Europe’s oil embargo on  Iran  is having
unforeseen consequences in the shipping market, making it almost
impossible to determine if vessels are using fuel that violates
the sanctions.  Supplies from Iran are a “vital blending component” to
make ship fuel, known as bunkers, according to  Barclays Capital .
The nation accounted for about 8 percent of bunkers exported
last year to  Asia , the largest market, and about a third of the
supply at Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates, the  Middle
East ’s biggest refueling port, Barclays estimates.  The European Union imposed curbs on Iranian oil because of
concern the country’s nuclear program will produce an atomic
weapon. The 27-nation bloc is enforcing the ban by extending
sanctions to insurers, voiding the cover of ships carrying
Iranian crude cargoes or using its fuel. The global fleet will
spend more than $145 billion on bunkers this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg using estimates from JBC Energy GmbH,
a Vienna-based research company.  “This is a problem we didn’t foresee,” Peter Sand, an
analyst at the Baltic and International Maritime Council, which
represents 65 percent of ship owners, said by phone from
Bagsvaerd,  Denmark . “We don’t know how much Iranian oil is
already blended in.”  The EU agreed to a phased-in ban on buying, transporting,
financing and insuring Iranian oil on Jan. 23, with full
implementation July 1. Ships breaking the sanctions will lose
their insurance against risks including spills and collisions,
according to the  International Group  of P&I Clubs, whose 13
members cover 90 percent of merchant vessels. About 90 percent
of world trade travels by sea, the Round Table of International
Shipping Associations estimates.  ‘Uncertain Exposure’  “The sanctions were imposed in quite a hurry, and there
are bits that are impossible to comply with or ensure you are
definitely clean,” said Ben Knowles, a partner at Clyde & Co.,
a  law firm  with offices in 16 countries that specializes in
international trade. “It’s an uncertain exposure because the
likelihood of being punished for taking Iranian bunkers is
perhaps not that high, but you can’t rule out a case being made
in order to make an example.”  Iran, the second-biggest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, says its nuclear program is for
civilian purposes. The next round of talks between Iran and the
five permanent members of the  United Nations Security Council 
and  Germany  is scheduled to take place in Vienna on May 13-14,
Iran’s official IRNA news agency reported April 27.  Crude Production  Sanctions already cut Iran’s crude production by 250,000
barrels a day, or about 7 percent, to 3.3 million a day, and
output may fall to 2.6 million by the middle of this year, the
 International Energy Agency  said April 12. Crude traded on ICE
Futures  Europe  in London rose as much as 18 percent to $126.22 a
barrel this year.  While crudes from different fields can be identified by
their chemical composition and structure, the origins of
bunkers, a residue from oil refining, are harder to verify, said
Andy Wright, a consultant at FOBAS, a unit of Lloyd’s Register
Group that monitors fuel specifications.  “With bunkers there isn’t fingerprinting as with crude
oil,” he said by phone from London. “The origin would
technically be very difficult to establish, if not impossible.”  Iran is now shipping more  fuel oil  to  Singapore , the
world’s largest refueling port, and less to Fujairah, Miswin Mahesh, an analyst at Barclays in London, wrote in an e-mail.  Global Supply  Bunkers rose 4.9 percent this year in Fujairah and reached
a 3 1/2 year high of $758.50 a metric ton on Feb. 27, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Fuel in Singapore advanced 3.8
percent this year after rising to the highest since July 2008 in
February. Iran shipped a monthly average of 805,000 tons of fuel
oil last year, ahead of Saudi Arabia’s 750,000 tons, according
to Barclays. Russia accounted for 53 percent of global supply.  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT) , the largest independent bunker
supplier, has policies and procedures to ensure compliance with
sanctions, Chief Financial Officer Ira Birns said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The Miami-based company doesn’t comment
on specific policies or contractual arrangements, he said.  Companies should verify their suppliers so that they can
demonstrate they sought to avoid Iranian bunkers should they
then be accused of breaching sanctions, said Sand of BIMCO.  A.P. Moeller- Maersk (MAERSKB)  A/S, the world’s largest shipping
company by market value, avoids Iranian bunkers by vetting
suppliers and monitoring fuel specifications, said Jesper
Rosenkrans, a fuel trader at Maersk Oil Trading, which buys more
than 10 million tons of bunkers a year.  “We’re doing everything we can to avoid buying something
we wouldn’t want to buy,” Rosenkrans said. “If somebody came
to me and said, ‘Can you guarantee there isn’t another product
blended into a bigger bunker pool,’ then the answer would
probably be ‘no’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  