-- Iranians Vote in Election Runoff as Khamenei Allies Gain
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-03T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/iranians-vote-in-election-runoff-as-khamenei-allies-gain.html
Iranians vote today in the second
round of parliamentary elections that are set to increase the
majority held by opponents of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
boosting the position of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  Today’s balloting will determine the winners in districts
where no candidate received the minimum 25 percent of votes in
the first round on March 2. Sixty-five of parliament’s 290 seats
were left undecided, and the top two candidates in each will
contest the run-off, according to the  Interior Ministry . In
Tehran, 25 of the capital’s 30 seats are at stake today.  Most seats so far have been won by opponents of Ahmadinejad
who have criticized him for poor economic management and for
failing to show sufficient allegiance to Khamenei, 72, the
country’s highest authority. The president’s sister, Parvin,
lost her race in their hometown of Garmsar, southeast of the
capital.  Today’s vote takes place as Iranians grapple with a surge
in prices following tightening international sanctions in the
past six months due to the country’s nuclear program.  The economic strains have opened rifts within the Iranian
leadership. In March, Ahmadinejad became the first president in
the history of the Islamic Republic to be summoned by the
parliament and questioned about allegations of political and
economic mismanagement.  The outcome of the election is unlikely to alter  Iran ’s
nuclear policy, which is decided by Khamenei, who has the final
say on all affairs of state. The results will shape the
political landscape ahead of presidential elections next year.
Ahmadinejad, who is completing his second term, isn’t eligible
for re-election.  Polling stations open at 8 a.m. local time and are due to
close at 6 p.m., with the possibility of an extension if voters
are still waiting to cast ballots. In the first round, initial
results were released within 24 hours of the polls closing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 