-- Services Slowdown in U.S. Signals Economy Is Cooling
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-03T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ism-index-of-u-s-services-decreased-to-53-5-in-april-from-56.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded less than projected and  consumer confidence  weakened,
signaling the world’s largest economy may be cooling.  The  Institute for Supply Management  said today its  non-
manufacturing  index fell to a four-month low of 53.5 in April
from 56 in March. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was 55.3. A reading above 50 in the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s gauge signals expansion. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index fell to a two-month low last week.  Stocks extended losses as the services report added to
concern global growth is slowing after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the economic outlook has worsened.
American consumers, whose purchases rose by the most in a year
in the first quarter, may find it difficult to maintain the pace
of spending without faster job and wage gains, said  James Shugg ,
a senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  London .  “The economy has recently lost some momentum, and a weaker
services sector is completely consistent with that,” said
Shugg, whose forecast for the ISM gauge was among the lowest.
“ Consumer spending  is softening somewhat.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8 percent to
1,391.57 at the close of trading in New York. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index ended little changed, erasing an earlier earnings-
driven rally of 1 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields were little
changed at 1.93 percent.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and construction to retailing and finance. A May 1
report from the group showed  manufacturing  unexpectedly
accelerated in April to the fastest pace in almost a year and
that factory employment picked up.  First-Quarter Surge  Expansion among service industries may be moderating after
a surge in the first quarter that coincided with the strongest
pace of job growth in six years.  “Unemployment remains stubbornly high and people are still
cautious,” Steve Joyce, president and chief executive officer
of  Choice Hotels International Inc. (CHH) , said during an April 27
earnings call. Still, “while slower than any of us would
prefer, we are seeing steady, positive improvement in the broad
 U.S. economy .”  Today’s report showed the ISM non-manufacturing survey’s
measure of  new orders  decreased to 53.5, the lowest in six
months, from 58.8. The employment gauge dropped to 54.2, the
weakest this year, from 56.7 in the prior month.  Claims Fall  The report overshadowed data from the Labor Department
today showing applications for  unemployment benefits  fell more
than forecast last week, easing concern the job market is taking
a turn for the worse.  Jobless  claims  fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28, a one-month low, from a revised 392,000 the prior
period. The median forecast of 46 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for 379,000 applications.  Slowing progress in the labor market might be weighing on
consumer moods. Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest in five months and half the 240,000 gain in February. A
report tomorrow may show the U.S. added 160,000 jobs in April,
according to a Bloomberg survey, which also called for no change
in the 8.2 percent jobless rate.  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Macy’s Inc. posted April same-store sales
that trailed analysts’ estimates as the earlier Easter holiday
pulled sales into March and cooler weather cut mall traffic.  Sales at Target, the second-biggest U.S. discount chain,
rose 1.1 percent, falling short of the average projection for a
2.9 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail
Metrics Inc. Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase in same-store sales,
missing the 1.9 percent estimate.  Views on Finances  Views on finances sank to the lowest point since January
and more households said it was a bad time to buy needed items,
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed.  The index, compiled for Bloomberg by Langer Research
Associates LLC in  New York , has averaged minus 15.3 since its
inception in December 1985. Even with the latest decline, the
gauge is in its 12th consecutive week above minus 40, the most
sustained breakout since sentiment soured in early 2008.  Household purchases  rose  2.9 percent from January through
March, the most since the final three months of 2010, a Commerce
Department report showed yesterday. Gross domestic product
increased at a 2.2 percent annual rate, after a 3 percent pace
the prior quarter.  Upper-Income Americans  Confidence among upper-income Americans has been climbing,
bucking the recent trend among all groups. The sentiment gauge
for households making more than $50,000 a year rose last week to
the highest level since January 2008. Those with incomes greater
than $100,000 were the only ones in a positive frame of mind,
with a reading of 7.6, up from 3.7.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest payments network, said yesterday
that fiscal second-quarter profit surged 47 percent as customer
spending on credit and debit cards rose. The company boosted its
profit outlook.  “Visa’s business continues to expand at a healthy pace,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders said in
a statement.  The  productivity  of U.S. workers fell in the first quarter,
Labor Department data also showed today, indicating businesses
are reaching the limit of how much efficiency they can wring
from the workforce.  The measure of employee output per hour declined at a 0.5
percent annual rate after a 1.2 percent gain in the prior three
months. Expenses per worker increased at a 2 percent rate, less
than estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  