-- Mitt Romney’s Bigotry Needs No Spokesman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mitt-romney-s-bigotry-needs-no-spokesman.html
Mitt Romney  didn’t exactly fire Ric Grenell, who is gay, as his foreign policy spokesman. But when
the religious right got wind of Grenell’s hiring, his job
started to shrink.  Grenell  was told  to sit in on conference calls with
reporters and not say anything, which is tantamount to firing
him. He was told to be silent not merely on gay issues. He was
told not to talk about anything, even foreign policy. A
spokesman who is not allowed to speak -- even internally --
doesn’t have much of a job. So Grenell quit, three weeks after
he was hired.  For Romney, this is the first big flub of the general
election campaign. Until now, his smooth-running machine was one
of the more impressive things about his candidacy. It made you
think that maybe, as a businessman, he really could bring some
efficiency to the White House, if not to the government as a
whole.  Besides being offensive, however, this episode is
remarkably inept. Grenell apparently was completely open about
his sexuality. Why did Romney appoint him in the first place if
he was going to hang the guy out to dry as soon as there was any
criticism? (And there never was much.) If you’re going to be a
bigot, at least be smart about it.  Although, as a weak-kneed liberal, I hate to talk like
this, this episode does make you wonder about Romney’s guts. He
portrays himself (and probably thinks of himself) as a hard-
nosed businessman, ready to make the tough decisions that
professional politicians won’t. Romney has even defended his
famous flip-flops in these terms. “In the private sector,”  he
says , “if you don’t change your view when the facts change,
well, you’ll get fired for being stubborn and stupid.”  I don’t know about that. You see a lot of stubbornness and
stupidity in stories about business, but not so much about
business executives getting fired for it.  Romney seems obsessed with firing people. In January, you
may recall, he committed a gaffe by saying he  enjoyed doing it .
He seems to consider it as evidence of a backbone and a tough
hide. He also likes to say that if you want this or that
undesirable quality in your president, “I’m not your man.” This
also is supposed to signal toughness, as well as independence of
thought.  Better evidence would have been telling the people who
complained about his hiring of a gay man as an adviser where
they could put their objections. And has he stopped to ask
himself how he will manage to fill a Romney administration if he
excludes all gay men (and women?) from the candidate pool?  Romney is right of course that there’s nothing wrong with
changing your mind. But you should (a) be prepared to admit it
and (b) be prepared to explain it.  In his most famous flip-flop, about health care, Romney has
tried, instead, to have it both ways. He has never renounced his
Massachusetts health-care plan, with its individual mandate
almost identical to the one in President  Barack Obama ’s. He just
says that he will veto Obamacare on Day One of his
administration, because the individual mandate is so awful.  Nor has he explained his change of mind on abortion or gay
rights, on which he  once said  he would be a better advocate than
 Ted Kennedy .  Many moderates and independents may still believe that at
heart Romney is a moderate Republican who fortunately has no
principles and will say whatever it takes to win. Actually,
citizens of all stripes across the country more or less believe
that Romney’s been faking who he is, but it’s moderates he must
now convince that he’s been lying like mad for the past year.  He’s going to need a few really top-notch spin doctors to
perform this operation successfully. Too bad for him that he
just drove a good one away.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Argentina’s oil grab  and
poor  corporate governance at tech companies ; Virginia Postrel on
the economic folly of  recycling eyeglasses ;  Susan Antilla  on
 mandatory arbitration ; and Jonathan Cohn and  David Strauss  on
making  health-care reform work .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 