-- Liverpool Loss $81 Million as Stadium Costs Written Off
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-03T15:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/liverpool-has-50-million-pound-loss-as-stadium-costs-written-off.html
John W. Henry’s attempt to move
English soccer team Liverpool away from the financial crisis he
inherited resulted in a record 49.4 million pound ($80.1
million) loss during fiscal year 2011.  The loss is mainly related to costs associated with plans
for a 70,000-seat stadium that have been scrapped and severance
payments to ex-employees including  Roy Hodgson , who was fired as
manager in January 2011 after just six months.  Fenway Sports Group, controlled by hedge fund trader Henry,
bought the team in October 2010 after lenders to former owners
 Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  forced a sale when the pair
defaulted on a loan linked to their 2007 buyout. FSG, which also
owns Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox, wrote off 200
million pounds of debt owed by the previous administration,
Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said today in a preliminary
release of the results on the club’s website.  “It creates a very stable platform for us to move forward
from, it creates a situation where most of those things are now
off the books and we move forward in a positive sense in a
sustainable business and with the ability to grow on that
basis,” Ayre said.  Liverpool will revert to an older stadium design that is
unlikely to bring added costs incurred if it moved and is still
exploring a way of expanding its home Anfield, Ayre said.  Liverpool has struggled on and off the field as losses have
climbed to almost 100 million pounds during the past three
years. Fans protested against Gillett and Hicks during their
ownership and the team now faces a third straight season out of
European soccer’s elite  Champions League  after falling to eighth
in the Premier League.  FSG has spent about 100 million pounds on new players since
the start of 2011 and hired fan favorite  Kenny Dalglish  to
replace Hodgson. Liverpool’s record in 2012 is worse than every
team in the 20-team league other than already-relegated
Wolverhampton.  Two Trophies  Still, the Reds can claim a second domestic trophy of the
season by beating Chelsea in the F.A. Cup final in two days.
They won the second-tier Carling Cup in February for a record-
extending eighth time.  Not being in the Champions League reduces television and
marketing revenue by least 25 million pounds. It may also hurt
the club when it comes time to renew or replace its record 81
million-pound shirt sponsorship deal with London-based bank
Standard Chartered Plc. A 25 million-pound contract with U.S.
jersey supplier Warrior starts next season.  FSG cleared the 200 million-pound facility the previous
owners’ holding company had with RBS and Wachovia Corp. with a
three-year agreement that includes RBS, as well as Barclays Plc
and Bank of America Corp., according to a mortgage document
published by  Companies House . Annual interest payments that
reached as much as 18 million pounds under Hicks and Gillett are
“a much more palatable” 3 million pounds, according to Ayre.  “What has been demonstrated since their period of
arriving is that they want to create a stable foundation with a
platform to build on,” said Ayre, who described the accounts as
relating to a “transitional period” between ownership groups.  “There has been a clearing out of debt, a clearing out of
money that’s been expended on stadium that just isn’t going to
achieve much going forward and a significant investment in the
team, an investment in the commercial and business
infrastructure and an ongoing objective of improving that team
on and off the pitch,” Ayre added. “These are all great
indicators of people who want to take the business forward.”  Liverpool’s losses for the fiscal years between 2008 and
2011 totaled 92 million pounds, according to filings made with
Companies House and today’s announcement by the club. The figure
would be higher if was based on the accounts of Liverpool’s
parent company under Gillett and Hicks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  