-- James Hardie Misled Investors on Asbestos Fund, Court Rules
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-03T02:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/james-hardie-misled-investors-on-asbestos-fund-court-rules.html
James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a seller
of building products, misled investors about funding asbestos-
related claims and seven directors breached their duties by
approving the statements,  Australia ’s top court ruled.  The  High Court  of Australia today overturned an appeal
court ruling that said the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, the country’s corporate regulator, failed to prove
its case because it didn’t use James Hardie’s solicitor David
Robb as a witness at trial.  “There was no basis for inferring that Mr. Robb may have
given evidence favorable” to the company, the High Court  said 
in a summary of its ruling today. “ASIC not calling him caused
no unfairness.”  The charges arose from a 2001 restructuring of  James Hardie 
and the creation of two subsidiaries to assume the company’s
asbestos-related liabilities. The company established the units
as part of plans to move its incorporation to the Netherlands
from Australia.  The company started the Medical Research and Compensation
Foundation to pay claims of people who were injured by asbestos
products it used to produce and said it was “fully funded” to
meet future claims. By 2009, the fund was running out of money
and James Hardie said it might be unable to meet its claims
within two years.  The High Court, in a separate decision, found that Peter Shafron, the company secretary and general counsel at the time
of the announcements, failed to discharge his duties by not
advising the board that a study he had commissioned to predict
asbestos-related liabilities was incomplete.  The cases are: Peter James Shafron v.  Australian Securities
and Investments Commission . 2012/HCA18. High Court of Australia
(Canberra). Australian Securities and Investments Commission v.
Meredith Hellicar. 2012/HCA17. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  