-- Kamada in Partnership Talks for Inhaled Medicine, CEO Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-05-03T13:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kamada-in-partnership-talks-for-inhaled-medicine-ceo-says-1-.html
Kamada Ltd. (KMDA) , a maker of treatments for
hereditary lung diseases, is in talks with potential partners to
help sell an inhaled version of its AAT medicine in  Europe , said
Chief Executive Officer David Tsur.  “We have been approached by several companies and we want
to identify a partner this year,” Tsur said in an interview at
the  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange. “There are a handful of players we
are talking to right now.”  Kamada of Nes Ziona,  Israel , is testing the medicine on
patients with a genetic condition called  Alpha-1 Antitrypsin
deficiency  that can lead to liver and lung damage. The market
for the drug is worth at least $500 million in Europe and the
company seeks to win approval from European regulators next
year, according to Tsur.  “The kind of strategic partner we are looking for will be
able to cover most of the European geography and have
respiratory expertise,” the executive said.  Kamada’s shares rose for the first time in four days,
adding 2.4 percent to 26.60 shekels as of the 4:30 p.m. close in
Tel Aviv.  The company already sells an intravenous version of the
compound, which brought in U.S. sales of 93 million shekels
($24.5 million) for Kamada last year, with  Baxter International
Inc. (BAX)  An inhaled version would have no rival and be easier to
administer, according to Tsur.  Kamada expects 2012 sales to rise to about 257 million
shekels from  213 million shekels  last year, the company said in
an April 1  statement . The stock has gained 30 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 735 million shekels.  Another Exchange  “The potential of the inhaled medicine is huge,” said Nir Zonenberg, head of research at Meitav Investment House, which
holds about 5 percent of Kamada. “The IV treatment in the U.S.
already justifies the company’s current market cap. The
inhalatory treatment is the major upside.”  Kamada has been approached by investment banks to list
shares on the  Nasdaq  and other exchanges, according to Tsur. The
company will probably sell shares on another exchange at some
point, though he declined to say when.  “We consider this from time to time,” he said. “The
value of the company in Tel Aviv does not reflect, in our
opinion, the true value of the company. We have sales of nearly
$70 million, two products in phase III, and one product in phase
II. We have the infrastructure to produce hundreds of millions
of dollars worth of sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  