-- Kansas Wheat Farmers May Plant ‘a Lot’ of Soybeans After Harvest
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-03T02:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kansas-wheat-farmers-may-plant-a-lot-of-soybeans-after-harvest.html
Farmers in central and eastern  Kansas 
may plant soybeans after harvesting winter wheat because the
price spread between the commodities is the widest in at least
20 years, said  Tom Leffler , owner of Leffler Commodities LLC.  Wheat futures on the Kansas City Board of Trade were at an
$8.52 discount to soybeans on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the
widest since at least 1992, Bloomberg data show. Farmers who are
going to collect wheat two or three weeks early in Kansas may
then seed soybeans, said Leffler, who’s based in Augusta, Kansas.  Soybeans in Chicago have surged to the highest level since
2008 this year after dry weather in  South America  curbed
supplies, boosting overseas demand for shipments from the U.S.
The rally may encourage U.S. farmers to boost acres, prompting a
slump in prices, Hackett Financial Advisors LLC said last week.  “There are going to be a lot of” soybeans planted after
the wheat harvest, Leffler said in an interview during the Wheat
Quality Council’s tour of Kansas fields today. “The early
harvest gives you the advantage of getting it in. And the
economics make sense.”  Wheat futures for July delivery on the Kansas City Board of
Trade were at $6.3125 a bushel, while soybeans for delivery the
same month on the Chicago Board of Trade were little changed at
$14.8325 at 7:48 p.m. central time.  More farmers than usual in Kansas would look at the
opportunity of planting soybeans this year, said Jim Shroyer an
agronomist at  Kansas State University  in  Manhattan , without
estimating the additional acres that the crop may get this
summer. It’s too early to tell, Shroyer said.  Early Harvest  Farmers in Kansas, the biggest U.S. producer of winter
wheat, are expected to harvest crops as much as three weeks
early after warm weather and timely rain accelerated plant
development, according to the Wheat Quality Council.  Wheat farmers in central and southwestern Kansas are
forecast to harvest 48.5 bushels an acre this year, council data
show. The record for the state is 49 bushels an acre in 1998,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  The crop probably won’t be a record this year because of
damage to plants from fungal diseases and dry weather in western
counties, said Ben Handcock, the executive vice president of the
Pierre, South Dakota-based council.  Some growers in northern  Oklahoma  also may plant soybeans
after collecting wheat because of the price gap and the early
harvest, said Mark Hodges, the executive director of Plains
Grains Inc. in Stillwater, Oklahoma. As much as twice the normal
amount of  precipitation  has fallen in northern Oklahoma in the
past six months, National Weather Service data show.  “It’s possible in north and northeast” counties in the
state, Hodges said. “Knowing they have a full profile of
moisture, why not try to take advantage of it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  