-- Kazakh BTA Bank Recovery-Unit Holders Seek Early Payment
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-05-03T15:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kazakh-bta-bank-recovery-unit-holders-seek-early-payment-2-.html
BTA Bank (BTAS) , the Kazakh lender that’s
seeking to restructure its debt for a second time in as many
years, said holders of recovery units asked for payment in full
and ahead of schedule.  The lender received a “notice of acceleration” regarding
its more than $5.2 billion “initial reference amount of
recovery units” from BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Ltd.
as trustee for the holders of the units, BTA said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “This action wasn’t unexpected for the creditors’
committee or the bank,” BTA said. “The creditors’ committee
(including holders of recovery units) remains committed to
cooperation with BTA to achieve a consensus decision on
restructuring. The bank believes that this demand won’t have a
major impact or influence on the restructuring talks.”  BTA said on April 23 that it had halted all payments on its
recovery units. Creditors received 10-year recovery notes as
part of a restructuring accord in 2010, under which they’ll get
50 percent of anything the lender recovers from impaired assets,
including any award in a lawsuit against the bank’s previous
management.  BTA bonds due in 2018 fell 5.3 percent today to $18.125, a
fifth day of declines.  Restructuring  The  state-controlled lender  said that it filed an
application with the Almaty Specialized Financial Court
yesterday to begin restructuring under Kazakh law. The
application included BTA’s restructuring plan, drawn up in
collaboration with the creditors’ committee and approved by the
former Soviet republic’s central bank.  Advisers to the creditors’ committee will conduct due
diligence this month and negotiations will begin in June,
according to BTA.  The Almaty-based lender is struggling to recover a major
part of its loan portfolio in impaired loans and has filed a
series of civil cases against former Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov 
and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko in U.K. courts.  Kazakh prosecutors issued arrest warrants for Ablyazov and
Solodchenko in March 2009 on suspicion that they embezzled money
from the bank and laundered it through loans to fictitious
companies. The two former executives, who now live outside
 Kazakhstan , have denied the charges.  Ablyazov’s Assets  Assuming default judgments against Ablyazov in London,
expected in June, BTA and receivers will take control or
ownership of as much as $1 billion in disclosed assets belonging
to the former chairman and undisclosed assets “possibly of the
same order of magnitude,” according to a  presentation  on the
lender’s website.  Companies linked to Ablyazov misled a  London  court and
don’t have a valid defense to the lender’s case against them, a
judge ruled on May 1.  Ablyazov fled the U.K. after being sentenced to 22 months
in prison for breaching an asset-freezing order and lying under
oath. His lawyers said Ablyazov fears for his safety, and that
BTA’s lawsuits are politically motivated.  Kazakh sovereign-wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009, two months before the nation’s largest lender at
the time defaulted on $12 billion of debt. BTA is seeking an
agreement with creditors on its second restructuring by
September, according to a March 22 presentation published on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  