-- Kenya Shilling Gains for First Day in Four on Interest Rate Bets
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-05-03T10:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kenya-shilling-gains-for-first-day-in-four-on-interest-rate-bets.html
Kenya’s shilling strengthened for the
first time in four days on speculation that the central bank
will hold the  interest rate  at a record high to meet inflation
targets and support the  exchange rate .  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
0.5 percent, the most in almost three weeks, to 83.10 per dollar
as of 12:47 p.m. in Nairobi.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, will leave the policy rate at 18 percent today,
according to five of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation slowed to 13.1 percent in April, the lowest level
in almost a year, as the impact of last year’s drought eased and
the central bank boosted interest rates six times. Still, the
bank is targeting inflation of 9 percent by June. In neighboring
 Uganda , the central bank yesterday left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 21 percent for a second month.  High interest rates in  Kenya  have supported the currency,
which gained 28 percent against the dollar since October 11,
when it hit 106.75, making it the best performer among more than
170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Kenya is replacing some local borrowing with a syndicated
loan arranged by Citigroup Inc.,  South Africa ’s Standard Bank
Group Ltd. and London-based Standard Chartered Plc.  “The committee is expected to retain the rate in support
of the shilling and with indications that the deal for the $600
million syndicated loan is finalised, the reserves will be
boosted further, allowing the central bank to intervene if and
when required to keep the shilling within the desired levels,”
Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of
Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  The central bank offered 1.5 billion shillings ($18.5
million) for  repurchase agreements  and accepted all 1.2
shillings of bids made, at a weighted average of 17.833 percent,
an official who declined to be named in line with policy said in
a phone interview.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened for the first time in
three days, climbing 0.7 percent to 1,583 per dollar. The
Ugandan shilling gained the most in almost three weeks,
appreciating 1.4 percent to 2,464.5 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  