-- Kenya Central Bank Rejects Calls to Cut Record Rate
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kenya-central-bank-rejects-calls-to-cut-record-rate.html
Kenya’s central bank rejected calls
from politicians and businesses to cut its benchmark  interest
rate  from a record as fuel prices increase, adding to pressure
on inflation in  East Africa ’s largest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, left the policy rate at 18 percent for a fifth
consecutive meeting yesterday. Five out of seven economists
predicted the decision, while two forecast a one percentage-
point cut.  Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  last month added his voice to
calls from businesses and consumers for lower borrowing costs.
While the annual  inflation  rate fell for a fifth month in April
to 13.1 percent, it’s still above the central bank’s target of
bringing it down to 9 percent by June, limiting the scope to cut
interest rates and spur growth.  “With this decision, the central bank isn’t acting on what
the market wants or public pressure to lower rates, but the
fundamentals,” Alexander Muiruri, a fixed-income analyst at
Nairobi-based African Alliance Investment Bank Ltd., said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Until the inflation numbers justify
a move, they won’t move.”  The bank has kept its key rate unchanged this year after a
drought and a slump in the currency prompted the MPC to boost
the rate by 12.25 percentage points over six meetings in 2011.
The central bank in neighboring  Uganda , where drought spurred
inflation last year, kept its key lending rate unchanged at 21
percent on May 2.  Inflation Pressure  The price of Persian Gulf Murban  crude , the fuel imported
for refining in Kenya, jumped almost 9 percent this year,
prompting the government to raise regulated fuel costs twice.
The current-account deficit, at 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product, also poses a threat to the stability of the currency,
threatening inflation, the central bank said.  “There is still some lingering pressure on inflation that
could give rise to adverse inflationary expectations,” the MPC
said yesterday. “These must be addressed to facilitate a return
to high economic activity supported by a low inflation regime.”  High interest rates have drawn foreign investment and
helped buoy the shilling, which has gained 28 percent since
falling to a record 106.75 per dollar on October 11. The
currency was trading at 83.06 per dollar by 6:48 p.m. in Nairobi
yesterday, compared with 82.95 before the announcement.  Kenya  is the world’s largest exporter of black tea and its
flower shipments to  Europe  account for one third of sales there.
The government said last month a weaker global economy may
undermine its target of 5.2 percent growth in 2012, compared
with an estimated 4.5 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  