-- Kesa Electricals Advances on Sale of Stake: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2012-05-03T16:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kesa-electricals-rises-after-sale-of-darty-telecom-london-mover.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  rose in London
trading after agreeing to sell a majority of Darty Telecom in
 France  to Bouygues Telecom while it continues to reap a share of
revenue from the business.  Kesa, owner of the Darty consumer-electronics chain in
France, will get 40 million euros ($53 million) for 99.9 percent
of Darty Telecom, the London-based company said today in a
statement. It will also “receive revenue streams based on the
existing and future subscriber base” and for customer and
management services.  The stock  rose  1.7 percent to 56.95 pence at the close in
London after gaining as much as 9.3 percent earlier in the day.
That valued the company at about 302 million pounds.  The transaction “allows Darty to enhance its telecom
offer, building on the state-of-the-art mobile and fixed line
services of Bouygues,” Kesa Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin said in the statement. Darty Telecom provides
services to 340,000 people and had sales of 131.5 million euros
in the year ended April 30, 2011.  Kesa  shares  have fallen 42 percent since Nov. 9, when the
retailer agreed to pay investment firm OpCapita LLP to take the
unprofitable Comet chain in the U.K. off its hands as losses
worsened. The company said in January that profitability had
slumped and that market conditions would be “challenging” in
the run-up to the French elections.  Kesa will consider more disposals and tie-ups after the
Darty Telecom sale, CEO Falque-Pierrotin said today in a phone
interview.  Singer  Capital Markets  raised its recommendation on Kesa
shares today to “fairly valued” from sell. Of analysts who
share their reports with Bloomberg, 12 of 22 still recommend
selling the stock.  Adam Cochrane and  Andrew Hughes , analysts at UBS AG, said
April 25 that investors should buy the stock because property
holdings are worth almost as much as Kesa’s market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in  London  at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  