-- King’s Praise for Osborne Criticized by Labour as Britain Votes
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-03T13:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/king-s-praise-for-osborne-criticized-by-labour-as-britain-votes.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s
praise for Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget
cutting was criticized by opposition lawmakers as showing
favoritism on election day.  “This is a very unwise intervention by the governor as
voters go to the polls” in local balloting, said Labour Party
lawmaker Andy Love, who also sits on Parliament’s Treasury
Committee. “He is compromising his position by once again
backing George Osborne’s economic plan.”  Speaking on BBC 4 radio today, King called Osborne’s budget
cuts a “textbook response” to the financial crisis that struck
“a perfectly sensible” balance. He also said there are signs
of recovery after the economy entered a double-dip recession.  “If it had not been for the squeeze on real take-home pay
being exacerbated by the rise in energy and food prices then I
think we would have seen some growth,” said King.  King drew criticism from Labour in May 2010 for backing the
coalition government’s “sensible” plans for the toughest
austerity measures since World War II, suggesting proposals by
Osborne’s Labour predecessor  Alistair Darling  didn’t go far
enough.  The Conservative Party’s deputy chairman  Michael Fallon ,
who sits on the same committee as Love, said King was right to
reject calls from Labour’s Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  to ease
the pace of deficit reduction.  “The governor of the Bank of England is right. Ed Balls
got the big judgment wrong when he was in government, and he’s
got it wrong now,” Fallon said in statement.  Labour is likely to gain hundreds of the 4,800 local-
council seats being contested across Britain today although it
is not expected to unseat Conservative Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  