-- Stocks Drop With Commodities on Service Growth Slowdown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-05-03T20:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kiwi-falls-to-three-month-low-on-jobs-korean-stocks-slip.html
Stocks and commodities dropped, while
Treasuries reversed earlier losses, as growth in U.S.  service
industries  slowed more than forecast and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the economic outlook has worsened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8 percent to close
at 1,391.57 at 4 p.m. in New York. Oil and coffee tumbled at
least 2.5 percent to lead the S&P GSCI Index of commodities
lower. The rebound in Treasuries sent 10-year note yields down
less than one basis point to 1.92 percent after they rose three
points before the services data. The Dollar Index climbed for a
fourth straight day, its longest streak of the year.  Stocks and commodities extended losses as the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index fell to a four-month
low of 53.5, compared with the median economist estimate of
55.3. The economic outlook in the euro area is subject to
downside risks as the sovereign-debt crisis damps momentum,
Draghi said at a press conference, adding that policy makers
didn’t discuss cutting the ECB’s benchmark interest rate below
its current record low of 1 percent.  “Macro economic data throughout the world continues to
deteriorate, with the U.S. just starting to catch up to the
downside, it appears,” said James Dailey, who manages $215
million at TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania . “Industrial commodities have been weak and are
starting to really break down and now even oil is seeming
vulnerable.”  Market Movers  Bank of America Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and  Intel Corp .
lost at least 2 percent as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell
61.98 points to 13,206.59, retreating for a second day after
reaching an almost four-year high. General Motors Co. fell 2.4
percent after profit tumbled 61 percent. Carlyle Group LP added
0.2 percent in the private-equity firm’s first day of trading as
a public company.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  plummeted 48 percent,
the most ever for the stock, after the maker of Keurig coffee
machines said profit this year will be less than it previously
expected amid the slowest sales growth in five years.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  rallied 3.4 percent after reporting earnings
that beat estimates on higher fees from pay-TV systems.
Earnings-per-share have topped estimates at about three quarters
of the companies in the index that reported results since April
10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The report on service industries overshadowed a drop in
U.S. jobless claims to 365,000 last week, below the 379,000
median forecast of economists in a survey. The Labor
Department’s monthly employment report tomorrow is forecast to
show employers added 160,000 positions last month and the
jobless rate remained at a three-year low of 8.2 percent, while
above its average of 5.6 percent since 1948.  Economic Surprises  U.S. economic data has been trailing economists’ estimates
by the most in seven months, according to the Citigroup Economic
Surprise Index. The gauge, which tracks reports over the past
three months versus the median forecasts of economists in
Bloomberg surveys, fell 19 percent to minus 24.2 today, the
lowest since Sept. 30. The index is down from its high for the
year in January of 91.90.  The recent data has caused some investors to question
whether the U.S. market will follow a similar path to last year,
when the  S&P 500  tumbled 19 percent from its high for the year
in April through its low in October. The Citigroup surprise
index tumbled from a 2011 high of 97.5 in March to its low of
minus 117.2 in June.  “The recent spate of weak data has probably made people
wonder if we’ll have a third year in a row where the economy
sputters during the summer months,” Wells Fargo Advantage Funds
analysts including chief portfolio strategist Brian Jacobsen
wrote in a report. “We think that there is a risk, but it is
more likely than not that the economy will continue to plow
forward, just at a slow pace.”  ‘Attractive Upside’  David Bianco , in his first report after joining Deutsche
Bank AG as chief U.S. equity strategist, called for the S&P 500
to rally to 1,475 through the end of the year amid U.S. growth
and declining risk from the European crisis. His forecast is
higher than the average of 12 strategists tracked by Bloomberg,
who project the index will end the year at 1,391. The gauge is
up 11 percent so far in 2012.  “Attractive upside remains for full-year 2012 and in the
long term provided a few smart decisions are made by government
and corporate leaders,” New York-based Bianco wrote in a note
dated today. “The crisis is fading and a return to decent
growth and lower risk premiums is a choice.”  Dollar Rallies  The dollar strengthened versus 15 of 16 major peers,
gaining the most against the  New Zealand , Australian and Mexican
currencies. New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, slid 1.4
percent after the nation’s unemployment rate rose to 6.7 percent
in the first quarter, exceeding the 6.3 percent median forecast
in a survey.  Crude oil lost 2.5 percent to $102.54 a barrel in  New York ,
while coffee sank 3.8 percent and zinc and lead fell at least
1.8 percent. Among the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI,
15 retreated. Natural gas rose 4.1 percent, rebounding from
yesterday’s 5 percent slide, to lead gains after a government
report showed supplied increased by less than the seasonal
average last week.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index ended little changed after
rallying as much as 1 percent before Draghi’s remarks.  France ’s 10-year bonds gained after borrowing costs fell at
an auction of 7.43 billion euros ($9.78 billion) of debt, the
last sale of securities before the nation chooses its next
president.  Spain ’s five-year notes climbed after it auctioned
2.52 billion euros of securities, exceeding the maximum target,
and stayed higher after the nation’s credit rating was lowered
by DBRS.  Ten-year  French yields  decreased six basis points to 2.91
percent, while rates on five-year Spanish debt lost eight basis
points to 4.69 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined 0.5 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slipped 1.4 percent after
Temasek Holdings Pte., Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, sold shares in Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  