-- Komercni Banka Net Rises 3.3% as Loans, Deposits Advance
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-05-03T09:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/komercni-banka-net-rises-3-3-as-loans-deposits-advance-1-.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said first-quarter net profit rose 3.3
percent boosted by higher interest income, gains from financial
operations and increasing volume of loans and deposits.  Net income for the three months ending March 31 was 3.49
billion koruna ($184 million) from 3.38 billion koruna a year
earlier, the Prague-based lender said today in a statement. Net
interest income, the lender’s largest source of revenue, rose
3.2 percent to 5.54 billion koruna.  The results show the lender’s “capacity” to develop
lending despite signs of economic slowdown that curbed corporate
demand for new loans, Chief Executive Officer Henri Bonnet said
in a separate statement today. Komercni doesn’t expect a
“swift” recovery and the lender is “well prepared” for a
“stagnant” economy, he said.  Komercni dropped 45 koruna, or 1.3 percent, to 3,400 koruna
as of 10:27 a.m. in Prague.  “The results were better than expected thanks to items
that may not be sustainable in a long term like general
administrative expenses,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at
Cyrrus AS brokerage in Brno, wrote in a note today. Loan
portfolio volume “stagnated” quarter on quarter and with the
“slight” decline of net interest margin there aren’t big
chances for a significant improvement during the year.
Hatlapatka recommends investors to “buy” the stock.  Lending Decline  In the quarter-on-quarter comparison, there’s a “slight”
decline in corporate and consumer lending, Chief Financial
Officer Pavel Cejka told a news conference in Prague. “Apart
from mortgage growth, it’s obvious that there’s an impact of the
economic slowdown that started last year.”  The lender has seen the same pace of growth in mortgages in
the current quarter as in the previous one, Cejka added.  The Czech central bank will probably leave its two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent today, a quarter
point below the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, according to
all 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Czech policy makers
have kept borrowing costs unchanged as the economy slid into a
recession in the second half of 2011 and a sales-tax increase at
the start of this year spurred inflation to the fastest in more
than three years.  Loans, Deposits Rise  Total gross volume of loans provided by Komercni increased
13 percent in the first quarter from a year ago to 450.5 billion
koruna, the lender said.  Komercni’s mortgage portfolio rose 13 percent to 126.5
billion koruna from a year ago, it said.  The bank has seen “harsh” competition on mortgage
financing at the start of the year, Bonnet told reporters.
However, the product still remains “profitable” and the cost
of risks is “reasonable” for the time being, he said.  The total volume of deposits advanced in the first quarter
to 5.3 percent from a year ago to 564.8 billion koruna, it said.  Komercni holds 7.7 billion koruna of Italian bonds,
according to a presentation on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  