-- Kraft Profit Tops Estimates as Sales Gain Internationally
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-05-03T23:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kraft-profit-tops-estimates-as-sales-gain-internationally.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the foodmaker
splitting in two this year, reported first-quarter profit rose
1.8 percent, topping analysts’ estimates, as sales gained in
developing markets and Europe.  Net income in the quarter climbed to $813 million, or 46
cents a share, from $799 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier,
the Northfield, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding some items, profit was 57 cents a share.
The average  estimate  of 18 analysts was 56 cents.  Kraft is benefiting from faster growth in developing
markets, where net sales gained 8.5 percent. The company is
separating to help the snacks business push products into
markets such as Brazil and  China  while the slower-growing,
higher-margin grocery business returns  cash  to shareholders. The
company also increased sales 4.5 percent in  Europe , where some
economies have slipped back into recession.  “They did a nice job of navigating the challenges in
Europe,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in Des
Peres,  Missouri , said in an interview. “They generated some
growth, which is admirable.”  The shares declined 0.5 percent to $39.39 at 6:47 p.m. in
New York. Kraft had gained 6 percent this year through the close
of regular trading today.  Gross Margin Narrows  Kraft’s  gross margin , or the percentage of sales left after
cost of goods sold, narrowed 1.3 percentage points to 35.6
percent. Analysts projected 35.9 percent, the average of eight
estimates. Gross margin has declined for four straight quarters.  First-quarter organic revenue, which excludes acquisitions,
divestitures and foreign-currency fluctuations, increased 6.5
percent, fueled by higher prices. Organic sales increased 3
percent in  North America , 12 percent in developing markets and
7.2 percent in Europe.  In Europe, Kraft drove growth by investing in its most
popular brands and getting more production out of the sales
force it inherited from its acquisition of Uxbridge, England-
based Cadbury Plc, according to Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld.  “That’s allowing us to get much greater reach for our
products,” Rosenfeld said in an interview.  The spinoff will leave a global snacks and candy business
led by Rosenfeld. The business, which will be renamed Mondelez
International Inc., will have about $31 billion in annual
revenue from brands including Cadbury chocolate and Oreo
cookies.  The grocery company, which may have about $18 billion in
revenue, will be led by Tony Vernon, who’s currently president
of the North American foods division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  