-- Kuwait Plans to Amend Foreign Investment Law, Bureau Says
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-03T09:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/kuwait-plans-to-amend-foreign-investment-law-bureau-says.html
Kuwait  intends to modify its foreign
direct investment law this year as the Persian Gulf oil producer
embarks on a $111 billion plan to modernize its economy, a
government official said.  “Foreign investors coming to Kuwait find obtaining
necessary licenses a very difficult and prolonged process, as
well as getting land needed” for projects, Sheikh Meshaal Jaber
Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, head of the  Kuwait Foreign Investment Bureau ,
said in an April 18 interview at the bureau’s offices in  Kuwait
City . “The proposed amendment should overcome shortcomings of
the law. We hope it will be passed this year.”  Kuwait expects private investors to contribute about half
of the four-year development plan, which began in the 2010-2011
fiscal year, to diversify its oil-reliant economy. The country,
which passed the foreign direct investment law in 2001 to ease
foreign ownership limits, is seeking investments in projects
including a $14 billion  oil refinery .  In 2007, Kuwait’s parliament passed a law to reduce the tax
burden on international companies for the first time in more
than half a century, with corporate tax on foreign firms reduced
to 15 percent from as much as 55 percent.  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, was the lowest recipient of
foreign direct investment among the six Gulf Cooperation Council
states in 2010 with $6.5 billion, according to data on the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development’s  website .
 Saudi Arabia , the biggest Arab economy, was the highest with
$170.5 billion, followed by the  United Arab Emirates  with $76.2
billion.  Kuwaiti Assets  In contrast, Kuwait is estimated to own $300 billion of
assets abroad through its sovereign-wealth fund. The Kuwait
Investment Authority holds stakes in Daimler AG and  BP Plc (BP/) , and
invested in the initial share sales of Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. and Citic Securities Co.  “Some government agencies still don’t understand the
importance of international investors, and so take too long” to
grant approvals required by the law, Sheikh Meshaal said.  The proposed amendment will shorten procedures to obtain
licenses and land for investors who fulfill the criteria, he
said. It will also stipulate the establishment of an independent
authority to consolidate “all efforts to promote investment
opportunities in Kuwait to the foreign market,” he said.  Economic Growth  Kuwait’s economy expanded 5.7 percent in 2011 and growth is
expected to be “a little higher” this year, Finance Minister
Mustafa al-Shimali said in March.  National Bank of Kuwait , the
country’s biggest lender, last month raised its forecast for
Kuwait’s 2012 real gross domestic product to 4.4 percent on
expectations of increased oil output.  Foreign direct investments that come under the bureau’s
jurisdiction climbed 20 percent in 2011 from the previous year,
Sheikh Meshaal said.  “Since we started operations in 2003, about $5.4 billion
in foreign investment was recorded to have come to Kuwait,” he
said. “The law’s achievement may have been short of
expectations, disappointing perhaps, but it is still progress.”  The bureau operates under the Ministry of Commerce to
oversee foreign investors interested in operating within the
framework of the law.  Clashes between the government and parliament have hindered
projects in the development plan, which include a metro and rail
network, an airport terminal and power stations. Lawmakers last
month rejected a bill that covers the plan in the 2012-2013
fiscal year and have criticized the government for carrying out
projects too slowly. Government officials have acknowledged
delays and a panel is investigating obstacles to the plan.  “Our democratic political system should not threaten
foreign investors,” Sheikh Meshaal said. “They’re used to it
in their countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  