-- N.J. Court Says Cap on School Administrators’ Sick Pay Valid
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-03T18:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/n-j-court-says-cap-on-school-administrators-sick-pay-valid-1-.html
The New Jersey  Supreme Court  ruled
that regulations limiting the amount of back sick pay that
public school superintendents can collect are valid, reversing a
lower court’s decision.  The state legislature passed measures in 2007 in an attempt
to lower property taxes and to address the issue of excessive
benefits for high-level school administrators, including a
$15,000 cap on accumulated unused sick leave payments to certain
officials upon retirement.  The  New Jersey Association of School Administrators 
challenged the regulations on the grounds that they were
unconstitutional because they changed contracts already in
place. An appellate court invalidated the measures in part,
finding that the new rules deprived some administrators of
vested rights and reduced the compensation of tenured assistant
superintendents.  The state appealed and the Supreme Court reversed the lower
court’s decision today, saying the regulations are valid and
allow payments for unused sick leave above the cap that were
already earned by employees or would be accumulated under
existing contracts.  “The legislature properly exercised its power when it
directed the commissioner to issue regulations for new contracts
for superintendents and assistant superintendents,” Chief
Justice Stuart Rabner said in a unanimous opinion.  ‘Clear Signal’  The ruling sends a “clear signal” that the reforms made
in 2007 were a “strong move in the right direction,” said
 Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Governor  Chris Christie , in an e-
mail.  “Now, it’s time for the legislature to join the governor
in putting an end to this abuse of taxpayer dollars once and for
all at every level of government by acting on our zero means
zero plan,” Roberts said. “Sick days are when you’re sick, not
as a retirement bonus, and should have no cash value moving
forward.”  The administrators’ association said in a statement that
the court “squarely held” that its members can’t be denied
compensation for sick days accumulated before the regulations
were enacted or earned under contracts that were in effect at
that time.  ‘Cannot Infringe’  The court didn’t rule on whether contracts that
automatically renew because a party didn’t give timely notice
that they were being terminated are new contracts under the
regulations, and also left open the question of whether tenure
compensation includes benefits or just salary, the association
said.  “The court did rule that the legislature can prospectively
impact the terms and conditions of employment of public
employees, but in doing so cannot infringe on constitutional
rights or existing contract rights,” the association said. “In
other words, legislative changes cannot be imposed retroactively
on existing contracts.”  The case is New Jersey Association of School Administrators
v. Schundler, A-98/066789, New Jersey Supreme Court (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  