-- N.Z. Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Rises to Highest Since 2010
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-03T05:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/n-z-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-rises-to-highest-since-2010-1-.html
New Zealand ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose to the highest since 2010 as more people
unsuccessfully sought work, adding to the case for the central
bank to keep  interest rates  at a record low this year.  The jobless rate rose to 6.7 percent in the first quarter
from a revised 6.4 percent in the three months through December,
 Statistics New Zealand  said in a report today in Wellington. The
rate exceeded the 6.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 10 economists and was the highest since the
fourth quarter of 2010.  The local dollar fell to the lowest level in more than
three months after the report showed New Zealand’s  unemployment
rate  has exceeded 6 percent for three years, signaling a
sluggish economic recovery from earthquakes that devastated the
southern city of Christchurch last year. Central bank Governor
Alan Bollard has kept the official cash rate at 2.5 percent
since March last year and signaled on April 26 that level
remained appropriate amid benign inflation.  The jobless rate “is consistent with an economy that is
struggling to grow above even a mediocre trend rate,” said
 Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Auckland. “Wage inflation seems likely to remain subdued for
some time. We can’t see the the RBNZ hiking in 2012.”  Revised Outlooks  Gibbs was one of at least three three economists who
revised their forecast for interest-rate increases after today’s
report. He previously prediced a quarter-point rise in December.  Ten of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg today forecast
Bollard won’t raise  borrowing costs  this year. The likelihood of
a rate cut by December rose to 74 percent from 44 percent late
yesterday, according to data on  interest-rate swaps  compiled by
Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to as low as 80.41 U.S. cents,
the weakest since Jan. 25. It bought 80.62 U.S. cents at 3:57
p.m. in Wellington from 80.83 cents immediately before the
release. The so-called kiwi has strengthened 3.8 percent this
year against its U.S. counterpart, making it the third-biggest
gainer among the Group of 10 currencies.  Employment increased by 0.4 percent, or 9,000 jobs, from
the fourth quarter, faster than the 0.3 percent median forecast
in the economists’ survey, today’s report showed. Annual job
growth was 0.9 percent, the slowest in almost two years.  Slow Recovery  Bollard, who announced earlier this year he’ll step down in
September, said last month the domestic economy was showing
signs of recovery led by a rebound in building. Still, the
global outlook is fragile while the currency remains strong, he
said. In March, he said the exchange-rate gains were undermining
economic growth.  New Zealand’s economy grew 1.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier.  Consumer prices  rose 1.6 percent in
the year ended March 31, the slowest annual pace since September
2010 and less than the midpoint of the 1 percent to 3 percent
range Bollard is required to target.  Full-time employment fell by 3,000 jobs, or 0.2 percent,
from the fourth quarter, according to today’s report. Part-time
employment rose by 13,000 jobs, or 2.5 percent, to a record.
Statistics New Zealand adjusts the full- and part-time
employment figures separately, which means they may not add to
the total change in employment.  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the nation’s largest airline,  said
in February it would cut 441 jobs by June as part of a series of
initiatives to improve profit.  More Participants  The unemployment rate rose as more people made themselves
available for work but couldn’t find jobs. The labor force
participation rate jumped to 68.8 percent, the highest since a
record in 2008, from 68.2 percent three months earlier. The
number of people unemployed rose to 160,000.  Total actual hours worked per week rose 0.1 percent from
the fourth quarter, today’s report showed.  The labor market in Christchurch and the surrounding
Canterbury region is beginning to show signs of recovery, the
statistics agency said. Hours worked surged 13 percent from the
year-earlier quarter, when earthquakes killed 185 people in the
city, today’s report showed.  Excluding the region, hours worked across New Zealand fell
1.3 percent in the quarter and 0.9 percent from a year earlier.
Employment excluding Canterbury fell in the quarter, the report
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  