-- Nexon, Electronic Arts Said to Discuss Game, Not Buyout
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-03T14:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nexon-electronic-arts-said-to-discuss-game-not-buyout.html
Nexon Co. (3659) , the Tokyo-based pioneer of
free-to-play computer games, is in talks to distribute
Electronics Arts Inc.’s next “FIFA Online” title in  Asia ,
rather than to buy the U.S. company, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City, California, is
considering using Nexon’s online servers and developers in Asia,
particularly  South Korea , for the game, said one of the people,
who sought anonymity because the matter is private. The goal
would be to apply Nexon’s expertise in persuading players to
spend real money on virtual items such as team jerseys and
player-experience points, the person said.  The sides aren’t discussing a merger, according to the
people.  Electronic Arts (EA)  surged 6.1 percent on April 26 after
Maeil Business in South  Korea  reported Nexon was seeking to
acquire the second-largest U.S. video-game publisher. A
partnership for the unannounced FIFA title, Electronic Arts’
most popular sports franchise worldwide, could come as early as
June, one of the people said.  Owen Mahoney, chief financial officer for Nexon Global,
declined to comment, as did David Tinson, a spokesman for EA
Sports.  “We’re extremely pleased with how Korean fans have
embraced ‘EA Sports: FIFA Online 2,’” Electronic Arts said in
an e-mailed statement.  Nexon, the largest free-to-play game company operating in
Korea, would give Electronic Arts a bigger partner in the
market. The company hosts millions of players daily and tailors
games to different markets and languages, and is working to
expand in  Japan  and China, two countries Electronic Arts has
targeted for growth.  Neowiz Deal  In Korea, the game is currently distributed by South
Korea’s  Neowiz Games Corp. (095660) , which signed a deal with Electronic
Arts in 2006. The relationship with Neowiz isn’t exclusive, one
of the people said. Electronic Arts and its affiliates have a
14.7 percent stake in Neowiz, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Electronic Arts fell 0.8 percent to $15.75 at 10:04 a.m. in
 New York   trading . The shares have declined 23 percent this year
before today. Neowiz added 4.5 percent to 26,900 at the close in
Seoul. Japanese markets, where Nexon trades, were closed because
of a holiday.  In some markets, Electronic Arts, the maker of “Madden
NFL” and “The Sims,” has struggled with “FIFA Online.  The company published an updated version as ‘‘EA Sports:
FIFA Online’’ in the U.S. and  Europe  in 2010, then shut down
online play in March 2011 without saying why.  In  China , Electronic Arts ended an exclusive agreement with
local publisher The 9 Ltd. in late 2010, and shut down the game
in the country last year.  Nexon Sales  Nexon, which began business in December 1994 in South
Korea, went public on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in December, in a
$1.2 billion offering that was the largest of the year in Japan.
The company’s 2011 sales were nearly double those of Neowiz.  Nexon gets about 90 percent of sales from games that run on
personal computers, and is seeking to expand on tablets and
mobile phones. Through December, the company had 80 million
active users who spend an average of about $17 a month on
virtual goods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  