-- Next Says China-Made U.K. Olympic Suits to Promote Brand Abroad
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/next-says-china-made-u-k-olympic-suits-to-promote-brand-abroad.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, said a multi-million-pound sponsorship deal
to fit out British Olympians in 220-pound ($357) Chinese-made
suits will help promote its brand as it targets growth abroad.  Next, the official formalwear sponsor of  London  2012, will
start selling the navy suits with the British Olympic
Association’s “Better Never Stops” motto under the collar and
gold handkerchief from May 19 at 31 of its 500-plus U.K. stores.  The sponsorship, which cost “a few million pounds,” is
more about “promoting the brand and particularly now we’re
developing an international business,” Chief Executive Officer
Simon Wolfson said in an interview in London. “I don’t think
we’ll see any overnight or instant impact from the Olympics.”  Next is pushing into  Russia  and sees opportunities to
expand its presence online in eastern  Europe ,  Australia  and the
U.S. to compensate for declining U.K. sales.  “It might bring about some familiarity, though I’m not
sure anyone would start opening up their wallets,” Daniela Nedialkova, an analyst at Atlantic Equities who covers U.S.
retailers including Macy’s Inc, Coach Inc. and J Crew Group Inc.
said of the impact of the sponsorship on U.S. consumers.  Next’s retail sales fell 3.9 percent in the first quarter
and Wolfson expects a “very subdued” year for the industry.  The official “Team GB” logo and badges will be removed
from the replica suit and the navy tie to be worn by British
Olympians isn’t for sale, designer Michael Woodhouse said in an
interview. A laser-cut gold and navy dress to be worn by the
country’s female competitors also won’t be available as it
couldn’t be produced cheaply enough for sale to Next customers.  Opening Ceremony  More than 1,000 Olympic and Paralympic athletes have been
fitted out with the suits and are expected to wear them during
the July 27 Opening Ceremony, at sponsorship events and at an
official meeting with the Queen.  “This is a high quality suit that will see a life much
more beyond the Olympics,” rower Andy Triggs Hodge said in an
interview. He plans to wear it to a ball and fundraising events.  The outfit was made from wool woven in Yorkshire, northern
 England , and was manufactured in  China  due to “cost
pressures,” Woodhouse, the designer, said.  Next is offering casual-wear such as London 2012 t-shirts
depicting Olympic mascot Wenlock for 12 pounds and a 10-pound
London 2012 red British bus model on its web site and in stores.  “It’s difficult to know with the Olympics, I’m sure it
will stimulate some demand, but at the same time people are
probably going to stay in to watch television,” Wolfson said.
“In the scheme of the year, it won’t make a lot of difference”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  