-- Nike Raises Factory Labor and Sustainability Standards
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-03T22:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nike-raises-factory-labor-and-sustainability-standards.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, is putting its contract manufacturers on
notice: adhere to new labor and sustainability standards or risk
losing Nike’s business.  The Beaverton, Oregon-based maker of Air Jordan sneakers is
giving more importance to worker benefits and safety in its
grading system for factories, the company said in a statement.
Nike, which makes more than 90 percent of its shoes in Vietnam,
 China  and  Indonesia , wants all factories it uses to meet the
increased standards by 2020.  “We will be moving away from companies that are not
committed to putting workers and sustainability at the heart of
their growth agendas,” said Hannah Jones, vice president of
sustainable business and innovation at Nike, in a telephone
interview. “There are new rules of engagement.”  The shoemaker increased its standards as labor practices in
 Asia  have come under increasing scrutiny. Technology company
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  opened up its suppliers’ factories to inspections by
an outside group after worker suicides and injuries in China
drew complaints by human rights organizations.  Nike has its own history of being criticized for worker
conditions at the factories that makes its shoes and apparel. In
the 1990s, the company began addressing the issue.  New Approach  The company’s initial approach was to monitor factories.
That didn’t work because factories would improve conditions for
the monitoring and then regress afterward, Jones said. Nike is
now trying to persuade contract manufacturers that better labor
practices and sustainability improves productivity with lower
worker turnover and reduced costs, she said.  The move is part of a company-wide focus on using its
prowess as an innovator to drive sustainability, said Jones.
“Our young consumers expect this,” she said.  The new standards were introduced as part of Nike’s latest
 report  on sustainability and worker issues. Nike gave “A”
ratings to 4 percent of its factories in the fiscal year ended
May 31, 2011, compared to 6 percent in 2010. Factories with
“B” grades increased to 45 percent from 33 percent.  Under the new rating system, “A” and “B” grades will be
a bronze rating with silver and gold above that. Nike has the
goal of all its contracted factories reaching the bronze level
by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  