-- Nokia, Motorola Mobility, Stichting: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-03T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nokia-motorola-mobility-stichting-bdo-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  said it filed patent-
infringement lawsuits against HTC Corp.,  Research in Motion Ltd. 
and ViewSonic Corp. in the U.S. and Germany over inventions in
mobile devices including phones and tablets.  One complaint was filed against HTC at the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington, which has the
power to block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.
HTC and ViewSonic were sued in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, while all three companies were named in German
lawsuits. Nokia said in a statement it claims infringement of 45
patents in all.  Nokia, which lost its 14-year title as world’s biggest
seller of mobile phones last year to Samsung Electronics Co., is
trying to expand revenue from its patent portfolio. The
company’s royalty income is on pace to reach 500 million euros
($658 million) a year, Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila
said last month.  Six of the patents asserted in the new round of litigation
were also part of a global fight Nokia waged with iPhone maker
 Apple Inc., (AAPL)  said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Nokia. The two
companies settled their dispute a year ago, with Apple agreeing
to a one-time payment and royalties.  The patents in the new round of litigation cover hardware
inventions for dual-function antennas, power management and
multimode radios, and software features including application
stores, multitasking, navigation, conversational message
display, dynamic menus, data encryption and retrieval of e-mail
attachments on a mobile device.  Nokia has linked up with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make Lumia
smartphones that run on the Windows Phone platform, which
competes with Google Inc.’s Android operating system. HTC, based
in Taoyuan, Taiwan, makes phones for both Android and Windows
Phone. The suits in Delaware target the  HTC (2498)  Flyer tablet and a
range of smartphones including the HTC Sensation 4G, Vivid, and
Inspire 4G.  HTC and Nokia have been partners in fighting patent-
infringement claims by IPCom GmbH, a licensing company that
obtained mobile-phone patents from Robert Bosch GmbH in 2007.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, developed its own
operating system for its BlackBerry phones. Marisa Conway, a
spokeswoman for RIM, said the company doesn’t comment on
litigation.  ViewSonic, based in Walnut, California, makes tablet
computers that run on Android. In the case against ViewSonic in
Mannheim, Germany, Nokia claims infringement of four patents
that relate to industry standards on 3G and Wi-Fi technology,
Durrant said. None of the others are for inventions that are
essential components of standards.  Officials with HTC and ViewSonic didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  Motorola Mobility Wins German Ruling on Microsoft Windows, Xbox  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won a patent ruling
allowing it to ban Microsoft Corp. from selling its Windows
products or Xbox gaming systems in Germany.  In a case that prompted Microsoft to move its European
logistics center to the Netherlands from Germany, the Mannheim
Regional Court found the company violated patents related to
industry standards for video compression. Last month, a U.S.
court ordered Motorola Mobility not to enforce a ban if it won
yesterday’s ruling while a related dispute in Seattle is
pending.  The suit is part of a wave of global patent litigation as
companies seek a greater share of smartphone and handheld device
sales. The total market for mobile devices, which includes
tablet computers and e-readers, is projected to reach $360
billion this year, according to  Carl Howe , an analyst with
Boston-based advisory firm Yankee Group.  Last month, Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the
world’s largest software maker, said it was moving its European
logistics center to the Netherlands from Germany because of the
patent fight. The German unit is the central distribution point
for software and other Microsoft products in Europe, so the
adverse German ruling may have threatened deliveries through
much of the continent.  Motorola Mobility, a Libertyville, Illinois-based phone
maker, is being acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the maker of Android
software.  Rovi Sues Mitsubishi Electric Over TV Program Guide Patents  Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital entertainment guides,
sued three television makers claiming infringement of patents
for its technology and parental-control chips that block
television content.  Rovi argues that Mitsubishi Electric Corp.,  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and Vizio Inc., the first American brand in over a decade
to lead in LCD high-definition TV sales in the U.S.,
misappropriated its on-screen guides that allow users to browse
channel listing and upcoming shows, according to a complaint
filed May 1 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The companies’ alleged infringement “presents significant
and ongoing damages to Rovi’s business,” lawyers for the  Santa
Clara , California-based company said in court papers. “Rovi’s
long-term financial success depends on its ability to establish,
maintain, and protect its proprietary technology through
enforcement of its patent rights.”  Rovi contends that Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric is
violating three of its patents, according to court documents.
Two patents cover viewing the TV program schedule and “on-
demand” content. Another patent involves “V-chip” technology
that restricts access to certain shows or networks deemed
inappropriate.  The company argues that LG, based in Seoul, Korea, is
infringing five patents including three of the four asserted
against  Irvine , California-based Vizio.  Rovi also filed a U.S. International Trade Commission
complaint yesterday against the three companies as well as
Netflix Inc. and Roku Inc. alleging infringement of as many as
seven patents.  Mark Scott, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Electric U.S.,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Jim Noyd, a spokesman for
Vizio, and John Taylor, a spokesman for LG, weren’t immediately
available to respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Rovi is asking for jury trials and unspecified damages
based on the companies’ importation or sales of television sets,
according to court papers. The company said in the complaint
that any damages awarded should be tripled, claiming the
infringement was “willful and deliberate.”  The cases are Rovi v.  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , 12-cv-
547); Rovi v. LG Electronics Inc., 12-cv-545; Rovi v. Vizio
Inc., 12-cv-546, all U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Products
Containing Interactive Program Guide and Parental Control
Technology, Complaint No. 2894, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Stichting BDO’s Trademark Challenge to Philippines Bank Rejected  Stichting BDO, the Netherlands-based accounting firm, has
lost a trademark challenge to the Banco de Oro Unibank in the
Philippines, the Philippine Daily Inquirer  reported .  The Mandaluyong court said the bank was the first to use
the “BDO” trademark, and there was no intent on the bank’s
part to deceive the market, according to the newspaper.  The accounting firm filed the infringement claim in 2009,
saying it had used the mark since 2004, the Inquirer reported.  The court said the Philippines’  Intellectual Property 
Office has also now canceled the Dutch company’s registration
for the “BDO” trademark, according to the Inquirer.  China’s Trademark Registry System Often Causes Outsiders Grief  Waitrose Ltd.,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit, and  J
Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  are among the U.K. companies whose names were
registered in  China  without their consent by unrelated entities,
the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper  reported .  In China, whoever registers the mark first has the right to
use it, according to the newspaper.  Fights by non-Chinese companies to regain the rights to
their name are seldom successful, trademark lawyers told the
Telegraph.  Many companies have been forced into doing business in
China under a new brand, the Telegraph reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Software Copyright Allows Reverse Engineering, EU Court Says  Software companies can’t rely on copyright rules to prevent
rivals from “reverse engineering” computer programs, the
European Union’s highest court ruled.  SAS Institute Inc., the world’s biggest closely held
software company, lost a bid at the EU Court of Justice to
extend copyright protection to the functions of a computer
program. World Programming Ltd. infringed SAS’s copyright by
developing a system that copied the company’s manuals, SAS said
at a September hearing.  Copyright protection doesn’t extend to the functionality of
a computer program or the programming language and the format of
a program’s data files, according to a statement from the court
yesterday.  “There is no copyright infringement” when a software
company without access to a program’s source code “studied,
observed and tested that program in order to reproduce its
functionality in a second program,” the court said in the
statement.  SAS, based in Cary, North Carolina, is an independent maker
of so-called business intelligence programs, which spot patterns
amid vast stores of data. WPL, based in Romsey, England, makes a
software product that analyzes and processes data.  It’s the first time the EU’s top court has been asked to
define the scope of copyright protection for computer software.
The High Court in  London  in 2010 referred the case to the EU
tribunal for guidance on how to interpret the region’s software
and copyright laws. The court said WPL’s system didn’t breach
SAS’s copyright.  Calls and e-mails to SAS offices in North Carolina and
England weren’t immediately answered before U.S. business hours.
WPL didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The ruling means “that competitive and interoperable
computer programs can continue to be developed without threat of
legal liability,” said  Thomas Vinje , a spokesman for the
European Committee for Interoperable Systems, a group
representing International Business Machines Corp.,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
and other software developers.  The case is  C-406/10 , SAS Institute Inc. v. World
Programming Ltd.  Oracle Claims $777 Million Damages in SAP Infringement Case  Oracle Corp. said it will claim damages of $776.7 million
in its retrial of a copyright-infringement lawsuit against  SAP
AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-management software.  Oracle decided in February to pursue a new trial rather
than accept U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton’s reduction of
a 2010 jury verdict the company won from $1.3 billion to $272
million. The retrial is scheduled for June 18 in Oakland,
California.  Oracle said in a court filing that it has a right to pursue
actual damages measured by the “fair market value of the rights
infringed.” To do so, the company has asked Hamilton, to let it
present evidence of a “hypothetical license” that would
establish that value. If not, Oracle said, it will pursue
damages based on $656 million in SAP’s profits and $120.7
million in Oracle’s lost profits, according to the April 26
filing.  Oracle said its damages claim will be supported at trial by
an “updated analysis and additional evidence to support the
infringers’ profits and lost profit amounts.”  “We think Oracle’s damage estimate is overstated,” Jim
Dever, a spokesman for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, said in an
e-mail. SAP estimates damages at $28 million, he said.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California,  sued  in 2007
after discovering that SAP’s software-maintenance unit had
downloaded and copied its software. SAP didn’t contest that it
was liable for the infringement by its TomorrowNow unit, which
the company closed in 2008.  The jury award of $1.3 billion was based on the value of a
hypothetical license that SAP would have needed to use Oracle’s
software. Hamilton threw out the verdict, calling it “grossly
excessive” and not supported by the evidence.  TomorrowNow pleaded guilty in September to U.S. charges of
unauthorized computer access and SAP paid the unit’s $20 million
fine.  The civil case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-1658, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 