-- Nokia’s Ollila Says Phonemaker to Expand in Tablets, ‘Hybrids’
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-05-03T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nokia-s-ollila-says-phonemaker-to-expand-in-tablets-hybrids-.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will introduce new designs
and devices including tablet computers to improve sales and
profit, outgoing Chairman  Jorma Ollila  told the  Financial Times 
ahead of the mobile phonemaker’s annual investor meeting.  The company plans to include “hybrid” mobile devices
among future products, Ollila, 61, said in an interview with the
newspaper, without giving a timetable. He steps down as chairman
after the meeting today.  Nokia lost its place as the world’s largest handset maker
to Samsung Electronics Co. last quarter. The company still
hasn’t produced inexpensive smartphones with broad developer
support to compete with Google Inc.’s Android, more than a year
after announcing its shift to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone.
Finnish entrepreneur Risto Siilasmaa is set to succeed Ollila as
chairman.  The company is now delivering products on time after being
too slow earlier, Ollila said in the interview. The comments
“are in line with what we’ve previously said,”  Doug Dawson , a
spokesman for the Espoo, Finland-based company said. “We’ve
made no new product announcements.”  Nokia rose 1.3 percent to 2.73 euros at 11:13 a.m. in the
Finnish capital.  Ollila was chief executive officer from 1992 through
mid-2006. During that period, Nokia became the world’s largest
handset maker in 1998 as rivals like Ericsson AB stumbled. It
was  Europe ’s biggest company by market value in 1999.  Since Nokia sold its desktop computer division, the
company’s consumer products have almost exclusively been pocket-
sized devices. The phonemaker introduced a 10-inch laptop called
the Booklet in 2009.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, recruited by the
board in 2010 to turn the company around, introduced Windows
Phones based on Microsoft Corp. software in the fourth quarter.
The company said it sold more than 2 million Windows Phones in
the first three months of the year as the decline of its older
handset lines accelerated. The cheapest model, the Lumia 610,
was announced with a list price of 189 euros ($249).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  