-- Nokia Investors Skeptical of Turnaround Plan Under New Chairman
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-05-03T17:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nokia-s-incoming-chairman-says-its-current-program-will-succeed.html
Risto Siilasmaa, who is taking over as
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s chairman today, defended the Finnish mobile-phone
maker’s turnaround strategy that is finding few supporters among
shareholders at today’s annual meeting.  “They talked about the products a lot and not about the
future of the company,” Markku Lindfors, 74, of Forssa, who
said he has held Nokia for 27 years and sold most of his stake
long ago, said in an interview. “They’re just asking investors
to trust in the future.”  Nokia is trying to rebuild confidence as shares remain at
one third of their value before the company shifted smartphone
systems to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone last year. The
company hasn’t produced inexpensive smartphones that can compete
with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android and was overtaken by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  as the largest handset maker last quarter. The
board backs the current strategy and has faith in Elop and his
team, departing Chairman  Jorma Ollila  said.  “I don’t think any new change is required as we are going
through a transformation period already,” Siilasmaa, 45, said
at a press briefing before the meeting in Helsinki. A board
member since 2008, he helped pick Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop to drive the company’s turnaround plan.  Nokia closed down 1 percent at 2.67 euros in the Finnish
capital, the lowest price since December 1996.  Investment Strategy  Elop answered questions from investors for several hours at
the meeting today, without giving specifics beyond what the
company has disclosed. He said sales of the new Lumia series
were exceeding expectations in the U.S. and reiterated that they
had lagged in some other markets such as the U.K.  “They’re not giving us details of why the Lumia sales are
so low,” said Tero Leskinen, a 27-year-old engineer from
Helsinki who started buying shares in 2009. “A lot of the
answers were shallow. If the price of the Lumia 900 is $99 for
customers in the U.S., I want to know who pays the rest, is it
Nokia or Microsoft or the operators.”  Investors also questioned the company’s ability to compete
with Chinese handset producers, its ability to roll out features
as fast as the competition, and its plan to pay a 20-cent per-
share dividend. Elop reiterated that the company will continue
to seek cost cuts.  Nokia will continue with its strategy of using Windows
Phone to distinguish itself from Android, the CEO said. It will
continue to work on software and services hosted online as well
as hardware, Elop said at the briefing. “We can’t do it all but
we can pick the areas where we have unique intellectual
property.”  Fighting Android  Android is the world’s best-selling smartphone platform,
with many handsets priced at $150 or less, taking share from
Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s low-end phones as well as its
smartphones.  Nokia said it sold “more than 2 million” Windows Phones
in the first three months of the year as the decline of its
older handset lines accelerated. The cheapest Windows Phone
model, the Lumia 610, was announced with a list price of 189
euros ($248).  The company had a 1.34-billion euro operating loss for the
first quarter, including 772 million euros in one-time charges
for Nokia Siemens Networks, the unprofitable equipment venture
with Siemens AG. Two  ratings agencies  downgraded Nokia’s debt to
junk after losses in the handset business.  Job Cuts  Elop has announced more than 10,000 job cuts since the
alliance with Microsoft in February 2011. Nokia Siemens Networks
is eliminating 17,000 jobs and selling units after the parents
failed to dispose of it to private equity.  The company will introduce new products including tablets,
Ollila, 61, said in an interview with the Financial Times.  “Every chairman of the board hopes to hand over a thriving
company,” Ollila said today. “I wish I could have done the
same.”  Ollila has been chairman since 1999. Under his leadership
as CEO, Nokia expanded to become the world’s largest handset
maker in 1998 as rivals such as Ericsson AB stumbled. It was
 Europe ’s biggest company at the end of 1999.  Standard & Poor’s  followed  Fitch Ratings  last week in
cutting Nokia’s debt rating to the highest non-investment grade.
Moody’s Investors Service still rates it as the lowest
investment grade. All three agencies have a negative outlook
indicating they may downgrade the company further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  