-- NRLB Chief Says Lapses by Flynn Raise Questions of Trust
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-03T20:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nrlb-chief-says-lapses-by-flynn-raise-questions-of-trust.html
Two Democratic lawmakers urged  Terence Flynn , a Republican on the  National Labor Relations Board , to
quit after fresh allegations of ethics violations that the
agency’s chairman said raised questions “of trust.”  Flynn, while a board employee, gave non-public information
including a draft of a board decision to a former member of the
agency for personal gain, the inspector general said in a report
released yesterday by Representative  George Miller  of
 California .  “The inspector general’s findings leave me without
confidence in your ability to successfully execute the duties
for which you have been appointed,” Miller, senior Democrat on
the House Education and Workforce Committee, wrote to Flynn.
Senator  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa , in a separate statement, also called
for Flynn’s resignation.  NLRB Chairman Mark Pearce said he takes the allegations
against Flynn seriously and is considering a response.  “They raise questions of ethics and trust that go to the
heart of the values shared by all of us at the NLRB,” Pearce, a
Democrat, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The watchdog’s allegations yesterday and in a March 19
report add to criticism of the board, which mediates disputes
between labor and employers. President  Barack Obama  in January
appointed Flynn, a Republican, and two Democrats when the Senate
wasn’t in session, bypassing confirmation and triggering legal
challenges from Republicans.  ‘Looking Into’ Options  Obama has authority to remove board members “for neglect
of duty or malfeasance in office,” according to the  National
Labor Relations Act .  The administration is “looking into” its options, White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters today.  Without allegations that Flynn leaked documents as a board
member, it would be difficult for Obama to dismiss him from the
agency, said Charles Craver, a law professor at George
Washington University in Washington, offering an interpretation
of the labor act. Obama could still argue that Flynn’s denials
that he did anything wrong could hurt the NLRB’s credibility.  “His language could affect his current ability to be a
board member,” Craver said. “The president could say he is
being deceptive now.”  Flynn, while chief counsel to a Republican member,
improperly gave a draft of an unpublished board decision and
dissents in three cases to Peter Schaumber, his NLRB boss until
August 2010.  ‘Keep Me Posted’  About a month after Schaumber left, he sent Flynn an e-mail
asking to “keep me posted” on board decisions. “Sure,” Flynn
responded, 54 minutes later, according to Inspector General
David P. Berry. Schaumber, who joined  Mitt Romney ’s Republican
presidential campaign as a labor adviser in September, is no
longer listed on the candidate’s website.  In one case in which Flynn distributed a dissent, the NLRB
eventually said that a  MasTec Inc. (MTZ)  unit wrongfully fired
employees who appeared on a television news broadcast in work
uniforms and were critical of the company’s compensation plan.  In another case highlighted by the inspector general, Flynn
notified Schaumber by e-mail of a board decision that stationary
banners announcing a labor dispute didn’t violate laws. Flynn
sent his e-mail six days before the decision was announced,
according to the watchdog report.  ‘Serious Threat’  “Nothing in Mr. Flynn’s performance standards authorize
the release of deliberative information,” Berry said in a
memorandum. Issues identified in the two reports “evidence a
serious threat to the board’s” decision making, Berry said.  Flynn’s actions weren’t illegal and didn’t have any effect
on board decisions, said Barry Coburn, a lawyer for Flynn. There
are no statutes that bar sharing information with a former NLRB
member, he wrote.  “There is no shred of evidence indicating that any attempt
was made to improperly influence any board decision,” he wrote
in a letter yesterday to Berry. “Rather, the evidence shows
that Mr. Flynn was simply discussing issues of mutual interest
with a former close colleague.”  Flynn has said he did nothing improper and rejected an
earlier call from the AFL-CIO labor federation to resign.  Harkin, who is chairman of the Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that Flynn’s actions “suggest that he lacks both the
professional judgment and ethical integrity to continue serving
on the board.”  Romney Campaign  A report on Flynn’s conduct was sent on April 3 to the U.S.
Office of Special Counsel, which investigates violations of laws
barring government workers from using their jobs for political
activities. Berry cited communications Flynn sent to Schaumber
after he became co-chair of Romney’s labor policy group in
September and through Nov. 30, according to a letter to the
special counsel’s office.  Information also was shared with Peter Kirsanow, a former
NLRB member working for the  National Association of
Manufacturers , Berry said.  Flynn “knew, or should have known, that he had a duty to
maintain the confidence of the information that he received in
the performance of his official duties,” Berry said in a March
19 memorandum. He “lacked candor” during an interview March
15, Berry said in the March report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at  