-- NYC’s $68.7 Billion Budget Retains Teachers, Bloomberg Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-04T02:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nyc-s-bloomberg-says-68-7-billion-budget-will-retain-teachers.html
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg today
presented a revised $68.7 billion budget that contains no new
taxes and accepts a City Council call to retain more than 2,000
teaching positions that he previously sought to eliminate.  The 2013 spending plan still contains about $170 million in
cuts to day care, summer camp and after-school programs
affecting about 52,000 children, according to the Children’s Aid
Society. City Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  said she will
oppose the reductions. The budget requires council approval by
June 30, the end of the city’s fiscal year. Council members also
object to Bloomberg’s proposal to save $43 million by closing 20
fire companies, she said.  The mayor, an independent, told reporters that he expected
those and other issues to be resolved through negotiations. He
said he agreed with Quinn, a Democrat, about the importance of
day care and other youth programs. He expressed less agreement
about the fire companies, citing data showing the fewest city
fire deaths since such statistics have been kept.  “When we can afford it, we can provide more services,”
Bloomberg, 70, said at  City Hall . He predicted a 2014 deficit of
$3 billion, and a $3.7 billion gap in 2015. “We are going to
face some significant challenges going into 2014,” he said.  The  financial plan  reflected $352 million less in tax
revenue, primarily from  Wall Street , and $143 million more in
expenses than the mayor anticipated in his preliminary financial
plan released in February. The total size of the budget, which
is up from $66 billion last year, remained the same.  CityTime Settlement  Most of the $495 million gap may be closed with $466
million from a March legal settlement with Science Applications
International Corp. over alleged fraud in installing CityTime, a
payroll-management system, he said.  Charles Brecher, research director for the  Citizens Budget
Commission , a business-funded fiscal watchdog, said his group
was concerned that the budget relied on “one-shot” revenue
generators such as the CityTime settlement, a $1 billion sale of
taxi medallions and about $2 billion over the next two years
from a  trust fund  to pay future retirees’ health benefits.  Kathryn Wylde , president of the Partnership for  New York
City , an association of corporate chief executives, praised the
spending plan, saying it showed “continued fiscal restraint by
the city,” allowing for “expanded investment in our public-
school system without raising taxes.”  Tourism, Higher Education  Debt service is among the fastest-growing nonagency
expenses, increasing to $7.2 billion in 2016 from $4.8 billion
in 2011, according to the budget documents.  Growth in tourism, film and television production, higher-
education hiring and technology businesses offset decreases in
 tax revenue  from the financial industry, the mayor’s office said
yesterday.  The city has regained all the jobs lost since the 2008
financial crisis, eclipsing its record employment level set in
1969, Bloomberg said. By comparison, the U.S. has recaptured
about 40 percent of the jobs lost since then, he said.  Most of the increase has come in industries such as tourism
and retail that don’t pay as well as finance, resulting in less
growth in total personal income, the mayor said.  In abandoning his February plan to eliminate teachers
through attrition, Bloomberg satisfied a demand from Quinn, who
yesterday estimated that 1,800 positions would be affected.
Today, she put the total at 2,600.  “This keeps school budgets whole and prevents classroom
sizes from rising further,” said Quinn, 45, who is considered a
candidate for mayor next year. “I am deeply concerned about
cuts to childcare programs.”  The mayor, whose term ends in 2013, is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  