-- NYU Attacks Greenwich Village With Bloated Plan: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/nyu-attacks-greenwich-village-with-bloated-plan-review.html
Just off the narrow, crowded streets
of  Greenwich Village  is a lush, spacious garden of drooping
mature willows and sycamores.  New York University , its owner, fights for its destruction.  If the university prevails, two curvy towers shaped like
chocolate drops will arise from the garden. The million square
feet of new construction are the space equivalent of a hefty
skyscraper.  In 2007, the university first presented its growth strategy
in  New York City . The plans included expanding along the  East
River  where the university has a medical center and at Brooklyn
Polytechnic, a campus it acquired in 2008.  But the controversial aspect of the expansion involved
jamming three million square feet into the densely built blocks
of prim Georgian row houses, stolid brick tenements and beefy
industrial lofts that wrap Washington Square, where NYU was
founded in 1831.  The university has grown incrementally, opportunistically
and with no feeling whatsoever for the rich history, continued
vitality and diverse architectural riches of the Village.  That’s why it has faced a well-organized wall of local
opposition. The university has made changes, moving some
elements around and agreeing to reduce the square footage.  That’s only made the proposal worse.  Almost all the growth in the Village will be piled onto two
so-called Superblocks south of Washington Square. These were
bulldozed in an ill-conceived “slum” clearance and rebuilt as
Modernist slabs and towers in the 1950s and 1960s.  Taking Green Space  The new plan, designed by  Grimshaw Architects ,  Toshiko Mori
Architects  and landscape architect  Michael Van Valkenburgh
Associates  proposes to plant a breathtaking 2.5 million square
feet on the ample green space that flows around those buildings.  The doomed garden takes up about two-thirds of the northern
block, running between a pair of 15-story housing slabs. It’s
nominally open to the public but the entrances are well
concealed.  The garden would be rebuilt and shrink to swirl around two
curved, tapering “boomerang” buildings -- as NYU calls them --
that would house mainly faculty offices. The buildings are
unbelievably intrusive considering that the university will cram
two-thirds of the space underground, and that only two small
light wells will relieve the windowless basement space.  On the block to the south, where urban renewal produced a
handsome ensemble of three 1960s concrete towers by I.M. Pei,
the university would leave space for a public school in one
corner and build a one-million-square-foot, full-block-long
building called the zipper on the eastern edge, behind the Pei
towers.  Eyesore Gymnasium  The name comes from the serrated top, which would
accommodate student and faculty housing. These quarters sit atop
a high, solid wall of retail and academic facilities that form a
more overbearing version of the eyesore gymnasium that currently
occupies the site. The gym gets shunted underground.  I look in vain for some kind of urban ensemble or
architectural grace. Each proposed building looks shaped in
isolation, driven by how much space can be crammed in.  For a while I thought these expressionless shapes were
simply cartoon placeholders for real buildings that could be
developed with a great deal more sensitivity.  On the evidence of the university’s past defacements, the
simplistic outlines will be turned into rote structures. The
just-completed  Center for Academic and Spiritual Life  mocks
religious feeling with a dull institutional box covered in leaf-
shaped cutouts.  Senseless Fragments  I still feel that much of the university’s growth could be
gracefully accommodated, since the open space on the superblocks
is largely useless, cut into senseless fragments wrapped in high
wrought iron or chain-link fences.  But that would require a more holistic approach and some
long-awaited forging of trust with the neighborhood. The empty
windswept court and oversized driveway between the Pei towers,
for example, is bleak and underused yet could be redesigned to
gorgeously serve public and university alike.  Nothing about this plan speaks to the way the university
will nurture the city just as the city nurtures it. There’s no
physical expression of the future of education, which is in flux
thanks to online learning and collaborative research that is
dissolving ossified departmental boundaries.  Game Board  Instead, the university treats its holdings like a real-
estate game board, moving around the pieces in response to
neighborhood pressure. Just weeks ago the university agreed to
reduce additional square footage, but the cuts don’t pay off in
neighborhood amenity.  The space that NYU has agreed to reserve for a public-
school building, for example, was not part of its plan. It was
introduced as a sop to neighborhood concerns, and it’s not clear
when or whether it will be built.  On the plan drawings, the school floats aimlessly, further
complicating rather than enriching the university’s equally
aimless enterprise.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  technology  developments.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 