-- Obama Tops Romney in Pennsylvania Poll as Ohio Tightens
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-05-03T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/obama-tops-romney-in-pennsylvania-poll-as-ohio-tightens.html
President  Barack Obama  is leading
presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney in Pennsylvania,
while the matchup between them has tightened in two other states
critical to the general election’s outcome, a Quinnipiac
University poll shows.  Obama tops Romney 47 percent to 39 percent in Pennsylvania,
according to the April 25-May 1 poll released today, an
improvement in the president’s showing compared with a similar
survey in late March. In Ohio and  Florida , though, the president
has lost ground.  In Ohio, Obama is up by 2 percentage points, 44 percent to
42 percent, while Romney leads by 1 point in Florida, 44 percent
to 43 percent. In March’s Quinnipiac poll, Obama led Romney by 6
points in  Ohio  and 7 points in Florida.  Romney has gained in Ohio and Florida “to the point that
those two states are essentially tied,” said Peter Brown,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut . His improvement “reflects two
changes in the political environment,” Brown said in a
statement.  “First, since he is now the de facto nominee, Romney is no
longer being attacked by his fellow Republicans who are closing
ranks behind him,” he said. “Second, voter optimism about the
economy has leveled off.”  ‘Perception on Economy’  No one has won the White House since 1960 without carrying
at least two of the three states in the poll. Obama won all
three in 2008, when he defeated that year’s Republican nominee,
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  “What appears to be keeping Romney in the ball game, at
least in Florida and Ohio, is the perception he can better fix
the economy,” Brown said.  Obama’s lead in Pennsylvania expanded due in part to
Obama’s surge among women, a group he leads 52 percent to 35
percent in the state. Also, more voters in Pennsylvania than in
Ohio or Florida say they think the economy is beginning to
recover, according to the poll.  As Romney’s camp vets potential running mates, the poll
finds native sons -- or those close to it -- favored in each
state.  In Florida, 40 percent of voters back the state’s freshman
U.S. senator,  Marco Rubio , for the Republican ticket’s vice
presidential slot. He was followed by  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , with 14 percent, while no other contender gets more
than 7 percent support.  Prospective Running Mates  Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, also a freshman, leads the
running mate prospects in his state with 26 percent, while Rubio
and Christie each get 14 percent.  In Pennsylvania, which borders New Jersey, Christie runs
first among the vice-presidential prospects with 28 percent,
followed by Rubio with 15 percent. No one else tops 8 percent.  The poll’s margin of error in each state is plus-or-minus
2.9 percentage points. Quinnipiac surveyed 1,169 voters in
Florida, 1,130 in Ohio and 1,168 in  Pennsylvania .  The three states combined have 67 of the 270 electoral
votes needed to win the White House. Ohio has been carried by
the winner of every presidential election since 1964, and
Florida sided with a loser only once over that period -- in 1992
when it backed then-President George H.W. Bush over Democrat
 Bill Clinton . Pennsylvania has been reliably Democratic in its
presidential contest since the 1992 vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  