-- Obama Can Win Re-Election Running on Record, Patrick Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/obama-can-win-re-election-running-on-record-patrick-says.html
President Barack Obama can win re-
election this year if he runs on his record, which is “long,
impressive and barely told,” according to  Massachusetts 
Governor  Deval Patrick , a campaign co-chairman.  Obama needs to impress upon voters a narrative of his
accomplishments, including overhauling health care, ending the
war in Iraq, saving the  auto industry  and reviving the  U.S.
economy  after the longest recession since the 1930s, said
Patrick, a 55-year-old Democrat. He sometimes acts as a campaign
stand-in for Obama.  The incumbent’s record contrasts with the failings of Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, in his
one term as the Bay State governor, according to Patrick.  “The president should talk about his record,” Patrick
said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News editors and
reporters. “It has been achieved against unprecedented
political opposition. I for one am unwilling to let him be
bullied out of office.”  Patrick said he regularly confers with  Jim Messina , Obama’s
campaign manager, as well as strategist  David Axelrod  and also
speaks with the president on occasion. Patrick became only the
second African-American elected governor in the U.S. in 2006 and
won re-election in 2010. The governor has attended state
Democratic events across the country on Obama’s behalf.  Shared Aides  Axelrod worked in Patrick’s 2006 campaign and incorporated
themes from that drive into Obama’s historic White House run in
2008. The strategist has said he sees the governor’s 2010 re-
election effort as a prototype for the president. Axelrod cited
the Patrick campaign’s focus on the incumbent’s efforts to build
a better future for Massachusetts.  The state economy has rebounded and the government he runs
has eliminated its structural deficit, building a reserve of
almost $1 billion, said Patrick, who led the U.S. Justice
Department’s civil rights division under President  Bill Clinton .
Massachusetts’s  unemployment , which averaged 4.5 percent in the
governor’s first year in office in 2007, stood at 6.5 percent in
March. The governor said job growth ranks in the top 10 states.  By comparison, the U.S. jobless rate dropped to 8.2 percent
in March from a post-recession high of 10 percent in October
2009. The state peaked at 8.7 percent that month.  Poor Job Creation  Romney’s role in enacting a health-care overhaul that
requires Massachusetts residents to have insurance was the “one
profoundly important thing he did” as governor from 2003 to
January 2007. Yet the former private-equity executive failed to
boost the state economy, which was near last place in job
creation during his term, Patrick said.  “For  Governor Romney , having the job was on the way to
another job, not doing the job with that one singular
exception,” Patrick said, referring to health care. “I do
think it is strange to listen to the governor hold himself out
as Mr. Fix-It in the government space and as a job creator when
he’s had only one other government job, and that’s not what
happened.”  A Romney campaign spokesman said voters will “see through
the Obama campaign’s dishonest tactics.”  “President Obama and his team realize that they cannot run
on his disgraceful record of higher taxes, record unemployment
and exploding budget deficits,”  Ryan Williams , the spokesman,
said by e-mail. “That’s why they have launched a campaign that
is trying to distract voters from the serious economic
challenges facing our country and blame everybody else for the
failure of the President’s abysmal agenda.”  Patrick can provide a useful voice for the Obama campaign,
said David Paleologos, director of Suffolk University’s
political research center in  Boston .  “Once Romney’s officially the nominee, the minutiae of the
Romney administration becomes magnified,” Paleologos said by
telephone. “Who better to comment on that than the person who
succeeded  Mitt Romney ?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 