-- Lockhart Says Inflation Concern Weighs Against More Stimulus
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/lockhart-says-inflation-concern-weighs-against-more-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said concern over inflation exceeding
the central bank’s 2 percent goal weighs against consideration
of providing additional stimulus to reduce unemployment.  “The Fed’s already done a lot to support the recovery,”
Lockhart said today in the text of a speech in Santa Barbara,
 California . “Whether additional monetary policy actions should
be used at this time to try to speed things up has to be
balanced against the risks to the Fed’s price stability
objective that could accompany an overestimating of the amount
of economic slack.”  Lockhart, along with the presidents of Fed district banks
in  San Francisco , Richmond and Philadelphia, said this week more
accommodation probably won’t be needed. A decline of weekly
jobless claims to a one-month low eased concern the job market
is deteriorating. The number of applications fell by 27,000 to
365,000 in the week ended April 28, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left policy unchanged
after its April 24-25 meeting, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled that further easing is unlikely unless the economy
unexpectedly deteriorates.  Bernanke said it would be “reckless” to pursue policies
that would drive up inflation when it’s already near the Fed’s
target, while noting he’s “prepared to do more” should
conditions worsen.  ‘Well Anchored’  Inflation is “a little elevated due to a run-up in
gasoline prices earlier in the year” though public expectations
are “well anchored,” Lockhart said as part of an economic
forecasting panel hosted by the  University of California , Santa
Barbara. Prices will probably “move back toward the 2 percent
inflation rate over the course of the year,” he said.  The Fed in January set an explicit inflation target of 2
percent and Lockhart said price gains should be “close to 2
percent over time,” with “some flexibility” because inflation
can be volatile from month to month.  The Atlanta Fed leader also said part of the employment
weakness during the expansion since 2009 has been caused by a
mismatch of worker skills with jobs.  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes  Alabama , Florida, Georgia, and portions of
Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Santa Barbara, California at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  