-- Ohio Booze Bond Threatened as Lawmakers Press Suit
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ohio-booze-bond-threatened-as-lawmakers-press-suit.html
Ohio  Governor  John Kasich  faces a $500
million hole in the budget he signed 10 months ago as a lawsuit
imperils a plan to sell $1.4 billion of bonds to promote job
growth.  The legal tussle revolves around JobsOhio, a private, non-
profit corporation the Republican governor created last year to
spur economic development. The group’s planned sale of taxable
bonds backed by profits from the state’s wholesale liquor system
has yet to take place, even though Ohio allocated $500 million
of the proceeds to balance the current budget.  Two Democratic lawmakers and a Columbus nonprofit group
challenged JobsOhio on the grounds it violates the state
constitution by having public dollars invested in a private
entity. JobsOhio said it may proceed with the sale anyway. The
threat posed by the lawsuit would boost the deal’s cost, said
Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in  New York .  “It’s hard to invest when you don’t know what the playing
field is,” Gross, who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income
securities, said in an interview. “If you’re making up the
rules as you go, it’s very difficult to invest.”  If the proceeds aren’t available by the June 30 end of the
fiscal year, Ohio will take steps such as tapping reserves to
balance the budget, said Tim Keen, state budget director.
Kasich, who has said that private industry can move more quickly
than government in creating jobs, also has sold state prisons
and is reviewing whether to sell or lease the Ohio turnpike.  Court Ruling  Ohio is among 30 states that have projected or addressed
deficits totaling $49 billion for fiscal 2013 after closing gaps
totaling about $540 billion since 2009, according to the  Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington nonprofit focused
on issues affecting lower-income Americans.  A state appellate court is deciding whether the parties
challenging JobsOhio have the legal right to sue. There is no
timetable for a ruling.  “If the issuance of the bonds goes forward, it will be a
debacle” if JobsOhio is found unconstitutional, Michael J. Skindell, a state senator; Dennis Murray, a representative; and
Victoria Ullmann, a lawyer for ProgressOhio, the nonprofit
opposing the plan, wrote in a court filing.  JobsOhio plans to sell the bonds in the corporate market
and will go ahead with the borrowing when conditions are
favorable, even if the suit hasn’t been settled, Laura Jones, a
spokeswoman in Columbus, said in an interview.  Liquor’s Appeal  “We would prefer that we didn’t have the lawsuit pending,
but ultimately we’re going to move when we feel the time is
right,” Jones said.  The group has selected bankers for the deal, though the
issue doesn’t have a bond rating, Jones said in an e-mail. The
final maturity would be no longer than 25 years, the duration of
the agreement on the transfer of liquor profits, she said.  Investment-grade U.S. corporate-bond yields set a record
low of about 3.37 percent last month as the growing economy
helped borrowers make debt payments.  The deal would appeal to investors in part because liquor
profits back the bonds, said Gross of RS.  He compared the sale with Build America Bonds, taxable
municipal securities created in President  Barack Obama ’s 2009
economic stimulus program. Local governments sold about $188
billion of the debt before the program expired at the end of
2010. The average Build America yields about 4.64 percent,
according to a Wells Fargo Index.  While Ohio doesn’t have government-run liquor stores, it
buys and distributes alcohol to retailers. Wholesale profits in
fiscal 2011 were $237 million, up from $229 million in 2010 and
$224 million in 2009, according to the Ohio Commerce Department.  Payments to Ohio  JobsOhio agreed to pay the state $500 million for the
transfer of liquor profits, an estimated $750 million to retire
debt backed by the liquor money and $150 million for economic
projects, according to Keen.  The state anticipates about $100 million will be available
yearly to boost employment. Kasich credits JobsOhio with helping
create almost 59,600 jobs in the year through March. The state
lost 556,700 jobs from 2000 to 2010, according to federal data.
Ohio’s  jobless rate  was 7.5 percent in March, compared with 8.2
percent  nationally .  “It’s bizarre to me that there’s even a court case going
on,” Kasich, who took office in January 2011, told reporters
April 26 in Columbus. “You want to go back to doom and gloom?”  Transparency Demand  There must be accountability and transparency with the use
of public funds in  job creation  that JobsOhio, as a private
corporation, doesn’t provide, said Brian Rothenberg, executive
director of ProgressOhio.  “This could turn very easily into a corporate-welfare
program that doesn’t necessarily yield the jobs that they say it
does,” Rothenberg said in a phone interview.  Ohio had its credit outlook raised to stable from negative
in March by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited an improving
financial position and a stabilizing economy. The potential
shift in funds to keep the budget balanced if the bond sale is
delayed was considered, Baye Larsen, an analyst in New York,
said by phone. Moody’s also affirmed its Aa1 rating, second-
highest, on $7.8 billion of general-obligation debt.  Ohio municipal debt has earned  15 percent  since the start
of 2011, beating the  14.2 percent  increase by the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, according to Standard & Poor’s data.  Tax receipts through March were running $265.4 million, or
2 percent, ahead of projections, and the state has $246.9
million in its rainy-day fund, according to the Ohio Office of
Budget and Management.  The largest bond sale by Ohio issuers was about $5.5
billion in tax-exempt securities in 2007 by the Buckeye Tobacco
Settlement Financing Authority, according to the office.  Following are pending sales:  CHICAGO plans to sell $435 million in revenue bonds this
month to pay for improvements and extensions to its water system
in the first debt issuance for the century-old structure since
user rates doubled in November. The proceeds will also be used
to buy back debt, according to an offering document. (Added May
3).  ILLINOIS is set to issue $375 million of taxable sales-tax
bonds to help finance capital projects, John Sinsheimer, the
state’s direct of  capital markets , said in an interview. KeyBanc
Capital Markets is the underwriter.  Fitch Ratings  rates the deal
AA+, second-highest. (Updated May 3).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  