-- Oil Falls on ‘More Uncertain’ European Economic Outlook
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-03T19:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/oil-falls-after-dragi-says-euro-area-subject-to-downside-risks.html
Oil tumbled the most this year as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro
area’s economic outlook has become “more uncertain.”  Prices fell 2.5 percent as Draghi said the region’s
economic forecast is subject to downside risks, though the ECB
still expects a gradual recovery this year. The central bank
held its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent.
Oil’s loss accelerated after data showed U.S. service industries
expanded at a slower pace than projected in April.  “There are still a lot of worries about  Europe ,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New
York. “Some of the latest comments from the ECB are indicating
downside risk but they are not looking to do anything at this
time.”  Crude for June delivery fell $2.68 to settle at $102.54 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
percentage decline since Dec. 14. Prices have dropped 6.6
percent since closing at a peak of $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24.  Brent oil for June settlement decreased $2.12, or 1.8
percent, to end the session at $116.08 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “Remaining tensions in some euro-area sovereign debt
markets” are expected to damp growth momentum and inflation
will remain above the ECB’s 2 percent limit this year before
slowing in 2013, Draghi said at a press conference in Barcelona.  ‘Primary Driver’  Austerity measures aimed at stemming the debt crisis have
pushed economies from the Netherlands to  Spain  back into
recession. The ECB may be unwilling to add to stimulus as it
presses governments to enact reforms and take responsibility for
the crisis.  “Europe is still a primary driver and the outlook doesn’t
look good there,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities
research at IAF Advisors in Houston.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index for the U.S. fell to a four-month low of 53.5 in April
from 56 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed
today. The median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a decrease to 55.3. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  A report tomorrow may show the U.S. added 160,000 jobs in
April, compared with a gain of 120,000 the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The jobless rate held at a three-year low of 8.2
percent, the survey showed.  “We continue to see some poor economic numbers,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “You are seeing some money being taken off the
table ahead of tomorrow’s jobs report.”  Supply Conditions  The oil market showed “slight loosening” last quarter
though it’s too early to be sure that supply conditions have
improved, according to the  International Energy Agency .  U.S. oil  supplies  rose to a 21-year high last week, the
Energy Department reported yesterday. Inventories climbed 2.84
million barrels to 375.9 million, the most since September 1990.
Domestic  output  increased 8,000 barrels a day to 6.12 million,
the highest level since November 1999.  Total petroleum consumption fell for a third week, dropping
1.1 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day, the report showed.  “It’s all about growth,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief
market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “If
there is no economic growth, there is no oil demand, and we know
supply is still there.”  Raising Margins  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, is
raising futures margins for non-hedged accounts on May 7 to
comply with new regulations. Members will be treated as
speculators for outright positions, paying a higher margin, the
exchange said.  “If large trading houses have long positions, they may
pare some of those positions to meet these margin requirements,
and that would drop the prices,” Ilczyszyn said.  Bakken oil strengthened to a premium against West Texas
Intermediate crude traded on the Nymex after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  said
it was ahead of schedule in construction of a receiving terminal
for the grade at its Washington refinery.  Bakken oil strengthened $3 to a $1 premium to WTI,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the first time
since December that the grade has traded at a premium.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 630,718
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 596,243
contracts yesterday, 4.1 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  