-- France Votes With Sarkozy Narrowing Hollande’s Lead in Po
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-06T15:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hollande-holds-poll-lead-over-sarkozy-as-french-campaign-ends.html
French voters went to the polls with
 Nicolas Sarkozy  seeking to avoid being the first incumbent
president to lose in more than three decades.  The final daily tracking survey before today’s vote showed
Sarkozy narrowed Socialist Francois Hollande’s lead to 52
percent to 48 percent, according to the pollster Ifop. No margin
of error was provided. The gap was 10 points after Hollande’s
first-round win on April 22.  “Even with the gap narrowing in the final campaign day, it
will be very, very complicated for Sarkozy to win,” Leendert de Voogd, Brussels-based global head for politics at research firm
TNS, said in an interview. “Never in the past eight
presidential elections has a candidate been able to overturn the
vote in the last three days. There is one chance out of 10 to
see a Sarkozy victory.”  With joblessness at a 12-year high and the national debt at
a record level, Sarkozy and Hollande have focused their battle
on the economy and  Europe ’s debt crisis. Sarkozy’s gains have
resulted in large part from appeals to followers of the anti-
immigrant National Front party.  Estimated results will be announced at 8 p.m. in Paris when
voting closes in the biggest cities. About 46 million people are
eligible to vote.  At 5 p.m., the voter turnout was 71.96 percent, the
 Interior Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. That compares
with 75.11 percent in the second round of the 2007 election at
the same time. Both Sarkozy and Hollande voted this morning.  Campaign Themes  In his last rally, Sarkozy stuck to themes he’s favored
after record gains in the first round for the National Front
party: control of immigration, respect for authority, the
Christian roots of  France , and the value of work.  “If we don’t deal with the issues that concern the French,
then others will talk in our place,” Sarkozy said in Sables
d’Olonne on the Atlantic coast. “The next time it won’t be 6.5
million voting for the National Front, but many more.”  In the industrial town of Forbach, in the east, Hollande on
May 4 highlighted a government bond sale this week that raised
almost $10 billion at declining borrowing costs.  “Markets aren’t scared of us,” Hollande told a crowd on
the town’s market square. “Two days before the elections,
France borrows 10-year debt at the lowest rates in months.” He
ended his campaign in Perigueux in the southwest.  Voters favor Hollande over Sarkozy by a margin of 53.5-to-
46.5 percent according to TNS Sofres and by a margin of 52.5-to-
47.5 percent according to both BVA and Ipsos polling companies.  Mitterrand’s Successor  The polls “show a tightening, so I say to voters, don’t
let others decide for you,” Hollande said on RTL radio. “I
would like an ample victory. If the French are to choose, they
should do so clearly and massively.”  A victory for Hollande would make him France’s first
Socialist leader since  Francois Mitterrand  in 1995. Mitterrand
was the only candidate to vanquish an incumbent president,
defeating  Valery Giscard  d’Estaing in 1981. The head of state’s
mandate is for five years.  The French election coincides with other ballots today that
have the potential to reshape European political map. Recession-
weary Greeks will pick a new government. Local elections will
test Italy’s political pulse, and voters in a northern German
state may deal a symbolic blow to Merkel.  Hollande has repeatedly called for a re-negotiation of the
fiscal pact agreed to by European leaders in March, saying it
needs to emphasize growth. He asked that the  European Investment
Bank  be given a greater role in spurring public spending.  German Message  Hollande has rejected a Sarkozy plan to raise sales taxes
to fund a cut in payroll charges as part of an effort to make
France more competitive.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  indicated his
expectation that he will have a new negotiating partner. A
German government spokesman confirmed said that diplomatic
contact had been made with the Hollande camp.  “We’ve told Mr. Hollande that the fiscal pact has been
signed and that Europe works along the principle of pacta sunt
servanda,” meaning agreements must be kept, Schaeuble said in a
May 4 speech in the western German city of Cologne.  If elected, Hollande is likely to phone German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  this evening,  Agence France-Presse  reported,
citing Hollande’s adviser Jean-Marc Ayrault.  Hollande has pledged to meet France’s deficit reduction
targets this year and next. He intends to do it through raising
taxes by more than he increases spending. He also plans to tax
personal earnings of more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million) at
a rate of 75 percent.  Open World  “Are you aware we are in an open world?” Sarkozy asked
Hollande in their May 2 debate. “There is a difference between
us: you want fewer rich, I want fewer poor.”  The exchange was part of Sarkozy’s effort to vaunt his
economic policy, which includes an increase in France’s
retirement age, tax cuts for business and the sales tax increase
planned for October.  The combined impact of the measures has kept French
borrowing costs near record lows, with the 10-year bond yields
at about 3 percent, he said. That’s more than  Germany  pays,
though it’s half of  Spain ’s rate.  After anti-immigration candidate Marine Le Pen won more
than 6 million votes in the first round, a record that placed
her third among the candidates after Hollande and Sarkozy, the
incumbent president sought to appeal to her voters.  In the debate, when Hollande asked Sarkozy why he equated
all foreigners with Muslims, Sarkozy shot back that it was
“denying reality” to suggest that most migrants didn’t come
from North Africa.  Alienating the Center  “Muslims are treated better in France than Christians are
in the Orient,” he said.  Such remarks may have alienated centrist voters.  Francois Bayrou , the self-described centrist at the head of the Modem
party that got 9.1 percent of the votes in the first round, said
that he will vote for Hollande.  While Sarkozy’s nod to Le Pen supporters may cost him other
centrist voters, his momentum in polls suggests the nationalist
appeals are broader than some pollsters anticipated.  “Watch Friday’s polls closely,” said Dominique Reynie, a
senior research at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies. “If
they show another narrowing, then Sarko has a chance. There’s no
reason why the trend wouldn’t continue through the weekend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  