-- London’s Toughest Taxi Driver to Call an Olympic Time Out
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-04T16:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/london-s-toughest-taxi-driver-to-avoid-streets-during-olympics.html
Olympic tourists seeking to hire one
of  London ’s 23,200  black taxis  during the events may struggle as
drivers quit the streets in protest against travel restrictions.  Two in every five of London’s licensed black taxi cab
drivers won’t collect passengers during the games, according to
the  Licensed Taxi Drivers Association . As many as 109 miles (175
kilometers) of roads will have some restrictions, with about a
third of those routes made exclusive for vehicles carrying
80,000 athletes, officials and media, according to Transport for
London.  Barry Sandler, who succeeded in a boxing contest to find
“London’s hardest black cab driver,” said he’ll avoid using
his so-called Hackney Carriage during the games after Olympic
officials made it too difficult to make money. He may miss out
on more than 2,800 pounds ($4,500) of regular income for the two
weeks he doesn’t drive.  “I’m not working during the games,” said the
cruiserweight before entering the ring at east London’s 83-year-
old York Hall boxing arena. “The black cab is an icon of London
and we’re not really a part of it.”  Black taxis starred in the city’s pitch to the
 International Olympic Committee , alongside soccer player  David Beckham , James Bond actor Roger Moore and bowler hat wearing
finance workers. Seven years after London’s triumph over  New
York  and Paris, cab drivers now face penalties for using the
special highways, known as the Olympic Route Network.  Cabbies can earn as much as 200 pounds on a summer day in
the U.K. capital, according to Stan Marut, a former secretary of
the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers. That
will drop during the games as people favor cheaper and faster
public transport, such as the Tube, amid greater road
congestion.  ‘Absolute Mess’  “It’s going to be an absolute mess,” Marut said by
telephone. “Drivers will not commit to working when they aren’t
going to earn any money. Passengers aren’t going to get in my
cab if it’s going to take 10 minutes longer and cost another 10
pounds more.”  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the city during the
Olympics, according to a study by Oxford Economics Ltd., an
Oxford, England-based researcher. About 250,000 people traveled
to  Barcelona  for the 1992 games, while  Athens  had 150,000
tourists in 2004, the researcher said. Each of the 8.8 million
tickets to games and races gives the holder free travel on
public transport on the day of the event.  About 70 percent of road journeys in the city will be
unaffected by the Olympics, and  road construction  has been
banned, according to  Transport for London . Venues at the Olympic
site are staging events this weekend to evaluate the ability of
services to handle the newly-built train and subway links that
feed into the area and the nearby Westfield Shopping Centre.  Longer Journeys  The reserved roads stretch from the Wimbledon tennis venue
in southwest London, past Hyde Park in the city’s center and
eastward to the Olympic Park in Newham. An evening car ride from
Wimbledon to the Athletes’ Village in Stratford will be 47
minutes longer than usual, according to estimates by
getaheadofthegames.com, which helps people navigate London
during the event.  The restrictions will mean that companies like Addison Lee
Plc, London’s largest minicab service, may ask customers to make
the final part of their trip to an Olympic event by foot or
public transport.  “We’re treating it as a six-week New Year’s Eve when going
to and from the games,” company spokesman Alistair Laycock
said. “We’re advising anyone going to the games to use public
transport.”  Black taxis are known as Hackney cabs because of their
origin as carriages drawn by French Haquenee horses. British
automaker Manganese Bronze Holdings Plc reckons that it has
manufactured 85 percent of the cabs operating on London streets.
The vehicles cost between $48,000 to $55,000 each.  Hackney cabs have been granted some concessions such as
making right turns over some lanes, and further restrictions may
be lifted if the network isn’t busy at certain times of day or
night, said Dan Maskell, a spokesman for London’s transport
authority.  ‘Bum Deal’  In a journey from Chancery Lane to London’s east end, taxi
driver Tony Brooks laments the fact that the highways he
regularly uses to ferry customers will be off limits to him
during the 30th Olympics.  “We’ve got a bit of a bum deal,” he said in an interview
inside his black cab. “Lots of my fares are saying that they’re
getting out of town during the games.”  Taxi drivers who are members of the RMT union staged a
protest against Transport for London and Newham council in
Stratford, home of the 80,000 capacity stadium, in March to gain
full access to the Olympic routes and Olympic venues. The union
will continue its protests, according to a statement on its
website.  “We are working with Transport for London taxi drivers to
ensure that they can continue to operate from Stratford and
benefit from the many visitors to the borough,” said Kristianah
Fasunloye, a Newham council spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Tattooed Chest  The games, which begin July 27, are being held in the
boroughs of Newham, Waltham Forest, Hackney and  Tower Hamlets ,
where Repton Amateur Boxing Club alumnus Audley Harrison learned
his trade before winning his super-heavyweight gold medal at
Sydney’s 2000 Olympics.  The club is less than a five-minute drive from Bethnal
Green’s York Hall, where 172-pound (78 kilogram) Sandler
defeated Rob Arnold in a unanimous points decision to be crowned
one of London’s toughest taxi drivers. His cab won’t be one of
those ferrying tourists through the east end during the games.  “It’s annoying because we have to take a back seat,” said
44-year-old Sandler, who has his children’s names tattooed on
the left side of his chest. “We’ve been let down. It’s massive.
I’ll only see it once in my lifetime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  