-- Morgan Stanley Backs Solar Energy Leases for Clean Power Finance
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-03T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/morgan-stanley-backs-solar-energy-leases-for-clean-power-finance.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Main Street Power
Co. are providing funds that will enable Clean Power Finance
Inc.’s customers to install as much as $300 million in
residential solar energy projects.  The equity investments, along with debt from lenders led by
 Zions Bancorporation (ZION) , will finance rooftop photovoltaic systems
on homes in California and  Arizona , Clean Power Finance said
today in a statement.  The closely held San Francisco-based company has developed
software that connects investors and solar installers that may
lack resources to provide financing for their own customers.  “We’re constructing a platform, or as I think of it, a
conduit between the capital markets and the installers,”
Kristian Hanelt, senior vice president of renewable  capital
markets  for Clean Power Finance, said in a phone interview.  Morgan Stanley “is investing for the tax benefits,”
including a 30 percent investment tax credit for solar, while
 Main Street  will be the long-term owner of the systems, he said.  The MySolar fund is the company’s third and the industry’s
largest for non-military installations, Hanelt said. SolarCity
Inc.’s $1 billion program to install solar panels on military
houses is the largest. It’s backed by $350 million in loans from
Bank of America Corp. and an undisclosed amount of tax-equity
financing from U.S. Bancorp.  “We’ve brought together a group of parties who all are
interested in participating in the explosive growth that’s
happening in residential solar,” Hanelt said.  Enabling Solar  Other companies enabling residential solar, including
SolarCity, SunRun Inc. and Sungevity Inc., finance installations
for homeowners through leases or long-term power purchase
agreements that allow them to install systems at little to no
upfront cost to customers. The companies pick the installers or
do the work themselves.  Clean Power Finance says it’s working with more than 1,500
installers in every U.S. state.  “We don’t actually take equity in these projects
ourselves,” Hanelt said. “We think that’s a bad use of venture
capital dollars and that we’d be better off spending the Kleiner
Perkins and the Google Ventures venture capital on building our
business itself,” he said.  Including the latest fund, Clean Power Finance has raised
about $500 million to finance installations for its customers,
according to the statement.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  created a $75 million
fund in September. The size of the company’s initial fund and
the investors wasn’t made public, Alison Mickey, a Clean Power
Finance spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  