-- Morgan Stanley Two-Level Cut Seen as Most Likely by Sterne Agee
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-03T20:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/morgan-stanley-two-level-cut-seen-as-most-likely-by-sterne-agee.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is likely to face a
two-level downgrade of its  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors
Service in the next two months, said Donald Jones, a Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. credit analyst.  The chance of a two-grade cut is 75 percent, which may
cause the firm’s credit spreads to tighten slightly, Jones wrote
in a note to clients today. A one-level downgrade is more likely
than three levels, the maximum reduction Moody’s said in
February that it would make, he wrote.  Morgan Stanley faces the largest potential credit downgrade
among U.S. lenders by Moody’s, which will take ratings actions
on the biggest global investment banks by the end of June. A
three-level cut would bring the rating to Baa2, two levels above
junk, from A2. That could force the firm to post more collateral
on derivatives trades and pay more to borrow.  “We expect that Moody’s will downgrade most if not all of
the firms put on watch in February, however we think the
downgrades will rest at the ‘better end’ of the spectrum,”
Jones said in the note. “Part of this expectation is in light
of generally positive first-quarter 2012 results.”  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  and
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said last month that they’ve
taken steps to ensure any fallout from a downgrade would be
manageable.  A three-level downgrade, a 5 percent to 15 percent
possibility, would lead to spreads widening as much as 1
percentage point, Jones wrote. A one-level cut, a 10 percent to
20 percent likelihood, would cause a rally to the spreads Morgan
Stanley had in February, he wrote.  There is “zero likelihood” of Moody’s not cutting the
bank’s credit rating at all, he wrote.  Jones cited “the posturing and defensive language in
conversation with the agency” as a reason for his expectation
that a two-level cut is most likely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  