-- Solar Market Slump Makes Swift REC Exit Unlikely, Orkla Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-05-03T12:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/orkla-says-weak-solar-market-limiting-exit-options-for-rec-stake.html
Orkla ASA’s plan to sell its stake in
Norwegian solar-equipment maker  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  is being
stalled by a slump in the solar energy market that’s cut the
value of its shares, Chief Executive Officer Aage Korsvold said.  “The chances of getting this type of transaction in the
short term aren’t that high, considering the situation both in
the financial markets and in the solar market,” he said in an
interview in Oslo today. “At this point, it shouldn’t be
something that preoccupies Orkla’s management.”  Orkla, based in the Norwegian capital, is seeking to sell
its 40 percent stake in REC as it focuses on becoming a
dedicated consumer goods company, cutting its range of products
from aluminum door frames and industrial chemicals to frozen
pizzas and boxer shorts.  Those plans have been thwarted by a plunge in the price of
polysilicon, used to make solar panels, and which is currently
at its lowest level in at least a decade, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. Prices have fallen 13 percent this year
after tumbling almost two-thirds in 2011 amid rising competition
from Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as consumption
slowed, causing wafer and cell prices to plummet.  “We’re right in the worst part of the solar market
decline,” Henrik Schultz, an analyst at Sparebank 1 Markets,
said by phone from Oslo today. “They’re now paying the price
for the fact that little has happened in terms of asset sales
and restructuring.”  Worst Performer  Shares in REC have declined  99 percent  since climbing to a
record 220 kroner in November 2007. The stock traded 1.2 percent
lower at 3.35 kroner as of 1:45 p.m. in the Norwegian capital,
making it the  worst performer  on the OBX benchmark index during
the last year and giving it a market value of 3.3 billion kroner
($574 million).  Korsvold, who was named CEO on April 30, declined to
comment on an April 26 newspaper report in Norwegian daily
Dagens Naeringsliv which said Orkla had been close to selling
its REC stake twice during the last six months. He also declined
to say how much Orkla is seeking for the shares.  “My impression is that Orkla has been too stingy and not
flexible enough,” said Schultz, who has a sell rating on REC.  Korsvold, who took over as CEO after Bjoern Wiggen resigned
after a disagreement with chairman and major shareholder Stein Erik Hagen, said his focus will be on selling Borregaard, its
chemicals unit, and Sapa, its industrial metals business.  ‘Small Engagement’  “REC is a company with many qualities, but in terms of
value, unfortunately, it has become a small engagement for
Orkla,” Korsvold said. Sapa is now “much bigger and more
important” for the company, he said.  Sapa’s sales amounted to 7.7 billion kroner in the first
quarter, more than half of Orkla’s total 14.8 billion kroner in
revenue, the Oslo-based company said today, as it reported a 56
percent decline in net income.  Shares in Orkla fell 0.7 percent to 40.96 kroner as of 2:10
p.m. in Oslo, extending their decline during the last 12 months
to 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg on  at
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  