-- Mosquitoes Shoot Blanks in Scientist’s Air War on Dengue
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-05-03T23:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/mosquitoes-shoot-blanks-in-scientist-s-air-war-on-dengue.html
U.K. biotechnology start-up  Oxitec
Ltd.  wants to start U.S. tests of a new weapon in the war on
dengue fever: genetically modifying mosquitoes that carry the
disease so that their progeny self-destruct.  Dengue, endemic in more than 100 countries, has begun to
appear in the continental U.S., with local cases occurring in
 Key West, Florida , in 2009 and 2010 and in  Miami  last year. The
virus afflicts as many as 100 million people a year globally,
about 20 times the number of serious  influenza  cases, according
to the  World Health Organization . In its worst form, dengue can
cause severe flu-like symptoms and fatal bleeding.  Oxitec has released its GM bugs in  Malaysia , the  Cayman
Islands  and  Brazil . A proposed trial in Key West has met with
resistance from communities who oppose genetic modification and
with confusion over regulatory oversight. Still, with no
vaccines to prevent dengue and no drugs to treat the disease so
painful it’s known as “break-bone fever,” the approach is seen
as an increasingly viable option to limit infections.  “It is a promising technology,” says  James Logan , a
lecturer at the  London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine 
who studies the control of disease-carrying insects. “If you
stop us being bitten, you stop the disease from being
transmitted.”  Oxitec’s efforts are part of a broader push to rein in
dengue.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  of Basel,  Switzerland , is researching
antiviral medicines and has shelved one that caused side effects
in dogs. French drugmaker  Sanofi (SAN)  has a dengue vaccine candidate
in final testing, and it may be available as early as 2015. The
company says the vaccine may generate as much as 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) in annual sales. Until a vaccine or medicine is
approved, mosquito control is the only way to limit infections.  Dengue Rising  About half of the world’s people are already at risk of
infection, and the incidence of dengue is rising as the human
population increases and  climate change  causes mosquitoes to
disperse more widely, the Geneva-based WHO says. Mosquitoes that
transmit dengue are found in at least 28 U.S. states and may
extend their reach as temperatures warm, the New York-based
 Natural Resources Defense Council  said in 2009.  While dengue only kills 2.5 percent of the 500,000 people
who develop its most severe form, it costs the Americas about
$840 million each year in medical costs, according to a  study 
published last year by researchers at  Brandeis University  in the
American Journal of  Tropical Medicine  and Hygiene. Dengue also
results in about $1.2 billion in indirect costs, mainly from
lost productivity, the study found.  No Radiation  Oxitec’s chief scientist,  Luke Alphey , found a  way  to
impair the DNA of the dengue-carrying Aedes aegypti mosquito
without using radiation, which he says causes widespread genetic
damage to the bug. Scientists insert one copy of an altered gene
into the mosquito. The modification causes the insects to
produce excessive amounts of a protein that disrupts their cell
machinery -- unless they’re given the antibiotic tetracycline.  When Abingdon, England-based Oxitec releases male
mosquitoes with this gene and they reproduce with wild females,
their offspring inherit the trait and, without the antibiotic,
die before adulthood, reducing their overall numbers.  “The lethal gene is something that will kill the offspring
when it’s inherited,” says Alphey, a visiting professor in
zoology at the University of Oxford. The closely held company
was spun out from the university in 2002.  Opposition in U.S.  In the U.S., opposition to Oxitec testing is fierce because
of uncertainty about possible health risks. Alphey and Oxitec
Chief Executive Officer Hadyn Parry in March participated in a
 meeting  in  Key West , at which residents voiced concerns about
being “guinea pigs” and called for independent validation of
Oxitec’s findings.  The  Florida  Keys spend about $1 million a year on mosquito
control, including 12 full-time inspectors who visit about 8,000
properties, according to Michael Doyle, director of the  Keys’
Mosquito Control District . An additional 10 full-time employees
were hired following the dengue outbreak, Key West’s first since
1936, and it can be hard to reach all the places Aedes aegypti
mosquitoes hide, Doyle said at the March meeting.  The cost of using the Oxitec approach would be about
$500,000 in the first year, and less in future years, Doyle said
in an e-mail.  Less Pesticide  If successful, deploying GM bugs would allow most of the
district’s field staff to work on other projects and greatly
reduce the use of pesticides, he said. The project is on hold
until final permits are given for “full suppression efforts,”
or small releases of Oxitec mosquitoes to gather data for
regulators, Doyle said.  “We have no concerns based on current understanding of the
technology and the data presented to us,” Doyle said. If
serious health issues arise, the releases would be canceled, he
said.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  -- which has overseen
tests of Oxitec’s genetically altered  pink bollworm , an
agricultural pest -- said in November it doesn’t have
jurisdiction over the mosquito project. Oxitec has opened an
investigational new animal drug file with the  Food and Drug
Administration , Alphey says.  “No genetically engineered mosquitoes will be released in
the U.S. without appropriate federal regulatory oversight,” the
FDA said in an e-mail.  Grand Cayman  Elsewhere in the world, the technique has shown results. In
 Grand Cayman , 80 percent of the Aedes aegypti population was
eradicated after two or three generations, sufficient to prevent
epidemic transmission, Alphey says.  “It’s worthwhile trying it, but only a combination of
things will get rid of this,” said Paul Herrling, chairman of
the Novartis Institute of Tropical Diseases in  Singapore .  Releasing the modified pests must be done weekly, according
to Alphey. That would cost communities in middle-income
countries about $5 to $10 per person protected a year, he says.
The company aims to drive the cost down to $1 per person a year
in poorer countries.  Oxitec’s technology is safe and the company obtains local
permission, Parry says.  “In dengue areas, we’re always working with a government
entity,” says Parry, who joined the company in 2008.  To GM critics like Helen Wallace, executive director of
nonprofit  GeneWatch UK , Oxitec’s mosquitoes potentially threaten
the balance of nature.  ‘Complicated Ecosystem’  “We’re concerned GM mosquitoes could survive and breed to
produce further generations,” Wallace says. “The mosquitoes
would become part of a complicated ecosystem that might respond
in ways that could be bad for health.”  Wallace cites a case at the  Institut Pasteur  in Paris, in
which 18 percent of offspring of Oxitec-supplied GM mosquitoes
survived in the lab. The cat food the Institut Pasteur
scientists fed the bugs was made from chickens given the same
antibiotic that Oxitec uses as an antidote,  according to the
company . If other bugs accessed tetracycline in the food chain,
the advocacy group says, they might survive and disrupt the
ecosystem.  The odds of the 2007 episode recurring in the wild are
negligible because tetracycline must be available “at the right
range and in the right conditions,” Oxitec’s Parry says.  The challenges facing Oxitec haven’t deterred investors,
who have provided 14 million pounds ($23 million) in equity. The
company has also won 5 million pounds in grants from sources
including the Seattle-based  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and
the U.K. government.  Investors include Providence, Rhode Island-based East Hill
Management Co., which has a 31 percent stake and is headed by
retired  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Landon Clay; Oxford Capital Partners Ltd. of Oxford,  England ;
Hong Kong-based Asia Pacific Capital; and the University of
Oxford. Alphey’s stake is about 10 percent.  In theory, Alphey’s gene-modification technique might work
against larger vermin.  “Other people have advocated this for mice and rats,”
Alphey says. “We’re quite focused on insects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  