-- Pemex Posts First Profit in 3 Quarters on High Prices, Currency
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/pemex-posts-first-profit-in-three-quarters-on-higher-prices-1-.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
third-largest crude producer, posted its first profit in three
quarters as higher  oil prices  and a stronger currency boosted
revenue.  Net income surged to 33.9 billion pesos ($2.62 billion)
from 1.54 billion pesos a year earlier, the Mexico City-based
company known as Pemex said yesterday in a filing to the stock
exchange.  Pemex profited from a 21 percent rally in the average price
for the benchmark Mexican crude mix, a basket of different
grades of oil that the nation exports. The mix traded at $111.15
per barrel on average in the quarter, up from $92.02 a year
earlier.  A stronger peso in the quarter compared to the previous
three-month average had “a positive variation of 23.5 billion”
pesos, Pemex said in the filing. The currency gained 8.8 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the first quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  is
struggling to reverse seven years of output declines. Pemex has
said it will boost production this year to more than 2.6 million
barrels a day from last year’s average of 2.55 million barrels a
day. Output fell for a fifth month in April to 2.546 million
barrels a day.  First-quarter sales rose 17 percent to 411 billion pesos,
Pemex said.  The state-owned company canceled a quarterly call with
analysts and investors to discuss its first-quarter results,
citing an election law that bans the government from promoting
achievements during a campaign. Mexico holds presidential
elections July 1. This is the first time the company has
canceled the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 