-- PepsiCo Looks to Dead Pop Star Jackson to Revive Flagship
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-05-03T20:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/pepsico-looks-to-dead-pop-star-jackson-to-revive-flagship-brand.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , which just unveiled a
“Live for Now” marketing campaign to revive its flagship
Pepsi-Cola, is looking to a dead pop star --  Michael Jackson  --
to generate buzz.  The world’s second-largest soft-drink maker will plaster
Jackson’s image on 1 billion Pepsi cans in 20 countries,
starting in  China  on May 5, Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo
said in a statement. A deal with the estate of Jackson, who died
of a drug overdose in 2009, will include music, live events and
merchandise to flog Pepsi-Cola, which has lost market share to
Coca-Cola.  Jackson was the face of Pepsi-Cola at the zenith of his
fame. The relationship was marred in 1984 when stage
pyrotechnics set his hair on fire during a commercial shoot,
severely burning the singer. PepsiCo Chief Executive Officer
 Indra Nooyi  said earnings may fall this year as she boosts
marketing spending for key brands by $600 million.  “Pepsi has always been at the forefront of pop culture,”
said Brad Jakeman, president of global enjoyment brands, in a
statement. “This unique global partnership, around such a
legendary music milestone, invites Pepsi fans from around the
world to experience Michael Jackson’s music in an engaging and
very now kind of way.”  The Jackson campaign coincides with the 25th anniversary of
the songwriter’s Bad album, which went multiplatinum and spawned
a global tour that broke attendance records.  On April 30, Pepsi announced its first global marketing
campaign, called “Live for Now.” Ads featuring pop singer
Nicki Minaj will air May 7 in the U.S., the company’s largest
beverage market, before being distributed globally this year.  PepsiCo rose 0.1 percent to $66.91 at the close in  New
York . The shares are little changed this year. Last week,
PepsiCo reiterated its forecast that earnings per share
excluding some costs and foreign-currency effects would decline
5 percent this year and grow at a high-single digit percentage
rate starting next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  