-- PetroVietnam Gas Plans to List May 21 as Second-Largest Company
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-03T12:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/petrovietnam-gas-plans-to-list-may-21-as-second-largest-company.html
PetroVietnam Gas Corp. plans to start
trading shares on May 21, amid gains in  Asia ’s best-performing
stock market this year, making it the second most-valuable
company in Vietnam.  The company will list 1.895 billion shares on the Ho Chi
Minh City Stock Exchange at an initial price of 36,000 dong
each, according to a statement on its  website  today. The price
would give it a market value of 68.22 trillion dong ($3.27
billion), the second largest after  Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
for Foreign Trade of Vietnam , or Vietcombank.  State-owned Vietnam Oil & Gas Group sold a 3.2 percent
stake in unit PV Gas, as the company is known, in an initial
public offering in November 2010, raising 1.89 trillion dong.
The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has gained 33 percent this year, the third-biggest
advance among 96 major stock indexes in the world, as inflation
eased and the government cut key policy rates to support growth.  “It’s a good time to list as the stock market is on an
uptrend, making it easier to absorb new stocks,” said Nguyen Hoai Nam, deputy head of research at Kim Eng  Vietnam  Securities
Co. “The PV Gas listing will also boost market capitalization,
making the Vietnamese market more attractive to foreign
investors.”  PV Gas won final exchange approval to list the shares on
April 27.  “We were planning to list in 2011 but the economy faced a
lot of difficulties with high interest and inflation rates,”
Nguyen Thi Lan, chairwoman of PV Gas, said in an e-mail today.
This year, “both the economy and the stock market had many
positive changes, attracting a lot of domestic and foreign
investors, so we’ve decided to list at this time.”  The listing process has standardized the company’s
operations and improved transparency of information from the
company, according to PV Gas.  “Shareholders also approved the plan to list in  Singapore 
and the company will work with its advisers to list there at the
most suitable time,” Lan said in the e-mail.  The company’s main businesses include the transportation,
storage and marketing of gas.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  