-- Prudential Plunges Most Since August After Loss
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-03T20:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/prudential-plunges-most-since-august-after-loss-new-york-mover.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-
largest U.S. life insurer, posted the biggest decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after first-quarter results  missed 
analysts’ estimates.  The insurer plunged 10 percent to $54.81 at 4:04 p.m. in
New York trading, the biggest fall since August. The  Newark , New
Jersey-based company has gained about 9 percent this year.  Prudential posted a net loss of $967 million on the decline
in the value of derivatives, compared with net income of $561
million a year earlier, the firm said yesterday. Operating
profit, which excludes some investments results, was $1.56 a
share, missing by 16 cents the average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The group insurance segment swung to a
$38 million adjusted operating loss, from $39 million in profit.  “Unfavorable mortality, disability claims and expenses,”
weighed on results in group benefits, FBR Capital Markets
analysts led by  Randy Binner  said in a note. “Operating results
in the international, annuity, retirement, and individual life
segments were all moderately below our forecast.”  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld last month named
Stephen Pelletier to head the group business, replacing Lori High, who resigned. Pelletier had been president of annuities.  “In group disability, we have clear performance issues and
we are moving aggressively to address and correct them,”
Strangfeld said in a conference call today. “Under Steve’s
leadership, you can be sure that we will be comprehensively
reviewing all facets of group insurance and will make all needed
changes.”  Return on Equity  Strangfeld, who has been expanding outside the U.S. and
buying back stock, told investors last year he was focusing on
boosting return on equity to 13 percent to 14 percent in 2013.
That compares with Prudential’s ROE of 11 percent to 11.5
percent last year and less than 10 percent in 2010.  First-quarter results “call into question the ability to
recover momentum toward longer-term ROE target,”  John Nadel , an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a note to clients.
“PRU’s group disability business has been troublesome for a
while and we don’t expect that to rebound soon,”  Nadel lowered his price target to $77 a share, from $83. He
advises investors to buy the stock.  Group-benefits results at  Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  were “well below” the company’s expectations, the life
insurer and property-casualty carrier said today. Earnings from
the business will probably be little changed this year from
2011, Hartford Chief Financial Officer Christopher Swift told
analysts on a conference call. That’s down from the improvement
of 15 percent to 17 percent that the company forecast in
December, he said.  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
declined 2.5 percent to $19.93 today, and has advanced 23
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  