-- Pythons Swallow Whole Deer in Florida, $6 Million Tab
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/pythons-swallow-whole-deer-in-florida-6-million-tab.html
The meandering trail in the Everglades
marshlands was made by alligators, I’m told, so be careful.
There’s also poisonwood, fire ants and the recently added
Burmese python.  “It’s really a very harsh place to work,” says Kristen M.
Hart, a research ecologist for the  U.S. Geological Survey  and a
close follower of the python, which has invaded the Everglades
in startling numbers.  “We don’t know how many there are,” Hart says, “and
that’s ultimately the question everyone wants to know.”  She reckons tens of thousands in the Everglades, but allows
the number could be higher: “I think there could be more here
now than in their native range” of  Southeast Asia .  I’m with Hart and other wildlife biologists tracking an 8-
foot, 20-pound (2.4 meter, 9-kilo) female python that had been
captured and implanted with radio transmitters a few weeks
earlier.  There are many reasons why the python thrives in the
 Everglades , beyond the obvious fact that it eats just about
anything, while almost nothing eats it.  Pythons prey on mammals, other reptiles, fish and birds.
The invaders in  Florida  have consumed everything from the
endangered  Key Largo woodrat  to the threatened American
alligator.  Last October, a snake in the Everglades was found to have
swallowed a 76-pound (34-kilo) deer. Another specimen was
discovered with an adult alligator bursting from its insides --
a tooth-and-claw encounter neither animal survived.  ‘Dramatic Declines’  In January, the proceedings of the  National Academy of
Sciences  published a study showing “dramatic declines” of
mammal populations in southern Florida -- raccoon, opossum,
bobcat, deer and rabbit -- all believed to have become snake
food.  It is not known how the Burmese python was introduced to
the Everglades. Large pythons -- almost certainly escaped or
discarded pets -- have been spotted here since the 1980s. By
2000, however, it was clear that the snakes were not escapees,
but a growing, breeding population.  “People think this is a Florida thing,” says Ken Warren
of the  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service . “But there have been
reports of large constrictors found in Texas, Georgia and
 California , as well as the Virgin Islands and  Puerto Rico . This
is bigger than Florida.”  Federal agencies and local governments have spent more than
$6 million since 2005 to figure out how to control the snakes.
Eradicating them is not a realistic goal; managing them is
imperative. To that end the biologists are gathering data.  ‘Control Strategies’  “What we’re ultimately trying to do is understand the
biology,” Hart says. “How do you exploit what you know to
really knock them down? Where might the pregnant females be?
What is their preferred diet? That’s the kind of information we
need to design control strategies.”  Besides the python we’re tracking, there are seven other
snakes implanted with transmitters, including a female weighing
140 pounds. Their movements are tracked almost daily, either on
foot or from small planes.  Meanwhile, lawmakers are doing the legislative equivalent
of closing the barn door after the horses have fled. Earlier
this year, the  U.S. House Judiciary Committee  approved a bill to
widen the ban on imported snakes to include the Burmese python
and other large serpents.  Big Babies  Aside from their indiscriminate diet and unchallenged
position in the food chain, Burmese pythons have other survival
advantages. Hatchlings are big -- two to three feet long when
they wriggle out of their eggs -- and so are not easy pickings
for a potential predator. It is believed that females can
reproduce without a male partner.  They are excellent swimmers, can survive for extended
periods in salt water if they have to, and are barely visible in
the Everglades habitat, so can sneak up on dinner with ease.  “I think she’s right between us,” the biologist next to
me says. He points his antenna at my feet, which I can’t see in
the murky water. Nor can I see the snake, until the slightest
movement betrays her location, about a yard away.  Her head looks to be the size of my fist.  Her colors
aren’t brilliant but they are beautiful, a delicate patchwork of
tawny lines that match the grasses all around us.  The biologists record the salient details: habitat,
predominant flora, GPS coordinates, and so on. The snake doesn’t
flee at our approach. For an invasive species, she looked very
much at home.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  architecture  and  technology 
developments.  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 