-- Qantas to Boost Domestic Flights Amid Virgin Challenge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-04T08:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/qantas-to-delay-a380-superjumbos-boost-domestic-capacity.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest carrier, plans to boost domestic flights to protect its
65 percent share of the market and fend off  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH)   The carrier will add seats between Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane, its busiest routes, in the year starting July 1,
according to a statement today. The company is also deferring
delivery of two Airbus SAS A380s to help cut  capital spending  by
A$400 million ($410 million) to A$1.9 billion in the year ending
June 2013, it said in a separate release.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce plans to defend
the Sydney-based carrier’s “profit-maximizing” 65 percent
market share as Virgin adds seats and targets lucrative
corporate customers with airport lounges and business-class
seats. On intercontinental routes, he has cut capacity to revive
operations losing A$200 million a year amid competition from
Middle East carriers led by Emirates Airline.  “The domestic market is the pulse and heart of Qantas,”
said  Peter Harbison , executive chairman of CAPA Centre for
Aviation in Sydney, an industry consultant. “They’re weak on
the long-haul.”  Delivery of the two new A380s will be delayed until the
year ending June 2017 from early 2013. The airline, which
already has 12 A380s in service, will get its other six on-order
superjumbos by the end of June 2019, it said.  Cost Cutting  Qantas is also cutting annual operating costs for
international services by more than A$300 million, it said in a
separate statement. The savings include as much as A$120 million
by cutting flights on unprofitable routes and as much as A$100
million from streamlining heavy maintenance and engineering.  “It’s inevitable when you have such powerful competitors”
on the long-haul routes to  Europe , Harbison said. Gulf-based
carriers including Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd. can offer
one-stop services from Australia to numerous European
destinations. Qantas only flies to London and  Frankfurt .  Qantas fell 1.2 percent to A$1.605 at the close of trading
in Sydney. It has gained 9.9 percent this year, compared with an
8.4 percent rise for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index  Qantas’s budget arm Jetstar will also increase domestic
services to protect market share from  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) 
Singapore-based Tiger Air is adding flights after last year
suspending services for six weeks following safety violations.
That halt reduced airline capacity in Australia by about 7
percent.  The market adjusted to the lower levels, with Qantas and
Virgin benefiting with higher fares, Harbison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  