-- Ontario’s Regulator Sets Conditions for TMX Takeover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-03T20:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/quebec-regulator-seeks-input-on-maple-takeover-of-clearinghouse.html
Ontario’s securities regulator has set
conditions for a C$3.73 billion ($3.78 billion) takeover of  TMX
Group Inc. (X) , including ownership restrictions and a requirement
for independent board members, that moves the purchase by a
group of Canadian banks and pension funds a step closer to
approval.  The Ontario Securities Commission today released proposed
rules that govern the operation of an exchange and securities
clearinghouse created by Maple Group Acquisition Corp.’s
takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner. Quebec’s regulator
also disclosed conditions for its endorsement of the plan, which
still needs approval from Canada’s Competition Bureau.  Maple, whose 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec and  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , has waited six months for approvals from regulators for
its Oct. 30 agreement with Toronto-based TMX. Maple seeks to buy
TMX and integrate it with the Canadian Depository for Securities
Ltd. clearinghouse and Alpha Group, a bank-owned exchange
operator that competes with the Toronto Stock Exchange.  “Today’s probably the most important milestone, with the
next one being the close,”  Luc Bertrand , a vice chairman at
National Bank who acts as a spokesman for Maple, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re on our way to complete this
transaction in the timeline we think is very reasonable,” he
said, adding that Maple aims to close July 31.  TMX  rose  1.3 percent to $47.10 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, edging
closer to Maple’s C$50-a-share offer price. Maple is seeking to
initially buy at least 70 percent of TMX shares through a tender
offer to investors.  Ownership Restrictions  The OSC’s recognition order outlines  rules  that Maple must
follow to become an exchange, such as ownership restrictions
that would limit any one person or company from owning more than
10 percent of the company without the OSC’s consent. The
conditions are open for public  comment  until June 4.  “The Commission has thoroughly reviewed the regulatory
issues raised by Maple’s proposal and developed measures
necessary to ensure that the public interest is protected,” OSC
Chairman Howard Wetston said in a statement. “We will carefully
consider further input we receive on these orders when making
our final determination.”  The company’s board also should be composed of at least 50
percent independent directors, and at least half of the
directors should be unrelated to the original Maple
shareholders, the OSC said. The chairman would also be both
independent and unrelated to Maple shareholders. Bertrand said
he’s been asked to join the board as a director.  Switch to For-Profit  The OSC rules also try to address some market concerns on
pricing and Maple’s plan to transform the CDS from a non-profit
entity into a profitable business. Maple must split any annual
revenue increases from CDS clearing and other services with
market participants, effective Nov. 1, under the rules. Maple
also needs to pay the users an “integration rebate” starting
with C$2.75 million in 2013 and rising to C$4 million by 2016 to
reflect savings from the takeover.  “The way it’s been structured and what is being proposed
is very, very fair for all parties involved,” Bertrand said.
“The majority will conclude that this is very fair and what
Maple is proposing in terms of market infrastructure is going to
allow a lot of broker-dealers out there to flourish.”  Quebec’s Regulator  Quebec ’s securities regulator is also seeking comment on
CDS, in particular with respect to corporate governance and a
new pricing model, the regulator, the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, said in a statement. Written comments must be
received by June 4.  “The AMF believes it is advisable to submit this latest
information for public consultation before issuing any decision
with respect to recognizing CDS, TMX Group and Maple as a
clearing agency,” the regulator said.  Maple said it will accept the orders from the AMF and OSC
if they’re finalized as published. Maple said the orders provide
“important changes” in areas including governance, competition
and fees for clearing and depository services that may ease
concerns of the Competition Bureau, which five months ago
expressed “serious concerns” on the transaction.  “It’s the result of a thorough, in-depth process by both
the Maple Group and the regulators and the work in conjunction
together,” Bertrand said. “It’s a good piece of regulatory
framework for a market infrastructure in  Canada  that will allow
us to stay at the forefront of what’s going on in the rest of
the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  