-- Rambus Gets Review of Patent Case Over LSI, STMicro Chips
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-03T21:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rambus-gets-review-of-patent-case-over-lsi-stmicro-chips-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s loss in a patent-
infringement case against LSI Corp. and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) 
over high-speed memory chips will be reviewed, a U.S. trade
agency said.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said  today  it will
review “in its entirety” a finding by one of its judges that
the companies didn’t violate Rambus’s patent rights. The six-
member commission in Washington is scheduled to announce its
decision July 2 and has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patent rights.  Rambus, the  recipient  of royalties from patents it says
cover the fundamentals of computer-memory chips, seeks to extend
its intellectual-property enforcement to communication devices
and electronics. The Sunnyvale, California-based company has
been fighting in court for a decade over chips used in personal
computers.  The dispute in this case centers on a type of dynamic
random access memory called SDRAM that acts as the main memory
in computers. Rambus said its inventions speed the transfer of
data. The memory controllers are used in networking gear,
televisions, set-top decoders and other devices.  LSI, based in Milpitas,  California , and Geneva-based
STMicro denied infringing the patents and challenged their
validity. The complaint also names customers of the three
chipmakers, including  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Seagate Technology Plc. (STX)   Patents Found Invalid  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  were part of the original
case before they settled all pending litigation. Rambus had also
won an earlier case at the ITC against Nvidia, which makes
graphics processors, that was on appeal before the settlement.  ITC Judge Theodore Essex found all five Rambus patents
invalid in March, saying they sought to cover inventions already
protected by other patents and publications. Rambus argued that
the findings were the result of the judge “ignoring or
misunderstanding key legal and factual issues” concerning what
others in the chip industry knew in the mid-1990s when Rambus
began its research.  Essex had found that the companies infringed the patents.
“While the respondents in this matter challenged several
aspects of Judge Essex’s findings, they did not challenge the
findings that their products infringe” the patents, Rambus said
in a statement.  ‘Shred Days’  The judge said separately that three patents, known for
lead inventor Richard Barth, are unenforceable because Rambus
purposefully destroyed evidence needed by companies to defend
themselves against Rambus’s infringement claims.  Rambus, in its statement, said it was encouraged by the
commission’s decision to review that issue, since Essex’s
determination “contradicts an earlier decision, involving the
same patents, that Rambus’s document-retention practices did not
prevent Rambus from enforcing those patents.”  The company’s document policy, which evidence showed
included “shred days” in 1998, has been an issue in the civil
cases through the company’s legal fights. Nvidia lost its
argument on that issue.  Destroyed-Documents Ruling  A U.S. appeals court ruled last year that Rambus destroyed
documents relevant to patent-infringement trials with  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  and Hynix Semiconductor Inc. Federal judges are
considering what the appropriate punishment should be in those
cases, including whether Rambus should be barred from enforcing
the patents against Hynix and Micron.  In the ITC case, Rambus argued that the appeals court
decision shouldn’t apply because different patents were
involved. The Barth patents, it said, hadn’t even been issued
when the company’s document-destruction policy was in place.
Essex disagreed, saying that the 1998 “shred days” weren’t
targeting just information on issued patents.  “Their action in destroying documents was intended to
frustrate the fact-finding efforts of parties adverse to
Rambus,” the administrative law judge said in his report.
“While the Barth patents may not have been mature, they were
part of a long-term strategic litigation plan.”  Rambus argued that, even if some documents were destroyed,
there was no harm to the companies because “the allegedly
destroyed documents are irrelevant, still exist, or were
redundant of retained documents.”  The case is In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips
and Products Containing Same, 337-753, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  