-- Rand Falls First Day in Three on Weak Jobs Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-03T14:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rand-falls-first-day-in-three-on-weak-jobs-data.html
South African bonds gained, driving
yields to four-year lows, on continued demand from foreign
investors buying the debt before its probable inclusion in a
widely-tracked index.  The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped 8.5 basis points to 7.50 percent, the lowest since
January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
has declined 17.5 basis points in the past two days. The rand
was little changed, trading 0.1 percent weaker at 7.7312 per
dollar as of 3:33 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Foreign investors  bought  a net 2.3 billion rand ($297
million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to JSE Ltd.
data, adding to 17.6 billion of debt purchases since Citigroup
Inc. said April 17 South African debt was eligible for its World
Government Bond Index. Inclusion in the index may attract as
much as $7.5 billion to  South Africa ’s bond market from
investors tracking the gauge, Citigroup analysts estimated.  “We’ve seen quite a lot of demand from offshore today,”
 Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at Nedbank Group
ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “That’s all still on the
back of positioning before inclusion in the WGBI.”  Bonds were also buoyed after business confidence dropped to
the lowest level in more than three years in April. The business
confidence index fell to 94.3 from 95.7 in March, the
Johannesburg-based South African Chamber of Commerce and
Industry said in an e-mailed statement today. The index is
compiled from 13 economic indicators, including retail sales,
inflation and financial gauges, such as a stock-market index and
currency.  Interest Rates  Investors pared bets that the South African  Reserve Bank 
will lift  interest rates  this year. Forward-rate agreements
starting in a year dropped four basis points today to 5.87
percent, the lowest since Feb. 3. The rate has declined from
6.31 percent on March 20.  The central bank has left its benchmark repo rate at 5.5
percent, a 30-year low, since Nov. 2010 to aid a recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy. The next Monetary Policy Committee
meeting starts on May 23, with the interest rate decision
announced on May 24.  “General economic conditions remain fragile,” Dennis Dykes, a Johannesburg-based economist at Nedbank, said in e-
mailed comments. “We therefore still expect that the MPC will
keep interest rates steady and start tightening gradually only
in the fourth quarter of 2012, barring any surprises on the
growth and inflation fronts.”  Spanish Debt  The rand weakened as much as 0.4 percent earlier as data on
global jobs and  China ’s services industry signaled weaker
economic growth, dimming South Africa’s export prospects.  Spain ’s borrowing costs increased as it sold $2.52 billion
of bonds at an auction today, suggesting the impact on yields
from the  European Central Bank ’s stimulus measures is waning.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi today said the
economic outlook in the euro area is subject to downside risks
and inflation pressures should remain limited.  The euro region buys 22 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data for 2011. An index of global
 emerging-market stocks  declined and a  gauge  of raw material
prices fell for a second day. South Africa’s benchmark stock
 index  declined for the first time in six days, retreating from a
record.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 dropped seven basis points to 4.06 percent, the lowest on
record. The premium investors demand to hold the debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries shrank five basis points to 211 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  