-- Rangers Win in Triple Overtime, Lead NHL Playoff Series 2-1
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-03T12:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rangers-defeat-capitals-to-lead-nhl-playoff-series-2-1-in-games.html
The  New York Rangers  defeated the
Washington Capitals 2-1 in triple overtime to lead their
National Hockey League playoff series by two games to one.  Marian Gaborik sent a 13-foot wristshot into the goal 14
minutes, 41 seconds into the third overtime period at Verizon
Center in Washington. It was the fourth-longest game in
franchise history and the longest NHL game since May 4, 2008,
when Dallas beat San Jose in four overtimes.  “It felt like it was never going to end, but to win is
such a special feeling,” Rangers goaltender  Henrik Lundqvist ,
who had 45 saves, told reporters. “When a game is this long,
the toughest challenge is in your mind. It’s such a good feeling
because we put so much effort into this game.”  The Rangers tied a team-record for shots on goal in a
playoff game with 49 and ended a seven-game postseason losing
streak in overtime games.  The teams reconvene at the same venue on May 5 for Game 4
in the best-of-seven second-round series.  Ryan Callahan gave the Rangers the lead 6:41 into the
second period and Washington’s John Carlson tied it 4:29 later.  The top-seeded Rangers are seeking to reach the conference
finals for the first time since 1997. The team won the latest of
its four Stanley Cup titles in 1994.  At Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee, David Legwand
and Mike Fisher scored 66 seconds apart in the first period to
give the Predators a 2-0 victory against the  Phoenix Coyotes ,
who lead the series by two games to one.  The Predators host Game 4 tomorrow.  In tonight’s games, the New Jersey Devils host the
 Philadelphia Flyers  with their series tied at 1-1, while the  St.
Louis Blues  will look to avoid falling 3-0 down in their series
against the  Los Angeles Kings .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  