-- Rangers’ Administrators Say Miller Granted Preferred Status
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-05-03T16:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rangers-administrators-say-miller-granted-preferred-status-1-.html
Duff & Phelps, administrators to
Rangers Football Club Plc, today granted Tennessee businessman
Bill Miller preferred-bidder status for the 54-time Scottish
champion.  The unconditional bid by Miller, chairman of Ooltewah-based
 Miller Industries Inc. (MLR) , for the business and assets of the 140-
year-old Glasgow soccer club will secure a return to creditors,
Duff & Phelps said today in an e-mailed  statement .  “It is a great honor and privilege to have the opportunity
to buy Rangers Football Club,” Miller said in a  statement 
published on Rangers’ website. “What Rangers have been put
through, particularly in recent months, is a travesty. Under my
stewardship, Rangers will be managed with fiscal discipline such
that, from now on, Rangers will live within its means.”  Rangers went into administration, a form of bankruptcy, on
Feb. 14, owing creditors as much as 134 million pounds ($217
million), including more than 93 million pounds owed to the U.K.
authorities in two tax disputes and other unpaid taxes.  Miller’s bid is structured to enter a so-called company
voluntary arrangement while the assets and business he is buying
are put into a new company. As creditors are dealt with, the
assets will be returned to Rangers Football Club, administrators
said. The aim is to complete the transaction by the end of the
season.  “The bid submitted by Mr. Miller is substantially greater
than any other proposal and provides the best return to
creditors, a fundamental part of our duties as administrators,”
Duff & Phelps said. “The structure provides a stable platform
through which new investment can be deployed to ensure that the
club thrives again in the future.”  Blue Knights  Miller, whose  company  is the world’s biggest manufacturer
of tow trucks, was competing against a group known as the Blue
Knights headed by former  Rangers  director Paul Murray. The Blue
Knights’ bid, which had a similar structure, had conditions
attached, Duff & Phelps said. Singapore businessman Bill Ng
dropped out of the bidding on April 20.  The structure of both bids was the only viable option as a
“standalone” CVA would take so long to take effect that the
club would not survive, Duff & Phelps said in the statement.  Miller “sees this route as a necessity rather than a
choice and in our view this is an entirely workable strategy,”
Duff & Phelps said. “Indeed, to ensure the continuing operation
of the club beyond the end of May it is in our view a very
compelling strategy.”  Liquidation, which would have involved selling off all the
club’s assets and returning the proceeds to creditors, was never
an option, Duff & Phelps said.  Bank Loans  Going into liquidation would have barred Rangers from
entering European competition for three years and forced it to
start again in the bottom tier of the Scottish Football League.  Supporters, players, staff and anyone with the club at
heart had been badly let down by a number of individuals, said
Miller, who described Rangers as one of the world’s great
sporting institutions.  The team was bought last year by  Craig Whyte  from  David
Murray  -- who had owned the club for 23 years -- for one pound.
Whyte also assumed responsibility for debts of more 20 million
pounds owed to  Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY)  Plc’s HBOS unit and for
settling the tax claim by  HM Revenue & Customs  over the use of
offshore trusts to pay players.  Whyte sold three years’ worth of income from the sale of
season tickets to the Ticketus agency and used the proceeds to
pay off the bank loans.  In an interview in the Glasgow Herald in March, Murray said
he had been duped into selling his 85 percent stake in the club
to Whyte and he would never have sold to him had he known how
the transaction was going to be financed.  The sale was delayed last month when the Scottish Premier
League said April 11 it was considering  changing  the penalties
imposed on teams going into administration. A decision, which
was due to be made on April 30, has been postponed until May 17.  The Scottish Premier League will continue talks with Miller
and his team, it said in a statement on its website today.  On April 23, Whyte, 40, was banned by the ruling Scottish
Football Association for life and fined 200,000 pounds. The club
was fined 160,000 pounds and banned from buying players over 18
for 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 