-- Treasury Hold Gain on Speculation Services Growth Slowed
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-03T11:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/treasury-futures-hold-gain-as-slowdown-drives-safety-bid.html
Treasuries held gains from yesterday
before a report forecast to show growth in U.S. service
industries slowed in April, adding to evidence the recovery is
faltering and underpinning demand for the safest assets.  Benchmark  10-year yields  were within five basis points of a
three-month low as the  European Central Bank  prepared to
announce its latest interest-rate decision after reports
yesterday showed euro-area manufacturing shrank in April and
German unemployment rose. While all 58 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg say the ECB will leave the rate at a record low of 1
percent, President  Mario Draghi  may hint the central bank is
willing to provide more stimulus as  Europe ’s recession deepens.  “Treasury rates will stay low because we may be in a
temporary soft patch in the U.S.,” said Niels From, chief
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen. “The market has
started to adapt to the weaker economic data coming out of the
U.S. and Europe. Today the focus is on the ECB meeting. Draghi
may acknowledge the weak data and indicate the ECB is concerned
about the outlook.”  The 10-year note  yielded  1.93 percent at 7:22 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in February 2022 traded at 100 19/32. The yield
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, yesterday. It
dropped to 1.88 percent on April 27, the lowest since Feb. 3.  Jobless Claims  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing industries declined to a four-month low of 55.3 in
April from 56 in March, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Services make up about 90 percent of the
economy. Another report today will show first-time claims for
jobless benefits fell last week, a separate survey showed.  Today’s “most notable report is the ISM service index,”
Ralf Umlauf and Ulrich Wortberg, strategists at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a client
note today. “This is expected to come in slightly weaker.”  Treasury 10-year yields dropped to 1.90 percent yesterday
after ADP Employer Services said U.S. employment increased less
than economists forecast in April. The  yield  on similar-maturity
Germany bunds fell to a record 1.599 percent.  “We’re in a new environment where yields will be lower in
the high-quality assets,” said Bin Gao, head of rates research
for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 Hong Kong . “We’re running out of high-quality bonds.”  Debt Rankings  Germany has an AAA debt ranking from Moody’s Investors
Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s . The U.S. has the
top grades from Moody’s and Fitch, and is ranked one step lower
at AA+ by S&P.  The Federal Reserve plans to buy as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to February 2042 today,
according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The purchases are part of the U.S. central bank’s effort to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2, to support the
economy. Policy makers have pledged to keep the target for
overnight bank lending at almost zero until at least late 2014.  Poised to End  The Treasury rally is poised to end, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. U.S. 10-year yields will
increase to 2.53 percent by year-end, the data shows.  “Yields will head back up,” said Andy Cossor, the Hong
Kong-based chief market strategist at  DZ Bank  AG,  Germany ’s
fourth-largest lender. “We’re looking for better economic data
from the U.S. The U.S. is not going into a recession, and
therefore there will be no justification for launching QE3.”  Ten-year yields will rise to 2.25 percent in three months,
DZ Bank predicts.  U.S. employers hired 160,000 workers in April, versus
120,000 in March, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
Labor Department data tomorrow.  Ten-year yields “remain in a small range” above key
resistance levels at 1.87 percent and 1.785 percent, Credit
Suisse Group AG said, citing trading patterns. “The range is
expected to hold ahead of Friday’s payroll number,” the
strategists led by  David Sneddon , head of technical analysis in
 London , wrote in a note today.  Resistance refers to a level where orders to sell a
security may be grouped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  