-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Remain Under 2% on Economic Data
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-03T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/treasuries-little-changed-after-u-s-jobless-claims-data.html
Treasury 10-year yields remained under
2 percent for a 15th day, the longest stretch in more than three
months, after economic reports failed to provide evidence that
the recovery was accelerating.  Yields fluctuated  as a report showing a decline in initial
unemployment claims was followed by one pointing to slowing
growth in service industries, the largest part of the  U.S.
economy . German debt yields stayed near record lows as the
 European Central Bank  held its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent. Payrolls increased by 160,000 last month and the
 unemployment rate  remained at 8.2 percent, Bloomberg surveys
showed before tomorrow’s reports.  “People are waiting for tomorrow’s employment report to
confirm, or buck, the recent weakening trend,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government- and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “The market
isn’t too optimistic. There are a lot of players on the sideline
waiting for some of the uncertainty to shake itself out.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  were little changed at 1.93
percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It is the longest streak under 2 percent since
Jan. 19. The yield fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, yesterday. It dropped to 1.88 percent on April 27, the
lowest since Feb. 3.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of  non-
manufacturing  industries, which account for almost 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, decreased to 53.5 in April from 56 a month
earlier. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s measure was projected
to decline to 55.3, according to a Bloomberg survey. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  ‘Not a Trend’  Treasuries fell earlier after  jobless claims  declined by
27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended April 28, a one-month low,
from a revised 392,000 the prior period, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 46
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 379,000
applications.  “There’s still headwinds in  Europe , there’s still
countries falling back into recession, you have slower economic
data in the States, and one stronger claims numbers is still not
a trend,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at  SEI
Investments Co. (SEIC)  in Oaks, Pennsylvania. “It’s not going to
change the Treasury market.”  Treasury 10-year yields dropped to 1.90 percent yesterday
after ADP Employer Services said U.S. employment increased less
than economists forecast in April. The  yield  on similar-maturity
German bonds fell to a record low 1.60 percent.  Spanish Auction  “There’s probably not a great deal out there that’s going
to shift people’s expectations for the pace of the recovery,”
 Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The concerns about the pace of
the recovery persist as we move into the second quarter.”  Spanish bonds gained after Spain’s Treasury met its target
at a debt sale today and stayed higher after DBRS cut the
nation’s credit rating one step to A (high) from AA (low) and
said the “trend remains negative.”  The Spanish Treasury sold 2.52 billion euros ($3.31
billion) of bonds, exceeding its maximum target. Still,  Spain 
had to pay 4.037 percent to sell debt for three years, up from
2.617 percent at a March 1 sale.  The  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers added $20.6
billion of Treasuries to their balance sheets for the week ended
April 26, boosting their holdings 26 percent to $99.8 billion,
according to Fed data released today. The holdings are the most
since Feb. 12 when dealers held a record $106.3 billion of  U.S.
government debt .  ‘No Conviction’  The Fed bought $1.833 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to February 2042 today as part of its program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008
to June 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing,
known as QE1 and QE2, to support the economy. Policy makers have
pledged to keep the target for overnight bank lending at almost
zero until at least late 2014.  The Bloomberg Financial Conditions Index at minus 0.03
shows the U.S. is nearly evenly poised between growth and
contraction. Positive numbers indicate growth while negative
readings suggest shrinkage.  “There’s no conviction about the economy,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis,
Tennessee. “The fact that we’ve got a ‘saw-tooth’ pattern going
across the data makes it that much worse,” he said, referring
to the trend of positive data followed by negative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  