-- Recycling Eyeglasses Is a Feel-Good Waste of Money
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-05-03T23:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/recycling-eyeglasses-is-a-feel-good-waste-of-money.html
One of the public libraries I use
regularly has a box where people can donate their old
eyeglasses. Whenever I see it, I regret having nothing to
contribute. That’s because I’ve let my personal experience trump
my economic good sense.  I have a special appreciation for just how valuable glasses
can be when you can’t see.  I spent the third grade borrowing glasses from the girls
who sat on either side of me. The ophthalmologist had advised my
parents to wait to get me glasses, because my eyes were bound to
change and they’d just have to buy a second pair. (We were not
poor -- my father was an engineer -- but the doctor was a
paternalist of the old school.) By the time I got my first pair
of glasses, the only thing I could read on the eye chart was the
big E.  I’ve long since had my myopia surgically corrected -- the
proverbial miracle of modern medicine -- and now stash cheap
over-the-counter reading glasses in every room of my house.
Still, I remember what it was like to need glasses and not be
able to get them. So I sympathize with charities that collect
eyeglasses to distribute to people who can’t otherwise afford
them.  But such efforts turn out to be a terrible waste, for
reasons that are completely logical once you think about them.
The case of recycled eyeglasses illustrates how easy it is to
fool ourselves when we think about thrift, waste and charity. We
overestimate the importance of the physical things we can see
and forget about the real costs of time and attention, as well
as the importance of intangible values like aesthetics to the
people we’re trying to help.  Twice the Cost  In a paper published in March in the journal  Optometry and
Vision Science , four researchers compare the full costs of
delivering used glasses to the costs of instead delivering
ready-made glasses in standard powers (like my drugstore
readers, but for myopia as well). The authors find that recycled
glasses cost nearly twice as much per usable pair.  The costs of ready-made glasses are pretty straightforward.  You have to buy the glasses from the manufacturer, get them
to wherever they need to go, and fit each person with the right
pair. Because you can generally rely on the manufacturer to
accurately specify the power of each lens, especially for lower-
powered lenses, most pairs require only a quick visual
inspection before they can be used.  The price of the physical glasses is minor -- only $1.88
for a new pair of ready-made spectacles. Most of the costs of
delivering them go for labor and travel expenses to, for
example, bring a team of optometrists and opticians from
 Australia  to  Cambodia .  Using labor costs based on wage rates in Australia, where
the research was done, the cost of delivering a pair of ready-
made glasses is $11.28 (in U.S. dollars) for lower powers
requiring only a visual inspection and $13.23 if the lens power
is checked with a focimeter, a tabletop instrument that looks
something like a microscope. (These costs do not include an exam
to determine the prescription.)  Using ready-made spectacles, a charity can, at a relatively
modest cost, buy and stock a full range of prescriptions in
frame styles for men or women, making it likely that anyone who
needs glasses can get an appropriate pair.  Now think about that library collection box. People with
all sorts of prescriptions donate their old glasses. Some of the
lenses are scratched. Some of the hinges are broken. Some of the
plastic is old and brittle. Many pairs have progressive lenses
or are bifocals, which are hard to fit. The selection is, in
short, a hodgepodge -- of condition, prescription and style.  Not a Match  The glasses get packed up and sent to their destination
where, unlike the ready-made glasses, they need to be sorted.
First, someone has to go through and throw out all the pairs
that are completely unusable, either because they’re in poor
condition or because they have progressive lenses that are too
customized to be practical for new users. Then someone has to
test each remaining pair using a focimeter to determine the
prescription. Pairs whose lenses have different powers or are
designed to correct significant astigmatism also get discarded
at this stage. They, too, are unlikely to match a new wearer.  The researchers ran two real batches of donated spectacles
through this process, checking a total of 275 pairs. A mere 23
percent of the recycled glasses passed the quick first check,
and only 7 percent of the donations survived the full process.
To get a single pair of usable glasses, in other words, required
15 donated pairs.  All told, in the first batch of 106 pairs, only nine were
usable, including two sets of bifocals, which are less useful
than single-lens glasses. In the second batch, only 11 survived.
All of the usable glasses had at least minor damage.  “Because most donated spectacles proved to be unusable,”
the authors write, “this effectively meant that the donor
organization had packaged and posted, at some considerable
expense, spectacles destined to be discarded.” In other words,
well-meaning charities were wrapping up garbage and sending it
through the mail.  Because recycled glasses require more labor-intensive
screening and have such a high rejection rate, each surviving
pair winds up costing a lot more than a ready-made pair: $20.49
for the 7 percent survival rate and $17.86 at a more optimistic
11 percent rate.  But that’s a deliberate underestimate. It costs $78 to ship
100 pairs of recycled spectacles to their destination, so the
calculation charged each pair with 78 cents of shipping costs.  “We decided, somewhat generously, to only allocate the
cost of transporting each pair (whether it was usable or not) in
the costing of recycled specs,” explains lead author David A.
Wilson, the Asia-Pacific research manager for the  International
Centre for Eyecare Education , in an e-mail. But only seven out
of every 100 pairs were usable, so the real shipping cost per
useable pair wasn’t 78 cents. It was $78 divided by seven, or
$11.14 -- about as much as the total cost of delivering a pair
of ready-made glasses.  Allowing for Bias  “By being ‘generous’ in only counting $0.78 toward the
shipping cost for recycled spectacles we have created bias in
favor of recycled glasses while still finding them to cost
more,” says co-author  Kevin Frick , a professor of health policy
and management at the  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public
Health . “This approach makes us more comfortable with the
robustness of our conclusion.”  Cost calculations tell only part of the story. They assume
that each surviving pair of recycled glasses will eventually
reach someone who needs and wants it: that the prescription will
match, the frames will fit, and the style won’t be so
inappropriate that the recipient is embarrassed. Having a random
selection of prescriptions makes that more difficult. And
imagine how a dignified older man would respond to a donated
pair of purple  “Pixie”  glasses with sparkling crystals. Even
poor people tend not to wear glasses that make them feel ugly or
ridiculous.  Recycling old glasses makes people feel generous and
thrifty. They believe they’re helping people and saving money.
They think the glasses they donate are “free,” because they
don’t consider all the hidden costs of sorting and shipping
them. And they don’t realize just how cheap manufacturing new
glasses has become. If they really wanted to help people see,
they’d send money. Unlike leftovers, it’s guaranteed to fit.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .   Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Argentina ’s oil grab
and poor  corporate governance at tech companies ;  Michael Kinsley 
on  Mitt Romney’s former spokesman ;  Susan Antilla  on  mandatory
arbitration ; and Jonathan Cohn and  David Strauss  on making
 health-care reform work .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 