-- Three Fed Presidents Say New QE Isn’t Needed for Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-03T21:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/three-fed-presidents-say-new-qe-isn-t-needed-for-economy.html
Three Federal Reserve bank presidents
said they don’t see the need for a new bond-buying program by
the U.S. central bank as the economy shows signs of strength.  San Francisco ’s John C. Williams said he’s “not in favor
of going into QE3 at this time,” referring to a third round of
so-called quantitative easing. Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser 
said scenarios that would warrant such stimulus aren’t “in my
forecast right now,” and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  agreed such
“conditions” are “quite different than what we see today.”
The three policy makers spoke in  Santa Barbara , California.  The odds of more Fed stimulus diminished this week as four
central bankers, also including the Richmond Fed’s  Jeffrey Lacker , said such action probably won’t be necessary and U.S.
manufacturing showed unexpected vitality. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  left policy unchanged after its April 24-25
meeting, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that further
easing is unlikely unless the economy deteriorates.  “Right now, our policy is correctly calibrated,” Williams
said on a panel today. He said more asset purchases may be
warranted if the economy worsens.  If the expansion flags, “then it’s natural to say we need
to have more monetary stimulus in order to get us closer to our
objectives,” Williams said. Bernanke also said last week that
he’s “prepared to do more” should conditions deteriorate.  Jobless claims fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28, a one-month low, from a revised 392,000 the prior
period, according to Labor Department figures released today.
Still, a separate report from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed  service industries  expanded in April at a
slower pace than economists  projected .  Stocks Fall  Stocks fell for a second day after the services report
fueled concern the expansion is slowing. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropped 0.8 percent to 1,391.57 in New York.  Concern that inflation may exceed the central bank’s 2
percent goal weighs against consideration of providing
additional stimulus to reduce unemployment, Lockhart said.  “The Fed’s already done a lot to support the recovery,”
he said. “Whether additional  monetary policy  actions should be
used at this time to try to speed things up has to be balanced
against the risks to the Fed’s price stability objective that
could accompany an overestimating of the amount of economic
slack.”  The FOMC repeated last month that borrowing costs will
probably remain “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014. Fed officials also raised their projections for economic
expansion at the April meeting, predicting growth of 2.4 percent
to 2.9 percent this year, up from a January prediction of 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent.  Plosser predicted U.S. economic growth of 3 percent this
year and next, saying those views put him “in the slightly more
optimistic camp.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 salas1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Santa Barbara, California at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  