-- Related, Wilpon Said in Talks for Project Near Mets Park
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-03T00:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/related-wilpon-said-in-talks-for-project-near-mets-park.html
Related Cos. and  Fred Wilpon ’s
Sterling Equities Inc. are in exclusive negotiations for the
rights to develop Willets Point, a neighborhood of automotive
shops and junkyards near the New York Mets’ ballpark, said a
person with knowledge of the talks.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private, wouldn’t say more about the
negotiations. The city of New York is close to reaching a deal
with Related and Sterling Equities to build a mall on the site,
the New York Observer reported earlier today on its  website .  Wilpon and his Sterling partners became sole owners of the
Mets baseball team in 2002. In March, Wilpon and Mets President
Saul B. Katz, who had invested with convicted Ponzi scheme
operator  Bernard Madoff , reached a settlement of a lawsuit
brought by the liquidator of Madoff’s firm. Related is run by
Stephen M. Ross, owner of the National Football League’s Miami
Dolphins and developer of Time Warner Center in midtown
Manhattan.  “We’re very close to having a deal in place that will
transform Willets Point into New York City’s next great
neighborhood and continue the historic progress we’ve already
made there,” said  Julie Wood , deputy press secretary to Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg .  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for New York-based Related,
declined to comment. A call made after regular business hours to
Sterling Equities’ office in Great Neck, New York, wasn’t
immediately returned.  New York City last year issued a request for proposals from
builders interested in constructing retail, entertainment,
housing and other types of development on the 61-acre (25-
hectare) site, which is in Queens across 126th Street from Citi
Field, where the Mets have played since it opened in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  