-- Renault-Nissan to Take Control of Lada Maker AvtoVAZ
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-05-03T15:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/renault-nissan-to-take-control-of-lada-maker-avtovaz.html
The Renault-Nissan alliance will form
a joint venture with Russian Technologies Corp. to become the
largest shareholder in  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , Russia’s biggest automaker.  Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan Motor Co. will together invest about
$750 million to take a majority holding in the joint venture,
which will in turn own 74.5 percent of AvtoVAZ, the companies
said today. They aim to complete the deal by 2014, later than
some originally anticipated.  Carlos Ghosn , who runs both Renault and Nissan, is looking
to the maker of Lada brand vehicles to fuel growth in Russia,
where the market may surpass  Germany  to become  Europe ’s biggest
in 2014, according to the Russian Industry Ministry. AvtoVAZ
aims to hold 25 percent of the auto market in five years, or 40
percent together with Renault and Nissan.  “We see this move as very positive for Renault, which will
continue to heavily invest in this growing market,” Xavier Caroen, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets with a hold
recommendation on the shares, said in a note to clients today.
“With AvtoVAZ and Nissan the group will officially become the
leader in  Russia .”  Renault  rose  0.8 percent to 34.12 euros at the close of
trading in Paris. AvtoVAZ dropped 7.1 percent to 20.71 rubles in
Moscow. Nissan rose 0.8 percent to 808 yen at yesterday’s close.
The Tokyo stock exchange is closed for a public holiday today
and tomorrow.  Combined Holdings  Sergey Skvortsov, deputy chairman of AvtoVAZ shareholder
Troika Dialog, said in February that a memorandum of
understanding could be signed at the end of that month or in
March, with the transaction completed three months later.  Renault-Nissan will combine its current 25 percent AvtoVAZ
holding with the stake held by state-owned Russian Technologies.
The joint venture will then purchase the shares owned by Troika
Dialog in order to reach the 74.5 percent holding. The French-
Japanese car alliance alone would eventually control more than
two thirds of AvtoVAZ’s shares.  As part of the deal, Russian Technologies agreed to repay
part of its outstanding loans in AvtoVAZ by selling some of the
automaker’s “non-core assets,” according to today’s statement.
“AvtoVAZ has all sorts of activities,” Jeremie Papin, Renault-
Nissan Alliance finance director and lead negotiator on the
deal, said in a phone interview. “We have agreed on an asset
sales program for activities that are not directly related to
automaking, such as auto-supplying activities or social-related
activities.”  Definitive Agreements  The sales could yield about 7 billion rubles ($237
million), reducing Russian Technologies’ loans to 46 billion
rubles. This debt will be extended “well beyond its current
maturity date,” the companies said in the statement. “This
means that the $1.5 billion debt held by RT will be paid back in
more than 20 years,” Papin said. “Payments of this debt were
previously scheduled over a period from 2012 to 2019.”  The parties “expect to sign definitive agreements and
close the transaction by the end of 2012, subject to customary
regulatory approval,” the companies said in the statement.  AvtoVAZ Chief Executive Officer Igor Komarov said last
month he plans to borrow as much as 60 billion rubles by 2015 to
finance the carmaker’s biggest overhaul “in decades” to revamp
its vehicle lineup and compete against international brands.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  visited the plant in April for the
unveiling of the Lada Largus, its first model based on a Renault
platform.  Doubling Output  AvtoVAZ’s main Togliatti plant, which was built with the
assistance of  Fiat SpA (F)  in the late 1960s, will more than double
output from last year to 1.2 million cars by 2017 thanks to the
partnership with Renault-Nissan, Komarov said in an interview in
April. Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, paid $1 billion in 2008 for its initial 25 percent
holding in AvtoVAZ.  Total investments to 2015 will reach 75 billion rubles,
most of which will be financed with loans from state-controlled
OAO Sberbank, VTB Group and development bank VEB, Komarov said.
The carmaker has started talks with VEB on credit lines for
specific projects, he said. The company may also sell bonds to
help raise funds, he said.  Bailout Funds  In 2009, the state agreed to give AvtoVAZ a 75 billion-
ruble bailout loan to avoid social unrest in Togliatti as the
company cut its workforce from 102,000 to 66,000 through
accelerated retirement and spinning off subsidiaries. The city
depends on the factory as its principal employer.  AvtoVAZ will probably generate a profit for this year
following a loss in the first half, after the government phased
out its rebate program, which had encouraged purchases of new
domestically made cars to replace old models, Komarov said.  Lada sales have dropped for the past six months in a row,
according to the Association of European Businesses or AEB. The
Russian cash-for-clunkers program, which started in March 2010,
accounted for almost 40 percent of AvtoVAZ’s total sales in the
period, according to Bloomberg calculations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  