-- Richmont Said to Be Arranging Financing for Avon Bid
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-03T23:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/richmont-said-arranging-financing-for-avon-bid-to-rival-coty.html
Richmont Holdings, a closely held
company that invests in consumer brands, is arranging financing
to make a bid for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , said two people familiar
with the matter.  Richmont has hired financial advisers and is well along
toward assembling a bid, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  Avon, the world’s largest direct cosmetics seller, rejected
a $10 billion bid from Coty Inc. last month, saying the offer
was too low and the company was undertaking a turnaround. Avon
held its shareholder meeting in New York today, and new Chief
Executive Officer Sheri McCoy told attendees that stabilizing
the business is her top priority.  The appointment of Avon’s new CEO hasn’t dissuaded
Richmont, which would continue Avon’s global direct-selling
model, said one of the people.  Richmont founder and Chairman John Rochon served as CEO of
Mary Kay Inc., a door-to-door cosmetics seller that awarded its
signature pink Cadillacs to top representatives. Richmont
attempted to take over Avon in the late 1980s and early 1990s,
during Rochon’s tenure at Mary Kay, acquiring 22 percent of its
stock at the time.  Richmont’s plans now may depend in part on Coty’s next
move, said one person.  Avon didn’t respond to Coty’s April 30 deadline to consider
further talks, a Coty adviser said yesterday.  Family-owned Richmont was founded 25 years ago, according
to its website.  Fortune magazine reported that Richmont was preparing a bid
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  