-- Rolls-Royce Joins Jupiter in U.K. Green Jobs Trade Plan in U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rolls-royce-joins-jupiter-in-u-k-green-jobs-trade-plan-in-u-s-.html
Britain’s Energy Minister  Greg Barker 
is leading a delegation of companies ranging from Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc to Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. to the U.S. to
identify business opportunities relating to low-carbon energy.  The minister will visit Georgia and Texas from May 6 to May
10 with executives from KiWi Power Ltd., Parhelion Underwriting
Ltd. and of PB Energy Solutions Ltd., according to a statement
from the Department of Energy and Climate Change in  London .  Britain is trying to build up its carbon-cutting industry
from offshore wind power and smart grids to clean technology
finance after Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged his
government will be the “greenest” ever. The Department of
Energy and Climate Change estimates the green economy is worth
more than 3 trillion pounds ($4.9 trillion) worldwide.  “What is good for the planet can be fantastic for business
too,” Barker said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
visit is “about demonstrating that the shift to a green economy
is beneficial for businesses and growth, as well as promoting
bilateral trade opportunities.”  Accompanying Barker are  Andrew Baker , who heads government
and environmental affairs at  Rolls-Royce (RR/) , the second-largest
aircraft-engine maker; Emma Howard Boyd, sustainable investment
director at Jupiter; KiWi Power Chief Executive Officer Yoav Zingher; Parhelion CEO Julian Richardson; and PB Energy Managing
Director Phyllis Boardman.  ‘Cutting Edge’  “Reducing carbon and reducing costs are both issues that
all countries face and we have the chance to be at the cutting
edge of that development,” Zingher said in a comment e-mailed
by the ministry. “Trade with the United States is a huge part
of this.”  KiWi Power is an electricity demand-management company.  Barker’s delegation will meet with business leaders in the
three cities, as well as San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro and
Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, according to his office.  “I am taking U.K. business leaders to learn more about
what real America is like outside  Washington ,  New York  and
California, to learn about their energy landscape and the
opportunities for investment,” Barker said. “I want to see the
U.K. and the City of London, with its unique expertise in
innovative financial products, become a global hub in green
growth finance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  