-- Romania’s Ponta Pledges to Undo Wage Cuts, Keep Prudent Policy
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-05-03T21:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/romania-s-ponta-pledges-to-undo-wage-cuts-keep-prudent-policy.html
Romania ’s designated prime minister,
Victor Ponta, said he plans to reverse public-sector wage cuts
while pursuing a prudent fiscal policy and continuing an accord
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Ponta’s cabinet plans to restore public-employee wages this
year after a 25 percent cut in 2010 and go ahead with share
sales in state-owned assets after auditing the previous
government’s asset-sale plan, according to a governing program
filed to Parliament yesterday. The new government plans to seek
a confidence vote in Parliament on May 7.  President Traian Basescu asked Ponta to form a new
government after the three-month-old cabinet of Mihai-Razvan
Ungureanu was ousted on April 27 in a no-confidence motion.
Ponta will be backed by his  Social Democrats  and the Liberals,
the parties that initiated the vote against the previous
administration. Ungureanu’s ouster took place as the IMF and the
EU were reviewing the country’s progress under a 5 billion-euro
($6.6 billion) precautionary-loan accord.  “The governing program aims to boost economic growth in
the country and repair the social inequities done by the
previous governments,” Mircea Dusa, a Social Democratic
lawmaker, told reporters in Bucharest yesterday.  The designated premier, a 39-year-old former prosecutor,
also plans to “rethink the tax system on exploring the
country’s resources,” and put the energy regulator, known as
ANRE, under the control of Parliament, according to his
governing program.  The cabinet also plans an immediate moratorium on the
exploration of shale gas until European studies show the impact
of hydraulic fracturing on the environment.  It will also seek a “transparent’ review of a gold-mine
project at Rosia  Montana , majority-owned by  Canada ’s  Gabriel
Resources Ltd. (GBU) , so that the permitting decisions take into
account the national interest, environmental protection and
European legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  