-- Romney Storytelling Short on Voter-Connecting Details
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/romney-storytelling-short-on-voter-connecting-details.html
At a Wisconsin campaign stop last
month,  Mitt Romney  tried to empathize with economically stressed
voters by telling the story of a landscaper’s concerns about
rising gasoline prices.  “I met a guy who worked for the city and he was working, I
think, in the landscape division for the city,” the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee said at an April 2 town-hall
meeting at an  oil company  in Milwaukee.  Romney never did get around to giving the name of the man
or mention what city he had worked for, or identify the company
he said the man founded after leaving his municipal job or say
how much gasoline his trucks were burning.  “In today’s politics, it’s all about the narrative,” said
 Tobe Berkovitz , a communications professor and longtime Romney
watcher at  Boston University . “This has never been part of
Romney’s wheelhouse. It’s just not his style.”  Story-telling is an age-old technique in politics. The two
modern presidential candidates best-known for mastering the art
tailored it to their political times and defeated incumbents.
 Ronald Reagan , a onetime movie actor, invoked a sense of
patriotism and heroism amid economic distress and the Iranian
hostage crisis, while  Bill Clinton  used personal narrative from
his modest Arkansas upbringing to show empathy for Americans
recovering from the recession of the early 1990s.  As he competes before November’s election against President
 Barack Obama  -- a best-selling author who often uses stories in
his stump speeches -- Romney will need to combine both styles to
try to inspire a nation stuck in a tepid economic recovery and
speak to the anxieties of individual workers.  Rushed Anecdotes  The former private-equity executive has yet to demonstrate
a command of the technique, as his story characters are often
nameless and rendered in rushed anecdotes.  The Romney campaign recognizes its candidate’s limitations.
The former Massachusetts governor, an English major at  Brigham
Young University , often wrote his own speeches during his 2008
White House bid. Stuart Stevens, one of his top aides and an
occasional television writer, persuaded him to let others handle
that task in this campaign.  Romney’s struggles with storytelling were on display at the
Milwaukee event. After generating laughs by recalling how his
staff had played an April Fool’s Day joke on him -- they tricked
him into thinking he was going to speak before an almost empty
room in front of television cameras -- he rushed through five
people he’d met on the campaign trail, naming just one of them.  Five Stories  “I’ve been able to go and meet people who are living
American lives in the ways that you and I do and find
extraordinary people,” he started out.  He first talked about a couple from Appleton,  Wisconsin , he
had met who were concerned that their retirement would be
delayed because the residential rental properties they’d
purchased had lost about a third of their value.  “So there’s more anxiety than they thought they’d be
experiencing in their 60s,” he said.  Romney then talked about another nameless man he’d met
while campaigning.  “I met a guy in  St. Louis ,” he said. “He was working at
an  advertising agency , left, and with his son started a business
making amplifiers for electric guitars. They had a couple of
employees, but the Obama economy has been tough, so they laid
off the two employees and now they are just doing it on their
own. But they’re confident that the future will be bright.”  That was the end of that story.  Importance of Details  While Romney’s tendency to not name most of the characters
provides them some privacy, it robs his stories of credibility,
said Tim Walch, the former executive director of the Herbert
Hoover Presidential Library and Museum in West Branch,  Iowa .  “It becomes rhetoric because there’s a skepticism about
whether it really happened,” Walch said. “When you name the
individual, you have a second story because the media will
follow-up and report about that person.”  So far, Romney’s off-the-cuff attempts at being more
personal have often served to only remind people of one of his
liabilities: that he’s one of the wealthiest Americans ever to
run for president.  “Most people cannot tell you a single quotable phrase from
a Romney speech,” Walch said. The lines that often do get
repeated are that his wife owns a “couple of Cadillacs,” he
has friends who are NASCAR owners, and that he’s “not concerned
about the very poor” because they have government  programs 
helping them.  Lowering Expectations  Romney, 65, has sought to lower expectations for his
performances and raise those for the president. He presents
Obama, 50, as a gifted orator who hasn’t delivered on his
promises.  “The president has always been good at saying things that
sound wonderful, but you know, we now have not just his words,
but his record,” he said in an April 19 Fox News interview.  Obama, in his first White House bid, collected anecdotes
and personal stories that he spun into his own narrative as he
tried to fight off charges of being an elitist academic.  As they did for Reagan and Clinton, Obama’s campaign trail
stories brought his speeches to life and often moved his
audiences.  There was Ashley Baia, a woman working for his campaign who
as a child convinced her ill mother that she liked to eat
mustard and relish sandwiches more than anything else because
she knew that would help save the family money.  Obama often took five minutes or more to tell the story of
Edith Childs, a South Carolina woman he met one rainy morning on
the campaign trail who inspired one of his campaign’s favorite
slogans and chants, “Fired up, ready to go.” Reporters would
sometimes roll their eyes as he told the story again and again.
His audiences loved it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in  Milwaukee , Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  