-- Romney Draws Sports Team Owners as Players Pick Obama
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-03T18:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/romney-draws-sports-team-owners-as-players-pick-obama.html
It’s New York versus  Boston , players
against owners and older athletes facing younger ones, all
taking sides in the presidential contest between Mitt Romney and
Barack Obama.  Yankees executives are backing Romney, and so are those of
the New York Jets. Owners of the Boston Red Sox and  New England
Patriots  in Massachusetts are shunning their former governor and
favoring the president.  “We’re just going to have to wait until October, November
and February to see who the champions are,” said Tobe Berkovitz, a communications professor at Boston University,
pointing to the  World Series , Election Day and  Super Bowl .  Meanwhile, more of the players and coaches are lining up
behind Obama, while front-office executives lean toward Romney.  New York  Knicks owner James Dolan is supporting Romney, the
presumptive Republican nominee for president, while guard Baron Davis is in Obama’s camp. Dean Spanos, chairman of the  San Diego
Chargers , also is backing Romney. Not so Chargers linebacker
Takeo Spikes, who wrote a check to Obama.  “The players tend to be younger,” said David Carter,
executive director of the sports business institute at the
University of Southern California’s Marshall School of Business
and head of the Sports Business Group consulting firm in Los
Angeles. “It’s not an athlete versus an owner thing. It’s
generational.”  Athletes Like Starlets  Donations from professional athletes are similar to those
from Hollywood stars, adding a bit of celebrity sparkle to a
candidate. Still, the giving isn’t just fun and games.  “It’s about self-interest,” Carter said. “You want to
have access at the highest levels. You just don’t own an NFL
team. You have other business interests.”  For instance, the Knicks’ Dolan, who’s given Romney $2,500,
is also president and chief executive officer of Bethpage, New
York-based  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , which spent $105,000
during the first three months of the year lobbying on such
issues as copyright laws and rules governing companies that
provide Internet service.  The sports leagues themselves have interests before the
federal government. The  National Football League  spent $300,000
during the first three months of 2012 to lobby on online
gambling, labor issues, broadcasting, drug testing and
concussion legislation. Major League Baseball spent $70,000 to
lobby on stadium security issues and Internet piracy.  Donor Motivations  The donors also could be motivated, as many less-
coordinated givers are, by how their personal income would be
affected by the  tax policies  promoted by the candidates or their
partisan preference.  Romney’s roster of management support includes the owner of
the San Diego Chargers, Alex Spanos, and son Paul, the chairman,
who each gave $2,500 to Romney. The two men raised from $350,000
to $750,000 for 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain. Romney does not disclose his bundlers, supporters who
raise large sums of money from other donors.  New York Jets  owner  Woody Johnson  contributed $2,500 to
Romney and is raising money for his campaign. Johnson raised at
least $500,000 for McCain.  Three Jets executives, including general manager Mike Tannenbaum, also gave the maximum $2,500 to Romney’s primary
campaign, according to Federal Election Commission data and the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions.  Yankees Donations  Randy Levine, president of the Yankees, is a $2,500 donor
to Romney. Joan Steinbrenner, widow of the late Yankees owner
George Steinbrenner, gave $500. Levine also contributed $5,000
to Romney’s leadership political action committee.  “That’s why I’m a Yankee fan,” said Romney fundraiser
Dirk Van Dongen, president of the National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors in Washington.  While the Miami Heat and New York Knicks compete in the
first round of the National Basketball Association playoffs,
Heat president Pat Riley is aligned with Knicks’ owner Dolan
after giving his own $2,500 check to Romney.  So are other executives of other teams. Boston Celtics
President Rick Gotham gave $1,000 to Romney and Danny Ainge,
president of basketball operations, contributed $2,500.  The  Dallas Cowboys  and  Washington Redskins , arch-rivals on
the football field, are both in Romney’s camp. Dallas owner
Jerry Jones and Washington owner Dan Snyder each gave $2,500.  Other football owners in Romney’s camp include  Arizona 
Cardinals chairman Bill Bidwill and his son, club president
Michael Bidwill, both of whom gave $2,500.  Making New Friends  Donations to presidential candidates offer sports owners
and executives opportunities to expand their circle of friends.  “The owners of these franchises are close to their
senators, close to their governors,” Carter said. “They’re
captains of their industries. They would like to extend those
ties to include Washington.”  Obama does have some fans in management.  Robert Kraft, the owner of the Patriots who donated to
Obama, McCain and Romney in 2008, and Larry Lucchino, the
president of the Red Sox, both donated $5,000 to Obama’s re-
election.  “Anybody who knows anything about the  Boston Red Sox  knows
they are more of a people’s team than the elitist Yankees, who
are much more representative of the power elite of this
country,” said Alan Chartock, professor emeritus of political
communication at the State University of New York in Albany.  Cubs, Steelers  Jim Pohlad, chief executive officer of the Minnesota Twins,
and brother Robert, a member of the board, each gave Obama
$5,000. Laura Ricketts, part of a family group that owns the
 Chicago Cubs , donated $5,000 and raised more than $500,000 for
the president’s re-election campaign.  Dan Rooney, chairman emeritus of the Pittsburgh Steelers,
contributed $5,000 to Obama, who named him U.S. ambassador to
Ireland on St. Patrick’s Day in 2009. The Steelers’ coach,  Mike Tomlin , also donated $5,000 to Obama.  In the nation’s capital, Ted Leonsis, owner of the
Washington Wizards and Washington Capitals, gave $5,000 to
Obama.  It’s not surprising that Obama claims his share of sports
team owners, said Kenneth Shropshire, a professor of legal
studies at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  “You certainly saw prominent Wall Street people supporting
Obama in a way that didn’t necessarily traditionally happen on
the Democratic side,” Shropshire said.  Players Backing President  While Romney has an edge with owners, Obama, who regularly
plays pick-up basketball games with aides at Fort McNair in
Washington, is winning the bench.  In addition to the Knicks’ Davis, who chipped in $5,000,
the president has received equal support from former coach  Mike D’Antoni , who resigned his post in March, and Knicks vice
president Allan Houston, a former guard for the team.  Former Celtics coach Doc Rivers is also a $5,000 donor, as
is Super Bowl champion New York Giants’ defensive back Antrel Rolle.  Other professional athletes also have weighed in. Former
Chicago Cubs outfielder Sammy Sosa, whom former President George W. Bush agreed to trade away when he was managing partner of the
 Texas Rangers , gave $5,000 to Obama.  Romney did receive $2,500 from Jeremy Guthrie, a pitcher
for the Colorado Rockies, and $400 from NFL quarterback John
Beck.  ESPN Splits  The divide between employee and executive is also evident
at  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN Inc., a network the White House has
tapped to highlight the president’s interest in sports,
including posting his National Collegiate Athletic Association
“March Madness” brackets.  Obama supporters include broadcasters Desmond Howard, a
former pro football player who donated $5,000, and John Saunders, a $1,210 contributor. Romney backers include  George Bodenheimer , ESPN’s executive chairman, who gave $2,500, and Dan
Robertson, a vice president and $2,500 donor.  Romney, who said in February that “some great friends”
are “NASCAR team owners,” received $10,000 from executives of
the Daytona Beach, Florida-based National Association for Stock
Car Auto Racing, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. Obama got $1,250.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  