-- Romney Says Obama Treatment of Chen Means ’Day of Shame’
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/romney-says-obama-creates-dark-day-for-freedom-in-chen-case.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  accused the Obama administration, in the
interest of diplomacy, of failing to protect blind Chinese
activist  Chen Guangcheng .  Romney said yesterday missteps by U.S. diplomats led the
human rights lawyer to leave the American embassy in Beijing,
putting him in danger of retribution from Chinese authorities.  “If these reports are true, this is a dark day for freedom
and it’s a day of shame for the Obama administration,” Romney
said during a campaign appearance in Portsmouth, Virginia. “We
should stand up and defend freedom wherever it is under
attack.”  Chen fled to the U.S. embassy last week, escaping more than
four years of house arrest by the Chinese government for his
stand against forced sterilizations.  U.S. officials, defending their handling of the situation,
said he embraced a deal with the Chinese government to let him
remain in the country with his family. Chen later appealed for
help from President  Barack Obama , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Congress to leave  China  for the U.S.  Chen’s reversal thrust the administration into the type of
diplomatic crisis officials wanted to avoid during annual U.S.-
China strategic and economic conference meetings attended by
Clinton and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Beijing this
week.  Change of Heart  “It is clear now that now in the last 12 to 15 hours they
as a family have had a change of heart about whether they want
to stay in China,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
told reporters, referring to Chen and his family.  Romney said the administration pressured Chen to make a
decision in order to “move on” to the diplomatic talks,
failing to put in “verifiable measures” to assure his safety.  Republican members of Congress also criticized the
administration’s handling of the case at a hearing in
 Washington . A phone call from Chen asking to come to the U.S.
was translated for the lawmakers yesterday by Bob Fu, a human-
rights advocate who has championed his cause.  Chen, in the call to a congressional panel, said, “I hope I
can get more help” from Secretary Clinton.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Obama is focused on
the broader dynamics of the U.S.-China relationship and will
continue to push China on human rights.  ‘Not Concerned’  “I can assure you that the president is not concerned
about political back-and-forth on this issue,” he told
reporters.  Chen’s case, which initially seemed like a foreign policy
success for the administration, now could hurt the president
politically, said Kerry Brown, a former U.K. diplomat in China
and head of the Asia program at London-based Chatham House.  “It just looks very confusing; it looks like they took one
position and then another,” Brown said in a phone interview.
“It plays into Romney’s hands” as the candidate completed a
two-day campaign swing through  Virginia , a potentially pivotal
state in November election.  Obama, who in 2008 was the first Democratic presidential
candidate to carry Virginia since 1964, officially kicks off his
re-election campaign on May 5 with rallies that include a stop
in Richmond, the state’s capitol. A Washington Post  poll  of the
state’s registered voters released yesterday shows the president
ahead of Romney, 51 percent to 44 percent.  Virginia Coalition  “The coalition of Virginians that propelled him to victory
in 2008 -- young voters, suburban Washingtonians, women and
African Americans -- is largely intact” for Obama, the Post
said of its findings. The poll, conducted April 28-May 2, has an
error margin of plus-or-minus 3.5 percentage points.  Romney has assigned Sara Craig, who helped coordinate his
efforts in  Iowa  where caucuses began the nomination race on Jan.
3, to run his general election campaign in Virginia.  Both campaigns and allies of Romney are already
broadcasting commercials in the state.  “It is a purple state,” said Romney senior adviser
 Ed Gillespie , a former chairman of the Republican National
Committee. “It was clearly very important last go-around, and
it will be an important state again this go-around.”  Changing Virginia  The technology boom of the 1990s, an infusion of government
workers, and an influx of Hispanics and Asians as well as
younger people altered Virginia’s political fabric, making it
more hospitable for Democrats and creating the opening for Obama
to win it four years ago over Republican Senator John McCain of
 Arizona . Since then, Republicans have regrouped and made gains,
including the election of Bob McDonnell as governor in 2009.  “This may well be the state that decides who the next
president is, so you’re going to have to get your neighbors to
listen up and hear what you have to say,” Romney told
supporters gathered outside a marine construction company near
Virginia Beach.  He was introduced by McDonnell, the latest Republican
frequently mentioned as a possible vice presidential pick to
share a stage with him. Others to do so in recent weeks have
included Senators Marco Rubio of Florida,  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  and Rob Portman of Ohio, Representative Paul Ryan of
Wisconsin and New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie .  Romney has selected aide Beth Myers, who served as his
chief of staff throughout his four years as governor of
Massachusetts, to head the vetting process for selecting his
running mate. Romney hasn’t said when he plans to make his
decision and announce his choice.  Bachmann’s Backing  He was endorsed at his Virginia stop yesterday by
Minnesota Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann , a former presidential
opponent who left the race after finishing sixth in the Iowa
caucuses.  “I think for all of America, this is a very simple
proposition this November -- President Barack Obama, President
Mitt Romney. You decide. Very easy,” she said.  Romney meets today in Pittsburgh with former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania, who emerged as his chief rival in the
primary campaign. Santorum ended his presidential bid April 10
and the two camps have been in discussions about an endorsement
from him.  Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas is Romney’s sole active
opponent in the Republican race. He is campaigning this week in
 California , which holds its primary June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  