-- Summers Says U.S. Tax Overhaul Should Raise More Money
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-03T15:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rubin-says-tax-overhaul-presents-difficult-substance-politics.html
An overhaul of the U.S.  tax code 
should raise more money, and arguments that tax cuts and
spending reductions can restore the U.S. to fiscal health are
laughable, said  Lawrence Summers , the former U.S. Treasury
Secretary.  Without additional  tax revenue , the U.S. would need “close
to inconceivable” cuts in entitlement programs and other
spending, said Summers, who also was an adviser to President
Barack Obama and now teaches at  Harvard University .  “It is a near certainty that we are going to need a
significant increase in revenues, and it seems to me that any
discussion of tax policy needs to start there,” he said today
at a conference in Washington sponsored by the Brookings
Institution’s Hamilton Project.  At the end of 2012, the  income tax  cuts first enacted in
2001 and 2003 will expire. If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates
will rise for wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates.  Lawmakers from both parties and business groups have called
for an overhaul of the tax code. They have been stymied, in
part, by disagreements over whether a changed tax code should
raise additional revenue to help narrow the  federal budget 
 deficit .  Republicans say the U.S. shouldn’t raise taxes and should
reduce the deficit through economic growth and spending cuts
alone.  Martin Feldstein , also a Harvard economics professor, said
higher revenue should be part of a tax code overhaul that also
would make the system simpler and curtail tax breaks.  ‘Side Effects’  “Raising revenue can be done in ways which have good side
effects or bad side effects,” said Feldstein, who was a White
House economist in President Ronald Reagan’s administration.  Feldstein said he thought that even Republicans who have
signed pledges not to increase taxes would be able to support a
comprehensive package that included higher revenue.  In introducing the sessions, former  Treasury Secretary 
 Robert Rubin  said that overhauling the U.S. tax code may promote
economic growth and reduce inequality.  Achieving those goals will require reconciling competing
visions over how best to restructure taxation, Rubin said.  “Any substantial  tax reform  will have major winners and
major losers, and that creates a very difficult substance with
respect to tax reform and very difficult politics,” he said.  Income Inequality  Feldstein and Summers disagreed as to how much the tax
system should do to reduce income inequality.  “Our problem in the income distribution area is poverty,
and you should be concerned about combating poverty, not
inequality,” Feldstein said.  On international taxation, Feldstein endorsed a view
favored by Republicans and many multinational companies that the
U.S. should switch to a territorial tax system that doesn’t
impose a significant U.S. tax on income earned outside the
country.  Summers said the current approach -- in which U.S.-based
corporations can defer taxation of offshore profits and Congress
discusses a territorial system -- is a “bad middle” ground.  Companies have stockpiled more than $1 trillion in profits
overseas that haven’t been taxed by the U.S.  “We’re running a library,” Summers said. “The single
dumbest thing you can do is have everybody think that there’s
going to be an amnesty on overdue books but then never have the
amnesty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  