-- Rutgers Football Fails Profit Test as Students Pay $1,000
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-05-03T14:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/rutgers-football-fails-profit-test-as-students-pay-1-000.html
Like most of  Rutgers University ’s
almost 30,000 undergraduates,  Matt Cordeiro  has never put on
shoulder pads and played football on a Saturday before a sea of
scarlet-clad fans.  Yet Rutgers athletic teams cost him almost $1,000 this
year, the most among schools competing in the top category of
college football. The total includes mandatory student fees and
university funding of the money-losing sports program, both of
which rose more than 40 percent in five years. That’s enough to
buy meals for more than a month, or books for a semester, or
student health insurance for almost a year.  “They are in a tight spot, but I feel like they could be
doing more,” said Cordeiro, a 22-year-old senior from North
Arlington,  New Jersey , who was this year’s president of the
 Rutgers Student Assembly . While he isn’t angry about the cost of
athletics, he says, he wonders whether money from students and
the university really fund nonrevenue sports as intended.  Rutgers funneled $28.5 million from the university budget
and student fees into sports, the most among 54 U.S. public
universities in the biggest football conferences, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg for the fiscal year ended last June. It
was at least the second straight year at the top of the list for
the  state university  of New Jersey, despite cost-cutting after
lawmakers and faculty protested that academics were losing out.  (To see Bloomberg’s data on sports spending at Rutgers and
53 other schools, click  here .)  “Rutgers puts too much money into athletics at the cost of
basically every other department,” said  Stephen Sweeney , the
Democratic president of the New Jersey Senate, in an e-mail. He
applauded efforts by Athletic Director Tim Pernetti to increase
revenue. At the same time, he said, “the faculty, student body
and the families of students who are supporting them through
school simply pay too much.”  Faculty Council’s Demands  Pernetti reduced spending by $4 million, or 6.3 percent, in
fiscal 2011. Bloomberg filed open-records requests and obtained
financial reports on athletics from taxpayer-supported
universities in the six largest football conferences.  The Rutgers belt-tightening wasn’t enough to make up for a
drop in revenue from a  losing football season . The school’s
faculty council voted March 30 to demand $5 million of cuts in
university funding of athletics by fiscal 2016 and a referendum
on sports fees required of students. The group called college
athletics a financial “arms race.”  The vote was “unusual and commendable” in demanding
transparency, reduced funding and a student referendum, said
John Nichols, co-chairman of the  Coalition on Intercollegiate
Athletics , who is a retired journalism professor at  Pennsylvania
State University . The organization, representing faculty senates
of 59 universities including Rutgers, advocates financing,
safety and governance changes in college football.  Academics Versus Athletics  College athletic directors like Pernetti are at the center
of a struggle between sports and academics at state-sponsored
universities. Strapped legislatures have slashed taxpayer
funding, fueling record tuition increases. U.S. student-loan
debt reached $1 trillion this year.  At 48 of the colleges with the biggest football programs,
sports cost more than they made in fiscal 2011, according to
financial reports filed with the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association . Rutgers, whose main campus is in New Brunswick, was
one of 33 money-losers that increased university financial
support from the previous year.  Rutgers President Richard McCormick articulates the
rationale for taxpayer-supported schools funding sports. Of the
34 public research universities in the prestigious Association
of American Universities, Rutgers is one of 28 with football
programs in the NCAA’s top division, he said.  Rationale for Sports  “Rutgers’ investment in athletics, which continues to be
less than 1 percent of the overall university budget, returns
dividends through increased revenue, positive branding, exposure
and visibility for our university and the State of New Jersey,”
said McCormick, who is stepping down in June to resume teaching.
“A revenue-generating athletics program with a commitment to
stabilize and reduce university support clearly benefits the
entire university.”  Robert Barchi, named to succeed McCormick, won’t assume the
presidency until Sept. 1 and “is not available to speak at this
time” on Rutgers matters, said E.J. Miranda, a university
spokesman. Barchi, a neurologist, has been president of Thomas
Jefferson University in Philadelphia since 2004.  After three years as athletic director, the 41-year-old
Pernetti hasn’t succeeded in generating enough income to reduce
funding from the university. Almost all American college sports
programs rely on money from football tickets, licensing and
television to help pay for their nonrevenue-producing teams.  Football Money Machine  Few sports departments fully succeed, based on the data
compiled by Bloomberg. The financial reports were for public
universities in the six main conferences that compete in
football’s  Bowl Championship Series : Atlantic Coast, Big East
(including Rutgers), Big 12, Big 10, Pac-12 and Southeastern.  Among the 54 public institutions in those conferences, six
reported no financial support for athletics from the university
or student fees. They were led by powerhouses in football, the
highest-revenue college sport. In fiscal 2011, the  University of
Texas  at Austin had the richest athletic budget, at $150.3
million, and  Ohio State University  in Columbus was second, with
$131.8 million.  By contrast, Pernetti’s operating budget at Rutgers was
$60.2 million, below the average of $76.9 million for the 54
schools. Football accounted for 32 percent of the total, and the
$28.5 million in financial support from the university and
student athletic fees made up 47 percent.  Fiscal 2011 included the first losing football season in
six years. Ticket sales for all sports, led by football, plunged
by $3.1 million; contributions fell $1.5 million; and income
from royalties and licensing declined $477,558. The lost revenue
more than offset the spending reductions Pernetti was making.  Revenue Shortfall  Pernetti squeezed athletic administration salaries 12
percent by negotiating lower pay for new employees and shifting
responsibilities of people who left or retired to remaining
workers. He reduced travel costs 21 percent. And he lowered
fundraising, marketing and promotion expenses 24 percent by
using more e-mail.  Pernetti still needed $9 million from student athletics
fees and $19.4 million from the Rutgers general budget,
according to the school’s report. The total worked out to $969 a
student, more than three times the average among the 54
universities.  Students paid $319 in athletic fees in the 2010-2011 school
year. That was part of the $27,677 that attending Rutgers cost
New Jersey residents last year, including tuition, fees, books,
supplies, room, board and other items, according to the school.
The expense of attending has jumped as state appropriations fell
from covering two-thirds of the Rutgers budget in 1990 to one-
third this year.  Student Fees Rise  The $19.4 million that Rutgers allocated to athletics from
its general budget would have been enough to hire about 256
assistant professors or 132 full professors, based on salary
figures provided by Rutgers.  In the current fiscal year, ending June 30, the  faculty
persuaded the university’s board  to reduce general-fund support
by $1 million, or 5.1 percent. Sports fees paid by students
nonetheless rose 3 percent to $9.3 million.  In return for their athletic fee of $328.50 this year,
Rutgers students can sign up for free tickets to football and
other games, which are distributed on a first-come basis.  Pernetti argues that student fees shouldn’t be counted as
part of the university’s support for athletics because they
offset the cost of some students attending athletic events.  No Student Vote  The university’s Board of Governors sets student sports
fees. Kristen Clarke was the nonvoting  student representative  to
the board last year and served on the student fees advisory
committee, which can make nonbinding recommendations.  “We think it’s odd that students don’t get a vote,”
Clarke said. The fee also supports nonrevenue Olympic sports
such as track and swimming, she said.  “Ninety-nine percent of students don’t know” that they
pay some of the highest college athletic fees, Clarke said.  Cordeiro, the president of the student assembly, who is
majoring in planning and public policy, says students think
athletic fees are too high, without transparency on where the
money is spent.  “We love our student-athletes, but we also notice how
other athletes don’t get treated as well as the football
players,” Cordeiro said.  Academic Focus Blurred  He and 35 other students were arrested and charged with
blocking the entrance to the student lender  Sallie Mae  in
 Washington  during a March 26 protest by an association of
college leaders against rising student debt, according to the
Rutgers campus newspaper, the Daily Targum. Washington police
declined to confirm the arrest. Bloomberg filed a request under
the Freedom of Information Act, to which police haven’t
responded. Cordeiro didn’t reply to phone calls and e-mails.  The academic focus of Rutgers is being blurred, said
Spencer Klein, 20, a third-year philosophy major from
Livingston, New Jersey. He is a member of the  University Senate ,
a voting body including students, faculty and staff from  New
Brunswick  as well as from Rutgers campuses in Newark and Camden.  “A winning football season is great,” Klein said. “But
we developed one of the first vaccines for tuberculosis here.
We’re going to walk farther with a cure for autism, a cure for
cancer, not only in terms of its benefits for the world at
large, but improving the Rutgers name.”  The university, chartered in 1766 as Queen’s College, has a
rich academic and athletic history. It calls itself “the
birthplace of college football” after winning the sport’s first
game in 1869 against the school now known as  Princeton
University . Graduates include the economist  Milton Friedman  and
the actor  Paul Robeson .  Not Enough Faculty  In the U.S. News and World Report  ranking of U.S. colleges ,
Rutgers was No. 68 this year, down from 57 in 2003. According to
the Shanghai Jiao Tong University  worldwide academic rankings ,
Rutgers was 59th in 2011, compared with 38th in 2003.  Spending on sports is wasteful because it detracts from the
academic mission, says  Mark Killingsworth , a professor of
economics at Rutgers since 1978. He backed the faculty
resolution to slash athletic funding.  “We don’t have enough money to hire faculty to teach,”
said Killingsworth, a Rhodes Scholar. “Mr. and Mrs. New Jersey
think their kids are getting taught by real professors. At least
in economics, two-thirds of the time, they’re not,” as graduate
students, lecturers and part-time professors lead classes.  Lost-Coach Windfall  Pernetti has an incentive for shrinking student and
university funding: a potential $10,000 bonus on his $410,000
annual salary. He has never earned it. The athletic director can
collect as much as $20,000 in bonuses related to winning
football and basketball seasons. His department got a financial
boost this year when the football team went 9-4, including a
victory in the New Era Pinstripe Bowl at Yankee Stadium, and
revenue rebounded.  “The hardest part in football was trying to establish a
winning culture,” Pernetti said in an interview. “That culture
has been established with six bowl games in the past seven
years.”  The departure of football Coach Greg Schiano to the
 National Football League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers will help
balance the budget. Pernetti inherited a contract paying Schiano
more than $2 million a year before bonuses. To fill the vacancy,
the athletic director promoted Kyle Flood from assistant to head
football coach, paying him $765,000 annually plus bonuses.  Hot Dogs, Pizza  Pernetti may save $500,000 to $650,000 a year by
negotiating a comprehensive apparel and equipment deal for all
24 of the school’s teams.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  had contracts that expired
this year which paid fees to the football and the men’s and
women’s basketball coaches for the right to outfit their teams.
It was a longstanding practice around the country. As coaches’
contracts expire and new coaches are hired, schools like Rutgers
are claiming the funds for the athletic department.  Rutgers can make more money selling hot dogs, pizza and
soft drinks to football and men’s and women’s basketball fans,
Pernetti says. He put the food concessions at the football and
basketball venues up for bid and expects an increase of at least
$100,000 in revenue from $1.4 million for concessions and
parking this year, he said.  New TV Contract  Those changes match practices that financially successful
athletic departments instituted years ago. It has taken time for
Pernetti to get out of coaches’ contracts and other business
arrangements he inherited, while moving to increase revenue from
advertising and sponsorships.  The biggest potential increase in revenue may come late
this year when the Big East Conference negotiates a new
television deal. Under the expiring accord, Rutgers collected
about $6.5 million from the conference’s television and bowl
distribution funds this fiscal year. A new agreement will at
least double the school’s income, Pernetti says.  While Pernetti declines to make budget projections, the
savings from lower football coaching salaries and reduced costs
for uniforms and gear, and increased income on concessions and
more conference television revenue may total more than $8
million. Some of that could be used to drive down university
funding and student athletic fees.  Next: Basketball Revenue  Pernetti says his plans don’t stop there. In a  fundraising
program announced in September 2010 , athletics collected $66.6
million by the end of February, the athletic director says. The
department raised its goal to $100 million in private donations
unrelated to funds from students and the university.  Pernetti is making plans to spend $30 million to $50
million to increase revenue from games at the basketball arena.
He has long maintained that Rutgers athletics doesn’t spend too
much money; it doesn’t generate enough revenue. Some of the
renovations to the basketball structure would add high-priced
club seats, dining areas and retail shops.  “We took some significant steps to move the expense side
in the right direction, and we’re still spending 90 percent of
our time to infuse the budget with new revenue,” Pernetti said.
“The goal from Day One was to reduce the university support to
athletics at every opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 cechelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  