-- Samaras Bids to Save Greece After Thwarting Rescue Plans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-05-04T11:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/samaras-bids-to-save-greece-after-years-thwarting-rescue-plans.html
Antonis Samaras has morphed into
Europe’s main hope for a stable government in  Greece  after
having been the biggest irritant.  Head of the  New Democracy  party topping polls before the
May 6 election, Samaras rejected Greece’s first bailout as the
nation teetered on the verge of default two years ago. He then
resisted spending cuts designed to keep aid flowing and prevent
economic collapse. His brinkmanship led European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  to tell Samaras last November to stop
playing “political games.”  Since then, the 60-year-old Samaras has met European
demands to support budget discipline beyond the life of Greece’s
current caretaker administration. In addition, his calls for
policies to spur economic growth are being echoed across Europe
as it re-evaluates a German-led focus on fiscal austerity amid
concerns  Spain  may be forced to follow Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  into seeking emergency aid.  “I think pragmatism will prevail,” Janis Emmanouilidis,
of the European Policy Centre in Brussels, said in an interview.
At the same time, “Samaras may not get the benefit of the
doubt. The perception emerged outside Greece that he was
obstructing certain policies and putting party and individual
interests above national interests.”  Polls show New Democracy may end up as the largest party in
an election that isn’t likely to provide a clear winner, forcing
New Democracy into a deal with the socialist Pasok party.  Record Unemployment  That would put Samaras in charge of an economy that has
shrunk more than 13 percent over the past three years and pushed
unemployment to a record high of almost 22 percent. With Greece
dependent on bailout funds from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  to stay in the euro, the next
government will need to find cuts worth 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 and 2014.  “We accept fully the goal of reducing the deficit,”
Samaras said on April 22 in a speech in Athens. “But to reduce
deficit and debt, to be able to exploit state assets and to
proceed to structural change, there must be growth, as soon as
possible.”  Samaras appealed to Greeks yesterday for enough support to
enable New Democracy to govern without having to enter into an
alliance with Pasok.  Premier for All Greeks  “Whatever you have voted in the past, it doesn’t
matter,” Samaras told thousands of supporters waving Greek
flags at his main Athens rally. “I will be a prime minister for
all of you. I will fight for each one of you, with all my
strength, day and night.”  His new stance contrasts with the intransigent tone struck
over the past two years as he railed against the terms imposed
by international creditors, prompting rebukes from German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker.  A champion tennis player in his youth, Samaras abandoned
New Democracy almost 20 years ago when he founded a party to
capitalize on a dispute with the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia over its name. The issue is sensitive for Greeks
because of concerns it implies a claim on the northern region in
Greece, also called Macedonia.  Midnight Votes  He rejoined New Democracy about a decade later and took
over as leader when it was ousted by Pasok in 2009. Samaras then
spent the next two years trying to thwart Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in a string of knife-edge midnight votes -- as
Papandreou’s own Pasok support crumbled -- and Greece tried to
meet the terms of the international bailout agreed in May 2010.  Now rivals, both Samaras and Papandreou attended  Amherst
College  in the U.S. in 1970 and 1971, before which, they had
been friends at high school in  Athens .  As Greece edged toward economic collapse, Samaras
eventually agreed to support a technocratic government last year
led by  Lucas Papademos . The new administration then negotiated a
second rescue package alongside the biggest debt restructuring
in history.  Now, Samaras may be starting to realize it’s time to ditch
his earlier “populist” policies, Elmar Brok, a German member
of the European Parliament, said in a phone interview.  “I think Samaras understands that this is a real chance
for Greece to come out of the mess,” said Brok. “He is a very
intelligent and committed man.”  Deficit Crisis  Samaras may lead his party back into power less than three
years afterPapandreou announced that New Democracy misstated
the country’s budget deficit while in office, sparking a region-
wide debt crisis still ricocheting through European markets.  While New Democracy took the initial blame, Greece’s
spending gap, which in 2009 exceeded 15 percent of GDP, was the
result of years of spendthrift policies by both parties. The
deficit is due to fall to around 7 percent of GDP this year.  “Outside Greece, the trust toward Greek political elites
isn’t very high,” Emmanouilidis said.  Samaras would have to restore confidence in a country whose
benchmark stock index has lost more than two thirds of its value
since October 2009 and whose 10-year bond yield rose above 35
percent in March. After the restructuring, the yield is now at
19.8 percent.  Also educated at  Harvard University , Samaras wants to
shrink government, lower company tax rates, expand the sale of
state assets and target public spending on infrastructure.
 Europe ’s renewed emphasis on growth to complement fiscal
austerity will make Samaras’s job easier, EU parliamentarian
Brok said.  “It will allow him to show Greeks the light at the end of
the tunnel, which is very important,” said Brok. “Structural
changes and growth are the new priorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  