-- Samsung’s New Galaxy S Phone Raises Heat on Apple Iphone
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-04T06:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/samsung-s-new-galaxy-s-smartphone-raises-heat-on-apple-iphone.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker last quarter, unveiled a new handset
in the Galaxy S series, intensifying a battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
for leadership in the smartphone market.  The Galaxy S III, running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s latest Android
operating system, features increased voice-command options to
compete with the Siri voice software on the latest Apple iPhone.
Other functions include an eye sensor system that prevents the
screen from dimming, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said at an
event in  London  yesterday.  The Galaxy devices helped Samsung overtake  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the
worlds’ top handset seller for the first time in the first
quarter and regain the lead in the $219 billion smartphone
market from Apple, also the electronics maker’s biggest chip and
display customer. Cupertino, California-based Apple’s newest
iPhone was unveiled seven months ago.  “In terms of hardware specifications, the new model meets
expectations,” Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus
Investment Securities Co., said by phone.  Samsung shares, which rose 9 percent in April, fell 2.9
percent to 1,360,000 at the close of trading in  Seoul , compared
with a 0.3 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi index.  “The stock had been moving on all the upbeat news related
to smartphones and their Galaxy phones lately, and now it’s in a
transitional period looking for new momentum,” Kim said.  The Galaxy S III is a successor to the Galaxy S II, whose
global sales reached 20 million in February, about 10 months
after its debut and about seven months faster than its
predecessor.  Premium Price  “Your lead technology is always important and this will be
the flagship device,” Stephen Taylor, who runs corporate
branding for Samsung in Europe, said in an interview. “It’s not
just about hardware moving forward, it’s about the software
products that interact with customers.”  The handset will be priced at a premium to its predecessor,
Taylor said. “The U.K. is pivotal and  Europe  will get the
device first.”  The handset will be available in the U.K. at the end of
May. The S III will be available in markets including the U.S.
and  South Korea  by the end of the summer, as well as on all
three carriers in China, he said.  Samsung sold 93.5 million handsets in the first quarter, 36
percent more than a year earlier,  Strategy Analytics  said April
27. Nokia shipped 82.7 million, down 24 percent, and Apple sold
35.1 million units, an 89 percent increase from last year.  Samsung sold 44.5 million smartphones in the three months
ended in March, according to the researcher’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  