-- San Onofre Nuclear Plant May Be Online by June, Edison Says
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-05-03T01:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/san-onofre-nuclear-plant-may-be-online-by-june-edison-says-1-.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
California’s second-largest electric utility, plans to have its
San Onofre nuclear plant in Southern California online by June
after being shut since January due to a radiation leak.  The plant’s reactors would be operated at reduced power for
three to five months and then be inspected under a plan being
developed by the company, Stephen Pickett, executive vice
president at Edison’s Southern California Edison utility, said
in a telephone interview.  The units, which produce about 2,200 megawatts, have been
shut after inspectors found excessive wear on some steam
generator tubes, networks of pipe that transfer heat from a
nuclear reactor so it can be used to spin power-generating
turbines.  Edison has “honed in” on the cause of the tube wear at
both units, which is related to the amount of steam flowing
through them and makes some longer pipes vibrate and rub
together, Pickett said.  “The higher the power, the greater the flow and the more
likely the tubes are to vibrate,” Pickett said. About 1 percent
of the 39,000 tubes had unusual wear, which is within the margin
of design error for the generators, Edison Chief Executive
Officer Ted Craver said on a conference call.  As a result, Edison plans to plug the defective pieces and
run the reactors at reduced output for a limited period of time,
Pickett said. Edison is considering operating San Onofre at 50
percent to 80 percent capacity over the summer, he said.  Restart Plan  Edison expects to submit its restart plan by mid-May to the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which must sign off on it,
Pickett said.  Edison has told  California ’s grid operator that it may have
its Unit 2 reactor online by June 1 and its Unit 3 reactor back
by June 12, the company’s utility president Ron Litzinger said
today during a conference call with investors. Those dates could
be delayed by a few weeks depending on final plans and
regulatory approval, Pickett said.  Stephanie McCorkle, a spokeswoman for the state grid
operator California ISO, didn’t return multiple telephone calls
requesting comment on the planned restart.  Repair costs will be between $55 million and $65 million
pretax, Edison’s Chief Financial Officer Jim Scilacci said today
on a conference call with investors. The company will try to
recover those costs under its warranty with  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011) , which built the generators, Scilacci said.  Cost Recovery  The utility will also seek state regulatory approval to
recover costs to buy replacement power, Scilacci said. The
company spent $20 million on repairs and $30 million on
replacement power in the first quarter, he said. There will be
no impact on 2012 earnings, he said.  Regulators may also review the $592 million the utility has
spent to install the generators two years ago, Pickett said.  The radiation leak posed no threat to the public, the NRC
and Edison have said.  San Onofre, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of
 Los Angeles , can produce enough power for 1.76 million average
homes, based on Energy Department statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  