-- Santa Barbara Pot Shops Targeted With Forfeiture Suits
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-03T21:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/santa-barbara-pot-shops-targeted-with-forfeiture-suits.html
Three buildings housing purported
medical marijuana stores or farms in  Santa Barbara  County,
California, were targeted with forfeiture lawsuits by U.S.
authorities for allegedly violating federal law.  Lawsuits were filed yesterday in federal court in Los
Angeles against two buildings, one in Santa Barbara and one in
Summerland, California, used for medical marijuana stores, and a
commercial building in Santa Barbara used to grow marijuana
indoors. The lawsuits require the owners to explain in court why
their properties shouldn’t be forfeited.  “We’ve developed a multiprong approach for dealing with
the widespread problem of commercial marijuana operations,”
 Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office in Los
Angeles, said in a telephone interview.  The federal government has brought a small number of
criminal cases, sent letters in select areas warning operators
and landlords, and filed 10 lawsuits against the most
“egregious” examples of landlords allowing marijuana
dispensaries to operate, Mrozek said.  The forfeiture lawsuits allege that the Santa Barbara
operations violate federal law, which doesn’t allow cultivation,
possession or trafficking of marijuana. The stores also violate
California law because they aren’t nonprofit businesses and
aren’t primary caregivers, Mrozek said.  Billion-Dollar Industry  Federal prosecutors in California said last year they were
using property seizures and criminal charges to crack down on
California’s billion-dollar commercial medical marijuana
industry.  The top U.S. prosecutors in  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  San
Diego  and  Sacramento  said at the time that they were responding
to an “explosive” growth in the state’s marijuana trade, which
they said had corrupted the intent of a 1996 referendum that
made California the first state to permit marijuana use for
medical purposes.  The operator of one of the Santa Barbara dispensaries,
Pacific Coast Caregivers, told police in 2010 that estimated
sales were about $1.2 million a year, according to an affidavit
from a Drug Enforcement Administration investigator in support
of a search warrant for the business. Police arrested the man at
the time on narcotics charges, according to the affidavit.  ‘Marijuana for Profit’  “Many of these stores seek protection under  California ’s
‘medical marijuana’ laws but, in fact, operate entirely to sell
marijuana for profit,” according to the affidavit. “California
law does not authorize ‘any individual or group to cultivate or
distribute marijuana for profit.’”  A call to Pacific Coast Caregivers for comment on the
lawsuit wasn’t answered.  The new cases are U.S. v. real property located at 305 E.
Haley, Santa Barbara, 12-3790, U.S. v. real property located at
331 N. Milpas, Santa Barbara, 12-3791, U.S. v. real property
located at 2173 Ortega Hill Road, Summerland, 12-3792, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  