-- SAS Plunges as Fuel Costs Widen Its Loss: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-05-03T07:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/sas-plunges-as-fuel-costs-widen-its-loss-stockholm-mover.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s largest
airline, fell the most in almost six months after it posted a
higher-than-estimated loss on high fuel costs and pricing
pressure.  SAS dropped as much as 10 percent, the biggest intra-day
decline since Nov. 8, and was down 7.2 percent at 7.7 kronor as
of 9:42 a.m. in  Stockholm , where the carrier is based.  The
share has fallen 3.8 percent this year, valuing the company at
2.53 billion kronor ($380 million).  “The situation regarding the European economy and business
passengers’ behavior is still very uncertain,” Chief Executive
Officer Rickard Gustafson said in a phone interview. “I’m also
quite sure that fuel prices will remain on a high level. It’s
difficult to say how well we can compensate for this.”  SAS’s first-quarter net loss was 729 million kronor versus
373 million kronor a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement. That’s worse than the 679 million kronor average
 estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The parent of Scandinavian Airlines, part-owned by Sweden,
Norway and  Denmark , hasn’t reported an annual  profit  since 2007
as the oil price crimps earnings and competition from discount
carriers including Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA intensifies. First-
quarter sales rose 3 percent to 9.59 billion kronor and a
savings program is progressing according to plan, it said.  SAS said in January it will eliminate 300 administrative
jobs in a program begun in September to reduce costs by as much
as 5 percent. The carrier is seeking to enhance the bottom line
by 5 billion kronor in 2012 and 2013 through spending cuts and
measures to boost revenue.  “This year looks much more challenging than I had expected
because of high fuel costs,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at
 Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  in Aabenraa, Denmark, with an “underweight” rating
on SAS’s shares, said by phone. “The earnings foundation at SAS
is not as good as I thought though we’ll see some improvements
in the second half of the year when we have the measures from
4Excellence beginning to impact,” he said, referring to the
carrier’s cost-cut program.  SAS is not holding any consolidation talks with other
airlines, Gustafson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net  