-- HSBC Triples U.S. Team to Step Up Battle on Money Laundering
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-03T16:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hsbc-triples-u-s-team-to-step-up-battle-on-money-laundering.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, has more than tripled its U.S. anti- money-laundering 
monitoring team to 250 from 75 in 2010 to help battle illicit
money transfers, Chief Legal Officer  Stuart Levey  said.  The bank now has 3,500 people in its global compliance
team, with 1,000 of them in the U.S., Levey, who was the top
U.S. official fighting terrorist funding until last year, said
in a telephone interview today. The bank plans closer co-
operation with governments, he said.  “We have to develop relations with government so that can
sometimes help us to identify things that would be impossible to
detect,” he said. At the U.S. Treasury, “we had access to
better information than financial institutions,” Levey said in
a phone interview today.  HSBC, which operates in more than 80 countries, will exit
businesses it sees as too risky, Levey said, without giving more
details. In February, a month after he was hired, the London-
based lender said U.S. prosecutors are likely to take criminal
or civil enforcement measures involving the bank amid a money
laundering probe.  “I often would see information and I knew the financial
institution had no idea and could have no idea illicit money was
moving through their institution,” Levey said of his time at
the  U.S. Treasury . Levey, 48, is working with Richard Bennett,
the bank’s general counsel, who will retire at the end of this
year after more than 33 years at the lender.  Ethical Behaviour  HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and a subsidiary,  HSBC
Bank USA , reached agreements in 2010 with the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board to
make changes to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act, a U.S. law
that combats money laundering.  The bank has been sent subpoenas and other requests for
information by U.S. agencies including the  Department of Justice 
and Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations relating to
the Bank Secrecy Act, HSBC said in a filing on Feb. 27.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said last year that
the bank would make its structure less complicated and
bureaucratic in a way that “results in ethical behavior.”  Levey, who reports to Gulliver, said that to help meet
HSBC’s goals, the bank has harmonized its rules with those
nations with the highest standards, usually the U.S.  ‘Stamina’ Needed  “Having the highest global standards means we have to
adjust our controls to the risks of any business we are engaged
in,” he said. “If we feel the business is too risky, then we
would absolutely exit the business.”  Levey resigned as undersecretary for terrorism and
financial intelligence a year ago. He oversaw efforts to stop
illicit funding and enforce economic and trade sanctions. During
a tenure that spanned the Bush and Obama administrations, Levey
helped lead the American effort to staunch the flow of money
intended to help al-Qaeda and regimes in  Iran  and  North Korea .  Setting targets for success is difficult, Levey said, as
criminals invent new ways to try to foil a bank’s money-
laundering controls.  “I view this thing as an endless journey,” he said. “I
stayed in my last job for seven years and learned there’s
endless ingenuity among illicit actors. You need the same
stamina.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  