-- HSBC’s Swiss Wealth Unit May Face ‘Significant’ U.S. Fine
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-03T16:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hsbc-s-swiss-private-bank-says-u-s-fines-could-be-significant-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private bank
said fines and penalties relating to a tax-evasion probe by the
U.S. “could be significant” as it published figures showing
clients outflows in the second half of last year.  The terms or timing of a resolution to the  Department of
Justice  and Internal Revenue Service investigations can’t
currently be determined, Geneva-based  HSBC Private Bank  (Suisse)
SA said in its  annual report  published on the firm’s website
today. The bank said it’s cooperating with the U.S. probe.  Switzerland and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve an
investigation involving 11 Swiss financial firms after the DoJ
indicted Wegelin & Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly helping customers
hide money from the IRS. HSBC’s Swiss private bank reported a
drop in 2011 profit as assets under management fell by 12
billion Swiss francs ($13 billion) to 166 billion francs.  “We also incurred significant expenses for conducting
investigations into our past U.S. client-related activities,
which were carried out in response to requests from various U.S.
government agencies,” HSBC said in the annual report.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
set aside 295 million francs for U.S. tax matters in the third
quarter of last year. Julius Baer Group Ltd., the wealth manager
established in 1890, said the cost of the investigation isn’t
“reliably assessable” after the DoJ indicted two employees of
the Zurich-based firm.  New CEO  HSBC’s Swiss private bank said in February that Franco Morra replaced Alexandre Zeller as chief executive officer.
Morra joined HSBC in 2010 from UBS AG where he was CEO for
Switzerland and a member of the Zurich-based firm’s executive
board.  First-half net inflows of 6.6 billion francs reported on
Aug. 30 exceeded the full-year figure of 2.85 billion francs
reported by HSBC today, implying a second-half outflow. Net
inflows were 8.1 billion francs in 2010.  A spokesman for HSBC in Geneva declined to immediately to
comment on client withdrawals.  HSBC said April 28 it provided names of employees to assist
U.S. authorities investigating alleged  tax evasion  by Americans.  HSBC’s Swiss unit said net income declined for a second
consecutive year, dropping 27 percent to 356 million francs in
2011 as the European sovereign debt crisis roiled markets and
increased regulation crimped margins.  Data Theft  HSBC’s Swiss private bank last August reported
“considerable” outflows from European clients in the first
half of 2011 after Hervé Falciani, a former software technician
in Geneva, stole details on at least 24,000 accounts. HSBC
became aware of the theft in the middle of 2008. The French
government has used the data to search for tax dodgers and
shared the information with Italian prosecutors.  The bank’s board proposed cutting its shareholder dividend
by 63 percent to 300 million francs, according to the annual
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  