-- Serbian Ruling Party May Lose Elections on EU-Inspired Austerity
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/serbian-ruling-party-may-lose-elections-on-eu-inspired-austerity.html
The Serbian Democratic Party may lose
May 6 general elections, while its leader, President  Boris Tadic , will be forced into a runoff as voters reject moves to
bring the former Yugoslav republic to the European Union.  The ruling party, which won EU candidacy status, presided
over the capture of war criminals and cut spending to meet
International Monetary Fund demands, and its two allies would
take 27 percent. That compares with 32.5 percent for the
opposition Serbian Progressive Party, according to a survey by
Belgrade-based Faktor Plus, which polled 1,126 Serbs in the last
week of April. Tadic is neck and neck with Progressives leader
 Tomislav Nikolic  in the concurrent presidential race.  As governments from Ireland to Italy fall in a wave of
anger over austerity, Tadic’s strategy to link a presidential
vote to general elections to help his party may have fizzled.
Voters are drawn to nationalist rhetoric about Serbia’s claim on
Kosovo, accuse Tadic of ceding sovereignty to the EU and call
for more spending to ease unemployment of 24 percent.  “People don’t think that those in power are doing their
best,” to combat the effects of the crisis, said Predrag
Lacmanovic, Faktor Plus’s executive director, in a phone
interview yesterday. “With so many people dissatisfied about
how they live, campaigning on continuity and more of the same is
not productive.”  The  Democratic Party  will run on a combined ticket with the
League of  Social Democrats  of Vojvodina and the Social
Democrats, two smaller parties. It can also count on the
combined 13.3 percent support from its coalition partners, the
Socialist Party, the Party of United Pensioners of Serbia and
the United Serbia Party.  Opposition Parties  The Progressive Party is running with three smaller parties
on a ticket, including a group led by millionaire Bogoljub
Karic, Nova Srbija of former Infrastructure Minister Velimir
Ilic and the Movement of Socialists led by a former Communist
Party activist Aleksandar Vulin. Other parties running in
opposition are the Serbian Radical Party, which would take 5.5
percent, while the Democratic Party of Serbia had 5.7 percent,
according to the Faktor survey, which had a margin of error of 3
percent.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was the first
to serve a full term since strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  was
overthrown in 2000.  During its time in office,  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic
and  Goran Hadzic  -- the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects
from the civil wars accompanying the breakup of  Yugoslavia  --
were captured and transferred to the International Criminal
Tribune for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague to stand trial.  Candidacy Status  The government also won official EU candidacy status on
March 1, putting it in line with Montenegro to join the
Brussels-based bloc as the EU expands deeper into the region
once encompassed Yugoslavia. Slovenia joined in 2004 and  Croatia 
will become a member next year.  Tadic wants to continue efforts to join the EU, renegotiate
protections for Serbs living in  Kosovo  and reshape the economy
to focus on cars, electronics, software development, high
technology and renewable energy.  “These are extremely important elections,” Tadic said on
May 3 in a televised speech. “They are of crucial importance
for the next 10 years in Serbia, bearing in mind…challenges that
Serbia has been facing all these years.”  Foreign direct investment totaled 5.5 billion euros (7.27
billion) during the government’s four-year term, or 40 percent
of the total 14.6 billion euros that flowed into Serbia since
Milosevic’s ouster more than a decade ago.  Economic, Monetary Declines  Still, the past four years have coincided with the global
economic and European debt crises. The dinar has lost 30
percent, unemployment rose 10 percentage points, public debt
increased 16 percentage points to 14.4 billion euros and the
average take-home wage is now 360 euros ($476) per month.  Job prospects, higher wages and the fight against
corruption are more important to voters than future EU
membership, said analysts including Milan Nikolic, the director
of the Belgrade-based Centre for Policy Studies.  While Tadic and his party “have concrete results,”
Nikolic said, the Progressives “are banking on anger and
discontent resulting from lost jobs, benefits and declining
wages.”  A continued effort to draw foreign investors from the EU is
“our best bet to overcome the effects of the global crisis,”
Tadic said during an April 24 campaign stop in Ljig, a small
town of 3,000 people about 50 miles south of the capital
Belgrade. A week earlier, Fiat opened a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) car plant in nearby Kragujevac that was rebuilt from an
old factory making Zastava vehicles.  Looking East  By contrast, Progressive Party has promised to bring into a
coalition the Democratic Party of  Serbia , a nationalist-
conservative party run by former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who has called for abandoning EU membership plans and
forge tighter political, economic and investment ties to Russia,
Belarus and  Kazakhstan .  “Whatever happens, Serbia must maintain the continuity of
its relationship with foreign investors,” said  Franjo Bobinac,
the management board chairman of Slovenia’s  Gorenje d.d. , the
biggest home appliance maker in the former Yugoslavia. “What we
need is predictability.”  Tadic, meanwhile, will probably fare better than his party
over the weekend, as he moves into a second round against
Nikolic. Recent polls also don’t reflect the effect of recent
speculation that Nikolic bought his university degree, which may
weaken his party’s support as well, said Vladimir Todoric, of
Belgrade-based New Policy Centre. The second round will take
place on May 20 if no candidate garners an outright victory.  Shift in Popularity?  “Estimates show that in the past two weeks the Democrats
have strengthened and that their so-called contrast campaign, or
negative campaign against the Progressives, is showing
results,” Todoric said.  In Ljig, Ruzica Ivanovic contemplated how to split her vote
as she stood in front of her stationary store, which sells
Chinese-made schoolbags, toys and notebooks and posted an $827
profit for 2011.  Her parliamentary preference will be for the  Serbian
Radical Party , the right-wing nationalist group whose leader
Vojislav Seselj is standing trial before the United Nations war
crimes tribunal in  The Hague .  As for president, she is sticking the Tadic, a sign that
his support may be stronger than polls suggest.  “He’s still better than that traitor Nikolic,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  