-- Services in U.S. Probably Expanded at a Slower Pace
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/services-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-a-slower-pace.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably grew at a slower pace in April, a sign the largest part
of the economy may struggle to accelerate without faster job
growth, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of non-
manufacturing industries cooled to a four-month low of 55.3 from
56 in March, according to the median projection of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings greater than 50 signal
expansion. Other figures may show first-time claims for jobless
benefits declined last week.  Limited job and wage gains, combined with depressed
property values, may make it difficult for Americans to step up
their spending after purchases rose in the first quarter by the
most in a year. Increased demand for services, which make up
about 90 percent of the economy, would help broaden the almost
three-year-old expansion.  “The service sector is still doing OK, but it may be
improving a little bit more slowly than other periods in this
expansion,” said George Mokrzan, senior economist at Huntington
National Bank in Columbus,  Ohio . “The economy is clearly out of
the recovery stage and into the expansion phase, but that
expansion is just grinding. Services will benefit the most from
improving employment levels and a strengthening economy.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report is due at 10 a.m.
Estimates in the Bloomberg  survey  ranged from 54 to 57. The
gauge has averaged 53.4 since the recession ended in June 2009.  Expansion among service industries may be pausing after a
surge in the first quarter that coincided with the strongest
pace of job growth in six years.  Consumer Spending  Household purchases  rose  2.9 percent from January through
March, the most since the final three months of 2010, Commerce
Department data showed on April 27. Gross domestic product rose
at a 2.2 percent annual rate, after a 3 percent pace the prior
quarter.  Further gains may depend on the pace of  job creation  and
reducing an  unemployment rate  that’s been above 8 percent since
February 2009. Payrolls increased by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006, data from the Labor Department show.  Jobless claims last week declined to 379,000 from 388,000
in the prior period, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg survey before Labor Department’s 8:30 a.m. release
today.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show employees added
about 160,000 new jobs in April after 120,000 a month earlier,
according to the Bloomberg median forecast.  Winter Weather  The April data may benefit less from warmer weather.
Unseasonably mild temperatures may have spurred Americans to
dine out and go shopping last quarter, helping boost demand for
services. The January-to-March period was the warmest first
quarter on records going back to 1895, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  “While slower than any of us would prefer, we are seeing
steady, positive improvement in the broad  U.S. economy ,” Steve Joyce, president and chief executive officer of  Choice Hotels
International Inc. (CHH) , said during an April 27 earnings call.
“Unemployment remains stubbornly high and people are still
cautious. However, we believe consumers will continue to
increase their travel.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Hotels Index has
 climbed  21 percent since the end of 2011. That compares with a
12 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  