-- Dewey, Shearman, Goodwin Procter, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-03T10:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/shearman-sterling-goodwin-procter-skadden-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, whose bank loans
are partly secured with money due from clients, told  partners 
they can’t have their monthly pay until they send all the bills
for their services, a person familiar with the matter said.  Dewey is under orders from bankers to collect as much money
owed to the firm as possible after the departure of about 85
partners and the ouster of chairman Steven Davis, according to
another person familiar with Dewey’s finances. The banks are
reluctant to put the firm into bankruptcy as that might make it
harder to collect the bills, that person said. Both people
didn’t want to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  By last month, the New York-based law firm had drawn about
$75 million of a $100 million  credit line  from banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc., the second person said.  Lenders were considering a 120-day extension of the credit
line until a possible combination of the firm with Greenberg
Traurig LLP fell through, the person said.  “The banks know that Chapter 11 will add another whole
layer of huge expense and involve years of litigation with
little gained,” said  Anthony Sabino , a lawyer and professor at
the Peter J. Tobin College of Business at St. John’s University
in New York.  Michael Sitrick , a spokesman for Dewey, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail yesterday after regular business hours seeking
comment on the firm’s financial situation.  Dewey was the 11th-largest U.S. law firm with 1,300 lawyers
after a merger during the 2007 recession.  Merger discussions with law firm SNR Denton, where it would
have taken on more than 1,000 remaining Dewey lawyers, fell
apart yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the matter. The deal hinged on the combined law
firm’s ability to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in
financing, the newspaper said.  In the firm’s Manhattan offices, employees for outsourced
services have gone and Dewey’s own support staff may be
gradually dismissed as more lawyers leave for other firms, said
the first person familiar with Dewey’s situation. Contrary to
some online reports, the photocopiers are still there and the
computers are working, the person said.  More than 85 partners have left the U.S. firm in recent
weeks. Yesterday Jones Day announced that Ira White had joined
the firm as a partner in the New York office. He was previously
a partner in Dewey’s private equity practice and co-chairman of
the private equity transactions group, the firm said in a
statement.  Firm News  Shearman & Sterling Appoints Creighton Condon Senior Partner  Shearman & Sterling LLP announced that New York partner
Creighton Condon has been elected senior partner for a six-year
term, succeeding Rohan S. Weerasinghe, who was recently named
general counsel at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   M&A lawyer Condon, a 30-year veteran of the firm, will be
the 15th senior partner in the firm’s 139-year history, the firm
said in a statement.  New York partner David J. Beveridge has been appointed to a
new global managing partner role. The leadership transition will
take place tomorrow.  Condon, 56, is co-chairman of the global mergers and
acquisitions practice. He recently served for three years as the
European managing partner, based in London. He has served as a
member of the firm’s policy committee and senior leadership
team.  Condon represents multinational corporations in
acquisitions and sales of public and private companies and in
joint ventures. His clients have included Cadbury, Citigroup,
Fenway Sports Group (owner of the  Boston  Red Sox and the
Liverpool Football Club), Georgia-Pacific, Royal Bank of
Scotland, Synthes, Viacom and WebMD, the firm said. Condon also
represents a number of the firm’s investment banking clients.  Beveridge, 51, is the firm’s Americas managing partner. He
has been with Shearman & Sterling for more than 25 years and has
also served on the firm’s policy committee and senior leadership
team. A  capital markets  lawyer, he specializes in advising on
high-yield offerings. Beveridge represents both issuers and
underwriters in the full spectrum of debt, equity and hybrid
security offerings. He has experience with cross-border private
equity, acquisition financing, and debt restructuring
transactions, the firm said.  Shearman & Sterling has 20 offices in 12 countries.  Hopson Named Managing Partner of Sidley’s Washington Office  Sidley Austin LLP named Mark D. Hopson, a member of the
firm’s management and executive committees, to the role of
managing partner of the firm’s 275-lawyer  Washington  office.  Hopson succeeds Carter G. Phillips, who became co-chairman
of Sidley’s executive committee, effective May 1.  Hopson is a co-head of the firm’s white-collar practice. He
represents a range of white-collar criminal and complex civil
litigation matters. He also represents clients in connection
with a range of governmental and internal investigation matters.
Hopson will continue to maintain an active litigation practice.  Sidley Austin has approximately 1,700 lawyers practicing in
18 U.S. and international cities, including Beijing, Brussels,
Frankfurt, Geneva, Hong Kong,  London , Shanghai, Singapore,
Sydney and  Tokyo .  Moves  Top Drilling Regulator Bromwich Joins Goodwin Procter  Michael R. Bromwich, the country’s top offshore drilling
regulator and a former inspector general for the U.S.  Justice
Department , has joined Goodwin Procter LLP as a partner in its
litigation department, based in the Washington and New York
offices.  As a member of Goodwin’s securities litigation and white-
collar defense group, Bromwich will focus on corporate internal
investigations, compliance, monitoring and white-collar criminal
defense.  Most recently, Bromwich was director of the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement at the U.S.
Interior Department, where he assumed leadership in the midst of
the BP oil spill.  He led a reorganization of the agency, developed and
implemented a new generation of drilling safety and
environmental standards, and became the Obama administration’s
chief spokesman on offshore drilling matters, Goodwin Procter
said in a statement.  Prior to his most recent public service, he was a partner
and chairman of the internal investigations, compliance and
monitoring practice group at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP where he focused his practice on conducting
internal investigations, according to his new firm.  As Inspector General from 1994 to 1999, he was responsible
for conducting independent investigations, audits, inspections
and special reviews of Justice Department personnel and
programs.  Goodwin Procter has offices in Boston, Hong Kong, London,
 Los Angeles ,  New York , San Diego,  San Francisco , Silicon Valley,
 California , and Washington.  Skadden Hires Betts From Paul Hastings for Hong Kong Share Sales  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP ranked third among
legal advisers on global equity sales last year, hired
Christopher Betts as a partner for its capital markets and
mergers team in Hong Kong.  Betts, who had worked at Paul Hastings LLP and Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, is the fourth partner added in  Asia  in
the past seven months as part of New York-based Skadden’s
strategy to build its presence in the region for the next
decade, according to Asia head Michael Gisser.  “The Hong Kong market is and will remain the preferred
listing destination for quality Chinese companies,” Gisser said
when asked about the increased scrutiny by regulators in the
Chinese city on arrangers of initial public offerings. Hong
Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission said last month it may
propose rules making IPO sponsors criminally liable for the
accuracy of information in prospectuses.  At least 14 U.S. law firms have expanded in Hong Kong since
2010 and hired lawyers who can advise on domestic law. Skadden
started the trend in 2005 by luring Dominic Tsun and Nick Norris
from London-based firms. They were both hired by Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis LLP last year.  Betts, who also previously co-led the Asia-Pacific legal
team at McKinsey & Co., said while tougher IPO rules in Hong
Kong may deter smaller value listings, the pipeline of work
remains strong including the listing in Hong Kong of overseas
acquisitions by Chinese state-owned enterprises.  For more, click here.  Former Department of Justice Lawyer Returns to Arnold & Porter  Arnold & Porter LLP announced that Robert N. Weiner has
rejoined the firm as a partner in the Washington office, after
serving as associate deputy attorney general at the U.S. Justice
Department.  Weiner spent the last two years managing a broad docket of
work, including overseeing the defense of the new health-care
law. He also handled sensitive government-to-government
negotiations on bank secrecy among other legal and policy
issues.  Prior to his government position, Weiner led the firm’s
litigation and business litigation practice. He has experience
as a trial lawyer and appellate advocate in criminal and civil
cases including in product liability and toxic tort cases.  Weiner also served as senior counsel in the White House
Counsel’s Office during the Clinton administration from 1997 to
1998. He was president of the District of Columbia Bar from 1995
to 1996.  Arnold & Porter has more than 800 lawyers with offices in
Brussels, Denver, London, Los Angeles, New York, Northern
Virginia, San Francisco, Silicon Valley, California, and
Washington.  Former FDA Counsel Tave Joins Gibson Dunn in Washington  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP announced that Steven J. Tave
has joined the firm’s Washington office as of counsel. Tave was
the associate chief counsel for enforcement in the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration’s Office of Chief Counsel from 2007 to 2012.  At Gibson Dunn, Tave will focus his practice on FDA and
health-care compliance, enforcement and litigation with regard
to pharmaceutical and medical device issues.  In his former position, Tave worked closely with the FDA’s
office of criminal investigations, the Justice Department and
other federal and state agencies as the lead FDA attorney
responsible for investigating, prosecuting and resolving
criminal enforcement actions and related civil False Claims Act
whistle-blower cases involving drugs, medical devices and
biological products.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers and 17 offices,
including Brussels, Dallas, Denver, Dubai, Hong Kong, London,
Los Angeles, Munich, New York, Paris, San Francisco, Sao Paulo,
Singapore, Washington and Century City, Palo Alto and Orange
County, California.  McDermott Expands Paris Office With Regulatory Partner  Sabine Nauges joined McDermott Will & Emery LLP as a
partner in the Paris office, where she will be in charge of the
regulatory practice group. Nauges was previously at Weil Gotshal
& Manges LLP. Prior to that, she spent three years as an in-
house counsel at France Telecom.  Nauges’s practice focuses on administrative and regulatory
law, including in the sectors of telecommunications, health and
energy.  The hire comes during a period of strategic growth in
 Europe  for McDermott, the firm said in a statement. In recent
months, McDermott has expanded its international transactional
capabilities, with a focus on private equity, energy and cross-
border mergers and acquisitions.  Recent McDermott hires have included private equity
partners Mark Davis and Russell Van Praagh in London, corporate
partner Giovanni Nicchiniello in Milan, international
arbitration partner Jacob Grierson in Paris, intellectual
property partner Alexander Harguth in Munich, corporate and real
estate partner Holger Weiss in Dusseldorf,  Germany , and energy
partner Michael Ruoff in Munich. This week marks the one-year
anniversary of McDermott’s Paris office.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers with offices in
Boston, Brussels, Chicago, Dusseldorf, Houston, London, Los
Angeles, Miami, Milan, Munich, New York, Paris, Rome, Washington
and Orange County and Silicon Valley, California, and a close
strategic alliance with MWE China Law Offices in Shanghai.  Cooley Hires Corporate and Securities Litigator Partners  Cooley LLP hired two new partners May 1, former Latham &
Watkins LLP corporate and capital markets lawyer Andrew S.
“Drew” Williamson and former Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP securities
litigator Lyle Roberts.  Williamson joined Cooley as a partner in the San Francisco
office, after six years as a partner at Latham. His corporate
practice focuses on representing investment banks and issuers in
the technology, clean technology and life sciences sectors, for
capital markets and mergers and acquisitions work.  Roberts joined the firm’s Washington office as a partner in
its securities litigation practice group. His practice focuses
on the defense of public corporations and individuals in class
actions, derivative cases, M&A litigation and Securities and
Exchange Commission enforcement actions.  Cooley has 650 attorneys in Palo Alto, California; New
York; San Diego; San Francisco; Reston, Virginia; Broomfield,
Colorado; Washington; Boston and Seattle. The firm also has an
office in Shanghai.  Mayer Brown Expands Houston Corporate and Securities Practice  Mayer Brown LLP has added Kirk Tucker to the firm’s Houston
office as a partner in the corporate and securities practice. He
was previously a partner with Thompson & Knight LLP in Houston.  Tucker concentrates his practice on corporate and
securities matters, with a particular focus on the upstream oil
and gas sector. He represents clients on mergers, acquisitions
and dispositions of businesses; venture capital and subsequent
financings; public offerings and private placements of equity
and debt securities; and SEC reporting, corporate governance,
and compliance with securities laws and exchange rules.  Mayer Brown LLP has 20 offices worldwide in the Americas,
Asia and Europe.  Litigation  Yoo Entitled to Immunity From Padilla Lawsuit, Court Rules  John Yoo, an ex-U.S. Justice Department attorney who wrote
memos justifying harsh interrogations of suspected terrorists,
is entitled to qualified immunity from a lawsuit brought by an
ex-detainee, a federal appeals court ruled.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s Miguel Estrada represented
Yoo, a former George W. Bush administration lawyer, who was sued
in 2008 by Jose Padilla. Padilla was detained for three years in
the U.S. as an enemy combatant and convicted of supporting
terrorists and conspiring to commit murder. Padilla, who claims
he was subjected to physical abuse, said Yoo was responsible for
violating his constitutional rights.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco said yesterday
that it wasn’t clear at the time Yoo acted that Padilla was
entitled to the same constitutional protections as an ordinary
convicted prisoner. It also “was not clearly established in
2001-03” that Padilla’s alleged treatment was torture, the
court said.  The ruling “confirms that this litigation has been
baseless from the outset,” said Estrada. “For several years,
Padilla and his attorneys have been harassing the government
officials he believes to have been responsible for his detention
and ultimately conviction as a terrorist. He has now lost before
two separate courts of appeals, and will need to find a new
hobby for his remaining time in prison.”  The lower-court case is Padilla v. Yoo, 08-00035, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Accretive Health Lawyer Says Minnesota Report Got ‘Facts’ Wrong  An  Accretive Health Inc. (AH)  lawyer claimed Minnesota Attorney
General Lori Swanson negotiated in bad faith before suing the
company in January and disclosed its confidential data in an
April 24 report.  “The AG’s office ignored its responsibility to get the
facts straight,” outside counsel Andrew B. Clubok, a partner in
the Chicago-based law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP said in his
seven-page letter yesterday.  Accretive shares fell almost 42 percent one day after
Swanson issued her six-part report critical of the Chicago-based
company’s collections practices. Her federal lawsuit accused
Accretive of breaching patient privacy laws.  The company on April 30 asked U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle in St. Paul, Minnesota, to dismiss the case, calling it
“factually baseless and legally indefensible.”  Clubok alleged that his client only provided data he said
was relied upon by Swanson in her April 24 report, “in order to
explore a good-faith resolution” to the lawsuit.  In her initial and amended federal court complaints,
Swanson challenged the company’s work for Minnesota-based
Fairview Health Services and North Memorial Health Care.  In her subsequent report, she alleged that Accretive
improperly posted debt collectors in hospital emergency rooms
and patient bedsides.  Clubok said his client rejected Swanson’s insinuation that
it was an “uber debt collector,” using a German word that
translates to “super,” when individual collections comprise
less than 10 percent of Accretive’s business.  He also accused Swanson of pressuring Accretive and
Fairview to end it their “revenue cycle agreement.” Accretive
said on April 27 that the seven-hospital chain did.  Ryan Davenport, a Fairview spokesman, said company
officials hadn’t yet seen the Accretive attorney’s letter and
couldn’t comment on it. Fairview’s headquarters are in
Minneapolis.  Benjamin Wogsland, a spokesman for Swanson, said in a
statement that the attorney general’s report -- formally called
a compliance review -- is “accurate and documented by the
facts.” Accretive’s emergency room and bedside collections
practices were related by hospital patients, he said.  “There is an old saying among lawyers,” Wogsland said,
“‘If the facts aren’t on your side, talk about the law. If the
law’s not on your side, talk about the facts. And if you don’t
have either on your side, pound the table and blame someone
else.’ That’s what’s going on here.”  The attorney general’s case is State of Minnesota v.
Accretive Health Inc., 12-cv-00145, U.S. District Court for
Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  