-- Silicon Valley Is Moving Backward on Shareholder Rights
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-03T23:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/silicon-valley-is-moving-backward-on-shareholder-rights.html
It’s springtime in America and
that means it’s proxy season, when most publicly traded
companies hold annual meetings, and shareholders elect
corporate directors. So it seems a good time to review the
state of corporate governance: It’s slipping.  Mark Zuckerberg , the Facebook Inc. founder and
chairman, last month agreed to pay $1 billion for the
photo-sharing service Instagram without consulting his
board. Groupon Inc. in March had to correct its very first
quarterly report as a public company and also reveal a
“material weakness” in its internal controls, meaning it
lacked checks and balances even after accounting missteps
last year.  LinkedIn Corp., Zynga Inc. and Groupon went public
late last year with dual-class shares, which grant their
founders and directors super-voting rights to trump
ordinary shareholders’ one vote per share. If a corporate
raider tries to oust the management, the dual-class shares
will protect them -- even if they are performing badly.  And then there’s Google Inc., which already has two
share classes. It announced last month that it would issue
a third class with no  voting rights  whatsoever.  Category Apart  It’s no accident that all these examples come out of
the technology industry. For better or worse, many Silicon
Valley executives hold themselves out as a special class.
But when it comes to corporate governance -- the rules that
hold management accountable to those who provide capital --
the high-tech industry is truly a category apart.  The founders of Facebook, Google, Zynga, LinkedIn and
Groupon need to rethink their approach. They may be
visionaries, and shareholders certainly should want them to
stay on after an IPO. But not all founders make great
managers, especially in times of rapid growth, and none are
immune to entrenched-management disease, which can strike
executives protected from the disciplinary threat of
removal. The symptoms: a slowing of innovation, a decline
in sales and profits, and an increase in compensation even
as nimbler competitors take market share.  Take  Facebook. (FB)  The social network’s first-quarter
profit declined 12 percent and expenses almost doubled from
the previous quarter. This could be an early warning that
spending is out of control and management isn’t on top of
it.  Anti-Takeover Devices  Yet Zuckerberg’s Class B shares give him almost
complete control, fortified by an impressive array of anti-
takeover devices. Unhappy shareholders, for example, can
take action only at shareholder meetings, and only
Zuckerberg can call such meetings.  Facebook’s mid-May IPO is expected to  value  the
company as high as $96 billion, or more than 25 times
annual sales and four times Google’s valuation in 2004 when
it went public. At that lofty price, shouldn’t Facebook
shareholders have stronger rights to protect their
investment?  Corporate governance is the only way that shareholders
can hold managers responsible. Governance was once
dismissed as the playground of liberal activists hoping to
turn corporations into social-welfare programs. Over the
past decade, though, a large volume of  academic research 
has shown that strong governance rules (read: shareholder
rights) can improve a company’s value.  Harvard law professor Lucian Bebchuk and two co-
authors have created an entrenchment index, or e-index, to
evaluate a company’s governance. It includes staggered
boards, in which only a certain number of a company’s
directors face election each year, an arrangement that acts
as a powerful defense against removal of an ineffective
board through a proxy fight. The index also includes poison
pills, which ward off hostile takeovers, and golden
parachutes, which richly reward top executives if there is
a change of control at the company.  There has been progress on some fronts. On May 1,
Groupon plugged a hole on its board by adding two public-
company financial accountants. And last month more than
half of Citigroup’s shareholders revolted against the pay
plan for Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit . His 2011
compensation, at $15 million, was among the highest for
large-bank executives, and yet Citigroup’s stock
performance has been one of the poorest. The vote is
nonbinding, however, and Citigroup can override it.  Numerous companies have recently agreed to consider
ending staggered boards, also known as classified boards.
Studies by Bebchuk, a leader in efforts to end the
practice, show that such boards depress a company’s value.
But Silicon Valley’s dual-class model probably has more
entrenchment power than staggered boards ever did.  When a company goes public, it enters into a compact
with shareholders. If it has no intention of keeping its
part of the bargain, it should stay private.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Argentina ’s oil
grab;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s former spokesman ;
Virginia Postrel on the economic folly of  recycling
eyeglasses ;  Susan Antilla  on  mandatory arbitration ; and
Jonathan Cohn and  David Strauss  on making  health-care
reform work .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 