-- Small-Cap Tech May Lure Investors Bullish on Growth
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/small-cap-tech-may-lure-investors-bullish-on-growth.html
The investment outlook for small-cap
technology companies is improving as cheap valuations and
conservative earnings estimates make them more attractive, after
being weighed down by concerns about the economy.  Small-cap businesses are expanding to provide additional
products and services -- including the delivery of storage,
software and other computing tasks over the Internet “cloud.”
This is boosting sales, as valuations and estimates for 2012
earnings remain moderate, said Steven DeSanctis, head of U.S.
small-cap strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research in  New York .  With cash-flush balance sheets that account for about 20
percent of their market capitalization, tech stocks are poised
for “pretty good” growth after last year’s “laggard
performance,” he said. The cash hoard is attracting investors
because companies may use it to pay dividends, repurchase stock
or make acquisitions, he added.  The Russell 2000 Technology Index -- currently made up of
292 businesses with market cap of less than $3.45 billion -- has
risen 21 percent since Sept. 6, 2011, compared with a 20 percent
gain for the Russell 2000. This follows almost seven months of
underperformance, when the tech stocks lagged behind the Russell
2000 by 8.9 percent.  The tech index has been held back by investor worries about
global growth, according to Lawrence Creatura, who helps oversee
$363.6 billion as a  fund manager  in Rochester, New York, at
Federated Investors Inc.  Investor Opportunity  “While this sector has enjoyed strong earnings, it hasn’t
enjoyed robust price appreciation so far this year,” Creatura
said. “Within that may lie an opportunity for investors,”
because these companies benefit from strong balance sheets and
better valuations than other industries, he said.  Small-cap tech stocks have “moved sideways” relative to
the  Russell 2000  during the past eight months, reflecting a lack
of market interest, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of
research at New York-based research company Technical Alpha. The
tech index is holding at a so-called triple bottom on a weekly
relative basis: when stocks reach a particular level three times
without trading below it.  That’s bullish, indicating buyers still are willing to
invest at the same lows reached in September and January, he
said. If the group were to trade below this level, it would
signal that sentiment has become more pessimistic, he added.  These companies are very sensitive to the economy, and
“during times of fear and uncertainty, investors don’t rush to
buy,” Creatura said.  Slower Growth  The U.S. expanded at a less-than-forecast 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after a 3 percent rise in
October-December, data from the Commerce Department show. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for 2.5 percent growth.  While demand for  Unisys Corp. (UIS) ’s system and security
services remains “difficult,” the Blue Bell, Pennsylvania-
based company is “not necessarily controlled by those macro
trends,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward Coleman
said on an April 24 conference call. He is “encouraged” by
customer interest, with orders for services growing at a double-
digit rate through the second consecutive quarter, he said.  The tech companies are attractive because their valuations
are historically cheap and 2012 earnings estimates are lower
than those for the Russell 2000, even as the U.S. expansion has
slowed, DeSanctis said. The group is trading at a premium of
about 17 percent relative to all small caps on a price-to-
earnings ratio, compared with its average premium of about 29
percent.  Low Bar  The analyst consensus calls for earnings to grow about 1.3
percent this year, which compares with almost 17 percent for the
broader index, so “the bar isn’t set too high for these
companies to exceed estimates,” DeSanctis said.  Unisys rose  20 percent  on April 25 after reporting first-
quarter earnings the prior day that beat analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even so, shares for the industry have experienced “a
pullback” since February, which may indicate “some of the
macro concerns are filtering through,” DeSanctis said. It
“doesn’t bother” him that as much as 40 percent of the
industry’s sales come from outside the U.S., because earnings
estimates already “reflect weaker economic issues in  Europe ,
whereas the Russell 2000 stock index probably doesn’t fully
reflect slower growth in the U.S. and abroad.”  Macroeconomic Storms  If “tomorrow’s macroeconomic storm clouds darken
further,” investors may become more defensive, causing the
industry to continue to underperform, Creatura said.  “The credit squeeze that’s holding back European
economies” will last a while, weighing on investor forecasts
for equity growth, said  Carl Weinberg , chief economist and
founder of High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York.
“This is a slow ship to turn around.”  The French presidential election increases the uncertainty
because  Francois Hollande , the Socialist front-runner, has said
he disagrees with European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
plan for fueling expansion in the 17-nation euro area. Draghi
called April 25 for a “growth compact” to complement a fiscal
treaty approved by European leaders. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed the proposal.  The compact may counterbalance some concerns stemming from
austerity measures countries have adopted, Weinberg said.
“We’ll have to wait and see what kind of changes that growth
compact will bring, but it may be positive.”  ‘Real, Robust’  Meanwhile, the U.S. recovery is “real, robust and here to
stay, as long as nothing happens in the banking system,”
Weinberg said. His company projects GDP will rise 3 percent this
year. That compares with 2.3 percent for 2012 and 2.5 percent
next year, according to the median estimates of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Even though Europe and  China  were “strong headwinds” for
 LeCroy Corp. (LCRY)  during its third quarter, there are “sustainable
business opportunities” in the U.S. for the maker of equipment
to analyze disk drives, President and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Reslewic said on an April 25 conference call. The
“overall market dynamic” still is “very good” for the
Chestnut Ridge, New York-based company, driven by demand related
to mobile devices, cloud computing and data-communication
infrastructure, he said.  The industry can “weather a lot of storms” and is showing
“characteristics for success in 2012,” DeSanctis said. “It’s
very attractive for investment right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  