-- Smith & Nephew Rises Most in 3 Months on Earnings Report
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-05-03T15:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/smith-nephew-profit-rises-driven-by-knees-wound-care-2-.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, rose the most in three
months after first-quarter earnings beat analyst estimates,
driven by knee replacements and wound care.  Smith & Nephew gained 4 percent, the most since Feb. 2,  to
close at 629.50 pence in  London  trading, giving the company a
market value of 5.6 billion pounds ($9.1 billion).  Trading profit, which excludes restructuring and
acquisition costs, increased to $252 million from $241 million a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Earnings on that basis totaled 19.5 cents a share,
exceeding the 19-cent average of eight analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  This year will be a “critical” year of transition for the
company, Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon said in a call
with media today. He still expects “modest growth” in trading
profit this year and said he would be surprised if the company
didn’t announce more than one deal in  emerging markets  this
year.  Revenue rose to $1.08 billion from $1.06 billion a year
earlier, matching the average estimate of 12 analysts. Sales
from the wound business during the quarter rose 5 percent to
$240 million while revenue from surgical devices increased 3
percent to $839 million.  Knee Replacements  Knee-replacement sales increased 6 percent during the
quarter while hip replacement revenue fell 2 percent, the
company said in a  slide presentation  posted on its website.
Sales from sports medicine joint repair rose 7 percent during
the quarter, the company said.  This was the first quarter where the company reported
revenue from orthopedics and endoscopy under one division,
called Advanced Surgical Devices, and wound care under Advanced
Wound Management.  Smith & Nephew still expects revenue from the sports
medicine and advanced wound management units will expand more
quickly than the market, while orthopedic reconstruction will
probably grow close to the market rate and orthopedic trauma
will lag behind.  “I’m really quite pleased with the numbers,” Navid Malik,
an analyst with  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS)  in London, said in an
interview today. He recommends buying the shares. “Going into
these results, there was a lot of concern about orthopedics.
Outside of hips, everything appears to be growing.”  Smith & Nephew’s trading profit margin grew 0.5 percentage
point for the quarter on cost-cutting. The company also pared
debt down to $28 million from $351 million a year earlier.  The company said previously it will reduce its 11,000-
person workforce by 7 percent over three years as it seeks to
save $150 million a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 