-- SNC-Lavalin Braces for More Fallout From Payments Scandal
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/snc-lavalin-profit-drops-12-as-maintenance-revenue-drops.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  may still face
more fallout from probes that uncovered improperly booked
construction payments, helped topple the chief executive officer
and led to a former vice president’s arrest.  Costs may keep climbing past the C$5.4 million spent so far
on an internal investigation and related matters, Canada’s
largest engineering company said yesterday. SNC-Lavalin already
has booked an additional  C$5 million  for severance payments to
ex-CEO Pierre Duhaime, who stepped down in late March.  Beyond those expenses, the Montreal-based company is
awaiting the results of criminal investigations in Canada and
 Switzerland , and searching for a new CEO. That chore may take at
least three months, and possibly longer, according to the
interim chief, Ian Bourne.  “If you’re a highly qualified CEO, you don’t want to step
into a hornet’s nest and tarnish all the hard work you have done
before taking the top job at SNC,” said Trevor Johnson, a
National Bank Financial analyst in Toronto.  “On the flip side, SNC is one of the best-known
engineering companies in the world and CEOs are very driven
individuals,” Johnson said in an interview. “Surely someone
would appreciate the challenge of going to SNC given how
successful the company has been up to this year.”  Annual Meeting  SNC-Lavalin’s annual meeting yesterday in Toronto marked
the first time all shareholders could hear directly from
executives since the company disclosed Feb. 28 that it was
investigating inaccurate payment documentation in its
construction unit.  The shares tumbled 23 percent from Feb. 27 through
yesterday, helping make SNC-Lavalin this year’s worst performer
among the 21 industrial companies in  Canada ’s benchmark
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  SNC-Lavalin fell 1.9 percent to C$37.31 yesterday at the
close in Toronto.  The company’s independent investigation and severance costs
trimmed first-quarter profit by 7 cents a share, Maxim Sytchev,
an AltaCorp Capital analyst in Toronto, told clients in a note.
He rates the stock as outperform, and National Bank Financial’s
Johnson rates it as sector perform.  Expenses tied to the inquiry may rise as SNC-Lavalin
cooperates with law enforcement agencies investigating the
scandal, Chief Financial Officer Gilles Laramee said on a
conference call. “At this stage we are not in a position to
estimate or provide a forecast of that.”  ‘Hit on Earnings’  Johnson said he estimates that SNC-Lavalin may report
second- and third-quarter costs from the investigation of C$5
million in each period.  “It’s unfortunate,” he said. “It will be a hit on
earnings, but we would not expect those costs to continue past
this year.”  SNC-Lavalin’s internal inquiry, conducted by the  law firm 
Stikeman Elliott LLP, found about $33.5 million in payments in
the construction unit were incorrectly booked in 2011 and an
additional $22.5 million was improperly recorded in 2010 and
2011, according to the company.  The $33.5 million of expenses from so-called agency
agreements were authorized by Duhaime, “in breach” of the
company’s ethics policy, after other executives refused to
approve them, the company said. Duhaime stepped down in late
March.  SNC-Lavalin characterized customer support yesterday as
“strong” and Sytchev said the company’s competitive position
wouldn’t suffer long-term harm.  Challenging Year  Finding and hiring a new CEO while cooperating with
authorities’ investigations will help make 2012 the company’s
most challenging year, and the probes are likely to reveal more
than they have so far, executives said.  “The reality of these police investigations means that
they are going to find some other stuff,” said Bourne, who had
been a director before taking on the interim CEO post. “I would
be quite surprised if there weren’t some more things that
surface.”  SNC-Lavalin said last month it was cooperating with a Royal
Canadian Mounted Police inquiry that led to a search of its
headquarters. Swiss authorities said April 30 a criminal probe
resulted in the arrest of former Executive Vice President Riadh Ben Aissa and “uncovered suspicion of corruption, fraud and
 money laundering , all in relation to business conducted in North
Africa.”  Ben Aissa, a dual citizen of Canada and  Tunisia , oversaw
SNC-Lavalin projects in  Libya .  Libya Backlog  Work in Libya accounted for about 7 percent of SNC-
Lavalin’s backlog when the rebellion against dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  broke out in February 2011, and all work was suspended
as employees were evacuated. SNC-Lavalin posted a C$39.3 million
loss last year on projects in the North African country,
according to a March 26 filing.  The company is “actively” looking at getting back into
Libya, Bourne said on the conference call.  Since SNC had broken ground on a number of projects in the
country before pulling out, “to back away would be tough,”
said Johnson, the National Bank Financial analyst.  “Obviously the optics are challenging, but they want to be
in North Africa because they have a lot of roots there,” he
said. “They would be throwing away their entire legacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  