-- SocGen Profit Beats Estimates as Trading Revenue Rises
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-03T14:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/socgen-net-falls-less-than-estimated-as-trading-revenue-rises.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  fell in Paris
trading, reversing early gains, as investors questioned whether
France’s second-largest bank can sustain the trading performance
that bolstered earnings in the first quarter.  Societe Generale dropped 89 cents, or 4.9 percent, to 17.14
euros by 3:42 p.m. in Paris, erasing gains of as much as 4.8
percent, on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the
possible election of Socialist Francois Hollande as president of
France on May 6 will hurt results.  “Turbulence in the  euro zone  has already restarted and
this may damage SocGen’s results and their capacity to set aside
profits to bolster reserves,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who
helps manage 500 million euros ($655 million) at Ofi Gestion
Privee in Paris and doesn’t own  Societe Generale  shares. The
company “benefited from stability” in the markets in the
first quarter, he said.  Societe Generale reported today a 20 percent decline in
first-quarter net income to 732 million euros, beating the 597.5
million-euro  estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as
revenue from trading fixed income, currencies and commodities
rose 39 percent to 993 million euros.  Draghi See Risks  Shares in  European banks , which rallied in the first
quarter, spurred by 1 trillion euros in European Central Bank
loans, dropped last month as Spain’s worsening economic data
revived the continent’s debt crisis. European stocks trimmed
gains today after ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in
Barcelona that the economy is subject to “downside risks,” and
that tensions in some sovereign debt markets may “damp growth
momentum.”  Societe Generale and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , its larger French
competitor, began reducing leverage at their corporate- and
investment-banking units last year as  capital requirements  and
funding costs increased.  “The priority will be to build the capital base” over the
next two years, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We had in the
first quarter a kind of rebound after the last six months of
2011. April has remained very decent given a lower, a worse
environment.”  Good Start  Societe Generale’s corporate- and investment-banking profit
fell 41 percent to 351 million euros from 591 million euros a
year earlier, the bank said. The unit, which is cutting 1,580
jobs worldwide, returned to a profit after posting a 482
million-euro loss in the fourth quarter. While fixed income,
currencies and commodities revenue rose, sales from trading
equities declined 26 percent to 655 million euros.  First-quarter fixed-income sales can’t provide a gauge for
the business’s quarterly revenue this year, said Didier Valet,
head of the corporate- and investment-banking unit. “Don’t
multiply it by four,” Valet said on a call with analysts today.
“The start of the year was very good.”  The bank booked 226 million euros in losses from selling
4.9 billion euros of corporate loans as part of the deleveraging
plan, it said on its website. Societe Generale’s earnings were
also burdened by a 181 million-euro accounting charge stemming
from a rule that requires banks to book a loss if the price of
their debt rises.  Ackermann, Dougan  While investment-banking sales rebounded from the fourth-
quarter as the ECB’s three-year loans unlocked fixed-income
markets, Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and Credit Suisse Group AG’s CEO Brady Dougan said
that conditions deteriorated last month. BNP Paribas, led by CEO
Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, is slated to release earnings tomorrow.  Societe Generale intends to reach a core Tier 1 capital
ratio between 9 percent and 9.5 percent in 2013, based on Basel
III standards, in part by cutting risk-weighted assets at the
corporate and investment bank, or CIB, unit, it said.  European banks are struggling to maintain profitability
levels as they cut assets. Societe Generale’s  return-on-equity 
may fall to 5.7 percent this year from 6 percent in 2011 and 9.8
percent in 2010, before rising to 7.2 percent next year,
according to the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg last month. That measure of profitability was at 6.4
percent for Societe Generale in the first quarter.  Presidential Election  “There will be a cost of transformation that we are happy
to bear, and which might decrease the return on equity,” Oudea
said. “But this transformation is needed precisely to be able
to deliver, beyond 2013, a return on equity which will be
acceptable and at a right level for our shareholders.”  Societe Generale’s ROE may rise to between 10 percent and
12 percent “after the crisis,” Chief Financial Officer
Bertrand Badre told analysts.  Societe Generale, like BNP Paribas, retreated from dollar-
linked businesses such as aircraft financing as U.S. short-term
funding evaporated last year. Societe Generale is more than
halfway in cutting as much as 40 billion euros in risk-weighted
assets at the CIB unit, Badre said.  France ’s presidential election may also have implications
for banks’ profits. Hollande, who called finance his “biggest
adversary,” leads incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion polls.  France’s four largest listed banks may see their 2013
earnings dented by 10 percent under Hollande’s economic program,
estimated Jean-Pierre Lambert, a London-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd. Hollande pledged to force banks to split
retail and “speculative” investment operations, to tax all
financial transactions and to impose a 15 percent increase in
levies on bank profits.  International Banking  French banks have been embroiled in Europe’s debt crisis
partly because of their holdings of private and public debt in
 Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain . Although Societe
Generale doesn’t operate any branch networks in Italy and Spain,
it owns Athens-based Geniki Bank SA, an unprofitable consumer
banking network.  Societe Generale’s international consumer-banking profit,
including markets such as  Russia , the  Czech Republic  and  Egypt ,
rose to 45 million euros from 44 million euros a year earlier,
the bank said. First-quarter profit at its French retail-banking
division was 326 million euros, a 7.4 percent drop from a year
earlier, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 