-- SodaStream Tumbles on Green Mountain Forecast: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-04T15:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/sodastream-tumbles-after-green-mountain-plunge-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  sank to
the lowest level in 2012 as  Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters Inc.,
which trades in tandem with the Israeli company, reduced its
earnings forecast and dropped a record 48 percent yesterday.  SodaStream, a maker of homemade soda machines, fell 1.8
percent in New York to the  weakest  since Dec. 19. Green
Mountain, which makes single-cup coffee pods and brewers, cut
its 2012 earnings per share outlook by at least 5.7 percent from
earlier guidance. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the
most-traded Israeli companies in New York slid for a fourth day.  Both Green Mountain and SodaStream benefit from the so-
called razor blade model of retailing, where profits rely on
customers repeatedly buying complementary products such as gas
tanks, flavor pouches and coffee pods. The 120-day  correlation 
of gains or losses in SodaStream and Green Mountain’s shares
surged to a more than eight-month high of 0.65 yesterday,
signaling the companies trade closely.  SodaStream and Green Mountain “trade in tandem because
they’re both broad consumer companies with the same risk
characteristics,” Josef Schuster, founder of Ipox Schuster LLC,
said by phone from  Chicago  yesterday. “There is weakness in
domestic markets and  Europe  is really sensitive. It’s a volatile
time.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US measure slipped 1.8 percent to
89.29 yesterday, following global stocks lower as growth in U.S.
service industries slowed more than analysts predicted and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro
area’s economic outlook has worsened.  ‘More on the Downside’  Western Europe was SodaStream’s biggest source of sales in
2010, providing 62 percent of revenue, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The U.S. is now the company’s largest single
country market, according to a Feb. 29.  statement .  “The broader theme is that the risk has taken off for
consumer companies and pushed them more on the downside,”
Schuster said.  Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream tumbled to $30.48,
extending its drop this year to 6.8 percent.  Shares of Green Mountain rose 6.6 percent to $27.59 after
they fell by the most on record to $25.87 in  New York  yesterday.
The company reduced its outlook for this year’s earnings to as
much as $2.50 a share, down from earlier guidance of as much as
$2.65. The median of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg at the time of the announcement was for earnings-per-
share of $2.67.  Revenue rose 37 percent to $885.1 million in the second
quarter, the company’s slowest quarterly sales growth in five
years, Green Mountain said on May 2. That compares with the $972
million median of 12 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  More Competition  Green Mountain is seeing more competition from companies
that make private-label coffee capsules that fit into Keurig
Inc.’s machines and from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which in March said it
will begin selling its own single-serve brewer later this year.
Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Blanford has introduced the Vue
coffee machine, which makes espresso-based drinks, to help deal
with competition when Green Mountain’s main patents for the K-
Cup expires in September.  SodaStream will probably say that first-quarter sales rose
25 percent to $56.2 million, according to the median of eight
analysts’ estimates collated by Bloomberg, when reporting
 earnings  for the period on May 9.  Shares will “probably rebound” should the company show it
boosted sales in the U.S. in the first three months of the year,
Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co., who
recommends buying shares of SodaStream, said by phone in New
York yesterday.  U.S. Employment  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.1 percent to
1,376.48, as a report showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs
than forecast in April. Payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest
gain in six months, after a revised 154,000 gain in March that
was larger than initially estimated, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  The Tel Aviv benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.8 percent to
1,167.67 yesterday, sending the gauge to the highest level in
more than six months.  CEVA Inc. (CEVA) , a developer of chips available in most iPhones
and iPads, fell 0.5 percent today, retreating 20 percent to
$17.25 this week in New York.  The  Mountain View , California-based company created in 2002
as a spinoff from Israel-founded DSP Group Ltd. reduced earnings
guidance for 2012 by as much as 6.6 percent to $65.5 million as
customer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  strives to revive sales, Chief Financial
Officer Yaniv Arieli said on an earnings call with analysts on
May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  