-- South Korean Parliament Approves Carbon Trading System
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-05-03T12:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/south-korean-parliament-approves-carbon-trading-system.html
South Korea  approved a cap-and-trade
system to cut greenhouse gases as President  Lee Myung Bak  seeks
support for new restrictions on factories and power plants in
the fastest-growing emitter among industrialized democracies.  The National Assembly passed a bill to establish cap-and-
trade, a market-based program that requires companies exceeding
their emission quotas to buy permits from those that discharge
less, with the backing of ruling and opposition parties,
according to the assembly’s webcast of yesterday’s session. The
bill, which calls for  emissions trading  to start in 2015, was
passed in a 148-0 vote, with 3 abstentions.  “This is a truly significant moment, not only in terms of
Korea’s national efforts to tackle climate change, but also
because it underlines the emergence of a nascent Asian-Pacific
carbon trading emissions hub with the potential to be a tipping
point in the global fight against  climate change ,” said Terry
Townshend, the Beijing-based director of policy for the Global
Legislators Organization, a group known as Globe whose members
include Bryony Worthington of the U.K. House of Lords.  Carbon markets in Korea,  Australia  and China may be linked
with Europe’s emissions-trading system as early as 2020,
according to Globe. Before that can happen, Korea’s president
will have to sell the plan to domestic manufacturers who claim
it will hurt their competitiveness in global markets. Lee
pledged at the  United Nations  climate summit in 2009 to cut
greenhouse by 30 percent from forecast levels by 2020.  ‘Early Adopter’  At least year’s meeting of about 200 nations in Durban,
 South Africa , countries including the U.S. and  China  said they
will wait until 2015 to sign a global accord on emission
reductions that would take effect as late as 2020. Australia
voted last year to start a cap-and-trade system in 2015.  New
Zealand  started emissions trading in 2009, and the European
Union started the world’s biggest emissions market in 2005.  “Korea becomes an early adopter in  Asia ,” Kang Hee Chan,
a senior researcher at the Korea Environment Institute, said by
phone.  Foosung Co. and Huchems Fine Chemical Corp., companies that
sell carbon credits, rose after South Korea’s emissions bill was
passed. Foosung climbed as much as 5.3 percent on the Korea
Exchange, its biggest intra-day gain since April 26, and closed
0.6 percent higher at 6,300 won today. Huchems rose 0.9 percent
to 22,700 won, the highest close since March 20. The benchmark
Kospi index fell 0.2 percent.  Selling in Europe  Companies that emit 125,000 metric tons or more of carbon
dioxide a year will be subject to Korea’s cap-and-trade system,
along with factories, buildings and livestock farms that produce
at least 25,000 tons of the gas annually, according to the bill.
The government is scheduled to announce rules governing
compliance within six months.  “Foosung is among a handful of companies at home that are
already selling carbon credits in  Europe ,” Song Dong Heon, an
analyst at Hyundai Securities Co., said by telephone today.
“Stocks in the sector are strong on expectations that the
companies will benefit from the legislation.”  South Korea is a “natural” partner for cooperating with
Europe’s emissions-trading system, known as an ETS, according to
EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard . “Welcome, South
Korea, world’s 12th-largest economy, to the growing ETS
family,” she said via her Twitter account.  Even so, emission markets overseen by the EU and United
Nations weren’t lifted by yesterday’s announcement. Carbon
permits in the EU dropped as much as 1.8 percent today,
extending yesterday’s decline of 4.6 percent on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe Exchange. EU allowances are down 60 percent from
a year ago as Europe struggles with a debt crisis that has
exacerbated an oversupply of permits.  Fastest-Growing  So-called offset credits under the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism also fell. They dropped as much at 4.7 percent today
on ICE, extending yesterday’s decline of 1.5 percent.  South  Korea  is the world’s eighth-largest carbon emitter,
based on 2009 figures from the  International Energy Agency . The
country’s greenhouse-gas emissions jumped to about 640 million
metric tons in 2011 from 350 million tons in 1990, making it the
fastest-growing emissions source among 34 nations in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said in a Feb. 9 report.  “The bill is needed to cope with global climate change,
and domestically, to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas
efficiently,” Kim Jae Kyung, a member of the ruling New
Frontier Party, said in the assembly’s plenary session before
yesterday’s vote.  Unsettled Business  The Federation of Korean Industries  and the Korea Chamber
of Commerce & Industry, the nation’s top two business lobbies,
asked the government to delay introducing the plan, saying it
will increase costs and make industry less competitive against
countries that don’t impose charges on emissions.  Kim Tae Yoon, head of the strategic industries team at the
federation, which has about 500 members including steelmaker
 Posco (005490)  and Samsung Electronics Co., said companies remain opposed
to any implementation of carbon trading that’s done faster than
rival countries.  “Our position remains the same,” Kim said by phone today.
“We are worried about the impact on our competitiveness and are
committed to finding a compromise in consultation with the
government.”  Companies may face an additional 5.6 trillion won ($5
billion) of costs if a carbon market is implemented, according
to data from state-owned  Korea Energy Management Corp. , which
handles emissions reductions and promoting renewable energy.  Free Permits  “It might be challenging for Korea to cut  carbon emissions 
as requested by the government,” Kang said. “Its major
industries, by nature, are emitting lots of the gas.” Korea
largely depends on heavy industries such as steelmaking and
petrochemicals, he said.  The Korean government may give companies more than 95
percent of their permits for free for three to six years,
according to the bill. Companies would get 100 percent of their
permits for free depending on their contribution to the
country’s trade, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Knowledge Economy Ministry.  The government has yet to announce any rules governing
compliance, such as how many Certified Emission Reductions under
the UN program would be allowed in the program.  The government needs to see a lot of studies about the
bill’s impact on people, Yim Jong Yong, minister of  the Prime
Minister’s Office , told lawmakers in  Seoul  before the vote.  South Korea would emit 742 million tons in 2020 without a
program to cut emissions, Andrea Du Rietz, a London-based
analyst at New Energy Finance, said in the note on Feb. 9.  “The approved South Korean ETS could provide price support
for CERs in the long run and contribute to the longevity of the
global carbon market,” Du Rietz said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Any links with the UN offset market are highly uncertain, but
we currently assume that approximately 20 percent of abatement
needed out to 2020 could be met by about 130 million CERs over
the six years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  