-- Spain to Set Rules for Banks to Offload Real Estate
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-03T16:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/spain-to-set-rules-for-banks-to-offload-real-estate.html
Spain  will set rules in the coming
weeks allowing banks to offload real estate, whose valuations on
lenders’ books are in line with market prices, Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said.  De Guindos said the plan will be voluntary and each bank
may set up its own vehicle into which it can transfer real
estate assets that have already been written down. He said
provisioning levels of 80 percent for land and 65 percent for
unfinished property were sufficient, allowing banks to offload
the assets without generating additional losses.  “In general terms, these levels are considered market
prices,” he told reporters in Barcelona today. He declined to
comment on what would happen if appraisers of the vehicles price
the assets below their current book value.  Less than three months after tightening legislation to
force lenders to recognize deeper real estate losses, Spain is
seeking new ways to convince investors that bank losses won’t
overburden  public  finances. De Guindos met with European
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  yesterday in Brussels,
where de Guindos said they discussed issues including lenders.  The government says the rules approved in February forcing
banks to set aside an additional 53.8 billion euros (70.7
billion) in buffers and provisions are enough. The banks have
until the end of the year to make the provisions.  In an April 20 research note, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimated that 58 billion euros of further losses, on top of
those stipulated by the February decree, would be needed. Market
concerns remain over the “scale of unrecognized losses,”
Goldman Sachs said.  Spain, fighting to rein in the euro-region’s third-largest
budget deficit, is trying to shield public finances from the
cost of cleaning up the banks. While the state created the FROB
rescue fund in 2009, which has bought preference shares and
ordinary shares in struggling lenders, it ruled last year that
any losses from the restructuring would be borne by the
industry-financed Deposit Guarantee Fund.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  