-- U.S., German Automakers Push EV Charging Nissan Bypasses
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-05-03T16:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-german-automakers-push-ev-charging-nissan-bypasses.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and five other carmakers are promoting a standard
for rapidly charging electric cars that’s at odds with a method
used by Nissan Motor Co., the top seller of battery vehicles.  Chrysler Group LLC is the latest to join Ford, GM and
 Germany ’s VW and its Audi luxury brand,  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , Daimler AG and Porsche AG in adopting direct current fast-
charging with a single standard plug, said Mike Tinskey, Ford’s
associate director of vehicle electrification. The system can
re-power vehicles in as little as 15 minutes, he said.  Ford and the other carmakers chose the “DC combo” port
because using a single-plug type whether charging at home or at
a public facility is less costly and easier for customers,
Tinskey said.  “We’re hopeful everyone migrates to a single standard,”
he said.  Standards for the nascent electric-vehicle industry aren’t
fixed amid expanding sales of cars powered wholly or in part by
batteries. While automakers agree that being able to quickly
recharge electric vehicles will boost their appeal to consumers,
Nissan,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  already
use competing technology.  Nissan’s top-selling Leaf and Mitsubishi’s electric i
minicar use the “CHAdeMO” system developed and promoted in
 Japan , which requires different plugs for standard and rapid
charging. Tesla, seller of the $109,000 electric Roadster,
designed its own single plug DC fast-charger that differs with
both the U.S.-German method and that of the Japanese companies.  SAE International , the automotive-engineering society that
sets technical guidelines for the industry, selected the
“Combined Charging System” touted by Ford and other
automakers, Tinskey said.  “The standard is to be officially published this summer,”
Ford said in a joint statement today with the seven other
carmakers that plan to adopt it. “ACEA, the European
association of vehicle manufacturers, has also selected the
Combined Charging System as its AC/DC-charging interface for all
new vehicle types in  Europe  beginning in 2017.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  