-- U.S. Productivity Falls, Labor Costs Rise Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-03T13:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-productivity-falls-labor-costs-rise-less-than-forecast-1-.html
The productivity of U.S. workers fell
in the first quarter, indicating businesses are reaching the
limit of how much efficiency they can wring from the workforce.  The  measure  of employee output per hour declined at a 0.5
percent annual rate after a 1.2 percent gain in the prior three
months, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Expenses per worker increased at a 2 percent rate,
less than estimated.  Employers had to take on more staff at the start of the
year even as growth slowed, signaling they can no longer count
on existing staff to meet demand. A government report tomorrow
may show payrolls increased again in April, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “This slowdown in productivity is a positive omen for the
labor market,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said in a research
note. He correctly projected the drop in productivity. “It
suggests that additional increases in output will necessitate a
faster pace of hiring than what has occurred thus far.”  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 60
economists called for a 0.6 percent drop in productivity.
Estimates ranged from a 1.5 percent decline to a 0.5 percent
gain.  The decrease last quarter followed a 0.4 percent gain for
all of 2011, the smallest advance since 1995.  Labor expenses, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 2.7 percent, the survey median showed.  Claims Drop  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, easing concern the job market
was taking a turn for the worse, another report from the Labor
Department showed today. Jobless claims fell by 27,000 to
365,000 in the week ended April 28, a one-month low, from a
revised 392,000 the prior period. The median forecast of 46
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 379,000.  Stock-index futures rose after the labor market data, with
the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
rising 0.1 percent to 1,399.2 at 9:21 a.m. in  New York .  Employers are keeping a lid on wages even as the job market
improves, today’s report showed, underscoring concern among some
Federal Reserve policy makers that job-market slack will
suppress income gains.  Hourly pay climbed at a 1.5 percent annual rate last
quarter, down from a 3.9 percent increase in the prior three
months, today’s report showed. Adjusted for inflation, hourly
earnings dropped at a 0.9 percent annual rate after increasing
in the prior two quarters.  Inflation may remain around the central bank’s goal of 2
percent as labor costs are “muted” given the high  unemployment
rate , Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John
Williams  said May 1 on a panel in  Beverly Hills ,  California .  Fed Concern  Fed officials, concerned about elevated unemployment, last
month repeated their plan to hold borrowing costs low through
late 2014 to spur growth.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, is among firms trying to control employee
expenses. UPS, which reported a gain in first-quarter profit and
reiterated its 2012 earnings forecast, is benefiting from
productivity gains and “greater economies of scale,” Chief
Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said.  “Our hours, our miles and those things are just barely up
for the quarter even though we showed some of the strongest
volume growth you’ve seen in some time,” Kuehn said on an April
26 conference call with analysts. “So we are able to process
this volume very efficiently and the incremental impact on
expense and capital is very minimal.”  Factory Productivity  Among manufacturers, productivity jumped at a 5.9 percent
rate, the biggest gain in almost two years, after increasing at
a 0.6 percent rate in the last three months of 2011.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2.2 percent annual rate
in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace in the previous
three months, Commerce Department data showed last week.  Hiring is improving. Payrolls rose by 160,000 in April
after a 120,000 gain in March, according to the Bloomberg survey
median ahead of a report due tomorrow. The jobless rate probably
held at 8.2 percent, economists predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  