-- U.S. State Budget Surpluses Rising as Economy Lifts Revenue
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-03T19:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-state-budget-surpluses-rising-as-economy-lifts-tax-revenue.html
More than half of U.S. states expect
to end their budget years with cash surpluses as a recovery in
the economy buoys tax collections, a sign of easing pressure in
statehouses across the country.  Twenty-nine state governments, including  New Jersey ,
 Indiana  and  Arizona , anticipate ending their fiscal years with
more money on hand than forecast when they put together their
annual budgets, according to a survey released today by the
Denver-based National Conference of State Legislatures. It marks
the first time since the onset of the 2007 recession that so
many states will have unspent funds.  “State fiscal conditions continue to improve at a slow and
steady pace,” the legislatures group said in the report. “To
date, collections have met or exceeded expectations in most
states. Officials expressed cautious optimism about the fiscal
situation, reflecting the slow, but steady, improvement.”  The improving financial outlook lessens the need for state
officials to make the spending cuts that have exerted a drag on
the economy since it emerged almost three years ago from the
worst recession since the Great Depression. States have closed
more than $500 billion of budget deficits over the last four
years by raising taxes, cutting jobs and curbing spending.  Tax Collections Return  Tax collections have risen for the last two years, pushing
them back above the peak hit before the recession, according to
the  Albany , New York-based Rockefeller Institute of Government.  The gains also mark a positive shift for local governments
whose own budget struggles have been exaggerated by cutbacks in
state aid, said Alan Schankel, a managing director who tracks
the municipal  bond market  at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. As states recover, he said, they may send funds
back to cities and counties.  Speculation about defaults in the $3.7 trillion municipal
bond market has centered on local governments as cities
including Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , Central Falls,  Rhode Island ,
and Stockton,  California , sought or considered bankruptcy.  “It’s a positive thing for bondholders,” Schankel said.
“It’s going to get some pressure off the local governments.”  The influx of funds left fewer states making emergency
changes to close mid-year budget deficits and cut the scale of
the shortfalls predicted for the 2013 fiscal year, according to
the survey. Just 16 states, and Washington, D.C., reported
facing combined deficits of $16.2 billion for 2013, with half of
that coming from California and  New York .  Alaska Leads  Alaska is projecting the biggest budget surplus for this
year, $1.9 billion, as high  oil prices  benefit the petroleum-
rich state. Indiana’s $1.79 billion of unspent funds triggered a
taxpayer refund and put more money aside for pensions. Others
with extra funds include South Carolina,  Tennessee  and Rhode
Island, a state where fiscal turmoil has left the capital of
Providence working to avoid bankruptcy.  Most states plan to use the money to rebuild reserve funds
that were drawn down in recent years or spend it in the next
fiscal year, according to the survey.  “Throughout the Great Recession, spending estimates often
proved to be too low and revenue estimates too high, resulting
in substantial state budget gaps,” the survey reported. “The
fiscal environment, however, is beginning to stabilize.”  The legislatures group said that states could still suffer
setbacks from federal budget cuts or a slowdown in the world’s
economy.  “A degree of uncertainty still lingers over state
budgets,” the group wrote in the survey. “Concerns about
unemployment levels, potential federal deficit reduction
actions, spending pressures and global economic events, are
contributing to a cautious state budget outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  