-- U.S. Structured Note Sales Fall as Stocks End Monthly Win Streak
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-05-03T17:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-structured-note-sales-fall-as-stocks-end-monthly-win-streak.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes fell in
April as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed lower for the
first month since November.  Banks sold $2.73 billion of the securities, down from a
seven-month high of $4.48 billion in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from prospectuses filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as of May 1. Issuance this
year of $13.9 billion lags behind last year’s $17.9 billion at
this time, Bloomberg data show.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  snapped its longest win streak of monthly gains
since 2009 on renewed concern over the ability of Europe to
contain its debt crisis and weaker economic data from the U.S.
An Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. report showed
business activity expanded in April at the slowest pace since
2009. The  S&P 500 , which is the most popular underlying for
equity-tied notes, dropped 0.75 percent.  “When the market’s down, people aren’t as enthusiastic”
about buying, said Scott Miller, founder of Blue Bell Private
Wealth Management LLC, which sometimes purchases the
investments.  Securities linked to equities made up the largest category
for the month with banks selling $1.47 billion of products in
365 offerings, Bloomberg data show. Rate-linked notes were the
second-most popular, at $570.1 million of issuance, followed by
$206 million of reverse convertibles, Bloomberg data show.  Note sales fell while volatility increased. The VIX, as the
 Chicago Board Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX)  is
known, averaged 17.8 for the month, more than the 16.2 in March.
The VIX measures the cost of hedging against losses on the S&P
500. As volatility rises, so does the value of the derivatives
embedded in many structured notes, allowing issuers to create
higher-paying securities.  Biggest Note  On April 11, General Electric Co.’s finance unit sold $100
million of so-called step-up callable notes, the largest
offering in the month, according to Bloomberg data. The 15-year
securities yield 3.5 percent for the first five years, then the
rate increases twice, reaching 7 percent in 2022 if they’re not
called, according to a prospectus filed with the SEC.  On April 27,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  issued $67.5 million in two-year
notes tied to the  U.S. dollar  and Chinese renminbi, the second-
largest sale last month and the biggest currency-linked deal
since Sept. 9, Bloomberg data show. Investors receive 1.46 times
any gains in the yuan against the greenback, with their
principal returned if the  exchange rate  goes in the other
direction, according to a  prospectus  filed with the SEC. New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  distributed the notes for a 1
percent commission.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 