-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 1 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-03T12:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-1-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
National Weather Service (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  The week featured a series of low-pressure systems moving along
a northern storm track.  These storm systems brought significant
rains to many portions of the Northwest, Great Plains, Ohio
Valley, and Central Appalachians.  Additionally, soaking rains
fell across  south Florida .  Dry conditions persisted over many
of the areas already experiencing drought conditions, especially
across the Intermountain West, Upper Mid-West and Southeast,
with the exception of South Florida.  The Northeast and mid-Atlantic:  At the end of last week, a
storm system moved to the northeast from the Mid-Atlantic.  Much
of the precipitation with this system was forced out of the
clouds over the Central Appalachians before the storm could
again tap moisture over the Atlantic, so the major impacts were
across West Virginia and  Maine .  The result was the removal of
the area of abnormally dry (D0) conditions across northern Maine
and a slight trimming of the Severe Drought (D2) across the
Delmarva Peninsula.  No other changes were made across this
region as the light precipitation did little to ease the
drought.  The Southeast:  As the storm systems passed to the north, some
convective rains (0.5 inch - 2.3 inches) moved across the
Carolinas, with heavier amounts (1.0 - 2.6 inches) over the
western portions of  North Carolina  and extreme eastern
 Tennessee .   The response to the precipitation in the hydrologic
system over western North Carolina prompted the removal of a
small area of D0 across the Catawba and Upper Yadkin river
basins.  Continued dryness prompted discussion of the expansion
of Severe Drought conditions across the Broad River basin, but
local hydrological conditions (reservoir storage levels) were
not being impacted, so no changes were made across that region.
The generally dry conditions over the past 30 days (percent of
normal precipitation ranged from 25-50 percent of normal across
this region) supported the expansion of D1 conditions across
much of the southern Coastal Plain and central portions of the
Piedmont.  Continued dry conditions across  Georgia ,  Alabama , and North
 Florida  prompted the expansion of drought conditions across
those three areas.  Extreme Drought (D3) conditions were
expanded to cover the areas where deficits are nearing record
lows for yearly totals (Tallahassee).  Areas of southern Alabama
remained dry last week, with 60-day rainfall totals near 50
percent of normal and USGS streamflows indicating severe
hydrologic drought.  Farther north, the latest USDA Crop
Progress and Condition report noted several impacts in Jackson
County, where lack of rainfall has essentially halted planting,
along with adverse impacts to crop and pasture health.  Early
hay yield reports are below half of normal there as well.
Winter wheat harvesting however, in the central portion of the
state is apparently going well and that was noted, so there are
some advantages to the recent dryness.  Exceptional drought was expanded in coverage over central
Georgia, with the area indicated reflecting Standardized
Precipitation Index (SPI) values out through 24 months (SPI3,
SPI6, SPI9, SPI12, and SPI24) all indicating drought severity of
at least D2.  Above-average temperatures exacerbated conditions
across the state, as it was second warmest year on record at
Augusta-Bush Field, from May of 2011-May 2012.  The Ohio and Tennessee Valleys:  Abnormally dry conditions
expanded across Tennessee, eastern  Missouri , and portions of
western  Kentucky , while some welcomed rains prompted the removal
of D0 conditions across eastern Kentucky.  That reduction is dry
conditions depicted on the map are in sharp contrast to the lack
of precipitation that has developed as over the past 3 months
near the COOP sites of Shelbyville, Winchester, and Tullahoma,
which are having their driest such period ever on record.
Tullahoma has a period of record of 120 years.  The Midwest/Northern Plains: Contrasting signals emerged over
 Illinois  and  Indiana .  Recent rains stemmed the tide of drought
in some areas but did were not enough to stop the reports of dry
conditions across Indiana.  Minor modifications were made to the
depiction of drought over Illinois to reflect some recent rains
(1.0-1.9 inches).  Farther north, a wet pattern allowed for some improvement over
the arrowhead of  Minnesota  and across North and South Dakota.
Improvements across Minnesota were based on recovering lake
levels and recent rains (30 and 60-day percent of normal were
greater than 125 percent in some regions).  Across the Dakotas,
30 and 60-day percent of normal  precipitation and SPI values
were used to shape the drought depiction.  Those indicators
warranted the removal of D1 conditions near the North Dakota-
South Dakota border, and improved conditions across Perkins and
Ziebach counties. Eastern South Dakota has experienced near-
median to 150 percent of median precipitation for this calendar
year while stock dams out west are still drier than desired.  Central and Southern Plains: The changes to the drought
conditions across  Texas  varied this week, with some improvements
across the northern portions of the state.  Across the northern
portions of the state locally 0.5 - 2.0 inches of rain fell near
Hockley County.  The rest of the state experienced above-normal
temperatures and below-median rainfall, so drought conditions
were expanded and/or intensified to reflect SPI values over the
past 2 through 6 months.  Rains the fell on Monday prompted a
small improvement near Del Rio (0.5-1.5 inches).  The West: Across  Utah , a reassessment of conditions prompted the
removal of an area of  severe drought , but the expansion of
moderate drought.  Snow-water equivalent, percent of normal
values were the lowest across the western and eastern portions
of the state.  Beaver River Basin was at 47 percent of normal,
and the Sevier River Basin was at 21 percent of normal, while
the Price-San Rafael Basin was at 1 percent of normal.  SPI
values indicate this split as well.  Recommendations from the
Upper Colorado River Basin NIDIS project also supported this
configuration.  Further, the data analyzed by the UCRB project
participants supported the introduction of Severe Drought (D2)
conditions across Larimer County.  A small improvement to conditions was noted across the central
Sierra  Nevada  mountains as 30-day percent of normal
precipitation indicated wetter than average conditions.  The
impacts designation across Utah and Nevada was also changed to
SL to reflect the impact to hydrologic conditions and that data
through at least 6 months indicates very dry conditions.  Hawaii,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico:  Windward locations of the
Hawaiian Islands generally received 1-2 inches of precipitation
during the past 7-days.  Strong gradients in precipitation and
greenness were evident in photos sent in from the USDA FSA field
agents.  Conditions were unchanged across Puerto Rico and
Alaska, although Alaska has been experiencing dry conditions
lately.  Looking Ahead:  Forecasts from the  National Weather Service 
depict an active northern storm track for the next 5 days, with
some moisture moving northward over the western Gulf Coast.
Rainfall amounts are expected to exceed 3 inches across portions
of the Upper Mississippi River Valley, with amounts greater than
1 inch expected from North Dakota to  New Hampshire .  Dry
conditions are anticipated across the Southwest, Central Rockies
and much of the southern Great Plains.  During the period from
May 8-12, conditions favor warmer than normal temperatures from
Nevada to the Pacific Northwest and across the southeast with
below-normal temperatures from the southern Great Plains to the
Northeast.  A southward shift in the active weather is
anticipated, as wet conditions are favored from Texas to
Nebraska, and across the southeast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  