-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for May 3 to July 31 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-03T12:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-may-3-to-july-31-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The Drought Outlook for May 3 -
July 31, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the
release of the previous Drought Outlook issued on April 19,
2012, a slight expansion of drought occurred in the Tennessee
Valley and lower Ohio Valley while drought conditions
intensified across the interior Southeast. In contrast, drought
improvement is noted across southern  New England  and southeast
Florida. Since precipitation signals are weak on the seasonal
time scale, this outlook is based primarily on short to medium
range forecasts and climatology. Some improvement is forecast
along the East Coast with improvement most likely across the
south-central  Florida  peninsula. The protracted drought across
 Georgia  and South Carolina is expected to persist. Persistence
is also forecast in northeast Minnesota, but prospects for
improvement increase farther south in southern Minnesota and
northern  Iowa . Some improvement can be expected across the
drought areas of the central and southern high Plains, while
drought is expected to persist or expand across parts of the
West along with western and south-central  Texas . A drier
climatology supports persistence in  Hawaii .  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for May 2012
and the long lead forecast for May through July 2012, various
medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the 6-10
day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 384-hour GFS total
precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools based on the
Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate Forecast
System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month Palmer drought
termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology, and
initial conditions.  During the early spring, drought coverage increased while
ongoing drought intensified across the interior Southeast due to
a lack of adequate precipitation (departures of 2-4 inches below
normal), above normal temperatures, and increased
evapotranspiration rates. Mostly dry weather coupled with record
heat (maximum temperatures into the 90s) during the first week
of May is expected to result in worsening of drought conditions
across Georgia and  South Carolina . Persistence is forecast for
this area of protracted drought across most of Georgia and South
Carolina where no wet signals are apparent among precipitation
tools at the seasonal time scale. Climatologically, rainfall
increases slightly closer to the  Gulf Coast  and some improvement
is forecast for the Florida Panhandle. Meanwhile, frequent and
locally heavy rainfall recently led to drought elimination in
southeast Florida. Improvement is most likely to continue across
south-central Florida due to an increasingly wet climatology
during June and July. Forecast confidence for the Southeast is
moderate.  Small areas of moderate drought developed in  Illinois , western
 Kentucky , and middle Tennessee during April and the beginning of
May. Some improvement is forecast for Illinois since the drought
is short-term, moderate to heavy rainfall is expected in the
short-term, and the CPC May and May-July outlooks call for equal
chances of above, near, or below median precipitation. Across
western Kentucky, precipitation is less than 50 percent of
normal during the past 120 days. A more pessimistic forecast
exists for western Kentucky since short-term rainfall is less
certain and precipitation anomalies are much larger than across
Illinois. Some improvement is forecast for the newly developed
drought area in middle  Tennessee  since near to above median
rainfall is favored during the next ten days and the May-July
outlook calls for equal chances of above, near or below median
precipitation. Forecast confidence for Illinois, western
Kentucky, and Tennessee is low.  An unusually warm and dry March resulted in rapid development of
moderate to severe drought from the Delmarva region north to New
England. Although precipitation signals are weak on most time
scales, some improvement is based on the short duration of
drought conditions that can be eased with more seasonal
rainfall. Forecast confidence for the mid-Atlantic, Northeast,
and New England is moderate.  In the upper Midwest and northern Plains, May - July is
climatologically one of the wettest times of the year. Typically
35 to 45 percent of annual precipitation falls during this 3-
month period from the eastern Dakotas eastward through Iowa and
 Minnesota , climbing to between 45 and 60 percent in the northern
Plains. Improvement is forecast across southern Minnesota and
Iowa due to a favorably wet climatology and heavy rainfall
during the first week of May. Prospects for improvement decrease
across northeast Minnesota with lighter short-term rainfall and
a longer term drought. Some improvement for the northern and
central high Plains is based on a wet climatology and enhanced
odds for near to above median precipitation during the 6-10 day
period. Forecast confidence for southeast Minnesota/northern
Iowa is high and for the remainder of Minnesota and the northern
Plains is low.  Drought is expected to persist across much of the West and
expand across the central Rockies and south-central Texas. May-
July is a relatively wet time of year for the southern High
Plains and neutral to dry farther west, especially in the desert
Southwest and  California . A slight tilt in the odds towards
below median precipitation is forecast for May-July across the
north-central Rockies with no discernible tilt of the odds
farther south. Surface moisture is depleted in late spring and
summer across this region due to the frequency of hot, dry, and
windy weather. In addition, mountain snowpack, the source of a
lot of the region’s moisture, is starting off below normal, and
as a result summer streamflows are expected to be abnormally
low. In addition, May - July is expected to be warmer than
normal, potentially enhancing the typical surface moisture
depletion that always happens during this time of year. The
result is a forecast for persisting drought that could expand
into the central Rockies if there is sufficiently enhanced
seasonal surface moisture draw-down. Onset of monsoonal rains in
July should improve surface moisture levels in southeast  Arizona 
and southwest  New Mexico , resulting in a forecast of some
improvement in these areas. Beneficial rainfall expected during
early to mid-May along with a relatively wet climatology (30 to
40 percent of annual precipitation occurs from May-July)
supports some improvement across southwest Kansas. Forecast
confidence across the southwestern and western parts of the
nation is high.  Following drought improvement across parts of Texas during the
late winter and early spring, a drier pattern returned during
April. Although no dry signals are apparent among the seasonal
precipitation tools, a lack of rainfall during April into early
May (typically a wet time of year) across south-central Texas
combined with enhanced odds for above normal temperatures from
May-July supports persistence and development across south-
central Texas. Persistence is also forecast across west Texas
due to expected abnormal warmth in the May-July outlook. Odds
for improvement increase across northwest Texas due to a
favorable pattern for beneficial rainfall during early-to-mid
May. Enhanced odds for above median precipitation are forecast
in the CPC 6-10 day outlook, valid from May 8-12, across
northwest Texas. Forecast confidence for Texas is moderate.  Hawaii is transitioning into its drier time of the year and thus
persistence can be expected. Although not designated on the USDO
map, a small area of some improvement may occur along the Kona
slopes. Forecast confidence in Hawaii is moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  