-- UBS Hires Ex-BofA Analyst Milunovich as Managing Director
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-05-03T12:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ubs-hires-ex-bofa-analyst-milunovich-as-managing-director.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
hired Steven Milunovich, a former analyst at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , as a managing director for its U.S. research group.  Milunovich will cover information technology hardware and
report to David Bleustein, head of U.S. equities research, the
Zurich-based bank said today in a memo to employees. Milunovich,
who was a managing director at Bank of America covering
alternative energy until March, has worked for more than two
decades at firms including Merrill Lynch & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and Salomon Brothers.  “Every once in a while the market gives you an
opportunity, and when that opportunity comes, you take it,”
Bleustein said yesterday in an interview. “Steve is a legend in
the business.”  UBS is revamping its investment bank under  Robert McCann ,
chief executive officer of the Americas, after a three-year
slide in the firm’s U.S. market share. The company recruited
Andrea Orcel, Bank of America’s top dealmaker, in March to co-
head its investment bank, and has been hiring from the
 Charlotte , North-Carolina-based firm since Orcel’s arrival.  Milunovich was among analysts dismissed from Bank of
America as the lender sought to trim expenses in its investment
bank, two people with knowledge of the moves said at the time.
He was inducted into the Institutional Investor hall of fame for
sell-side researchers in 2011, UBS said in the statement.  Susquehanna Hire  The bank hired A.J. Rice last month as a managing director
covering health care facilities for the U.S. research team,
according to an April 9 memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Rice,
who was previously at Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based
Susquehanna Financial Group, also reports to Bleustein.  UBS said yesterday net income in the first quarter fell 54
percent to 827 million francs ($903.7 million) from 1.81 billion
francs a year earlier, after a charge related to the company’s
own debt and a 17 percent drop in revenue led to a loss at the
investment bank. Profit surpassed the average estimate of 810.9
million francs in a survey of nine analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 