-- UBS Investors Protest 2011 Compensation, Management Actions
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-05-03T16:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ubs-improved-controls-after-trading-loss-chief-ermotti-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  shareholders protested against
compensation and management actions after Switzerland’s biggest
bank suffered a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  Almost 37 percent of shareholders voted against the bank’s
compensation report for 2011 at the annual meeting in Zurich
today. More than 39 percent opposed discharging members of the
executive board and  board of directors  of responsibility for
their actions in 2011, while 8 percent abstained.  The approval rate of less than 53 percent for management
actions compares with about 98 percent at last year’s meeting.
Only once did UBS  shareholders  reject management discharge: when
they voted in 2010 on actions for 2007, the year the Zurich-
based bank amassed billions of losses related to subprime
mortgages as managers were too slow to react to the unfolding
crisis.  UBS shareholders also rejected the bank’s proposal today to
increase the amount of conditional capital, or how many new
shares it can issue, to 300 million shares from 148.6 million
previously and to permit the use of this capital to satisfy
awards granted employees under share plans.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  told shareholders
today that UBS has taken measures to improve its controls
following the unauthorized trading loss to ensure the risk of a
similar event is “as small as possible.”  September Trial  “Should this happen again, however, such activities must
be detected and stopped swiftly,” Ermotti said in a speech.
“We improved internal monitoring and controls. We replaced or
cut pay of the people that made serious mistakes or acted
unreasonably.”  UBS is bracing for Kweku Adoboli’s trial in September after
the former trader at the firm’s investment bank in  London 
pleaded not guilty in January to charges of fraud and false
accounting. The U.K. and Swiss financial regulators in February
started formal enforcement actions against UBS over the loss.  “The legal proceedings in September are likely to generate
unfavorable headlines,” said Ermotti, 51. “If we are then
confronted with the details, I want to be able to say: these
details describe a situation in the past.”  UBS’s investment bank will only be able to contribute
toward the company’s main business of serving wealthy clients if
it has risks under control, Ermotti said. That doesn’t mean the
company will “avoid risk at any price.”  Compensation Criticism  The loss from unauthorized trading uncovered in September
led to the departure of CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 68, and the
appointment of Ermotti as his replacement at Switzerland’s
biggest bank. Shareholders applauded as Ermotti thanked Gruebel
for rebuilding UBS, though some criticized the personnel changes
the bank has gone through over the past years.  “The personnel carousel is turning so fast at UBS that one
gets dizzy looking at it,” shareholder Rene Zeyer told more
than 3,400 fellow investors gathered at the meeting. “Another
investment banker took the helm. Should we memorize his name? I
don’t think so.”  He criticized the compensation that Ermotti got for 2011
and the pay package UBS promised to former Bundesbank President
 Axel Weber , 55, who was elected to the board of directors today
to succeed Kaspar Villiger, 71, as chairman.  Ermotti, who first joined UBS on April 1 as the head of
business in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa , received 6.35
million francs ($6.9 million) for 2011, including a 4.6 million-
franc bonus. Weber will be getting annual compensation of 2
million francs and 200,000 UBS shares blocked for four years. He
will also get a one-time payment upon election to the board of 2
million francs and 200,000 UBS shares blocked for one year.  ‘Welcome Gift’  Shareholder Brigitta Moser-Harder also criticized the
“welcome gift” for  Andrea Orcel . Orcel, a top Bank of America
Corp. dealmaker, is joining UBS in July to co-head the
investment bank with Carsten Kengeter. Villiger said Orcel will
receive compensation for the amount he had to give up because
he’s leaving Bank of America, adding that he can’t comment on
the amount.  UBS got approval of 60 percent of shareholders on its 2011
compensation report in a consultative vote. That compares with
64 percent approval on compensation at last year’s meeting.
Weber, speaking to reporters after the meeting, pledged to
“very seriously” consider compensation issues.  The bank’s shares  declined  27 percent in 2011, compared
with a 32 percent drop in the 43-company Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index.  Profit Drop  UBS isn’t alone in feeling investors’ ire.  Aviva Plc (AV/) 
shareholders voted down the U.K. insurer’s compensation report
today with a 54 percent majority. Citigroup Inc. shareholders
rejected the bank’s executive pay plan on April 18 amid
criticism it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars
in rewards too easily. Barclays Plc CEO  Robert Diamond  will
forgo about 11 percent of his total pay if he fails to meet
profitability goals after investors opposed his package. About
27 percent of Barclays’s shareholders and 32 percent of Credit
Suisse Group AG investors last week voted against remuneration
plans.  UBS reported yesterday a 54 percent drop in  first-quarter 
net income to 827 million francs, after a charge related to the
company’s own debt and a 17 percent drop in revenue led to a
loss at the investment bank. UBS is shrinking its investment
bank by almost half as the European sovereign-debt crisis and
stricter capital rules hurt profits.  The economic situation remains a challenge for the Zurich-
based bank, Villiger, a former Swiss finance minister, told
shareholders today.  “The outlook may have brightened recently, but the
improved conditions in the markets seem not to be sustainable,”
he said. “People in the industrialized nations will continue to
pay a high price for the frivolous financial policies of their
politicians for some time to come.”  ‘Great Future’  Weber, speaking to shareholders, said UBS has a “great
future,” adding that the bank that once was “ Switzerland ’s
icon” has to move in that direction again. He will continue
with Ermotti to implement UBS’s strategy, which has started
showing results, he said, adding that he has a “long-term
horizon” for involvement with the bank.  He told reporters that he supported the appointment of
Ermotti as CEO after Gruebel stepped down as the only viable
candidate from within UBS with experience in  investment banking .
There is no distance or difference between him and Ermotti,
Weber said. He also said the co-head structure of Kengeter and
Orcel at the top of the investment bank makes sense as they’ll
be responsible for different areas of the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  