-- Lufthansa to Scrap 3,500 Administrative Posts After Loss
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-03T14:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/lufthansa-to-scrap-3-500-administrative-posts-after-losses-widen.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  will scrap 3,500
administrative positions, or about 20 percent of the clerical
total, as the German airline seeks to improve profitability with
a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) cost-reduction program.  The job cuts, 2,500 of them in  Germany , will help deliver
one-third of the savings Lufthansa is seeking through 2014,
the Cologne-based carrier said today. A global purchasing
project will also shave 200 million euros from expenses this
year, and “traffic optimization” should recoup at least
10 million euros.  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, which has about 117,000
employees, 16,800 in clerical posts, said yesterday its first-
quarter operating loss widened to 381 million euros from 169
million euros a year earlier as economies slowed and the cost of
restructuring and fuel weighed on earnings. The shortfall was
bigger than the 297 million-euro figure anticipated by  analysts .  “The miss came as a result of incrementally higher staff
costs and lower-than-expected yield,” Bank of America analyst
Mark Manduca said in a note, adding that full-year operating
profit is likely to fall short of a consensus estimate of
495 million euros, which assumes more positive developments in
pricing. The new consensus may be 20 percent lower, according to
the analyst, who reiterated his “underperform” rating.  ‘Safeguard’  Lufthansa, which said it can’t rule out job cuts on the
operational side, fell as much as 3.1 percent to 9.60 euros and
was trading 1.9 percent lower as of 4:22 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  “Higher taxes, fees and charges put a massive strain on
our quarterly result,” Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz
said today. The savings program “is our own response to these
additional burdens. It will safeguard Lufthansa’s position.”  Competitor  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) 
plans to cut total pilot pay by 62 million euros at its Iberia
arm to lift productivity 25 percent and match levels at sister-
unit British Airways. European No. 1  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is
also seeking more than 2 billion euros in annual savings.  Fuel costs are continuing to clip airline earnings after
the price of  Brent crude  increased 8.7 percent this year to
$116.74 a barrel in  London .  Stockholm-based  SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s largest
carrier, said today its first-quarter net loss widened to
729 million kronor ($108 million) from 373 million kronor after
analysts had predicted a 679 million-kronor deficit. The stock
fell as much as 14 percent and was down 13 percent in the
Swedish capital.  Short-haul Consolidation  Lufthansa, which boosted first-quarter sales 5.6 percent to
6.6 billion euros, has begun its SCORE savings program -- from
Synergies, Costs, Organization, Revenues, Execution -- after
completing a package that saved 1 billion euros through 2011.  As part of the plan, the company has frozen capacity at its
main brand and is consolidating administrative operations
between its short-haul outfit and Germanwings, a low-cost
division that narrowed its losses in the first quarter.  Short-haul routes out of Cologne will in future be operated
under the Germanwings brand, while those from Dusseldorf,
Hamburg and Berlin will fly in Lufthansa livery, CEO Franz said
in a conference call with journalists today.  The U.K.-based BMI unit, which Lufthansa sold to IAG on
April 20, had a 70 million-euro pretax loss, though it booked a
2 million-euro gain after valuation and disposal proceeds.  Austrian, Swiss  Austrian Airlines , which is shifting flight operations to
regional arm Tyrolean Airways to tap a lower cost base, lost 67
million euros and the Swiss unit had a 6 million-euro shortfall.  Engineering division Lufthansa Technik had a 62 million-
euro profit and is developing a new structure to save 30 million
euros, while cargo operations generated 19 million euros.  Freight capacity will be cut 2 percent in 2012, according
to Chief Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow, who exits this summer
to become CEO at retail holding company Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH.  Gemkow said that a decision on expanding Lufthansa’s stake
in Brussels Airlines will be made next year, and will be
dependent on the Belgian unit improving its profitability.  Brussels took delivery of two leased Airbus A320s from
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GE Capital Aviation Services unit, the
latter said in a statement today. The carrier, which is 45
percent owned by Lufthansa, is modernising its fleet as part of
its own cost improvement program, Brussels spokeswoman Wencke
Lemmes-Pireaux said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  