-- Ukraine’s EU Goal Wilts in Soccer Boycott Over Tymoshenko
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-05-04T20:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/ukraine-s-eu-goal-wilts-in-soccer-boycott-over-tymoshenko.html
Ukraine risks alienating the European
nations it wants as allies as next month’s Euro 2012 soccer
championship trains the spotlight on jailed ex-Prime Minister
 Yulia Tymoshenko , who’s on a hunger strike over claims of abuse.  Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt today joined
European commissioners and Dutch officials in refusing to attend
matches in the former Soviet republic in protest against
Tymoshenko’s incarceration, while the German and Czech
presidents are among leaders to pull out of a summit in the
Black Sea town of Yalta.  Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s 2010 election
pledge of closer European Union integration now hinges on
Tymoshenko being freed. Rather than winning her release, the
boycotts risk bolstering Russian interests after two decades of
jostling with the 27-member bloc for sway over its neighbor,
according to IHS analyst Lilit Gevorgyan.  “The lack of a clear policy and, worst of all, tactics of
isolation used toward  Ukraine , mean the bloc will make more
noise but have less influence,” she wrote May 1 in an e-mailed
note. “Yanukovych’s troubles with the EU are likely to push him
further down the road that appears to lead to the Kremlin.”  The yield on Ukraine’s dollar bond due 2016 has fallen to
8.332 percent from 8.561 at yesterday’s close and 10.04 percent
on April 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The hryvnia
strengthened to 8.0350 per dollar from 8.0395 yesterday.  ‘Seriously Concerned’  Sixteen European nations are participating in the soccer
championship, which the Union of European Football Associations
awarded to Ukraine and co-host  Poland  in 2007, the same year
Tymoshenko began a second stint as premier. The tournament kicks
off June 8 in Warsaw, with eight teams, including  Germany ,
France and  England  playing first-round games in Ukraine before
the July 1 final in Kiev.  Dutch government officials won’t attend soccer matches in
Ukraine if Tymoshenko’s treatment doesn’t improve, Foreign
Minister Uri Rosenthal said May 1. Belgian Foreign Minister
 Didier Reynders  won’t either because he’s “seriously
concerned” about her conditions, the Belga news service
reported May 2.  Most Germans don’t want Chancellor  Angela Merkel  or her
ministers to go to games in Ukraine, according to an April 29
survey in the Bild newspaper. Merkel may recommend ministers
boycott the tournament,  Der Spiegel  reported April 29, without
saying where it got the information.  EU Pact Delayed  Germany, which according to U.K. bookmaker  William Hill  is
second-favorite to win the tournament behind defending champion
 Spain , “will take the decision when it’s time to do so,”
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said May 2 in Bild.  A so-called Association Agreement to align Ukraine with the
EU and provide free trade has been delayed indefinitely while
Tymoshenko is in prison.  Officials are also pulling out of a summit of central and
eastern European leaders May 11-12 in Yalta. Aside from Germany
and the  Czech Republic , the Slovenian, Austrian and Italian
presidents will also skip the event, Oleg Voloshin, a spokesman
for the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, said April 30, the Interfax
news service reported. They gave “various reasons,” he said.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  won’t travel to
the country until there are improvements in “what is indeed a
very serious situation that gives rise to very serious
concerns,” his spokeswoman, Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen, said April
30. “It is clear that as things stand now, the president has no
intention of going to Ukraine or participating in events in
Ukraine.”  All other EU commissioners yesterday ruled out attending
matches in Ukraine.  Hunger Strike  Tymoshenko was handed a seven-year prison sentence in
October after a court ruled she overstepped her authority as
prime minister when signing a 2009 natural-gas deal with  Russia .
She says the case was engineered by Yanukovych to silence
opposition before a general election in October.  The former premier, who has back problems, began a hunger
strike on April 20 after saying she was attacked by three men
who pulled her out of bed, hit her in the stomach and forced her
to be hospitalized near the eastern city of Kharkiv without her
consent. Prosecutors deny she was beaten.  Tymoshenko’s condition has worsened since she began the
hunger strike, her daughter Yevheniya Tymoshenko said May 1.
Germany and Russia have offered her medical assistance if she’s
allowed to travel.  Tymoshenko today gave preliminary approval to be examined
by German and Ukrainian doctors at a hospital in Kharkiv from
May 8, the RIA Novosti news service reported, citing a joint
statement from the doctors.  Sport and Politics  Some countries oppose the boycott, with Polish Prime
Minister Donald Tusk yesterday labeling opposition calls to
avoid Ukrainian soccer matches “an own goal.”  “We want to help soccer players, the championship and
fans,” Tusk said. “We shouldn’t participate in political
manifestations.”  Uffe Elbaek,  Denmark ’s minister for culture and sports,
echoed this sentiment, telling Danish media including the
Berlingske newspaper that he plans to attend his country’s
first-round games in Ukraine. Sport and politics shouldn’t be
mixed “under any circumstances,” Russian President-elect
Vladimir Putin said yesterday, the RIA Novosti news service
reported.  While tournament organizers UEFA have raised security
concerns after four non-fatal bomb attacks in the eastern
Ukrainian city of Dnipropetrovsk on April 27, the union “never
interferes in political matters,” according to an April 30
 statement .  Democratic Institutions  Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry said yesterday in a statement
that those who “attack” Euro 2012 “don’t help establish
democratic institutions.” Boycotting the championship damages
its image and hurts millions of ordinary Ukrainians, it added.  Ukraine has been drifting away from EU principles since
Yanukovych won election in 2010 and the rift over Tymoshenko
widens the gap further, according to Valeriy Chalyi, a foreign-
policy analyst at the Razumkov research institute in  Kiev .  “Ukraine’s image has undergone serious negative changes in
the last two years,” Chalyi said yesterday by phone.
“Tymoshenko is maintaining political impact despite the fact
she’s in prison.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Moscow at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  