-- ‘The Scream’ Sells for Record $120 Million at Sotheby’s
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-03T18:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/munch-s-the-scream-sets-record-fetching-120-million.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  managed a record price and
sale tally at last night’s auction in New York, even as 15 lots
went unsold.  The star was one of Edvard Munch’s four versions of “The
Scream,” which set a record for a work of art at auction when
it sold for $119.9 million.  Although 15 of the 76 lots didn’t sell -- many toward the
end of the two-hour sale -- the $330.6 million auction was
Sotheby’s top tally for an Impressionist and modern art auction.  “The Scream” smashed the previous record of $106.5
million, established in May 2010 by  Pablo Picasso ’s “Nude,
 Green Leaves  and Bust.” The price for the Munch, which includes
Sotheby’s $12.9 million commission, exceeds Christie’s entire
Impressionist and modern art sale the night before.  “Trophies fly to the moon,” said Frances Beatty, vice
president of  Richard L. Feigen & Co. , a  New York  gallery.  A 1941 Picasso owned by financier  Ted Forstmann , which
according to a lawsuit by his insurer was damaged by a New York
gallery, sold for $29.2 million. It was the sale’s second-most-
expensive work and just shy of its high estimate of $30 million.  A 1936 Surrealist painting by  Salvador Dali  titled
“Printemps Necrophilique” went for $16.3 million, surpassing
the $12 million high estimate. It was the evening’s third-
highest price.  Sotheby’s offered five other paintings by Munch, four of
which sold.  Last in Private Hands  Munch made four versions of “The Scream,” two in oil and
two in pastel. Three of them are in museum collections in
 Norway . Sotheby’s version was the last in private hands.  The 1895 pastel-on-board ‘Scream’ sold last night was the
most-talked-about lot of the current New York auctions, which
run through May 11 and may tally $1.5 billion.  Auctioneer Tobias Meyer presided over the 12 minutes of
bidding for the work, almost exclusively from the phones.
Collectors and dealers in the packed salesroom applauded and
whistled when Meyer crossed $100 million.  The victor was a client of Charles Moffett, Sotheby’s vice
chairman for Impressionist and modern art, who deals primarily
with the U.S. clients, including casino magnate Stephen A. Wynn.
Sotheby’s didn’t name the buyer, and auction houses protect
clients’ identity.  ‘Obvious Candidate’  “Qatar is the obvious candidate for the buyer,” said
London-based dealer Richard Nagy, who was at the sale.
“Purchasing ‘The Scream’ would have made good business sense
for them. They want people to come to their museum, and this is
a destination picture. It only would have cost a couple of hours
of pumping oil.”  Architect  Jean Nouvel  is redesigning the National Museum of
Qatar, scheduled to open in December 2014. The Museum of Islamic
Art, designed by I.M. Pei, opened in 2008.  In February, Vanity Fair magazine reported that the royal
family of Qatar paid more than $250 million for one of  Paul
Cezanne ’s five “Card Players,” a version owned by the late
Greek shipping magnate George Embiricos. The four other versions
are in museum collections.  The Munch work, featuring a hairless androgynous creature
with mouth agape and hands covering the ears, comes from the
collection of Norwegian businessman Petter Olsen, whose father,
Thomas, was a friend, neighbor and patron of the artist.  In a statement he read after the sale, Olsen said, “‘The
Scream’ is about anxiety about approaching and anticipating
death and today serves as a warning about  climate change .”  ‘Impact on Nature’  Olsen added: “‘The Scream’ for me shows the horrifying
moment when man realizes his impact on nature and the
irreversible changes that he has initiated, making the planet
increasingly uninhabitable.”  Proceeds will go in part to establish a new gallery in
Hvitsten, Norway, where Munch and Thomas Olsen lived, for Petter
Olsen’s private collection. He said he’s also restoring Munch’s
house and studios.  “I just hope it goes to a museum, where a lot of people
can enjoy it,” said Renee Belfer, a collector and trustee
emeritus of the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  “The Scream” has appeared on T-shirts and mugs, and has
inspired scenes on “The Simpsons” television series and in the
1990 movie “Home Alone.”  Sotheby’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million, and 12
percent above $1 million. Presale estimates don’t include the
buyer’s premium.  Labor Dispute  Outside Sotheby’s, art handlers from Local 814 of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters picketed. They’ve been
locked out of their jobs for nine months because of a labor
dispute.  “Anyone who buys it is lucky to have it,” Jason Ide, the
union’s 30-year-old president, said of “The Scream” before the
sale. “We don’t like Sotheby’s labor practices but we love
art.”  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 