-- United Fights Southwest in Texas to Keep Grip on Busy Hub
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-03T21:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/united-fights-southwest-in-texas-to-keep-grip-on-busy-hub.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s
grip on Houston, home to its busiest hub, is under attack from
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   Southwest wants to build an international terminal at
Houston’s secondary airport, casting itself as a monopoly-buster
that will serve Mexico, the Caribbean and  Latin America . United
says that dividing such flights in Houston threatens the city’s
main gateway, George Bush Intercontinental Airport.  Both carriers covet overseas travelers, who typically pay
the highest fares. For United, the world’s largest airline,
keeping those fliers lends urgency to its defense of a market it
dominates. For Southwest, the biggest discounter, pulling some
of those passengers to its base at the city’s No. 2 airport
would help boost profit.  “United risks sounding like a bully that’s trying to
squelch new competition,” said  Henry Harteveldt , an Atmosphere
Research Group LLC analyst in  San Francisco . “The big question
is, what does Houston feel is the best use of their money and
what’s best for the community?”  Southwest is working to win support from Mayor Annise Parker and Houston’s City Council. Parker is reviewing a staff
recommendation to construct a five-gate international terminal
at William P. Hobby Airport before she decides whether to
support the idea. Southwest targets 2015 to start new flights.  Ruffled Feathers  United needs political allies in a city that felt jilted
when local icon Continental Airlines merged with former United
parent UAL Corp. in 2010 and kept that company’s Chicago
headquarters. United says its $700 million investment at
Intercontinental would be imperiled if the traffic there fell.  The Houston Airport System sees Southwest’s plan producing
an annual economic benefit to the region of $1.6 billion, 10,000
jobs and 1.5 million passengers.  United said today in its own analysis that those
assumptions are “pie-in-the-sky promises” and the economic
boost “will never materialize.” The Southwest plan would cause
the loss of 5,000 jobs and erode $414 million of regional
economic activity and may force United to cut 6 percent of
capacity at Intercontinental, United’s study said.  United welcomes international competition as long as it
comes at Intercontinental, Brian Znotins, the carrier’s managing
director of international planning, said today in an interview.  ‘Single International Gateway’  “Other hubs that are divided internationally are shrinking
or stagnating, but the cities with one single international
gateway are growing,” he said. “When we benefit from a
stronger hub, Houston benefits from a stronger hub.”  Southwest declined to comment on United’s study, said Paul Flaningan, a spokesman for the Dallas-based carrier.  United and Southwest are scheduled to present their
findings to the City Council on May 8, said Darian Ward, a
Houston Airport System spokeswoman. The council would need to
approve a Hobby terminal, as would U.S. regulators.  “If Southwest builds a second international airport, there
is a fair amount of traffic that may prefer Southwest over
United and go to Hobby,” said  Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose &
Co. analyst in  New York , who recommends buying shares of both
airlines. “That is why United is defending their turf.”  Southwest’s plan would create Houston competition for some
flights to Latin America, the region where United posts its
highest yields, or average fare per mile, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Latin America produced a bigger gain in
first-quarter yields than routes in the U.S. or across the
Atlantic and Pacific, United said.  Bond Backer  Airport bonds also are an issue. United took over as backer
of $632.8 million debt Continental Airlines sold for facilities
run by the Houston Airport System, including Intercontinental,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the 12 months ended in January, 83 percent of
Intercontinental fliers used the new United and its regional
partners, making the facility a “fortress hub” in industry
parlance.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  was next, with 3.2 percent,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  “Houston is a good funnel to Latin America, and there’s a
reason it has worked so well for Continental,” said Chris
McGinnis, a consultant and travel blog editor in San Francisco.  Overseas flights have helped spur faster growth in yields
at United than at Southwest, which fell behind its bigger rival
in that category last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
United has risen 14 percent this year in New York trading, and
closed today at $21.57. Southwest has fallen 4 percent this
year, and finished at $8.22 today.  Southwest’s only current non-U.S. flights are through its
AirTran unit, which was bought last year, and it had more than
90 percent of Hobby’s passengers in the year ended in January.  ‘Scarce Resources’  Flights abroad from both airports would erode service at
Intercontinental, with hourlong lines for international arriving
passengers worsening as investment in security and customs is
spread too thin, United says.  “Stretching these scarce resources would further damage
Intercontinental and make Houston less competitive as an
international connection city,” researchers hired by United
wrote in the April 2 memo to Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek 
and Chief Revenue Officer Jim Compton.  Intercontinental began operations in 1969, supplanting
Hobby as Houston’s main airport, and handled 40.5 million
passengers in 2010, according to trade group  Airports Council
International .  That was four times as many as at 85-year-old Hobby, which
is 12 miles (19 kilometers) from downtown, in Houston’s
southeast quadrant. While Intercontinental is almost twice as
far from the central business district, it’s closer to newer
business and residential areas on the city’s northwest fringes.  History Lesson  United’s complaints about harm to Intercontinental from a
Hobby expansion are baseless, according to Southwest.  “History would prove them wrong,” Bob Montgomery,
Southwest’s vice president for properties, said in an interview.
“The same allegations were made in the domestic marketplace
when Southwest came. What happened was that traffic grew because
low-fare airlines generate traffic. Competition grew the pie for
everybody.”  Southwest hasn’t yet said which overseas cities it intends
to serve from Hobby, nor how much additional revenue the flights
would generate.  Both Southwest and United boast deep Houston roots.  The city was one of Southwest’s original destinations when
the airline started flying began in 1971, and United predecessor
Continental relocated from  Los Angeles  in 1983. Smisek, who was
Continental’s CEO during the 2010 merger, shifted to United’s
former Chicago offices to run the new airline. He keeps Houston
and Chicago homes.  Fostering Competition  “We’re all still a little miffed that the union of
Continental and United moved the headquarters,” said Stephen
Klineberg, co-director of the  Kinder Institute for Urban
Research  at  Rice University  in Houston. “There is still some
tenderness and concern. The city wants to make sure United
Continental is happy and growing, yet they also want to foster
competition.”  Greater access to Latin America would draw more visitors,
said consultant McGinnis. “Latin America is growing and needs
more lift, and to do that you need to expand facilities that
will also attract more Latin carriers to Houston.”  Houston’s population also is shifting, with the share of
Latino residents more than doubling to 41 percent since 1980,
Klineberg said.  “This is a city of immigrants, an international city,”
Klineberg said. “Passengers want to go to  Mexico  City as much
as they want to go to places like  Dallas . What Southwest wants
to do would establish Hobby as a real player and not just the
little baby brother of the big guy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  