-- Turkish Inflation Rate Rises to 3 1/2-Year High on Energy
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-05-03T08:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/turkish-inflation-hits-3-1-2-year-high-on-rising-energy-prices.html
Turkey ’s  inflation rate  climbed to
11.1 percent in April, the highest in 3 1/2 years, adding to
pressure on the central bank to tighten monetary policy.  Inflation accelerated from 10.4 percent in March, the
statistics office in Ankara said today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg  survey  of seven economists was 11 percent.  Core
inflation , excluding items such as food and energy, accelerated
to 8.2 percent from 7.9 percent. Consumer prices rose 1.5
percent in the month.  Increases in natural gas and electricity costs have
derailed central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s prediction that
inflation would start to decline in April. He now says it will
peak that month with a “significant” decline to follow in May.
Basci is seeking to support the lira and reduce Turkey’s
inflation rate and current-account gap without endangering the
government’s target for economic growth.  “This high inflation print means the central bank will
want the currency to appreciate and keep lira liquidity tight,”
 Yarkin Cebeci , economist for the region at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
data is actually lira friendly.”  The currency added 0.2 percent to 1.7576 per dollar at
10:30 a.m. in Istanbul. It has rallied more than 7 percent this
year, reversing an 18 percent slump in 2011. Yields on benchmark
 two-year lira bonds  fell 2 basis points to 9.32 percent.  ‘Very Sensitive’  Basci varies rates daily within a so-called corridor from
5.75 percent to 11.5 percent. He has pushed borrowing costs
toward the top of that range in the past two months, helping
protect the lira’s gains.  The bank needs “lower food inflation, lira appreciation,
or a combination of both” to meet its year-end projections,
leaving it “very sensitive” to the  exchange rate ,  Inan Demir ,
chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said today in an
emailed report before the figures were released.  The central bank forecasts that inflation will slow to 6.5
percent this year and reach the 5 percent target by mid-2013,
according to a presentation made to the Cabinet yesterday and
posted on its website.  The bank’s latest survey of inflation expectations among
economists and businesses, published on April 20, forecast a
rate of 6.96 percent in 12 months’ time.  Outlook Cut  Turkey’s economic boom of the past two years has swelled
the country’s  current-account deficit  as well as spurring
inflation. While the gap has been narrowing since October, it’s
still the biggest among  emerging markets  at about 10 percent of
economic output. Basci aims to narrow the deficit by reducing
the credit growth that is helping fuel demand for imports.  Rebalancing the economy will be difficult because of
“less-buoyant external demand and worsening terms of trade,”
 Standard & Poor’s  said on May 1, cutting its outlook for
Turkey’s credit rating to stable from positive.  The government is targeting economic growth of 4 percent
this year, less than half last year’s pace. S&P and the
 International Monetary Fund  expect a sharper slowdown to between
2 percent and 2.5 percent. The IMF also predicts that Turkey
will struggle to rein in inflation this year, forecasting an
average rate of 10.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  