-- Hutchison Whampoa Said to Bid EU2 Billion for Eircom
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-04T14:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hutchison-whampoa-said-to-bid-eu2-billion-for-eircom.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  made a bid of about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion)
for Eircom Group, the Irish phone company in supervised credit
protection, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The cash offer by Hutchison’s Three Ireland unit was
rejected by the country’s court-appointed examiner because there
were too many conditions attached, said two of the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Three Ireland is working on a revised bid, they said.  Eircom filed for the Irish equivalent of  bankruptcy
protection  on March 30 with 3.8 billion euros of net debt, the
biggest corporate insolvency in the nation’s history. Hutchison
is stepping up its investments in Europe, where the  Hong Kong 
company agreed to buy wireless carrier Orange Austria this year,
and acquired the U.K.’s Northumbrian Water Group Plc in 2011.  “Eircom is undergoing restructuring, so the company may be
purchased at a discounted price,” said Lam Ka Kei, who rates
Hutchison buy at Redford Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“For Hutchison, price is the all-important thing in any deal.
There are many companies in Europe that face financial issues,
so there are opportunities for Hutchison.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Hutchison, two people
said. Morgan Stanley is Eircom’s adviser.  Laura Cheung, a spokeswoman for Hutchison in Hong Kong,
declined to comment, as did representatives for Eircom and its
senior lenders, Three Ireland and Goldman Sachs.  May 7 Deadline  Eircom’s examiner last month set an April 23 deadline for
indicative investment proposals, with a May 7 deadline for final
proposals.  Hutchison  fell  0.3 percent to HK$75.80 in Hong Kong
trading. The stock has advanced 17 percent this year, compared
with a 14 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Dublin-based Eircom, Ireland’s biggest fixed-line operator,
said April 30 the examiner, Michael McAteer of  Grant Thornton ,
rejected a conditional non-binding offer for the company. It
didn’t name the bidder. “No new offer has been received by the
examiner,” McAteer said by phone today.  Eircom customers have cut spending or ditched their
contracts as unemployment tripled with the economic collapse
that led Ireland to seek a bailout in 2010.  Austrian Takeover  Eircom Ltd., Eircom’s main trading company, reported a 4
percent decline in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization for its 2010/2011 financial year to 647 million
euros. Sales fell 8 percent to 1.69 billion euros.  Hutchison has said it’s looking to expand its wireless
business in  Europe . There are opportunities for  consolidation  in
the phone industry in the region, Managing Director Canning Fok
told reporters in Hong Kong on March 29.  “We will be the consolidator; we won’t be consolidated,”
he said at the time.  In February, Hutchison agreed to buy Orange Austria in a
deal valued at 1.3 billion euros to expand its operations in the
Alpine country. That transaction is under scrutiny by European
regulators.  In Italy, Hutchison held discussions last year over a sale
its Three unit to  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , but the talks didn’t
result in a deal, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Hutchison’s 3 Group, which owns phone businesses in  Italy ,
the U.K., Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Australia and Ireland, has
made cumulative investments of HK$240 billion ($31 billion),
according to an estimate by Morgan Stanley in 2010.  At of March 28, 3 Group had 28.9 million  customers , with
about 60 percent of them in Italy and the U.K. Three Ireland had
about 843,000 clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  