-- Vale Sees $5.9 Billion Argentina Project Reviewed by May 20
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-03T19:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/vale-sees-5-9-billion-argentina-project-reviewed-by-may-20-1-.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the mining company investing
$5.9 billion in a potash project in Argentina, said it will have
a review of the venture completed by May 20.  Vale needs to assess “new elements” regarding the
construction of the Rio Colorado project in the Argentine
province of Mendoza, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira
told reporters today in Rio de Janeiro, without elaborating. The
results of the technical review may be presented to the
company’s board of directors as early as May 25, he said.  “It’s too early to know what will be the recommendation,”
Ferreira said when asked if the company may consider cancelling
the project. “We will look at it with the maximum interest in
making the project but looking at all the challenges.”  Ferreira, 58, announced the revision of the Rio Colorado
project during a conference call last week, saying the company
is “very concerned” about the situation in  Argentina . The
government seized oil producer YPF SA on April 16. Vale started
the revision of the project before that event, Ferreira said.  Vale, the world’s second-largest mining company, has
already spent $1.1 billion on Rio Colorado, which will be able
to produce 4.3 million metric tons of potash, a mineral used to
help strengthen plant roots and defend against drought. The
company completed 30 percent of the project’s work, which is
expected to be ready in the second half of 2014.  Vale  dropped  0.9 percent to 41.43 reais in  Sao Paulo  at
4:06 p.m. The stock has gained 9.5 percent this year, in line
with the increase in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  