-- Viacom Earnings Exceed Estimates on MTV, Nickelodeon Fees
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-03T20:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/viacom-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-mtv-nickelodeon-fees.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of the Paramount
film studio and MTV, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central cable
channels, reported fiscal second-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates on higher fees from pay-TV systems.  Excluding items, profit jumped to 98 cents a share, New
York-based Viacom said today in statement. Analysts predicted 89
cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 2 percent to $3.33 billion, in line with  projections .  Viacom’s media networks unit, which contributed 92 percent
of  operating  profit in fiscal 2011, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg, saw a 15 percent increase in domestic fees for its
cable networks and 17 percent worldwide during the quarter. U.S.
ad sales rose 1 percent from a year earlier following a 3
percent decline in the first quarter.  The lack of ad-sales growth was offset by rising rates for
programming from pay-TV operators, which speaks to the
attractiveness of the cable-network model, Brett Harriss,
analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York , said in a telephone
interview after the report.  “Getting that dual source of revenue is key to their
business,” he said.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 3.4
percent to $49.02 at the close in New York, the biggest gain in
three months. The  stock  has climbed 7.9 percent this year.  ‘Ratings Problems’  Viacom has chronically underperformed its peers in
advertising, according to  Paul Sweeney , senior analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  “They’ve had a series of ratings problems, first at MTV
and now at Nickelodeon,” he said in an interview after the
report.  Net income increased 56 percent to $585 million, or $1.07 a
share, from $376 million, or 63 cents.  Media Networks operating profit climbed 11 percent to $893
million on $2.19 billion in sales. MTV airs “Jersey Shore,”
while  Comedy Central  is home to “The  Daily Show  with  Jon
Stewart .”  Operating profit at the Entertainment Division, which
includes Paramount’s film studio, almost tripled to $115 million
on revenue of $1.17 billion. In the period, Paramount collected
$227 million in U.S. box office sales led by “Mission:
Impossible -- Ghost Protocol,” according to  researcher  Box
Office Mojo.  The company said it repurchased 14.7 million shares during
the quarter ended March 31, for an aggregate of $700 million. As
of yesterday, Viacom had $5.9 billion remaining in its $10
billion stock buyback plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  