-- Wall Street’s Legal Magic Ends an American Right
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/wall-street-s-legal-magic-ends-an-american-right.html
American business entered its Teflon
era on a spring day 25 years ago.  Lawyer Madelaine Eppenstein had taken the morning off from
work for a parent-teacher event at her 5-year-old’s elementary
school on June 8, 1987, when she was summoned to the principal’s
office for an urgent call. Her husband and law partner, Theodore Eppenstein, told her they lost the  Supreme Court  case he had
argued two months before on behalf of a couple trying to sue
their stockbroker for fraud.  “I felt like I got punched in the face,” she told me in
an interview late last month.  If Eppenstein was punched, the investing public was mauled.
The case known as  Shearson v. McMahon  would wind up locking
investors out of U.S. courts any time they tried to sue a
broker. A tiny clause in customer agreements turned out to be
Wall Street’s magic formula to keep its transgressions out of
sight. The agreement that Eugene and Julia McMahon signed said
that any dispute between them and their broker at
Shearson/American Express Inc. -- a trusted fellow parishioner
at their church --“shall be settled by arbitration” in a  Wall
Street  forum. Investors since then have either had to agree to
similar terms, or forget about having a securities account.  “If you get screwed,” Theodore Eppenstein says, “now you
have no place to go.”  Looking for Luxuries  No place to go, that is, if you’re looking for luxuries
like publicly filed documents, juries that hear the facts and
judges that preside over open proceedings.  The McMahon decision was damaging enough for the impact it
had on individual brokerage customers, who tell their stories
about fraud, misrepresentation and churning behind closed doors
where the public -- including reporters -- isn’t welcome.
Perhaps worse is what happens when a powerful industry gets
accustomed to keeping its squabbles quiet: Wrongdoers are
inclined to relax, sending ethics to ever-lower lows.  “It means that all sorts of scams against individuals,
however large, are very unlikely to come to the attention of the
media and the public,” says F. Paul Bland Jr., a senior
attorney at the public-interest law firm Public Justice in
 Washington .  Wall Street may have been first to catch on to the benefits
of mandatory arbitration, but Bland worries that the closed-door
trials are spreading to industries from retailing to
homebuilding. “The silence and secrecy that surrounds
arbitration is extremely harmful to the country,” he says.  These days, employers --  Manpower Inc.  and Nordstrom Inc.
among them -- require new hires to give up their rights to court
before a fresh-faced recruit can check in for orientation. And
consumers can forget about opening a Netflix account, signing a
mobile-phone contract, or putting a loved one into most big-name
nursing homes unless they are willing to give up their rights to
go to court. Buying a Starbucks  gift card ? You are agreeing to
mandatory arbitration of any fraud or misrepresentation by the
company.  The results can be chilling. After watching his father die
from sepsis of the blood caused by infections from 13 bedsores
in 2005, David W. Kurth of Burlington,  Wisconsin , tried to sue
the nursing home whose staff he claimed had left his father’s
wounds covered in excrement and urine for days at a time. Though
the death of his father would have been shocking enough, Kurth
told a Congressional subcommittee in 2008 that the “most
shocking” part of his family’s ordeal was this: They wouldn’t
be able to sue for the alleged neglect because the deceased
man’s wife had signed admissions documents that had a mandatory-
arbitration agreement.  “How can anyone in good conscience argue that it should be
perfectly legal to trick frail, elderly, infirm senior citizens
experiencing the most stressful time in their lives into waiving
their legal rights?” Kurth asked.  Free Phones  Conscience, of course, plays no role when companies demand
arbitration. But Supreme Court decisions do. In April 2011, the
court dealt a new blow to consumers and employees in a  case 
known as  AT&T Mobility  v. Concepcion. AT&T had pitched a deal to
woo new mobile-phone customers by offering free phones, but it
turned out the freebie came with a $30.22 bill for “taxes.”
Vincent and Liza Concepcion tried to bring a class-action
lawsuit on behalf of all the other consumers who took AT&T’s
deal. But the court said that when the couple signed the
customer agreement, they gave up their right not only to sue,
but also to a class action even in arbitration.  In the year since the Concepcion decision, lower courts
have trashed dozens of cases in which consumers or employees
were trying to sue as a group. The  National Labor Relations
Board  pushed back against the impact the Concepcion decision
might have on employment class actions, ruling in January that
it’s a violation of federal labor law to make workers give up
the right to pursue group claims. That decision probably will be
challenged in court.  About 25 percent of U.S. employees are covered by
mandatory-arbitration clauses, says Alexander J.S. Colvin, an
associate professor of labor relations and conflict resolution
at  Cornell University . He figures the number will grow as a
result of the Concepcion case.  If you are wondering just how bad arbitration can be, the
examples are many. When I wrote my book about sexual harassment
on Wall Street, “Tales From the Boom-Boom Room,” I was aghast
at the things brokerage firms could do that would never be
allowed in court. In the weeks before one woman’s arbitration
hearing was set to begin, her former employer hired a
psychiatrist who questioned about her sex life and her menstrual
cycle. She had alleged that a man in the office had followed her
into a stock room and grabbed her breasts. Another woman, who
said the same man had accosted her, was directed by the
consultant-shrink to sit in a chair in the middle of a room and
recite the names of all the U.S. presidents -- in reverse order.  Both women bailed out and settled, having seen enough of
arbitration’s downside before the hearings even started.  Get There Early  In October, a doctor who was fired from her job by a
physicians’ group in suburban Philadelphia  told  the tale of her
arbitration to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Deborah Pierce
would have preferred to sue the partnership (17 men, one woman
at the time) that fired her, but her employment agreement tied
her to arbitration run by the American Health Lawyers
Association. One morning, she arrived early to her hearing at a
law office in Wayne,  Pennsylvania , to see one of her former
bosses strolling out of the arbitrator’s office carrying a cup
of coffee. That sort of encounter is known as an ex-parte
meeting between a judge and a party to a case. It isn’t allowed
in court proceedings.  To pay for her case, which included her half of the
arbitrator’s $117,042 fee, Pierce took out a home-equity loan
that she and her husband are still paying off three years later.
Her consolation prize: the arbitrator at one point ordered her
adversaries to pay her $1,000 in sanctions for destroying
documents and delaying the proceedings. And then, he billed her
$2,000 for the time he spent deciding whether he should impose
the fine. She lost.  It’s an open secret in legal circles that arbitrators are
more worried about alienating the corporations who give them
regular business than they are about one-shot plaintiffs.
“Arbitrators who ding a major firm know they’re going to be
blackballed,” says Timothy J. Dennin, a  New York  lawyer who
represents aggrieved investors.  There are upsides to arbitration, if only the public had a
chance to consider it as an alternative to court instead of a
mandate. Investors whose losses are too small to be attractive
to lawyers, for example, can often navigate securities
arbitration more easily than a court case. And arbitration can
be faster than court.  “Do some cases fare better in arbitration? Definitely,”
says Ryan K. Bakhtiari, the president of the Public Investors
Arbitration Bar Association, a group of lawyers who represent
investors. He says arbitration should be at the choice of the
investor, not mandatory.  Bad Behavior  The more cases we relegate to arbitration, the more we fail
to hold companies accountable for bad behavior.  Frank Partnoy , the  author  of “Infectious Greed: How Deceit
and Risk Corrupted the Financial Markets,” says that even if an
arbitrator decides a business is guilty of fraud, a company
“can write a check and not worry about creating a dangerous
precedent.”  That case by the McMahons never got to arbitration after
the Supreme Court said the couple couldn’t go to court.
Regulatory records for their former broker show they settled for
$700,000. Christine Hines, the consumer and civil-justice
counsel in Public Citizen’s Congress Watch unit, says groups
such as hers would simply have no material to work with if bad
products and practices were all relegated to private justice.  “There is no way we, as advocates, would know what’s going
on,” she says.  Twenty-five years after the McMahons lost their fight for a
public hearing, it’s hard not to conclude that’s precisely what
business is counting on.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  Today's highlights: the View editors on  Argentina's oil grab 
and poor  corporate governance  at tech companies;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney 's  former spokesman ; Virginia Postrel
on the  economic folly of recycling  eyeglasses; and Jonathan
Cohn and  David Strauss  on making  health-care reform  work.    To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net  