-- Walmex Bribery Case Proving Boon for Slim: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/walmex-bribery-case-proving-boon-for-slim-chart-of-the-day.html
The bribery allegations that have
sparked a rout in  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  are also spurring a
rally in America Movil SAB, the wireless carrier controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the 30-day correlation
coefficient between the two stocks turned negative on April 23,
when Walmex sank 12 percent, the most since 1998, on allegations
described in a  New York  Times story that its executives bribed
Mexican officials. America Movil is one of the few actively
traded shares in Mexico, making it a likely recipient of money
that investors pulled out of Walmex, according to Greg Lesko,
who manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management.  “As people were selling their Walmex because of this
bribery scandal, the money had to go somewhere,” Lesko said in
a telephone interview from New York. “It seems that money was
flowing into  America Movil .”  Before reports of the allegations surfaced, Walmex and
America Movil had a correlation coefficient as high as 0.7624 in
the past year, with a reading of 1 indicating that the companies
trade in lockstep. The correlation dropped to negative 0.46
yesterday.  America Movil, the largest mobile-phone carrier in the
Americas, was the best performer on the benchmark IPC index
after the Times’s report, which the company says it is
investigating. It gained 2.9 percent that day and another 10
percent since while Walmex has slumped 15 percent.  Slim’s wireless provider also got a boost on April 12, when
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ’s retailer  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*)  plunged
18 percent on concern stock-market rule changes governing the
treatment of derivatives would threaten its position on the  IPC. (MEXBOL) 
America Movil climbed 2.3 percent that session, compared with a
0.5 percent gain in the IPC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  