-- Wells Fargo Dominates Home Lending as BofA Retreats: Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-03T14:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/wells-fargo-dominates-home-lending-as-bofa-retreats-mortgages.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , already the largest
U.S. home lender, won the biggest market share ever recorded as
competitors led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  pulled back after
suffering more than $65 billion in combined mortgage losses.  Wells Fargo made 33.9 percent of the $385 billion of
mortgages originated in the first quarter, up from 30.1 percent
in the preceding three months, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance. That’s more than triple the share of the closest
competitor,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , with 10.6 percent. U.S.
Bancorp moved into third place from fifth, with 5.2 percent,
ahead of Bank of America, with 4.2 percent.  “They pulled back while others hit the accelerator on
subprime so now they are able to take advantage,” Joseph Morford, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, said of San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo in a phone interview. “They’ve always been
disciplined.”  The lender is dominating mortgage markets as housing shows
signs of bottoming after a  six-year slump  and homeowners benefit
from record-low borrowing costs. Wells Fargo, also the biggest
home-loan servicer, posted $2.9 billion in mortgage-banking
income in the first quarter, a $506 million increase from the
fourth quarter. Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, has
posted a profit in 13 straight quarters.  Wells Fargo’s control raises concerns that U.S. consumers
and the housing market may suffer if the bank falters, said Glen Corso, a managing director of the Community Mortgage Banking
Project, a coalition of smaller independent lenders.  ‘Market Concentration’  “Anytime you start to have market concentration with a
single company you worry about the disruption should that
company stumble,” he said. “The federal government should be
looking at this.”  The bank’s market share exceeded the combined total for the
next seven largest lenders, Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry
publication based in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in an e-mail to
subscribers yesterday. Wells Fargo originated $357 billion of
mortgages last year, according to company statements.  The company avoided some of the mortgage missteps that
afflicted rivals such as Bank of America, once the largest home
lender. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm recorded more
than $40 billion of costs tied to faulty home loans and
foreclosures. Expenses have topped $72 billion at the biggest
U.S. banks, including Wells Fargo, after housing slumped 35
percent from a 2006 peak.  Wasn’t Their Goal  Wells Fargo executives have said it wasn’t their goal for
the company to become the largest lender. Refinancings have
bolstered market share, according to Chief Financial Officer
Timothy Sloan. These will account for about 62 percent of the
market, or $682 billion this year, according to projections from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  “If we’re talking about the business two years ago, I
don’t think we would have imagined that our market share would
be where it would be today,” Sloan said during a May 1 investor
conference. “We’re going to continue to be focused in the
business. We’re going to continue to want to grow it.”  Sloan said the lender doesn’t expect regulators to raise
concerns about its market share. While refinancings have buoyed
results, so has less competition.  Bank of America, which purchased Countrywide Financial
Corp. in 2008, scaled back mortgage-lending operations to reduce
assets that regulators deemed risky and shifted resources to
service troubled loans. Last year, CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 52,
stopped reverse-mortgage lending and shuttered a business that
bought loans from correspondent providers. The firm will focus
on selling home loans to existing customers of the retail bank
or wealth-management division, Moynihan has said.  Customers Wait  Among the targeted customers, “we underperformed, but
we’re doing exactly what we wanted, which is to focus on direct-
to-retail,” Moynihan told analysts last month. “You’ll see us
improve there.”  Bank of America has missed out on the surge in  refinancing ,
with its ability to handle applications crimped earlier this
year. Some customers were asked to wait as many as 90 days
before being serviced. Countrywide was the largest U.S. mortgage
lender as recently as 2007.  Wells Fargo said mortgage originations climbed 7.5 percent
in the first quarter from the preceding three months. The
unclosed pipeline stood at $79 billion at the end of the
quarter, up from $72 billion at year-end. Mortgage origination
and sales accounted for 24 percent of all fee revenue, according
to a presentation.  Loan Officer Survey  Among the large banks, “several” have reported plans to
reduce their dealings in the mortgage market either “somewhat
or substantially” in the next 12 months, according to the
 Federal Reserve ’s Senior Loan Officer survey, published April
30. A “moderate” number of banks said they planned to increase
their exposure, according to the Fed.  Those seeking to expand are enticed by the profits at Wells
Fargo and New York-based JPMorgan, which said first quarter
mortgage fees and related revenue totaled $2 billion.  Interest rates  on new U.S. home loans are higher than
yields on the mortgage securities, which they’re packaged into.
The gap between the cost of 30-year loans and benchmark  Fannie
Mae  yields, a measure of lenders’ profit margins called the
primary-secondary spread, has widened to about 0.96 percentage
point, compared with a 10-year low of negative 0.12 percentage
point in June 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread peaked at 1.66 percentage points in December 2008.  The average rate for a  30-year mortgage  fell to a record
low 3.84 percent in the week ended today from 3.88 percent,
according to  Freddie Mac . It’s the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to 1971
as the Federal Reserve buys mortgage bonds to lower borrowing
costs. The average 15-year rate dropped to 3.07 percent from
3.12 percent.  ‘Once in a Lifetime’  U.S. Bancorp and smaller depositories including Cole Taylor
Bank are growing, as are independent companies such as  Wilbur Ross ’s American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., which is shifting
from just managing outstanding loans.  U.S. Bancorp, whose balance sheet is about one-seventh the
size of Bank of America’s, sees an expansion in the mortgage
business as a “once-in-a-lifetime” opportunity,  Richard Davis ,
the CEO of the Minneapolis-based lender said April 17.  Home-lending revenue more than doubled in the first quarter
to $452 million, from $199 million last year, Davis said.  “The small and medium guys are picking up some of the
slack created by several of the larger lenders reducing their
presence in the market,” Willie Newman, Cole Taylor’s head of
residential-mortgage originations, said in a phone interview.
 Taylor Capital Group Inc. (TAYC) , the bank’s Chicago-based parent, said
last month that the lender’s originations rose 14.4 percent from
the fourth quarter to $894.9 million.  Wells Fargo’s market share may be close to its peak as
smaller competitors ramp up, said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets and a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia . Regulators also may pressure the bank to
rein in its origination machine, he said.  “It’s going to be tough for them to grow market share from
here,” Miller said. “We think the smaller players will
continue to pick up share” he said, adding “the government is
concerned about Wells Fargo’s concentration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 Hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 