-- Westpac Posts Smallest Profit Growth Since 2009 on Margin
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-05-03T07:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/westpac-posts-smallest-profit-growth-since-2009-on-lower-margin.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest bank, reported the smallest increase in first-
half profit since 2009 as competition to attract deposits
squeezed margins.  Cash  earnings , which exclude one-time items and some costs,
rose less than 1 percent in the six months to March 31 to A$3.20
billion ($3.3 billion) from A$3.17 billion a year earlier,
Westpac said  today . Net income fell 25 percent to A$2.97
billion, matching analysts’ estimates, as the prior period was
boosted by tax benefits from buying St. George Bank.  Europe ’s debt crisis has made it more expensive for
Australia’s biggest banks to raise funds overseas, squeezing
margins as credit demand and home sales dwindle. Westpac Chief
Executive Officer Gail Kelly today forecast “modest” increases
in lending and further competition for deposits at home, putting
further pressure on profitability.  “These banks are fighting for funding, particularly for
those deposits, and while that’s happening, their margins are
going to be under massive pressure,” said  Chris Weston , a
dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “But expenses look like
they’re under control.”  Lending increased 5 percent in the six-month period, more
than the 4 percent growth in expenses, Westpac said. The bank’s
net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability, fell 4
basis points to 2.17 percent from the year-earlier period,
mostly because of higher  interest rates  paid to depositors.  Higher Shares  Westpac  shares  today rose 1 percent to A$22.91 at the close
in Sydney after the bank’s first-half dividend of 88 cents a
share beat the expectation of analysts including  David Ellis  at
Morningstar. The S&P/ASX 200 index fell 0.2 percent.  “The aggressively higher dividend underscores the
attractiveness of investing in the major banks,” Ellis,
Morningstar’s head of banking research, said in an e-mail.  Even with the smaller margins, Westpac’s net interest
income advanced 6 percent as loans and deposits swelled. Non-
interest income rose 6 percent on higher trading earnings.  Kelly told reporters she’s attempting to switch Westpac’s
focus to “a deposit-raising culture from a lending culture.”
The outlook is “challenging and difficult,” she said.  Business and consumers are “cautious” and “low” credit
growth will continue, she said. In a presentation to investors,
the bank forecast further pressure on margins from higher
funding costs in the second half.  ‘Lower Demand’  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Australia’s
third-largest bank, yesterday reported a larger-than-expected
decline in lending profitability in the six months ended March
31 as it paid more for deposits and overseas funds. Foreign
income drove a 10 percent increase in earnings. In Australia,
there’s “persistently lower demand for credit,” CEO  Michael
Smith  said.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the fourth-largest bank in
the country, on April 30 reported a 16 percent decline in net
income for the six months ended March 31 as it booked charges to
shrink its U.K. business. The bank will report details of its
earnings, including lending margins, on May 10.  Sales of new homes in Australia fell in March to a record
low, according to the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association. The prices declined in the three months through
March, extending the longest losing streak in at least a decade,
the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said this week.  Australia’s central bank on May 1 cut benchmark borrowing
costs by a larger-than-expected 50 basis points to spur economic
growth, saying Europe’s debt crisis may shock the market for
some time.  Rate Cuts  The crisis is pushing up fundraising costs for Australia’s
banks, even as the  Reserve Bank of Australia  cut benchmark
borrowing costs. The divergence is forcing lenders to withhold
some of the central bank’s rate reductions to protect lending
margins.  National Australia Bank yesterday kept more than a third of
the RBA cut, trimming its variable mortgage rate by 32 basis
points.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  said today it will cut
its variable mortgage rate by 40 basis points. Westpac said it
plans to announce its rate decision tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  