-- Whitney Says Banks Will Struggle to Match Latest Results
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-03T16:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/whitney-says-banks-will-struggle-to-match-latest-results.html
The largest U.S. banks will struggle
to match first-quarter earnings over the next couple of periods
as one-time boosts disappear and investment banking remains
“anemic,” analyst  Meredith Whitney  said.  First-quarter results were helped by asset appreciation
driven by the  European Central Bank ’s lending program and by
increased mortgage refinancing on the back of the U.S.
government’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, Whitney, chief
executive officer of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC, said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  “A lot of one-time issues inflated bank earnings,”
Whitney said. “A lot of people thought bank earnings were
fantastic. Once you get to second-quarter results, third-quarter
results, it will be much more difficult for these banks to look
good.”  The month of April was “very dismal” for banks and many
firms will have to follow  Bank of America  Corp. in laying off
more senior investment bankers, she said. Whitney, 42, has
previously said lenders may cut 100,000 jobs this year. Banks
that aren’t involved in capital markets businesses will grow
faster than those that are, she said.  Mergers and acquisitions fell 29 percent and global equity
offerings dropped 30 percent in the first four months of 2012
compared with a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Corporate debt offerings in April fell 26 percent
from a year ago, according to the data.  ‘Significant’ Resizing  “The core business of  investment banking  trends, even of
equity capital markets trends and certainly of debt capital
market trends, is anemic,” and will require “significant”
resizing, Whitney said.  Whitney gained prominence after her 2007 prediction
that Citigroup Inc. would cut its dividend because of mortgage-
related losses proved correct in 2008. Her recommendation to
sell bank stocks before the credit crisis hit with full force
propelled her to fame.  Her December 2010 call on municipal bonds in which she said
“50 to 100 sizable defaults” would occur, helped spark the
withdrawal of $23 billion from tax-exempt municipal-bond funds
from January 2011 through April 2011, according to Investment
Company Institute data. The prediction has yet to be borne out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  