-- World Bank IFC Unit Investing $55 Mln in Armajaro Trading
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-03T22:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/world-bank-ifc-unit-investing-55-mln-in-armajaro-trading-1-.html
The International Finance Corp., a
unit of the  World Bank , said it is investing $55 million in
Armajaro Trading Ltd. to “support the ethical sourcing of cocoa
and coffee.”  “The project will help the company maintain closer contact
with farmers and cooperatives and offer value-added services
such as long-term supply agreements and price-risk management,”
the IFC said in an e-mailed statement.  “IFC’s support will enable us to grow our business while
ensuring that we continue to lead the sector in traceability and
sustainability,” Richard Ryan, the chief executive officer of
London-based Armajaro, said in the statement.  The IFC has been in talks with four banks to share in
providing as much as $18 billion in commodities trade finance
over three years in developing nations, German Vegarra, global
head of agribusiness at the IFC in  Washington , said in March.  European banks are reducing their commodities businesses as
they cut lending and sell assets amid the sovereign debt crisis.
Commodity trade lending may drop at least 25 percent, Jacques-
Olivier Thomann, president of the Geneva Trading and Shipping
Association and global head of structured finance at BNP Paribas
(Suisse) SA, said last year. BNP Paribas was the biggest lender
to commodities companies in 2011, followed by Societe Generale
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Armajaro, which has operations in more than 20 countries,
said it will continue working with the Washington-based IFC “to
identify specific projects that will improve the welfare of
farming communities and develop stronger relationships with
nongovernmental organizations, development agencies, and
charities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  