-- Myanmar’s Leader May Step Aside After 2015 Elections, Aide Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-03T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/myanmar-s-leader-may-step-aside-after-2015-elections-aide-says.html
Myanmar President  Thein Sein  will
probably step aside when his term ends following elections in
2015, an aide said, adding uncertainty to the political outlook
after he oversaw the nation’s most inclusive vote in more than
two decades.  “The president has laid the foundation for the political
reform and he is the founder of this transition,” Ko Ko Hlaing,
his top political adviser, said in a May 2 interview in Yangon.
“So after this tenure, if it is quite successful, he may be
content with his works. The next steps toward democracy will be
in the hands of other leaders.”  Thein Sein, 67, has moved to reconnect Myanmar with the
West since taking power 14 months ago. The former general has
released political prisoners, floated the currency and convinced
opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  to rejoin the political
process, opening the door for Western companies to scout
investment opportunities in the nation of 64 million people.  The next election, scheduled in 2015, will determine
whether Myanmar’s coterie of generals that has run the country
for five decades will peacefully hand over power. While Thein
Sein would accept a win for Suu Kyi’s party, the military’s
reaction is more uncertain, Ko Ko Hlaing said.  “Our civilian-military relationship with democracy is
quite a delicate thing,” he said. Accepting a power shift
“will depend on the relationship between the political parties
and the military.”  Election Victory  In the unlikely scenario in which Myanmar’s military
reasserts its power and Western governments tighten sanctions
again, the economy would grow about 4.4 percent from 2016 to
2020, the Economist Intelligence Unit said in an April 26
report. That compares with 7.7 percent growth in that time if
limited policy changes continue, it said.  Suu Kyi took office this week after her  National League for
Democracy  party won 43 of 44 seats it contested in by-elections
last month, giving it control of less than 10 percent of the
664-member parliament. The NLD boycotted the 2010 national
elections, during which the Nobel Peace Prize winner was
detained at her lakeside home in Yangon.  “I don’t think the country is ready for an NLD president
tomorrow, but 2015 is still three years off,” said Hans Vriens,
managing partner of  Vriens & Partners , a Singapore-based
political risk firm. “There are no clear signs of opposition to
the reform movement at this moment.”  Shwe Mann  Shwe Mann, the former No. 3 in the junta who is now speaker
of parliament’s lower house, is the most likely among reform-
minded establishment figures to take the mantle from Thein Sein,
Vriens said. The  International Crisis Group  last month  called 
Shwe Mann a “strong contender” for the presidency in 2015.  “Thein Sein has signaled privately that he is not
interested in a second term, in part due to poor health, but
there is no guarantee he would not change his mind,” the ICG
said.  Thein Sein took power from former junta leader Than Shwe in
March 2011. The president enjoys reading in his spare time and
is not much of a talker, Nay Zin Latt, another of his nine
advisers, wrote in an April 7 e-mail.  “He is very decent, and quiet, and a soft-spoken person,”
Ko Ko Hlaing said. “But he has a very firm determination and
commitment for the betterment of his country.”  Suu Kyi, whose father was a general who founded Myanmar’s
modern armed forces and helped win independence from Britain in
the 1940s, said on March 30 that she’s confident that Thein Sein
“genuinely wishes for democratic reform.” Her meeting with him
last August paved the way for her party’s participation in the
by-elections.  Compromise  “I don’t think anybody, Burmese or foreigners, expected
the scope of the changes,” said  David Steinberg , distinguished
professor of Asian Studies at  Georgetown University  in
Washington D.C. “That’s uniquely Thein Sein and the people
around him. Than Shwe wasn’t willing to compromise on anything,
and Thein Sein has been.”  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by the
NLD in which the opposition party won about 80 percent of seats
for a committee to draft a new constitution. Eighteen years
later, an army-drafted constitution that allocates a quarter of
parliamentary seats to the armed forces passed in a referendum.  Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest, campaigned
to change the constitution to make it more democratic. Thein
Sein welcomes her entry to parliament “because we now have a
common place to discuss all things on the agenda very friendly,
very openly and very officially,” Ko Ko Hlaing said.  The president’s ruling Union Solidarity and Development
Party is reviewing its strategy as it looks to the 2015
elections, he said. Measures may include bringing in more
technocrats to handle financial affairs to bolster the economy.  “We are a democracy now, and in democracies the desire of
the people is crucial,” Ko Ko Hlaing said. “The future is
unpredictable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  