-- Myanmar Raises Doubts on Italian-Thai’s Deep-Sea Port Plans
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-03T05:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/myanmar-raises-doubts-on-italian-thai-s-8-6-billion-port-plans.html
Myanmar President Thein Sein’s top
political adviser questioned  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) ’s
ability to oversee a planned $8.6 billion industrial zone in the
country, raising doubts about the Dawei project’s viability.  Executives at Thailand’s biggest  construction company 
“haven’t much experience in developing such a very big special
economic zone,” presidential adviser Ko Ko Hlaing said
yesterday in an interview in Yangon, Myanmar’s biggest city.
“We need other big investors.”  Thein Sein pitched both Dawei, 300 kilometers (186 miles)
west of Bangkok, and Thilawa, a port 25 kilometers south of
Yangon, to Japanese investors during meetings in  Tokyo  last
month, he said. The trip ended with an agreement for  Japan  to
study Thilawa’s potential that made no mention of Dawei.  Italian-Thai has struggled to win financing to build the
Indian Ocean industrial hub that it was awarded a concession to
develop in November 2010, before  Thein Sein  took power as
Myanmar shifted from five decades of direct military rule.
Earlier this year, Myanmar’s government told reporters it
canceled plans for a 4,000-megawatt coal-fired power plant on
the site without informing the company in advance.  Italian-Thai helped build the infrastructure for Map Ta
Phut, Thailand’s biggest industrial estate, and can handle the
project in Myanmar, according to Somchet Thinaphong, managing
director of the Dawei Development Co., a unit of the company.
Every project of this scale needs multiple investors to be
successful, he said by phone today.  ‘Global Project’  “This is a global project, it’s an international
project,” Somchet said. “One company cannot handle.”  Italian-Thai  shares  fell 1.1 percent as of 12:26 p.m. in
Bangkok, the most in a week. They have climbed 1.1 percent this
year, compared with a 21 percent gain for  Thailand ’s benchmark
SET index. The company has reported a loss three of the past
four years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “One of their biggest problems is because it was so much
supported by the previous government, now they need to restart
again and try to get support from the new government,” said
Ruth Banomyong, an assistant professor at Bangkok’s Thammasat
University who has worked with the  Asian Development Bank .
Italian-Thai likely needs financial guarantees from Thailand’s
government for Dawei to be successful, he said.  Five days before Myanmar held elections in 2010, Italian-
Thai signed an $8.6 billion contract with the government to
build a deep-sea port and industrial estate, according to Vice
President Anan Amarapala. The company expected to secure at
least $12.5 billion in loan agreements this year to develop the
project, Chairman Premchai Karnasuta told reporters on Dec. 26.  $70 Million  In July 2011, Italian-Thai obtained a credit facility
valued at 2.17 billion baht ($70 million), according to an
annual financial statement released on Feb. 29. Somchet said he
couldn’t provide details on financing for the project.  The ADB would find it hard to lend money for Dawei given
concerns “about how this project should move forward,” Craig
Steffensen, the bank’s Thailand country director who also
oversees Myanmar, said last month.  “I’m not sure it makes sense for them to borrow to build
roads and rail connections and transmission lines for something
they don’t own, where they will turn it over in 60 years, unless
they get an extension,” he said, referring to Italian-Thai.
“And I’m not sure it makes sense for the government to borrow
from the ADB for investments in what is essentially an
undertaking by a foreign investor in Myanmar.”  Japan, Myanmar’s biggest creditor, forgave $3.7 billion in
debt last month during Thein Sein’s visit. Japan also agreed to
complete a feasibility study by year’s end to develop a port and
industrial estate at Thilawa that promote Japanese investment
into Myanmar, according to a statement.  During his trip, Thein Sein visited  power plants  run by
Tokyo Electric Power Co. and Electric Power Development Co.,
also known as J-Power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  