-- Hyatt Hotels Earnings Miss Estimates as Expenses Increase
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-05-03T20:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/hyatt-hotels-earnings-miss-estimates-as-expenses-increase.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  fell the most in
almost six months after the chain controlled by the Pritzker
family reported first-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates as expenses jumped.  The company, which late yesterday announced a new chief
financial officer as part of a reorganization, said selling,
general and administrative expenses climbed 33 percent in the
quarter. Hyatt attributed part of the increase to the cost of
introducing brands, bad debts and legal fees.  “Usually, general expenses climb about 3 to 4 percent, so
this jump is unusual,” said Nikhil Bhalla, senior lodging
analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington, Virginia. “This company is
going through a sort of restructuring right now. Chances are
we’re going to see these types of expenses for the next couple
of quarters.”  Hyatt, based in  Chicago , said yesterday that it is
realigning its business to create three operating regions that
will report to a “global operations center.” Chief Financial
Officer Harmit Singh will step down from that post in August and
leave the hotelier in December, the company said. Gebhard F. Rainer, currently managing director of  Europe ,  Africa  and the
 Middle East , will replace Singh as CFO.  Shifting Mix  The company has “added a lot of resources, and we
recognize our business mix will shift as we open hotels,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hoplamazian said during a conference call
with analysts. The new organizational structure will “push
decision making to the regions and hotels themselves,” he said.  Hyatt fell 5.2 percent to $41.55 at the close in  New York ,
the most since Nov. 9.  Also yesterday, Hyatt said it acquired a 756-room hotel in
Mexico City for about $190 million. The company plans to invest
about $40 million to renovate the property over the next three
years and eventually sell it while retaining the  management
contract . The property, which will be re-branded as Hyatt
Regency Mexico City, was purchased from Japan-Mexico Hotel
Investment Co. Ltd. The transaction is scheduled to be completed
this month.  Hyatt’s net income in the first quarter was $10 million, or
6 cents a share, unchanged from a year earlier, the company said
today in a statement. Adjusted earnings, which exclude a gain on
investments, were 3 cents a share. The average  estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 9 cents a share.  Revenue rose to $958 million from $875 million a year
earlier. Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, increased 8.1 percent for full-service
hotels in  North America  that have been owned or leased for at
least a year. Overseas, revpar gained 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  