-- Yes, the Health-Care Mandate Is About Liberty
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   C o h n   a n d   D a v i d   A .   S t r a u s s
-- 2012-05-03T23:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/yes-the-health-care-mandate-is-about-liberty.html
As they await the  Supreme Court  ruling
on the Affordable Care Act, legal critics of the law say their
case is about liberty. If the government can instruct people to
obtain health insurance, they keep asking, what’s to stop it
from requiring them to buy broccoli?  But the real threat to liberty in this case isn’t a
hypothetical broccoli law. It’s the problem that the mandate
remedies -- the failure of the health-insurance market -- and
the long-standing national crisis of rising health-care costs
that Congress finally found a way to address.  It’s not a coincidence that in every advanced country in
the world, including the U.S., the government is heavily
involved in the health-care market and has been for generations.
Everybody needs medical attention, at some point, and virtually
everybody needs health insurance to pay for it. Nobody can
predict when he or she will need care and virtually nobody can
pay for it out of pocket. Even the  law’s  challengers acknowledge
these facts.  But in the U.S., not everybody can actually get health
insurance -- partly because, as economists have long understood,
the health-insurance market is almost uniquely prone to
dysfunction.  Insurers need premiums from healthy people, so that, at any
one time, they have money to pay the bills of the sick and
injured. Private insurers can build these broad risk pools when
they sell coverage through large employers, since such companies
typically have big and diverse workforces. But when insurers
sell health-care policies directly to individuals, they run into
trouble: They disproportionately attract people who already have
medical conditions.  Stable Risk Pools  During the 20th century, this problem of  “adverse
selection”  pushed many insurers into financial distress.  To preserve themselves, carriers today charge higher
premiums, reduce benefits or deny coverage altogether to
applicants who have pre-existing medical conditions. Although
this keeps insurers solvent, it excludes people who need
insurance the most -- in ways that limit their ability to
participate fully as members of society and, for that matter, to
engage in interstate commerce. Frequently these people can’t
switch jobs or start a business. In the worst cases, they can’t
pay their medical bills or obtain the care they need.  By establishing the mandate, which is really just a
financial incentive for people to get insurance, the Affordable
Care Act will build large, stable risk pools for health
insurance. It will also enable the government to set rules about
standard benefits and pricing that allow people buying insurance
on their own to comparison-shop. In the long run, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office , it will help government control
the cost of medical care, which increasingly strains public and
private resources alike -- and today accounts for one-sixth of
the American economy.  The mandate would seem to fall well within current
boundaries of the government’s power to regulate interstate
commerce and to do whatever is “necessary and proper” for
carrying out its duties, as established by numerous precedents.
But if the justices disagree, because they believe the mandate
regulates “inactivity,” they can add a new limit.  They could say, for example, that government may regulate
activity before that activity takes place -- in this case,
requiring people to get insurance before they get sick -- when
doing so is necessary to keep an essential interstate market
functioning.  This principle would be consistent with the spirit of the
Constitution, whose architects wished to construct an
economically viable union of states. It would also be consistent
with the philosophy of capitalism. Even  Adam Smith  understood
that, sometimes, markets don’t work without government
intervention.  Broccoli and Burial  The proverbial broccoli mandate, which Justice  Antonin Scalia  brought up when the Supreme Court heard oral arguments on
the constitutionality of the law in late March, wouldn’t
satisfy this standard. Not everybody eats broccoli. And the
market for broccoli works fine.  Supply rises and falls to meet demand, as farmers adjust
output depending on consumer interest, so that people who want
and can pay for broccoli are generally able to get it. The same
goes for U.S.-made cars, mobile phones, and most other goods or
services.  A burial-insurance mandate, as Justice  Samuel Alito 
suggested, might conceivably meet this standard. Everybody dies.
If some day the disposal of remains becomes a crushing financial
burden that requires insurance, and the market for burial
insurance excludes large numbers of people, then Congress might
have reason to act. But today no such crisis exists. For the
moment, what is true of the health-insurance business “is not
true in other industries,” as Justice  Anthony Kennedy  observed.  Critics of the health-care law say the Affordable Care Act
is unprecedented. But, in 1792, President  George Washington 
signed the Militia Act, requiring all men to purchase a gun and
knapsack. The goal was defense of liberty. A decision to uphold
the health-insurance mandate would be a powerful defense of
liberty in the modern age.  (Jonathan Cohn is a senior editor at The New Republic and
the author of  “Sick.”  David A. Strauss is a professor of law at
the  University of Chicago  and is the author of “The Living
Constitution.” The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Argentina’s oil grab  and
poor  corporate governance at tech companies ;  Michael Kinsley  on
 Mitt Romney’s former spokesman ; Virginia Postrel on the economic
folly of  recycling eyeglasses ;  Susan Antilla  on  mandatory
arbitration .  To contact the writers of this article:
Jonathan Cohn at  CitizenCohn@gmail.com 
 David Strauss  at  d-strauss@uchicago.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 