-- Yuan Drops as U.S. Talks Begin on Weaker Global Jobs Data
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-03T02:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/yuan-drops-as-u-s-talks-begin-on-weaker-global-jobs-data.html
 The  yuan  declined as talks between
U.S. and Chinese officials in Beijing began after jobs reports
in the U.S. and Europe signaled the global economic recovery is
weakening.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily  fixing  0.04
percent weaker at 6.2697 per dollar today, tracking declines in
Asian currencies as American companies added the fewest workers
in seven months and unemployment in Germany unexpectedly
increased. China’s  non-manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index
fell to 56.1 in April, from 58 in the previous month, official
data showed today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yuan gains would
help the Asian nation revamp its economy, before the fourth
round of the U.S.- China  strategic and economic dialogue.  “As the meetings start, there’s less reason for the
Chinese central bank to keep record fixings,” said Stella Lee,
president of Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  Hong
Kong . “Softer economic data means China won’t allow the yuan to
strengthen rapidly as that could hurt exports and growth.”  The yuan fell 0.04 percent to 6.3095 per dollar as of 9:55
a.m. in Shanghai, a 0.63 percent discount to the  reference rate ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It is
allowed to trade 1 percent either side of the daily fixing. One-
month implied volatility for the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 2.1
percent.  Yuan appreciation pressure will ease as China faces slowing
economic growth and a falling long-term rate of return on
capital, People’s Daily reported, citing  Liu Yuhui , a researcher
from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Conditions for the
yuan’s two-way fluctuation haven’t changed, Liu said.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan dropped 0.08
percent to 6.3095. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped
0.02 percent to 6.3465, a 0.6 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  