-- Zuckerberg Facebook IPO to Make Him Richer Than Ballmer
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/zuckerberg-s-facebook-ipo-will-make-him-richer-than-ballmer.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s $11.8 billion initial
public offering will cement the status of 27-year-old  Mark
Zuckerberg  as one of the world’s richest men and put his social
network among the highest-valued companies in the U.S.  Facebook is offering about 337.4 million shares for $28 to
$35 each, according to a regulatory  filing  yesterday. At the
upper end of that range, the co-founder’s stake would be $17.6
billion, making him richer than Microsoft Corp.’s  Steve Ballmer 
and Russian steel billionaire  Vladimir Lisin , who are both twice
his age, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Zuckerberg, who began the service for Harvard University 
classmates as a 19-year-old in his dorm room, built Facebook into 
the most popular social-networking site in the world, topping 
900 million users last quarter. Now he has to prove he has the 
leadership skills to deliver enough growth to justify the 
company’s valuation, said  Paul Saffo , managing director at 
Discern Analytics in  San Francisco .  “The whole story about the Silicon Valley is hard-working,
entrepreneurial tech geeks getting big payoffs,” said Saffo,
whose firm provides analytics to institutional investors. “The
challenge he has is: Can Mark grow as quickly as his company has
grown? And can Mark grow faster than his company has grown?
Because, of course, that’s what a leader must do.”  Passing MySpace  Zuckerberg, who has developed a reputation for introducing
new products quickly, helped the company supplant MySpace as the
most popular social service while also navigating competitive
threats from Google Inc., Twitter Inc. and other social-media
sites. The company has expanded its appeal by enabling
developers to build applications on top of the platform,
offering users music, movies, e-commerce options and other
extras.  “They stayed nimble, like a startup of a smaller size,”
said  Jeremiah Owyang , an analyst at Altimeter Group. “The
culture encouraged them to experiment and innovate on a regular
basis, even when they had the lead.”  Facebook’s IPO would value the company at as much as $96
billion. It is offering 180 million of the shares, while
existing owners such as  Accel Partners  and Digital Sky
Technologies are offering 157.4 million shares, according to the
filing. Zuckerberg is offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million
shares. The majority of his net proceeds will be used to pay
taxes associated with exercising a stock option.  Majority Control  He may control about 57 percent of the voting power of
Facebook’s capital stock outstanding after the offering,
according to the filing.  Zuckerberg has shown patience in bringing Facebook to the
brink of an IPO. After starting the company in 2004, he rolled
it out to other college campuses, reaching 1 million users by
the end of the year. Zuckerberg also received a key investment
from Peter Thiel, who made much of his wealth as a co-founder of
online-payments service PayPal, later sold to EBay Inc.  It wasn’t until 2006 that Zuckerberg opened up the service
so anyone could join. Facebook accumulated 12 million users by
the end of 2006.  Zuckerberg was able to woo other investors along the way to
handle the growing user base. That included software company
 Microsoft (MSFT) , Accel and Russian investor Digital Sky.  Facebook, while preparing for the IPO, has remained active
on other fronts. After being sued by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  in March for
patent infringement, the company has been looking to buy
intellectual property from other owners of it. Facebook plans to
spend $550 million on some of the patents Microsoft had earlier
said it would purchase from AOL Inc.  Microsoft CEO Ballmer's net worth was $15.4 billion as of 
yesterday, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
FB US <EQUITY> 