-- Facebook Backers Plan to Sell Up to $5.5 Billion in Stock
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-04T04:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-03/zuckerberg-facebook-backers-plan-to-sell-5-5-billion-in-stock.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  investors Accel Partners
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plan to sell as much as $1.8 billion
in shares of the top social network, becoming two of the biggest
sellers in the planned initial public offering.  Goldman Sachs is selling 13.2 million shares, worth as much
as $461.6 million at the high end of the range outlined
 yesterday  by Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook . Accel
Partners, an early investor in Facebook, intends to sell as much
as $1.3 billion of shares.  Facebook unveiled plans yesterday to raise as much as $11.8
billion in the largest-ever Internet IPO. Executives including
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and backers such as
Digital Sky Technologies will sell a total of 157.4 million
shares for as much as $35 apiece, according to a  regulatory
filing . None will unload their entire holding.  “You don’t like to see insiders getting out, and they’re
selling a little more than expected,” said  Erik Gordon , a
professor at the Ross School of Business at the University of
Michigan in  Ann Arbor . “It certainly shows in some people’s
minds that the price is pretty full, because if you really
thought that 12 months later the stock would be 50 percent
higher, you wouldn’t leave that on the table.”  At the high end of the range, Facebook would be valued at
$96 billion, and executive and investor sales would yield $5.5
billion. Existing shareholders paid an average of $1.11 a share
for Facebook, the filing shows.  Goldman Sachs Sale  Facebook is offering 180 million shares to raise funds for
general corporate purposes.  While Goldman Sachs is one of the IPO underwriters, it
failed to win the lead role after scuttling a private sale of
Facebook’s stock to U.S. investors last year. Facebook said in
January 2011 it raised $1.5 billion from Goldman Sachs and
Digital Sky Technologies, valuing the company at $50 billion.
Goldman Sachs, affiliated funds and Digital Sky invested $500
million, while non-U.S. investors in a Goldman Sachs fund bought
$1 billion of shares.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the plans to sell Facebook shares.
Richard Wong, a partner at  Accel Partners , declined to comment.  Zuckerberg will offer 30.2 million of his 533.8 million
shares in the sale, bringing him as much as $1.1 billion. The
majority of his net proceeds will be used to pay taxes
associated with exercising a stock option.  Accel, Digital Sky  Accel, the biggest outside holder, invested $12.2 million
in Facebook in 2005 and owns 11.3 percent of Facebook’s Class B
shares. At the high end of the proposed IPO price range, Accel’s
remaining stake would be valued at about $5.7 billion.  Digital Sky is selling 26.3 million shares to yield as much
as $919 million.  Selling may be smart for holders with large stakes who
haven’t had a chance to diversify their assets, said Gordon, of
the Ross School of Business.  Other selling stockholders include Elevation Partners,
Greylock Partners,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Executive
Officer Mark Pincus and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  Chairman  Reid Hoffman .
The investors are selling only parts of their Facebook stakes.  Co-founder Dustin Moskovitz and early backer Sean Parker
are holding on to their stakes in the IPO, though both may sell
a portion if the underwriters exercise their option to buy
additional shares. T. Rowe Price Group Inc. will keep its more
than 5 percent holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  