-- 
L.A. Water Agency Sells $311 Million as California Offers Dip: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-11T14:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/l-a-water-agency-sells-311-million-as-california-offers-dip-muni-credit.html
Los Angeles ’s water agency, which
serves a population of more than 4 million, will price $311.6
million of revenue bonds today as municipal issuance in
California drops to its lowest level since 2000.  Issuers sold about $15 billion of fixed-rate securities
from Jan. 1 through yesterday, half the $30 billion of long-term
debt sold in the state in the same period in 2008, before the
Build America Bonds program, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the least municipal issuance from California
entities since 2000, when the state and its municipalities sold
$8.3 billion from January through the second week of August.  Moody’s Investors Service Aug. 9 revised  Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power’s  outlook to stable from positive
as the agency’s fiscal 2011 net revenue fell to 1.5 times debt
service from 1.8 times in fiscal 2010. The company also affirmed
its Aa2 grade on the agency’s $3 billion of outstanding water
revenue bonds.  The authority’s role as an essential service provider and
this week’s $2.9 billion of issuance, the lowest for a week in
August since 2003, will attract investor interest,  Peter Hayes ,
a managing director with Blackrock Inc., which owns $98.2
billion in municipal bonds, said in an interview yesterday at
Blackrock’s New York office.  “A 1.5 times coverage, even by our standards, is still
pretty strong,” Hayes said. “It’s a sector that’s less prone
to the cyclicality of the economy so it’s less sensitive to
economic downturns. So it should do well.”  Bond Refunding  Bond proceeds will refund a portion of Series 2001A bonds
and Series 2004C bonds, according to the preliminary official
statement. The agency declined to comment on the transaction.  Los Angeles water bonds sold in November 2009 and maturing
in July 2018 traded July 29, the last recorded trade, with an
average yield of 2.34 percent, 0.07 percentage point above an
index of similarly rated seven-year utility bonds. That compares
with a spread of 0.27 point on March 16 when they traded at 2.99
percent against the index yield of 2.72 percent.  Today’s sale comes with the yield on top-rated 10-year tax-
exempt securities at 2.3 percent, the lowest since October.
Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempt bonds rose to 3.91
percent today from 3.9 percent yesterday.  The water agency is selling as  California ’s revenue
collections for July, the first month of fiscal 2012, came in
$538.8 million, or 10 percent, less than budgeted estimates,
according to figures released Aug. 9 by Controller John Chiang.
A series of “triggers” written into the most-populous state’s
$86 billion general-fund budget would cut spending on
universities, home care for seniors and the disabled, libraries
and other programs if revenue falls $1 billion short of plan.  Revenue Challenges  Against the backdrop of the state’s revenue challenges, the
Los Angeles water agency’s revenue bonds, backed by bill
payments, should attract buyers looking for safer investments,
said  Richard Ciccarone , a managing director at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois .  “That anxiety about whether California can live up to
their expectations will intensify the demand by conservative
buyers to identify strong essential revenue bonds like water or
an electric utility, in which the revenues are more stable,”
Ciccarone said.  The agency is the sole water provider for Los Angeles, the
second-most populous U.S. city. It increased base rates by 3.1
percent in fiscal 2010 and anticipates boosting water rates
again by 14 percent, if the city council approves such an
increase, Moody’s said in its report. That 14 percent increase
is expected to generate $48 million of additional revenue.  “Rate increases can be politicized,” said Howard Cure,
director of municipal research for Evercore Wealth Management
LLC in  New York . “The advantage they have is their rates are
still lower than a lot of the surrounding cities, like  Pasadena ,
Glendale, and  Santa Monica .”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  California Department of Water Resources , which finances
water infrastructure projects, plans to borrow $1 billion of
tax-exempt revenue debt as soon as next week. The issuer is
graded AA-,  Standard & Poor’s  fourth-highest rating. Morgan
Stanley will lead a syndicate of banks on the sale. (Added Aug.
11)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  