-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Maker May Seek Funds at $1.2 Billion Valuation

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-12T07:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/-angry-birds-maker-seeks-1-2b-valuation.html
Rovio Entertainment Oy, the Finnish
creator of the “Angry Birds” mobile-phone game, is in talks to
receive funding that would value the company at about $1.2
billion, two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The Espoo, Finland-based game maker is considering taking a
strategic investment from a company in the entertainment
business, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. The name of the entertainment company
couldn’t immediately be determined. Rovio has rejected similar
offers from large institutional investors, the people said.  Rovio may use any new funds to fuel its expansion. The
company plans to make an  “Angry Birds”  movie and open offices
outside of Finland, and is seeking to capitalize on the
popularity of its brand in countries such as  China , where it
aims to sell stuffed animals and clothing in 200 retail stores.  The most likely investors in Rovio include game developers
 Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  and Zynga Inc., and media giants News Corp.
and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , said  Michael Pachter , managing director of
research at Wedbush Securities Inc. These companies could help
Rovio reach new audiences, he said.  “I can see how Disney would take ‘Angry Birds’ and turn
them into a theme-park ride and a movie,” said Pachter, who is
based in  Los Angeles . “Zynga could take ‘Angry Birds’ and make
it into ‘FarmVille.’”  Earlier Funding  In March, Rovio received $42 million in funding from
investors including Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom’s Atomico as well as Facebook Inc. backer Accel
Partners.  Sini Matikainen, a spokeswoman for Rovio, declined to
comment on the company’s funding plans. Jeff Brown, a spokesman
for Electronic Arts, declined to comment on potential
investments. Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, also declined
to comment, as did Dan Berger, a spokesman for News Corp. in Los
Angeles.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Disney, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  “Angry Birds” is one of several Web games to be offered
on Google Inc.’s new social-networking site, the Mountain View,
California-based company said in a blog post yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  