-- 
’Steady As You Go’ Still Good Policy for Uncertain Times: John B. Taylor

-- B y   J o h n   B .   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-08-11T13:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/-steady-as-you-go-still-good-policy-for-uncertain-times-echoes.html
Forty years ago this month, President  Richard Nixon  sharply shifted his
 economic policy  in an interventionist direction with deleterious economic
results that continued for a decade and provide lessons for today. On August 15, 1971, Nixon announced a freeze on wages and prices. This action
paved the way for a series of monetary and fiscal policy interventions that
eventually led to double-digit unemployment, double-digit inflation and double-
digit  interest rates . Had he stayed the course, rather than shift policy, the
1970s would probably have been a decade of strong employment growth with low
inflation and low unemployment, much as we eventually saw in the 1980s and
1990s. You can learn a lot from this period by reading contemporary accounts, and
one of the best is that of economist  Milton Friedman , who was writing a regular
column in Newsweek at the time. In a column on July 26, only three weeks before the Nixon shock, Friedman was
full of praise for Nixon's economic policy. He referred in detail to a speech
that had recently been given by Nixon's Budget Director, George P. Shultz,
titled " Prescription for Economic Policy: 'Steady As You Go ,'" which made the
case for the steadier, longer-term, more predictable policy that Friedman was
urging Nixon to follow. In a nod to Shultz, Friedman titled his column "Steady As You Go." He argued
that Nixon had begun to reverse the harmful interventionist policy of  Lyndon
Johnson 's administration, which he called "Fine-tuning with a sledge hammer!" He
was looking forward to a more stable and prosperous decade. But the August 15 policy shock, and the events of the ensuing few years,
changed all that. It was a 180-degree turn back to interventionist policies, and
Friedman withdrew all his praise. In his May 14, 1973 column, he said: "In a masterpiece of bad timing, I chose
in the  Newsweek  issue of July 26, 1971 to pen a tribute to President Nixon's
'vision and courage' in following a policy of (1) moderate fiscal restraint, (2)
steady and moderate monetary restraint, (3) and avoidance of price and wage
controls -- a policy which George Shultz had earlier termed 'steady as you go.'
... Within six months of my column all three elements had been
abandoned." Friedman predicted that economic performance would be very poor following
this change in policy. He and Shultz were right. Not until the interventionist
approach was finally abandoned in the 1980s and 1990s did economic performance
finally improve. Looking back on those events, and on that speech,  George Shultz  wrote to me
recently, "Unfortunately, I lost this battle." Wage and price controls, he said,
"were initially popular but, in the end, they produced all the predictable
problems with which we are all too familiar." Policy has again veered in an interventionist direction in the past few
years, and the result has been an epidemic of unintended consequences, including
an unpredictable economic policy, a non-existent recovery, an explosion of debt
and now a credit downgrade by  Standard & Poor's . It's time to restore the
predictability of sound fiscal and monetary policy, and then return to the
mantra of "Steady As You Go." ( John B. Taylor , a contributor to the Echoes blog, is the Mary and Robert
Raymond Professor of Economics at  Stanford University  and the George P. Shultz
Senior Fellow in Economics at the Hoover Institution.) To contact the author of this blog post:
http://johnbtaylorsblog.blogspot.com. To contact the editor responsible for this blog post: Timothy Lavin at
tlavin1@bloomberg.net.