-- 
AB InBev Revenue Growth Misses Estimates as Sales Slip in U.S. and Brazil

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-11T09:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/ab-inbev-revenue-growth-misses-estimates-as-less-beer-sold-in-u-s-brazil.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
largest brewer, reported growth in second-quarter sales that
missed analysts’ estimates as it sold less beer in countries
including Brazil and the U.S., its biggest markets.  Revenue rose 3.7 percent, excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency shifts, the Leuven, Belgium-based maker of  Stella
Artois  said today, missing the 4.9 percent median estimate of
seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The volume of beer sold
fell 2.6 percent in Brazil and 1.4 percent in  North America .  AB InBev’s market share in the U.S. declined by about 0.5
percentage point in the quarter after the company raised prices
of some of its cheaper beers in a shift toward more-expensive
products. The Budweiser brewer, which got more than three-
quarters of revenue from the Americas last year, said it’s also
being affected by low growth in disposable incomes in  Brazil .
Profit growth for the quarter met analyst estimates.  “The weaker volume and pricing performance in Brazil is
disappointing,” Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London, said in a note. “The U.S. remains
tough,” said the analyst, who rates the stock “buy.”  AB InBev fell as much as 3.4 percent in Brussels trading.
The stock was down 37 cents, or 1.1 percent, at 34.78 euros as
of 11 a.m., the only decline on  Belgium ’s benchmark Bel20 Index,
which was up 1.8 percent.  More-Expensive Beers  So-called normalized earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortization rose to $3.75 billion from $3.35
billion a year earlier, the brewer said in a statement. The
median estimate was $3.76 billion. Net income rose to $1.45
billion from $1.15 billion a year earlier.  The brewer said it’s committed to a strategy of selling a
higher proportion of more-expensive beers in the U.S. It aims to
narrow the gap in prices between premium beers such as Michelob
Ultra and sub-premium brands including Busch to 15 percent from
25 percent in the next few years, Chief Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said in May. AB InBev has increased its share of high-end
beer sales by 1 percentage point since December.  “In the U.S. we’re all monitoring what’s going on with the
economy and politics, but we’ll focus on what we can control,”
Dutra said today on a conference call.  Budweiser Share  The amount of beer sold in the U.S. was affected by poor
weather in the quarter that included storms, tornadoes and
flooding in the center of the country, AB InBev said.  Market share declines for the Budweiser brand continue to
decelerate, the company said. The beer had the best half-year
volume performance in the U.S. for 11 years, helped by
promotions that included a national happy hour, or “Flag day,”
on June 14. AB InBev has also introduced new packaging for its
cans, featuring a red bow-tie design.  The decline in volume in Brazil was accentuated by the
strength of the prior-year performance, when drinkers bought
more beer at the time of the soccer  World Cup . The company said
it increased its share of the market in the Latin American
country to 69.3 percent in June, and that its average share in
the first half was 68.6 percent.  “Share gains should drive better volume,” Dutra said.
“We have a high degree of confidence in Brazil.”  The total amount of beer sold in the quarter rose 0.3
percent, boosted by growth of 12 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region. Total revenue gained 8.5 percent to about $10 billion.  Cost savings related to the 2008 acquisition of St. Louis-
based Anheuser-Busch Cos. were $70 million in the quarter, the
company said. AB InBev has a three-year goal for $2.25 billion
of total savings from the $52.5 billion takeover by the end of
2011 and said today it’s on track to deliver “at least” $270
million of so-called synergies this year.  Net Debt  Net debt rose by $400 million to $40.1 billion at the end
of the period, the company said, citing “the seasonality of our
cash flows and the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations.” AB
InBev aims to reduce the ratio of net debt-to-normalized Ebitda
to 2 times during 2012, from 2.75 times now.  The 2011 outlook is “essentially unchanged,” the company
said. Volume should improve in the second half, and revenue per
hectoliter will probably grow at a faster rate than inflation,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 