-- 
Hackers Force Filing Changes After Crashing Hong Kong Exchanges’s Website

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-08-12T08:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/hackers-crashing-hong-kong-bourse-website-forces-filing-changes.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
said it will find new ways of publicizing earnings and other
corporate events after hackers jammed its public news website.  The bourse, acting to safeguard communications from listed
companies, will use e-mails and newspaper ads to back up its
online system, Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said yesterday
at a briefing. While the exchange’s news site appeared to be
working today after two days of disruptions, spokesman Scott
Sapp declined to confirm it was operating without any glitches.  Hong Kong Exchanges halted trading of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and five other stocks on Aug. 10
after what Li described as a “sustained and systematic” attack
on its computer system may have prevented investors from
accessing price-sensitive filings. The bourse is at least the
second this year to report an attack by hackers.  “If you look at this event in a broader sense, it does
raise the level of alert,” said Michael Liang, chief investment
officer at Foundation Asset Management (HK) Ltd., which oversees
$120 million. “The exchange should probably look into its
infrastructure and make sure it’s not compromised by an event
like this.”  More Sophisticated  Hong Kong Exchanges shares rose 0.4 percent to HK$137.10
today. The stock is valued at about 27 times reported profit,
making it the fifth-most expensive bourse operator in the world,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the company has defended itself against previous
attempts, this was more sophisticated, Li said. The target was
the  news disclosure service  and the exchange’s trading and
clearing operations haven’t been affected, he said.  The assault was a so-called distributed denial of service
attack aimed at preventing access to the exchange’s public news
feed by overwhelming its capacity to handle website traffic, Li
said. Should the hackers change strategies, Li said the bourse
may not be able to defend the website and its backup online
bulletin board.  “We don’t even know who they are now, so we don’t know how
to prevent them from attacking us,” Li said. “We can try to
defend it when it does come, but we cannot prevent it from
happening.”  ‘Suspicious Files’  The hacking, from remote-controlled computers around the
world, was complex and took time to filter and analyze, Chief
Technology Officer Bill Chow said. Previous assaults were easier
to block, he said.  In March, the U.S. National Security Agency joined the
investigation of an October 2010 attack on Nasdaq OMX, according
to people familiar with the probe. The second-largest U.S.
equity exchange operator by trading market share said in
February that “suspicious files” discovered on a website
prompted it to start an investigation with federal authorities
into possible computer hacking.  Hong Kong  Exchange’s website was last disrupted in late
2009, Li said. That attack targeted the company’s corporate
website and not the news service, he said.  The website “is probably a weak link when it comes to an
exchange,” said Simmy Grewal, a London-based analyst covering
European and Asian equity market structure for Aite Group LLC.
“It’s a worry that it has happened a second day because it
means they haven’t been able to solve the problem.”  The exchange  suspended trading  of companies that published
price-sensitive information, including on earnings and
acquisitions, after 12 p.m. on Aug. 10 to ensure investors had
equal access to statements, Li said.  Computer Crimes  HSBC, which makes up 15 percent of Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index, and Hong Kong Exchanges, which has a 2.6 percent
weighting, were suspended on Aug 10. Cathay Pacific,  Dah Sing
Banking Group Ltd. (2356) , Dah Sing Financial Group, China Resources
Microelectronics Ltd. and  China Power International Development
Ltd. (2380)  were also halted. All companies resumed trading yesterday.  The Technology Crime Division of the Hong Kong Police’s
Commercial Crime Bureau is investigating the matter, Anita Chow,
a spokeswoman for the force, said. The Securities and Futures
Commission is also following up, spokesman Jonathan Li said.  “The worry is that the stock exchange is not handling this
properly,” said  Pauline Dan , who oversees about $600 million as
chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management Hong Kong.
“If this only concerns a single website that’s not linked to
the trading system, that’s something we can live with. If this
happens again, there need to be alternative ways for people to
gain access to the information, maybe by newspaper or radio
broadcast or another website.”  Sony, Citigroup  The bourse joins companies from Sony Corp. to Citigroup
Inc. that have been targeted by hackers. This week’s attack on
the bourse’s news site came as Hong Kong stocks were rebounding
following a global rout spurred by concern that the  U.S. economy 
is slowing and  Europe  won’t be able to contain its sovereign-
debt crisis.  “Increasingly, you have situations like this happening and
not just related to the stock exchange,” said Foundation Asset
Management’s Liang. “I guess people get less paranoid about it.
It’s just a fact of life we have to deal with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 