-- 
Magical Film Screen Lures Londoners to Arad Spectacle: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-08-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/magical-film-screen-lures-londoners-to-ron-arad-spectacle-martin-gayford.html
The designer and architect Ron Arad
is good at rethinking familiar objects.  In 1993, he came up with  “Bookworm,”  library shelving
that’s curvilinear rather than horizontal. His “Curtain Call”
at the  Roundhouse  in London is equally simple yet surprising.
It’s a projection screen that isn’t flat, solid and rectangular.
It’s circular, translucent and flexible.  Instead of resembling a window, like the normal screen in
front of which the audience sits passively, this is more like
that 19th-century attraction, the panorama. The strangest part
is that you can pull the curtain apart and walk through it.
That’s not something you would ever expect to do with a movie
screen.  From outside, you see imagery appearing on the surface of a
360-degree cylindrical drum. Step inside, and those images
surround you, which completely changes your relationship to what
you see. The experience of going from one to the other is a bit
like Alice’s when she clambered through the looking glass.  From outside, the circular wall of moving imagery is
striking, a hub in the center of a circular building (the
Roundhouse is a converted Victorian steam-engine repair shed).
The womb-like interior is where people want to be. When I went
all the visitors were on the inside, sitting or lying on the
floor seemingly immersed in the imagery swirling around them.  Cylindrical Keyboard  At that moment, it was a spectral birch forest revolving
like a merry-go-round -- part of “Waking Dream” by the
digital-art studio  SDNA , one of 12 specially commissioned works
that are shown on a loop during the day. Among the other artists
are Christian Marclay, whose video collage “The Clock” is a
highlight of the Venice Biennale. “Pianorama,” Marclay’s piece
for “Curtain Call,” transforms the screen into a cylindrical
piano keyboard.  My first reaction was that “Curtain Call” was a
spectacular innovation. The second was that its interest, not
unexpectedly, depends on what’s being projected. The next piece
on the loop, essentially a filmed fashion show by Hussein Chalayan, was less than gripping, even with slightly different
coats and frocks coming at you from 360 degrees.  Next up, animations by Babis Alexiadis -- flapping birds,
snipping scissors, surging waves -- were more engaging.
Essentially, unless you have a great deal of time to spend lying
on the Roundhouse floor, what you catch when you drop in will
depend on luck. In the evenings, there’s a series of events
often involving live musicians. The pianist who was originally
filmed for Marclay’s “Pianorama,” for example, will accompany
himself.  The most intriguing thing isn’t any particular piece, but
the translucent drum-like screen itself. “Curtain Call” could
be described as a sculpture or an environment. However you
classify the work, it’s something genuinely novel and powerful.  “Curtain Call” is at the Roundhouse,  London , through Aug.
29, supported by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.
Information:  http://www.roundhouse.org.uk/   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 