-- 
Magna, Lear May Lead Global Consolidation of Automotive-Interior Suppliers

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-08-11T12:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/magna-joins-jci-in-global-consolidation-of-car-interiors-makers.html
Makers of car seats and dashboards,
including  Magna International Inc. (MG)  and  Lear Corp. (LEA) , are among
those most likely to make acquisitions this year, as automakers
seek suppliers with the scale to handle global projects.  With more than $5 billion in cash, suppliers are adding
assets that help automakers develop interior features tailored
to fast-growing markets such as Brazil and  China . Magna, Lear
and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  will be among the more aggressive
acquirers, said PRTM, a global consulting firm based in Waltham,
Massachusetts.  Vehicle interiors are key differentiators among competing
vehicles, like kitchens and bathrooms are for house shoppers.
Suppliers that specialize in seats, dashboards and related
components are looking at distressed companies in  Europe  to help
boost their ability to serve automakers such as  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in local markets around the world.  “The average customer all over the world is buying by
exterior looks and interior experience,” Dietmar Ostermann,
director of PRTM’s automotive practice, said in an interview.
“Significantly more vehicle manufacturers are changing the look
of cars to appeal to local markets.”  Auto-parts companies may make as many as 250 acquisitions
worldwide this year, compared with 268 last year, which was the
second-highest total, PRTM forecast. That number may be reduced
by 12 percent if  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of  U.S. debt 
increases  interest rates  and caution among investors, he said.  Deal Value  Deal value may increase this year, to about $60 billion
from about $45 billion last year, PRTM forecasts in its study,
which examined data and executive comments to assess the
potential roles of 565 automotive suppliers as buyers, sellers
or financially distressed companies.  Of the 165 companies studied that make parts for vehicle
interiors, 32 are “strong buyers” and 26 are “strong”
sellers or distressed, PRTM said. Magna, North America’s largest
auto supplier, and Lear, both makers of seats, are among the
most-improved potential buyers, the study said.  Lear may consider seat-frame makers Kongsberg Automotive
Holdings ASA or Austem Co. or  Mitsuba Corp. (7280) , which makes
electric motors for seats, PRTM said. Lear is considering $100
million to $200 million acquisitions of companies that make seat
mechanisms and fabrics, Matt Simoncini, who takes over as chief
executive officer Sept. 1, said in an interview yesterday.  Magna is eyeing a range of acquisitions, from smaller
technology companies to joint ventures to larger buys, CEO Don Walker, said last week in an interview. He declined to comment
on specific acquisition targets. Based in Aurora, Ontario, Magna
had $1.74 billion in cash and $1.9 billion of an unused  credit
line  as of June 30.  Using Cash  The company, which makes everything from rear-view mirrors
to entire cars, probably won’t diversify further, he said.  “We’re looking at a lot of different things,” Walker said.
“Nothing momentous, but we are certainly looking at utilizing
the cash.”  In half the interior-parts acquisitions this year through
May, North American and European suppliers were the buyers,
according to the study, highlighted by Johnson Controls
purchases of Michel Thierry SA, a maker of seat fabric; C Rob
Hammerstein Group, a maker of metal seat frames; and Keiper and
Recaro Automotive, for a combined $1.2 billion.  More Customization  Automakers are increasing the amount of customization for
large and growing markets, such as China, Brazil and India, and
not just peddling U.S.-oriented vehicles in other parts of the
world, Ostermann said.  Much of that customization has yet to reach the market, he
said. GM’s Buick LaCrosse, for example, was designed in Shanghai
and Warren, Michigan, near Detroit. While it is primarily used
as a chauffeur-driven vehicle in China, it is sold there with
standard legroom in the backseat and lacks stereo and climate
controls for the rear passenger, he said.  “Why not design a Chinese product?” asks Ostermann. “The
Buick LaCrosse in China and America eventually will look
different. Right now they are fairly similar.”  Johnson Controls handles much of Buick’s seat design in
China, Ostermann said. David Barnas, a GM spokesman, declined to
comment about plans for the LaCrosse.  Automakers will sell as many as 17.5 million vehicles in
China this year, PRTM forecasts. The market, already larger than
the U.S., will grow 12 percent to 15 percent a year for the
“foreseeable future,” more than twice that of the U.S., PRTM
forecasts.  GM and Volkswagen have the strongest vehicle design and
development capability in China, Ostermann said. VW’s Bora,
Lavida and its new Jetta are designed specifically for Chinese
car buyers and tailored for other markets, he said.  Chinese consumers want Chinese vehicles, instead of mostly
U.S. and European products, Ostermann said.  Local Appeal  “That’s why you see significantly more vehicle
manufacturers changing the looks of the car so it’s
significantly more appealing to local markets, like India, China
and Brazil,” he said.  Johnson Controls, the biggest U.S. supplier, plans to pause
its automotive acquisitions while it integrates its three
European purchases, Bruce McDonald, chief financial officer,
said in a June 27 interview.  Johnson Controls tried to buy part of Visteon Corp.’s
interiors and electronics businesses before Visteon emerged from
bankruptcy proceedings Oct. 1. McDonald said in the interview
that his company is no longer interested in acquiring Visteon
and hasn’t had discussions since it emerged from bankruptcy.  IAC ‘Ripe’  International Automotive Components Group, the auto-parts
supplier owned by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , has started work on a
possible initial public offering of stock, people familiar with
the matter have said. The company may be “ripe for picking,”
and Magna or  Hyundai Mobis (012330)  may be interested, Ostermann said.  Dave Ladd, a spokesman for IAC, declined to comment.  Faurecia (EO)  SA and Visteon are the most likely sellers among
interior suppliers, PRTM said.  Visteon may divest its lighting and heating/air
conditioning units to focus on interiors and electronics or it
may be split, PRTM said. Jim Fisher, a spokesman for Visteon,
declined to comment.  Faurecia, Europe’s largest maker of car interiors, might be
interested in parts of Visteon to expand its Asian sales.
Dongfeng or Yanfeng, two of Visteon’s Chinese joint-venture
partners, also might want to invest in Visteon, PRTM said.
Olivier Le Friec, a spokesman for Faurecia, declined to comment.  Among all parts makers, nine of the 25 most likely
consolidators are based in North America. In addition to Magna,
Lear and Johnson Controls, that list includes  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,
 Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) ,  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  and DuPont Co., PRTM said.  Bigger is Better  Larger suppliers are doing best in the global recovery,
PRTM found. Among the 100 largest suppliers in the study, those
based in North America increased earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization by 76 percent, while those based
in Europe boosted profit by 68 percent, PRTM said.  While the number of auto-parts deals may be down from last
year, it will still be near the record 276 deals done in 2007,
according to PRTM.  The consulting firm itself is being acquired by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The following is a list of automotive suppliers that PRTM
identified as likely buyers, sellers or distressed companies:  Likely buyers: Illinois Tool Works Inc., Weichai Power Co.,
Michelin & Cie., Bridgestone Corp., Johnson Control Inc.,  Magna
International Inc. (MGA) , SKF AB Eaton Corp.,  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
Cummins Inc., Hyundai Mobis Saint-Gobain SA, Lear Corp., Asahi
Glass Co., DuPont Co., Timken Co., Mitsubishi Electric Corp.,
Tyco Electronics  Likely Sellers: Continental AG, Faurecia Valeo SA, Delphi
Automotive Plc, Visteon Corp., TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., TI
Automotive Honeywell International Inc., ThyssenKrupp AG,
Hitachi Ltd.  Potentially Distressed: Behr GmbH & Co., Freescale Semiconductor
Holdings, Futabam Industrial Co., Plastic Omnium SA  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 