-- 
AIG Share Rout May Prolong Treasury Ownership, Goldman Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-11T20:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/aig-slide-may-prolong-treasury-ownership.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
share slide may prolong the U.S. Treasury Department’s ownership
of the bailed-out insurer, limiting near-term gains for private
investors,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Michael Nannizzi, a Goldman Sachs analyst, cut his one-year
price target for New York-based AIG to $27 from $31 in a note to
clients today. The insurer has plunged by more than half since
Dec. 31 as it paid claims tied to natural disasters and said it
would take charges to bolster reserves for policies sold in
prior years. AIG advanced $1.02 to $23.16 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is seeking to
attract private investors to replace the government’s 77 percent
stake. The Treasury would need to sell shares at an average of
$29.70 to recoup a capital injection of $47.5 billion and unpaid
dividends and fees of $1.6 billion, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office said in a  report  last month. Excluding the
dividend and fees, the breakeven price is about $28.73.  “The current price either prolongs the Treasury exit if it
waits to sell at or above its breakeven of $29, or makes it more
likely sales could occur at a lower price -- neither of which
are supportive of the stock price in the near term,” Nannizzi
said in the report. He rates the shares “neutral.”  AIG repaid the remaining $21 billion it owed to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , and the Treasury converted its
preferred stake into 92 percent of AIG’s common stock in
January. The holding was reduced in May when the Treasury and
AIG sold 300 million shares at $29 apiece.  Geithner’s Options  The Treasury Department is working to “balance two
objectives,” Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in remarks to
the Detroit Economic Club in April.  “One is to get these companies back into private hands as
quickly as we can,” Geithner said. “But we also want to
recover as much of the taxpayers’ money as possible. That’s a
balance that will be different over time across different types
of companies.”  The Treasury still has stakes in Ally Financial Inc. and
General Motors Co.  Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the
Treasury, declined to comment today, as did AIG’s Mark Herr.  AIG was rescued in 2008 after regulators determined that
the company’s failure to meet its obligations could lead to the
utter collapse of the economy, Geithner told Congress last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  