-- 
Alumina First-Half Profit Jumps 53% on Higher Demand, Prices

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-11T06:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/alumina-first-half-profit-jumps-53-on-higher-demand-prices-1-.html
Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , partner in the world’s
biggest producer of the material used to make aluminum, said
first-half profit climbed 53 percent on higher demand and
prices, allowing the company to boost its dividend.  Net income rose to $67.7 million, or 2.8 cents a share, in
the six months ended June 30, from $44.2 million, or 1.8 cents a
share, a year earlier, the Melbourne-based company said today in
statement. It will pay a first-half dividend of 3 cents a share,
from 2 cents a year earlier.  Global demand for aluminum may increase by 12 percent this
year and double by the end of the decade as Asian countries
build more office blocks and buy more aircraft, cars and trains,
partner  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  said last month. Aluminum prices have climbed
10 percent in the past year, led by demand from  China , the
biggest consumer.  “Over the past decade, aluminum demand has outgrown all
metals with the exception of steel,” Chief Executive Officer
John Bevan said in the statement. “Much of this growth has been
driven by Chinese industrialization, with China now established
as a major consumer and producer of aluminum.”  Alumina shares fell 5.8 percent to A$1.79 at the 4:10 p.m.
local time close in Sydney, after rising 6.2 percent yesterday.  “Operational performance has been steady and margins have
expanded, despite headwinds from the weak  U.S. dollar ,” Alumina
said.  Alumina owns 40 percent of the Alcoa World Alumina &
Chemical venture and Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
the balance. The venture produces one quarter of the world’s
alumina, which is refined into aluminum.  Alcoa World “has successfully based all new contracts
entered into in the second half of 2010 on the alumina price
indices” and “these contracts are for delivery in 2011 and
beyond,” Alumina said. Its realized prices climbed 28 percent
from the first half of 2010, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Smith  at   tsmith58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  