-- 
Manchester United Outlasts Chelsea When Oddsmakers Assess Premier League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-11T23:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/manchester-united-outlasts-chelsea-when-oddsmakers-assess-premier-league.html
Manchester United  is the favorite of
U.K. bookmakers to defend its Premier League title. Chelsea and
neighbor Manchester City will pose the greatest challenge to the
record 19-time English soccer champion.  Manchester United is a  6-4 chance  with William Hill Plc to
win its 13th title in the Premier League’s 20-year history. That
means a successful $4 bet will bring in $6 plus the original
stake. Chelsea, with three titles in the past seven seasons, is
the second favorite at 11-4 ahead of 4-1 shot Manchester City.  “With City coming up behind them, it’s not going to be
like it was in the ’90s and ’00s,” William Hill spokesman Joe
Crilly said of United in a telephone interview. “They
definitely have got a couple rivals for the top dog, but they’ve
got enough to see them over the line this season.”  The Premier League, soccer’s richest domestic competition,
opens its season with six games tomorrow after Tottenham’s home
match against Everton was postponed because of this week’s riots
in London. The next day, United visits West Brom and Chelsea is
at Stoke, while  Manchester City  hosts newly promoted Swansea the
following night.  “No team enters the Premier League now not thinking they
can get some kind of result against any other team and
therefore, by definition, that means nobody has any huge fear
factor in any game,” Premier League Chief Executive Officer
Richard Scudamore said in an interview yesterday in London.
“The chances of one of the top teams going unbeaten is almost
impossible and therefore it makes it very competitive.”  United Changes  United was forced to replace several veterans after
goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar, 40, and midfielder  Paul Scholes ,
36, retired and defenders  John O’Shea  and  Wes Brown  signed with
Sunderland. It brought in David De Gea from  Atletico Madrid  to
fill van der Sar’s place, along with winger Ashley Young from
 Aston Villa  and defender Phil Jones from Blackburn.  Chelsea finished tied with City nine points behind United
last season but took second on goal difference. A mid-season
slump saw the Blues fall as far down as fifth place before an
improvement put some pressure on United.  “We started very well, lost it a bit in the middle and had
a very good run towards the end, maybe a little too late,”
Chelsea captain  John Terry , 30, said in an interview. “You know
Man United are a very good side, so they’re going to prove very
difficult to beat, as well as Man City, Liverpool, Tottenham and
Arsenal.”  New Coach  Chelsea made its biggest signing in June when it hired
Andre Villas-Boas to replace the fired Carlo Ancelotti as coach.
The 33-year-old, who led Porto to the Europa League and
Portuguese league and cup titles in his only season in charge,
previously worked at Chelsea under manager  Jose Mourinho .  “He’s stressed the importance of winning,” Terry said.
“He’s drummed it into us from day one and he’s brought a lot of
new and fresh ideas to the way he wants us to play, which
hopefully gets us lifting the trophy at the end of the season.”  Manchester City continued spending this season by getting
Atletico  Madrid  striker  Sergio Aguero  and defenders  Gael Clichy 
from Arsenal and Stefan Savic from Partizan Belgrade. Owner
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed has spent more than $1 billion since
buying the club in 2008, prompting United manager  Alex Ferguson 
to call City his “noisy neighbors.”  City claimed its first trophy in 35 years last season by
winning the F.A. Cup and had its highest Premier League finish.  City’s Rise  “Winning the F.A. Cup and finishing third has given us the
belief,” said former midfielder  Patrick Vieira , 35, who retired
after last season and is now a football development executive
with City. “We believe we can challenge Chelsea, United and the
rest of the teams to lift the championship.  A big question for City is the status of leading scorer
 Carlos Tevez , who wants to leave  England  to be closer to his
family in  South America . The 27-year-old Argentine striker last
month appeared to be close to moving to Brazilian club
Corinthians, which failed to complete the deal before a local
trade deadline. The European transfer period ends Aug. 31.  Arsenal has odds of 9-1. The north  London  club may lose
captain Cesc Fabregas, who’s been linked with a move to
Barcelona, and midfielder Samir Nasri, who’s being courted by
City. Liverpool, at odds of 10-1, is going into its first full
season under manager  Kenny Dalglish . The two teams are favored
to battle for fourth and the final place in the  Champions
League .  Relegation Fight  The fight at the bottom of the standings to avoid
relegation to the second-tier Championship may be just as tight
as the title race, oddsmakers said.  Swansea has  4-9 odds  to drop straight back down a division,
followed by fellow promotion clubs Norwich (4-7) and Queens Park
Rangers (6-4). Wigan and Wolverhampton, which both avoided
relegation on the final day of last season, and Blackburn will
also be fighting to avoid the drop.  The races at both ends of the standings went to the end of
last season. Premier League CEO Scudamore wants more of the
same.  ‘‘All that matters for us is that it goes to the last
weekend of the season if it can and same with the relegation,”
he said. “As long as it’s competitive to the very end, it
doesn’t matter to us who finishes top or who gets relegated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  