-- 
Lanxess Raises 2011 Forecast After Beating Profit Estimates

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T09:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/lanxess-raises-2011-forecast-after-beating-profit-estimates-2-.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical
maker spun off from Bayer AG in 2005, raised its full-year
profit forecast after demand for synthetic rubber pushed second-
quarter earnings higher than analysts had estimated.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and exceptional items will rise by about 20 percent, Lanxess
said today in a statement. Previously it predicted a gain of as
much as 15 percent. Ebitda before items rose 26 percent to 339
million euros ($483 million) in the quarter, beating a 320.5
million-euro estimate. The shares gained the most since 2009 in
Frankfurt trading.  Lanxess, which yesterday extended Chief Executive Officer
Axel Heitmann’s contract by five years, is benefiting from
demand for synthetic rubber and specialty plastics from the tire
and automotive industries in emerging economies. The Leverkusen-
based company is confident it can continue to pass on higher
raw-material and energy costs to customers, Heitmann said today.  “Lanxess is in a strong position to raise prices,” Peter Spengler, a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank AG, said in a
note to clients. “We expect further positive surprises in the
second half of 2011.”  The stock rose as much as 4.4 euros, or 11 percent, to
45.12 euros, its biggest intraday jump since November 2009, and
traded at 43.74 euros as of 11:19 a.m. The shares have dropped
26 percent this year, cutting the company’s market value to 3.64
billion euros.  Revenue Advances  The start of the third quarter has been “promising,” and
the company plans to grow by expanding its current business as
well as purchasing other companies, Heitmann said today on a
conference call.  “We have very strict list of criteria when it comes to
acquisitions,” the CEO said on the call. “We will never accept
inflated prices.”  Lanxess halted negotiations over a possible purchase of
Belgian chemicals maker Taminco from CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
because of a disagreement on price, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported on July 25, citing unidentified finance and
industry sources.  Sales gained 23 percent to 2.24 billion euros in the second
quarter, beating the 2.17 billion-euro average estimate of 18
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Full-year sales will gain
“significantly,” the CEO said today.  “Demand for our products remains strong and plants are
running at very high capacity-utilization rates,” Heitmann
said. “Our synthetic rubber and high-tech plastics business
profited from their exposure to the megatrend mobility” with
the growth of  car ownership .  Lanxess has expanded a synthetic rubber plant in Orange,
 Texas , and a high-performance-plastics factory in Wuxi,  China ,
to fill the order surge for tires and lightweight auto parts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  