-- 
Apple, Samsung, Maidenform, Louboutin Red Soles: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-11T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/apple-samsung-maidenform-louboutin-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. should be allowed to
intervene in a patent-infringement lawsuit against developers of
iPhone applications, according to a court filing by  Electronic
Arts Inc. (ERTS)  and ‘Angry Birds’ maker Rovio Entertainment Oy.  Closely held  Lodsys LLC  filed suit in May, contending that
two of its patents for ways to interact with customers are
infringed by iPhone applications including “Angry Birds,”
Combay Inc.’s “Mega Poker Online Texas Holdem,” and “The Sims
3” by Electronic Arts. Apple has argued in court papers that
its license with Lodsys covers the app developers as well and
wants to join the case on their behalf.  “The participation of Apple as a party in this lawsuit is
critical to the development of the very evidence needed to
establish what may prove to be a complete defense to the
infringement claims in this action,” the app developers said in
a federal court filing Aug. 9 in support of Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s request.  Lodsys, based in Marshall,  Texas , where the lawsuit was
filed, objected to Apple’s request. It said companies such as
Electronic Arts and Rovio are big enough to handle their own
defense, and there is no evidence that the lawsuit disrupts
Apple’s relationship with developers.  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City,  California , is the
second-largest U.S. video-game publisher. Espoo, Finland-based
Rovio has had more than 250 million downloads of its “Angry
Birds” game on mobile phones and other electronic devices.  Other app developers named in the Lodsys complaint are
 Atari SA (ATA) ’s Atari Interactive Inc., maker of Atari’s Greatest
Hits for the iPhone and iPad; Iconfactory Inc., maker of
Twitterrific; Illusion Labs AB, maker of Labyrinth; Michael G.
Karr, maker of Shovelmate’s 69 Positions; Quickoffice Inc.,
maker of Quickoffice Connect; Square Enix Ltd., maker of Big Hit
Baseball; and  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , maker of 2K
Sports NHL.  All of the developers named in the complaint also signed
the statement in support of Apple being allowed to join the
case. Apple has said it needs to be able to protect agreements
it has covering more than 425,000 apps.  “This litigation has fundamentally disrupted Apple’s
relationships with the developers and with other developers, and
places in jeopardy the revenue that Apple derives from those
relationships,” the company said in a June filing.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 11cv272, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Samsung to Fight Apple’s Win on German Galaxy Tablet Order  Samsung Electronics Co. will seek to lift a temporary order
won by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  that may stop sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer in most European Union countries.  Samsung will file its opposition in the Dusseldorf Regional
Court, which issued the injunction, Annika Karstadt, a German
spokeswoman for the Suwon, South Korea-based company said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. The court issued the order under
an emergency procedure without a hearing.  “We will take all necessary measures to ensure that
Samsung’s innovative mobile-communication devices are available
for customers in  Europe  and around the world,” Karstadt said.  Apple, which said yesterday it won the injunction, contends
Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computer “slavishly copy”
the iPhone and iPad. Apple is also seeking a court order to
block sales in the U.S. until a trial can be held on patent-
infringement claims there. In  Australia , Samsung has agreed not
to introduce a version of the Galaxy tablet until an Apple
lawsuit there is resolved.  Court hearings on the issue were scheduled for today and
tomorrow in the Netherlands, the only EU country where the
German order isn’t applicable.  Peter Schuetz, Dusseldorf Regional Court spokesman, said
the injunction was issued Aug. 9. Samsung told him Apple has
served it with the order, he said.  Apple must protect its intellectual property when other
companies are stealing its ideas, a German spokesman for the
Cupertino, California-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  The dispute began in April when Apple sued Samsung in the
U.S. claiming that the Galaxy products imitated Apple designs
and technology. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
has retaliated with lawsuits in  South Korea , Japan,  Germany  and
the U.S.  Apple also has patent-infringement claims against Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. over its Xoom tablet computer. Motorola
sued Apple first in Germany in April, and Apple responded by
filing claims in May, said Christa Smith, a spokeswoman for
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility.  “Motorola has reviewed Apple’s claims and believe they
have no merit,” Smith said. “We intend to vigorously defend
Motorola’s own product designs.”  The companies also have dueling litigation in the U.S. --
Motorola Mobility filed the first complaint against Apple at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in October, and Apple
countered the same month. The commission has the authority to
block imports into the U.S.  Motorola Mobility’s case against Apple at the ITC,
scheduled for trial later this month, has been postponed because
of the recent retirement of the judge assigned to the case.
Apple’s claims against Motorola Mobility at the agency in
 Washington  are scheduled for trial in September.  The German case against Samsung is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  Maidenform, Yummie Tummie Settle Dispute Over Design Patent  Maidenform Brands Inc. (MFB) , the 88-year-old lingerie company,
has settled a patent dispute with Times Three Clothier of  New
York .  Maidenform of Iselin,  New Jersey , sued Times Three in
federal court in  Manhattan  in March 2010, seeking a declaration
its Flexees products didn’t infringe Times Three’s patent
D606,285. The patent, which was issued in December 2009, covers
the design for a form-fitting tank top.  Times Three, which does business as  Yummie Tummie , was
accused of telling one of Maidenform’s customers that its
 Flexees Fat-Free Dressing tank top  infringed the patent.
Maidenform argued in its court papers that it didn’t infringe
and said its product differed from the design illustrated in the
patent in at least three ways.  According to court papers, the case was dismissed
yesterday, with each party to pay its own litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Times Three said in a statement yesterday that Maidenform
paid $6.75 million to settle the case and agreed not to assist
any 3rd party that may seek to invalidate the patent or render
it unenforceable.  The case is Maidenform Brands Inc., v. Times Three Clothier
LLC, 1:10-cv-01661-GBD-HBP, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Louboutin Loses Bid to Bar Saint Laurent Red-Sole Shoe Sales  Christian Louboutin SA lost a court bid to stop Yves Saint
Laurent America from selling women’s shoes that Louboutin claims
are identical to its trademarked red-sole footwear.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York rejected
Louboutin’s request for a preliminary injunction halting sales
of the shoes during the case.  “Because in the fashion industry color serves ornamental
and aesthetic functions vital to robust competition, the court
finds that Louboutin is unlikely to be able to prove that its
red outsole brand is entitled to trademark protection,” Marrero
said in an opinion filed yesterday.  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, sued Yves Saint
Laurent in April, accusing it of selling shoes “with red
outsoles that are virtually identical” to Louboutin’s. Saint
Laurent’s shoes “threaten to mislead the public,” according to
the complaint.  “We’re obviously very disappointed,” Harley Lewin, a
lawyer for Louboutin, said in a telephone interview. “We think
the judge missed it.”  After a court hearing July 22 where he argued for the
injunction, Lewin said, “This is the lifeblood of this company,
the red sole.” Louboutin’s sales from red-sole shoes are
projected at $135 million this year, Lewin said in court.  Louboutin introduced the red sole in 1992, and the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office awarded the company a trademark for
it in 2008, according to the complaint. The company uses the red
sole on all of its luxury shoes, which have been popularized by
actresses such as Sarah Jessica Parker in the television show
“Sex and the City.”  ‘This just reaffirms that no designer should be allowed to
monopolize a primary color for fashion,” David Bernstein, a
lawyer for Yves Saint Laurent, said about the ruling today in a
telephone interview. “This is a trademark registration that
never should have been issued and can’t be enforced.”  Yves Saint Laurent will ask the judge in a motion for
summary judgment to dismiss the claims against the company and
cancel Louboutin’s trademark registration, Bernstein said.  Marrero said in his ruling that the companies must appear
in federal court in Manhattan Aug. 17, when Louboutin will have
to provide arguments against a motion to cancel the mark.  Yves Saint Laurent, named for the designer who died in
2008, is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , the owner of other luxury
brands including Gucci.  Louboutin’s red-sole high-heel shoes are priced from $535
to $4,645 a pair on the website of high-fashion department store
 Barneys .  The designer Christian Louboutin, for whom the company is
named, got the idea for red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes, according
to court papers.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Green Party Warns NZ Parliament Could Lose Internet Connection  New Zealand ’s Parliament is at risk of losing its Internet
connection under that country’s new file-sharing law, the Green
Party of New Zealand said in a  statement .  The file-sharing law, which provides for disconnection for
copyright infringers, goes into effect Sept. 1. Beginning Aug.
11 Internet users will be subject to scrutiny under the law.  Under the law the holder of the account is subject to
disconnection. The Green Party said that in New Zealand,
Parliamentary Services, the holder of the government’s account,
“provides Internet access to hundreds of users anyone of whom
could cause infringement notices to be sent.”  The Green Party said parliament’s speaker has refused to
comment in the House on the implications of the new law. New
Zealand’s  Unitec Institute of Technology  has warned it may quit
giving its students Internet access because of fears of
liability for their acts of copyright infringement, according to
the Green Party statement.  The Green Party opposed passage of the law.  Californian Sentenced to 18 Months for Copyright Infringement  A resident of Sacramento, California, was sentenced to 18
months in prison for felony copyright infringement, the U.S.
Justice Department said in a  statement .  Yan Akhumov, who operated three Music Land Stores in the
Sacramento area, was found to have possessed and distributed
unauthorized copies of “The Godfather” and “Indiana Jones”
and other films.  According to his plea agreement, filed with the court in
March, Akhumov admitted that he possessed infringing materials
with a value of as much as $120,000. His sentence was entered
into the court file Aug. 5.  This case was the product of an investigation by the FBI
and the Sacramento Valley Hi-Tech Crime Task Force. The U.S.
Attorney’s Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Assistant
U.S. Attorney Matthew D. Segal prosecuted the case  The case is U.S. v. Akhumov, 2:11-cv-00092-LKIK, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  Hallmark Accused of Infringing Fabric Designer’s Copyrights  Hallmark Cards Inc., the 101-year-old greeting card
company, was sued for copyright infringement by a  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based fabric designer.  Martha Negley , who licenses  her fabric designs  to
 Westminster Fibers Inc.  of Charlotte,  North Carolina , accused
Hallmark of using her holiday designs without authorization.
According to the complaint filed Aug. 9 in federal court in
Kansas City, Negley submitted designs to Hallmark in 2007 for
use for its 2008 season.  She claims that although Hallmark didn’t accept her
designs, they showed up on gift wrap, gift bags, thank you notes
and other items the Kansas City card company produced for sale
in 2009 and 2010. This use wasn’t authorized, she said, and
infringes her copyrights.  Negley claims the infringement is deliberate and that she’s
harmed by the closely held card company’s actions.  She asked the court to bar Hallmark’s further unauthorized
use of her work, and for awards for money damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs. Alleging the infringement is intentional,
she asked for extra damages to punish Hallmark for its actions.  Hallmark didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  Negley is represented by James J. Kernell, Ginnie C.
Derusseau and Kent R. Erickson of Kansas City’s  Erickson,
Kernell, Derusseau & Kleypas LLC .  The case is Martha Negley v. Hallmark Cards Inc., 4:11-cv-
00785-DW, U.S. District Court, Western District 9of Missouri
(Kansas City).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 