-- 
Applied Materials After Rout Returns 40% With New Bet: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-08-11T20:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/applied-materials-after-rout-returns-40-with-new-takeover-bets-real-m-a.html
The biggest stock-market rout since
the financial crisis is giving traders a chance to double their
profit betting  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  will complete the largest
takeover of a semiconductor-equipment maker.  Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. (VSEA)  traded
within $1.50 of Applied Materials’ $63-a-share agreement before
equities plummeted in the past week as the U.S. had its AAA debt
rating cut for the first time. With the gap at more than $4 a
share, arbitragers betting on the acquisition now stand to make
an annualized gain of almost 40 percent if the transaction wins
antitrust approval from regulators and closes in mid-October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the slump in U.S. equities is threatening to derail
what had been the best year for takeovers since 2007, Applied
Materials said yesterday it remained “committed” to the deal.
The company, which is spending $4.9 billion to get back into a
business it lost to Varian, has already raised more than a third
of the total selling bonds and has $3.3 billion in cash. Applied
Materials also has the highest credit rating in the industry.  “This is a good buyer with a good balance sheet,” Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special situations trading
at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone
interview. In addition, “we don’t see anything that leads us to
think there’s going to be any concern on the regulatory front.
This is the transaction that I would recommend for any client,”
compared with the risk involved, he said.  Acquisition Detail  Representatives for Gloucester, Massachusetts-based Varian
didn’t respond to telephone calls or e-mails requesting comment.  Howard Clabo, head spokesman for  Santa Clara , California-
based Applied Materials, said in an e-mail that the company is
“committed to our acquisition of Varian.” He declined to
comment on the regulatory approval process.  The all-cash offer from the world’s largest producer of
chipmaking equipment was 55 percent higher than Varian’s price
of $40.55 prior to the  announcement  in May.  After the companies disclosed the deal, Varian never fell
below $60 until last week, when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
began its biggest three-day drop since November 2008.  Shares of Varian fell to a low of $56.64 during that span,
before rebounding in the past two days to $58.91. Based on
yesterday’s closing price, traders stand to make 6.9 percent if
the deal is completed by mid-October, which would equal a 39
percent gain over a full year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Financial Analysis  “The market sell off last week had a big impact” on the
deal spread, Mehdi Hosseini, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “The
arbitrage opportunity is that you buy it here and assume that
Applied is going to close this in October.”  Today, shares of Varian climbed 1.6 percent to $59.85.  With $3.1 billion more cash than debt, Applied Materials
has the highest reserves among producers of chipmaking equipment
in the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company also
generated $1.8 billion in free  cash flow  in the past 12 months,
more than all equipment makers except ASML Holding NV.  To finance the takeover, Applied Materials already raised
$1.75 billion selling five-, 10- and 30-year bonds, the data
show. Applied Materials is rated A- by S&P. Based on Bloomberg’s
Company Credit Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on
indebtedness, market value, profitability, volatility and other
financial ratios, Applied Materials has a AAA  credit rating .  “I don’t see financing as any issue,” Patrick Ho, a
Dallas-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “This is an opportunity to make money.”  Relative Value  Applied Materials is unlikely to give up on the deal
because it needs Varian’s 70 percent share of the so-called  ion-
implantation  business to bolster demand, he said. The machines
are used in a stage of creation for all computer chips and to
make solar panels and light-emitting diodes.  Sales at Applied Materials, which exited the ion-
implantation business in 2007, will rise 14 percent this year,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Varian, which
gets all its sales from selling ion-implantation machinery, will
grow more than three times as much.  The lack of overlapping businesses increases the likelihood
that Applied Materials, which has already gained approval from
regulators in  Israel ,  Germany  and  Taiwan , will get clearance
from the  U.S. Department of Justice , according to Ho.  The company received a second request from U.S. regulators
on June 13, which usually occurs for deals of Varian’s size,
according to Peter Lobravico, a New York-based vice president of
merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street Access.  Merger Arbitrage  It may take about three or four months for Applied
Materials to get clearance from the time of the second request,
which means the deal could be completed in mid-October, he said.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on whether it’s reviewing the acquisition.  The takeover may still get held up as Applied Materials
waits for regulatory approval from  China , leading some traders
to avoid the deal, said Keith Denninger, vice president of
event-driven strategies at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . The possibility of a more than 30 percent drop if
the deal unravels may also scare away investors, he said.  “Ultimately, I think what’s spooking arbs is the potential
downside,” Denninger said in a telephone interview. “If this
thing blows up, this will ruin your year.”  For Wall Street Access’s Lobravico, the potential windfall
from Applied Material’s deal for Varian more than compensates
for the odds it will fall apart.  It’s “obviously a huge spread,” he said in a telephone
interview. “I can’t think of a  fund manager  that wouldn’t want
to make a return like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 