-- 
Aquarius Platinum Advances in London as Underlying Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-11T12:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/aquarius-platinum-advances-in-london-as-underlying-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the worst
performer on the  FTSE 350 Mining Index (F3MNG)  in the last six months,
rose the most in a year in London trading after underlying
earnings beat analyst estimates.  Aquarius, which mines platinum and palladium in South
Africa and Zimbabwe, climbed as much as 14 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since July 2010. The shares, which closed at their
lowest in more than two years yesterday, rose 5.7 percent to
229.3 pence at 1:06 p.m. local time.  Underlying profit in the year through June is more than 8
percent ahead of estimates, analysts at  Liberum Capital  said
today in an e-mailed note. “Given recent high-quality M&A and
management, we think the current share price is an excellent
entry point for the medium-term investor.”  Earnings before exceptional charges climbed to $142.8
million from $23.6 million a year earlier on increased output
and improved metals prices, Aquarius said in a statement today.
The company agreed to acquisitions during the year that will add
about 50 percent to its resources and extend the life of its
Kroondal, Marikana and Everest mines, it said.  “The Booysendal South transaction in particular ensures
the future of the Everest mine and the company for many years to
come,” Chief Executive Officer Stuart Murray said in the
statement.  Output Targets  Aquarius is targeting a 15 percent increase in production
to 550,000 ounces of platinum group metals in the 2012 financial
year, Murray said on a conference call.  The company posted a full-year net loss of $10.4 million
after taking a non-cash impairment of $159.8 million following
the shutdown of the  Blue Ridge  mine in  South Africa . Aquarius
said in June it may keep Blue Ridge halted and instead expand
its Everest operation.  Sales advanced 45 percent to $682.9 million. Production
costs more than doubled to $439.9 million, mainly driven by
increased output and rising labor, electricity, steel and diesel
expenses, the company said.  Unionized workers at the Mimosa mine in Zimbabwe, which
Aquarius co-owns with Impala Platinum Ltd., received an
industry-wide 36 percent U.S.-dollar wage increase for six
months in the year ended June. Unions are now demanding a
further 20 percent, Murray said on the call.  Aquarius is also feeling the effects of an increase in the
Zimbabwean corporate  tax rate  to 25 percent from 15 percent, in
addition to mining royalties of 5 percent and commission of 1.75
percent, Murray said.  Zimbabwe  is expected to alter rules on the tax
deductibility of capital expenditure next year, Murray said.
Companies are currently allowed to deduct the full amount in the
year capex is done. The deduction is expected to be spread out
over a number of years after the change, he said.  “The Zimbabwe government is taking a larger share of the
pie yet again,” Murray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  