-- 
Aquila CEO Says ‘Dozens’ Are Studying Coal Acquisition

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-14T23:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/aquila-ceo-says-dozens-are-studying-coal-acquisition-correct-.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Avontuur as a coking coal
project and its building schedule in seventh paragraph in story
moved on Aug. 9.)  Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA) , seeking to
raise about A$1 billion ($1 billion) selling assets, said
“dozens” of potential buyers are studying the purchase of its
Washpool coal project in Australia’s Queensland state.  The company aims to select a short list this month, Tony Poli, chief executive officer of Perth-based Aquila, said today
in an interview. Washpool is valued at about A$366 million,
according to June estimates from Patersons Securities Ltd. The
capital cost of the project is probably A$396 million, Aquila
Resources said May 4.  Aquila is looking to sell three assets to help fund its
share of the A$5.2 billion West Pilbara  Iron Ore  joint venture
project with AMCI Inc. in  Western Australia . Peabody Energy Corp.
and ArcelorMittal are among companies seeking to buy coal assets
in Australia as demand rises in  China  and  India , the world’s
fastest-growing major economies.  “With the release of the bankable feasibility study for
Washpool, which is about two weeks away from now, this will be a
good point to sell,” Poli said.  The stock rose 1.5 percent to A$5.43 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney. The S&P/ASX 200 benchmark index gained 1.2 percent.  The global market turmoil that has pushed Australian stocks
into a  bear market  hasn’t affected the sales process for
Washpool, Purple Communications’ Warrick Hazeldine, an external
spokesman for Aquila, said today in an e-mail.  Avontuur Project  Aquila is also selling Avontuur, a manganese project in
 South Africa , and has agreed to sell its remaining stake in the
Belvedere coal project to Vale SA, Poli said.  “Avontuur is about three months later in the process of
completing its bankable feasibility study than Washpool,” he
said.  Aquila remains in talks with China Development Bank Corp.
for debt funding for the iron ore project, Poli said. Aquila’s
share of the capital cost may be A$3 billion, the company said
May 4. China’s Baosteel Group Corp. holds a 15 percent stake in
Aquila, the company said in e-mail statement.  Aquila and AMCI plan to ship 30 million ton of iron ore a
year from West Pilbara starting in 2014, using the planned
Anketell Point port.  While Aquila is focused on talks with  China Development
Bank  for funding, Poli said selling U.S. corporate bonds could
be an option for raising funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan
 at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  