-- 
Harry & David Wins Tentative Court Approval of Exit Plan

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-08-11T21:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/harry-david-s-bankruptcy-exit-plan-wins-tentative-approval-by-court.html
Harry & David Holdings Inc., the
gift-box retailer that has sold fruit by mail since the 1930s,
won tentative court approval of its recovery plan, enabling the
company to exit bankruptcy before the holiday season.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath said today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , that she will be “happy to sign” the
final order confirming the plan. Senior noteholders will get
control of the company in exchange for canceling more than $200
million in debt.  Harry & David, based in Medford,  Oregon , will provide the
court with a modified plan that resolves the objection of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. The federal agency had objected
to the classification of its claim.  The company reached “an excellent settlement” with the
PBGC that “provides a clear path for emergence,” Brad Erens, an
attorney for Harry & David, told the court. PBGC will get a
claim of $36 million and in return won’t appeal Walrath’s
decision to terminate the pensions of more than 2,700 past and
present employees.  The PBGC claim will get the same cash treatment as
unsecured claims. Unsecured creditors supported Harry & David’s
plan, which will pay them a total of 10 percent of their claims
in cash, with 40 percent paid in 2012 and 60 percent in 2013.  Bankruptcy Loan  The lenders that provided $100 million in first-lien
financing for the bankruptcy case will continue the loan when
the company emerges from Chapter 11.  Harry & David filed for bankruptcy in March, blaming
competition from Internet retailers and warehouse-style stores
and the recession.  Before filing, the company reached agreement on the
original reorganization plan with holders of 81 percent of the
senior notes, including Wasserstein & Co., which also owns 63
percent of the stock. A Wells Fargo & Co. unit is indenture
trustee for the noteholders.  The case is In re Harry & David Holdings, Inc., 11-10884,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 