-- 
Asean Plans Steps to Create Giant Asian Trade Group by 2014

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-08-11T12:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/asean-plans-steps-to-create-giant-asian-trade-grouping-by-2014.html
Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  trade ministers may agree this week on steps to build a
trade bloc with Asian countries which could include  China ,
 Japan ,  South Korea , Australia,  New Zealand  and India by as early
as 2014, Asean Deputy Secretary General Pushpanathan Sundram
said.  “We will create one of the world’s biggest economic spaces
to do business,” Pushpanathan said in an interview today in
Manado, Indonesia, where he is attending a meeting of the
association’s commerce ministers. “It will be just like
operating in one single region; a free flow of trade,
investments.”  Asean nations are seeking to increase trade among
themselves and with partners to lessen their reliance on the
U.S. as the world’s largest economy falters. Malaysia expects to
conclude trade agreements with Turkey this year and with the
European Union and Australia in 2012, International Trade and
Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said yesterday.  It has been evident since the 2008 financial crisis that
“the U.S. and  Europe  could no longer be the main engines of
growth for the world economy,” Indonesian Vice President
Boediono said in a speech at the Asean gathering yesterday,
urging member countries to accelerate the removal of trade
barriers to boost exports and growth within the region.  Asean’s total exports rose 33 percent in 2010 to $2.04
trillion, according to a press statement released yesterday. The
grouping’s economy is forecast to expand by as much as 6.4
percent this year from a 7.4 percent gain in 2010, led by
Singapore, Indonesia and Malaysia, Pushpanathan said, citing an
April forecast.  “We want to look at further enhancing our existing trade
agreements with other Asian countries so that we can mitigate
some of the downside from the U.S. crisis,” Pushpanathan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  