-- 
Asian Stocks Drop, Gold Gains on Europe Crisis Concerns; Treasuries Fall

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-11T00:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/asian-stocks-drop-gold-gains-on-europe-crisis-concerns-treasuries-fall.html
Asian stocks fell, resuming their
August slump, oil declined, and gold jumped to a record amid
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading. U.S. equity-index
futures advanced, while Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time in four days.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 1.1 percent as of 9:42
a.m. in Tokyo, sliding for the seventh time in eight days.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.8 percent following
yesterday’s 4.4 percent slump and Treasury 10-year yields
climbed seven basis points to 2.17 percent. The yen erased gains
after earlier rising to a five-month high against the euro. Gold
rallied as much as 1.2 percent to $1,814.95 an ounce. Oil slid
1.9 percent.  The affirmation of France’s top credit grade yesterday by
all three major rating companies failed to stem speculation
Europe’s debt crisis will spread to the region’s second-biggest
economy. Central bankers have raced to restore investor
confidence in the 72 hours after a Group of Seven conference
call on Aug. 7, with the  Federal Reserve  pledging to keep
 interest rates  near zero through at least mid-2013 and the
 European Central Bank  intervening in bond markets.  “Investors are continuing to de-risk their portfolios,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Speculation that France’s
sovereign-debt rating is in the crosshairs of ratings agencies
has served to undermine investor confidence, while the lack of
leadership globally in providing a timely, well-structured
solution to growth and debt woes has created a policy vacuum
during times of great uncertainty.”  More than four shares declined for every one that climbed
on MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index. The gauge has dropped 12 percent
this month,  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.4 percent,
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index decreased 0.9 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index slumped 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  