-- 
Asian Stocks Pare Decline as Profits Temper Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-11T08:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/asian-stocks-retreat-amid-concern-europe-s-sovereign-debt-crisis-worsening.html
Asia’s benchmark stock index pared
its seventh loss in eight days as concern Europe will fail to
contain its debt crisis was tempered by higher profits from the
U.S. to Japan and  Australia .  Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest telephone company,
climbed 5.7 percent in Sydney after second-half profit beat
analysts’ estimates. Zijin Mining Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
gold miner by market value, gained 3.2 percent in  Hong Kong 
after futures on the precious metal surged a fourth day on
demand for a haven amid European debt concerns.  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value, fell 2.9 percent
in Hong Kong.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest camera maker by
market value, dropped 1.5 percent in  Tokyo .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent to 122.28
as of 5:25 p.m. in Tokyo. It earlier dropped as much as 2.4
percent as global growth concerns escalated after the cost of
protecting the government debt of Greece, Italy, Spain and
France rose.  “Earnings have been very good on the whole and companies
are being rewarded on a case-by-case basis,” said  Tim
Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “But there are still a lot of cross
currents. Speculation that France’s sovereign-debt rating is in
the crosshairs of ratings agencies has served to undermine
investor confidence.”  Three stocks declined for every two that advanced on the
Asia-Pacific gauge, which last week entered a so-called
correction after falling more than 10 percent from its May peak.
Of 475 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have reported
net income since July 11, 45 percent exceeded analysts’
estimates while 31 percent fell short.  Corporate Earnings  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent
today after companies from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  to  News Corp. (NWSA) 
reported better-than-estimated earnings.  In  New York  yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
closed at its lowest level since September as banks slumped on
concern Europe will fail to contain its debt crisis and that the
U.S. economy is faltering. The S&P 500 fell 4.4 percent in New
York after jumping 4.7 percent the previous day.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent, even as
a report showed the nation’s machinery orders rose for a second
month. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1 percent, paring an
earlier 2.6 percent decline.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.5 point, or less than
0.1 percent, to 4,140.8 after yesterday posting its biggest
advance in more than a year. Stocks reversed earlier losses of
as much as 2 percent as banks climbed after a report showing the
jobless rate rose sparked speculation the central bank may cut
 interest rates .  Exporters, HSBC  Canon fell 1.5 percent to 3,400 yen in Tokyo.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the largest global carmaker by market value, dropped 2
percent to 2,851 yen. HSBC declined 2.9 percent to HK$67 in Hong
Kong as concern intensified that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
is spilling over to countries including France.  Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., which
owns ports from the U.K. to Sweden and Italy and receives 53
percent of sales from Europe, fell 0.9 percent to HK$76.15.  “As Europe’s debt crisis spreads, concern is mounting
about damage to the financial system,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “We may slip back into a global equity slump.”  A measure of primary metals traded in  London  fell for a
sixth straight day yesterday, losing 1 percent, while copper
futures dropped 2.1 percent in New York.  Earnings Improve  BHP Billiton slid 1.2 percent to A$37.93 in Sydney.  Alumina
Ltd. (AWC) , partner in the world’s biggest producer of the material
used to make aluminum, plunged 5.8 percent to A$1.79 even after
first-half profit climbed 53 percent.  Among stocks that rose today, Telstra, Australia’s largest
telephone company, climbed 5.7 percent to A$2.99 in Sydney after
second-half profit beat analysts’ estimates on increased mobile
customers and cuts in operating costs and executive jobs.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender
by market value, rose 0.7 percent to A$48.58, extending a 2
percent advance yesterday when it reported that second-half
profit rose 22 percent to a record.  Nikon Corp. surged 8.2 percent to 1,750 yen in Tokyo after
boosting its full-year profit forecast by 43 percent, citing a
smaller-than-expected impact from the March earthquake.  Gold Producers  Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold miner by
market value, gained 3.2 percent to HK$3.83 in Hong Kong after
gold futures surged for a fourth straight day today on demand
for a haven investment amid Europe’s debt problems.  Newcrest
Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s biggest gold producer, gained 3.8
percent to A$40.74.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s No. 2 lender by market
value, rose 1.5 percent to A$20.45 in Sydney, reversing an
earlier decline of as much as 2.6 percent after the statistics
bureau said Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers in
July and the jobless rate rose to 5.1 percent, the highest level
since October. Rival  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
advanced 1.5 percent to A$20.09.  Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty revised its forecast
for Australia’s central bank policy. Goldman estimates the
Reserve Bank of Australia will lower its benchmark overnight
cash rate target, now the highest in the developed world at 4.75
percent, by as much as 50 basis points before the end of this
year as the nation’s economy slows.  “The Australian unemployment data was quite weak,” said
Manoj Wanzare, a Sydney-based senior portfolio manager at Plato
Investment Management. “The market is pricing a higher
probability that Reserve Bank of Australia might need to move
away from a normal stance towards a more ‘crisis policy
implementation’ stance leading to a rate cut.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge has fallen 11 percent this year
compared with an 11 percent decline by the S&P 500 and a 19
percent drop by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. The Asian measure
trades at 12.3 times estimated earnings compared with 11.3 times
for the S&P 500 and 9.3 for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  