-- 
AstraZeneca to Settle Idaho Medicaid Drug-Price Claims for $2.5 Million

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T01:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/astrazeneca-settles-idaho-s-medicaid-drug-pricing-claims-for-2-5-million.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to pay $2.5
million to settle  Idaho ’s claims related to the reported average
wholesale prices paid for drugs by the state’s Medicaid program.  The settlement is intended to reimburse taxpayers for
excessive prices that the state paid for prescription drugs as a
result of inflated average wholesale price reporting, Idaho
Attorney General Lawrence Wasden said today in a statement.
AstraZeneca denied any wrongdoing.  “AstraZeneca has competed responsibly with respect to
pricing and marketing of our medicines, and we firmly believe
that we have acted at all times in accordance with the law,
Laura Woodin, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “This agreement was the appropriate way to
resolve this matter quickly and allow the company to focus on
our core mission to deliver meaningful medicines to patients.”  For one drug, there was a 26 percent difference between the
published price and the actual price, according to Wasden’s
statement.  “Where published prices are false or misleading, the
taxpayers are significantly harmed by excessive Medicaid
reimbursements,” Wasden said in the statement.  States and municipalities have sued dozens of drugmakers
seeking to take back millions of dollars in prescription drug
payments that they say were obtained through the reporting of
inflated average wholesale prices, or AWP.  AWP was used by government health programs including
Medicare and Medicaid to set reimbursement rates for drugs.
Drugmakers say the posted prices aren’t the actual costs of
pharmaceuticals.  AstraZeneca, based in  London , is appealing a $20.5 million
judgment over  Kentucky ’s Medicaid program. A state court judge
in January denied the company’s request for a new trial and
refused to overturn a 2009 jury verdict that the drugmaker had
inflated the prices of its  prescription drugs .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  