-- 
Tata Motors Net Income Misses Estimates as Jaguar Sales Drop

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-08-12T11:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/tata-motors-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-jaguar-sales-decline.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  first-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates as the owner of Jaguar Land
Rover reported sales of its passenger cars in  India  fell and
Jaguar deliveries declined.  Net income rose to 20 billion rupees ($441 million) in the
three months ended June 30 from 19.9 billion rupees a year
earlier, according to a statement from the Mumbai-based
automaker yesterday. Profit lagged behind the 21.6 billion-rupee
median of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
increased 24 percent to 333.9 billion rupees.  Jaguar unit sales declined 27 percent in the period from a
year-earlier, while Tata Motors posted an 8.5 percent drop in
Indian passenger vehicle sales in the quarter as rising  interest
rates  damped demand in a country where about 80 percent of
purchases are funded by loans. The Jaguar Land Rover unit,
bought by Tata Motors in 2008, is planning to introduce new
vehicles to compete for a bigger share of the high-end segment.  “The main issue in the earnings was the performance of
Jaguar Land Rover,” said Walter Rossini, who helps manage about
$300 million in Indian assets at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan. “Probably the market overestimated the strength of
Jaguar Land Rover on the basis of the performance of other
luxury brands.”  Trailing BMW  Sales of Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles rose 5 percent in
the quarter, compared with 15 percent for Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and 4.4 percent for Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz.  Tata Motors shares fell 5.8 percent to 800 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in  Mumbai . The benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange declined 1.3 percent.  The company’s compact Range Rover Evoque, which goes on
sale in September, has received about 18,000 bookings, Tata
Motors said in the statement. The company plans to introduce a
2.2 liter, diesel Jaguar XF by the end of this year.  “Everyone is looking at the Evoque and also at the product
launches from Jaguar that will help increase sales,” said
Juergen Maier, who helps manage about $1.2 billion of emerging-
market shares, including Indian stocks, at Raiffeisen Capital
Management in Vienna.  Jaguar, the 76-year-old British luxury-car brand, aims to
challenge BMW with a hybrid supercar and an entry-level sedan to
compete with the 3-Series. The new models are part of Tata’s
plans to invest 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) annually in
product development at Jaguar and sister brand Land Rover over
the next five years.  ‘Exceptional Products’  “We continue to see strong performances in key markets
such as China and  Russia  and very soon we will have some
exceptional new product offerings,” Ralf Speth, chief executive
officer at Jaguar Land Rover, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Tata Motors is turning to the British luxury brands, which
it purchased from Ford Motor Co., for growth and to drive
international ambitions. The Jaguar Land Rover unit, based in
Gaydon,  England , generated 57 percent of Tata Motors’ revenue
for the year ended March 31, up from 53 percent a year earlier.  Higher costs and impact of exchange rates resulted in a
reduction in the operating margin at Jaguar Land Rover to 15.1
percent in the quarter from 15.4 a year ago, the company said.
Profit after tax declined 3.1 percent to 219 million pounds
($355 million).  The company plans to tap growing demand for luxury cars in
 China  with more than 100 Jaguar and Land Rover dealerships by
the end of this year, the automaker said in an investor
presentation on its website.  Jaguar Sales Fall  Land Rover deliveries for the quarter through June rose 16
percent to 50,747 vehicles. Jaguar’s sales fell to 11,343 cars
in the quarter. Tata Motors passenger vehicle sales in India
declined to 76,176 units, according to the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers .  Raw material costs rose 37 percent to 203.9 billion rupees,
the company said. Commodity prices continue to impact profit
margins, Chief Financial Officer C. Ramakrishnan said at a news
conference in Mumbai yesterday.  Industrywide car sales in India fell in July from a year
earlier, the first monthly decline since January 2009. The
nation’s central bank has raised key interest rates 1.75
percentage points this year to rein in inflation.  Last month, the industry group reduced the growth target
for car sales in the country to about 12 percent in the
financial year that began April 1 from an earlier expectation of
an increase of as much as 18 percent.  The automaker sold 21,979  Nano  minicars in the quarter and
exported 825 in April, according to data from the industry
group. The company began exports of the Nano to Nepal and  Sri
Lanka  in the quarter.  Tata Motors will set up 300 dealerships to sell the Nano in
the year to March 31, Vice President R. Ramakrishnan said on
Aug. 2, after sales declined 64 percent in July from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  