-- 
Mauritius Rupee Heads for Three-Week Low to Dollar on France Debt Concern

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-08-11T10:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/mauritius-rupee-heads-for-three-week-low-to-dollar-on-france-debt-concern.html
Mauritius’s rupee headed for the
lowest closing level in three weeks against the dollar, amid
concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread to France, its
biggest trading partner in the eurozone.  The currency weakened by 0.7 percent to 28.25 per dollar by
2:09 p.m. in  Port Louis , the capital, heading for its closing
lowest level since July 21, according to Bloomberg data. Versus
the euro, the rupee depreciated 0.5 percent to 40.0176.  All three major rating companies affirmed France’s top
credit grade amid speculation Europe’s debt crisis will spread
to the region’s second-largest economy.  Societe Generale  SA,
France’s second-biggest bank, rose the most in more than a year
in Paris trading after Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
denied “rumors” and asked the nation’s market watchdog for a
probe into yesterday’s 15 percent share-price tumble.  “Markets are getting worried about the consequences of the
latter on its banking sector, which is significantly exposed to
junk bonds from peripheral European economies,” analysts of
Port Louis-based  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB)  said in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  France accounted for almost a third of tourist arrivals to
the Indian Ocean Island nation for the first half of 2011,
according to Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority data. The
country buys 16 percent of Mauritian manufactured goods, the
 Central Statistics Office  said on May 31. It is the largest
source of foreign direct investment for the quarter through
March, with a share of 33 percent, according to Bank of
Mauritius data.  Stocks Retreat  Oudea defended Societe Generale against speculation that
deterioration in France’s creditworthiness would damage the
Paris-based company’s stability. He called the rumors “absolute
rubbish” and said in an interview yesterday with CNBC
television that the situation “is really under control in
France and in good hands.”  Mauritian SEMDEX stocks index dropped 1.1 percent to
1,936.14 at the 1:30 p.m close in Port Louis. The decline was
led by  State Bank of Mauritius Ltd. (SBM)  and Mauritius Commercial
Bank, the country’s largest lenders by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  