-- 
Aurizon Says Quebec’s New Mining Tax Is Offset by Incentives

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-11T21:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/aurizon-says-quebec-s-new-mining-tax-is-offset-by-incentives.html
Aurizon Mines Ltd. (ARZ) , a gold producer
in  Quebec , said charges resulting from a new provincial mining
tax were offset by the benefits of a supportive local
government. It continues to evaluate potential acquisitions in
North America.  “I think Quebec is still one of the better places to be,”
Chief Executive Officer David P. Hall said in a telephone
interview from  Vancouver , where the company is based. “They
still offer attractive incentives for exploration.”  Higher taxes enacted in May and retroactive to April 2010
cost the company C$4.4 million ($4.46 million), or 3 cents a
share during the second quarter, Aurizon said today in a
statement. Profit was C$6.3 million, or 4 cents a share,
compared with C$5.4 million, or 3 cents a share, a year ago.  Aurizon is evaluating four to five potential acquisitions
in  North America , Hall said. It has considered about 20
companies across the continent in the past two years. Merrill
Lynch-Bank of America put it on a list of seven mid-tier
producers with “intriguing” mines  Aurizon, which owns the Casa Berardi mine in Quebec, has
C$152.5 million of cash on hand and maintained its annual
production target of 165,000 ounces of gold for the year. Its
cash costs for 2011 are expected to increase to $535 an ounce
from an earlier estimate of $495, mostly because of foreign
exchange expenses.  Hall is bullish on gold, which hit a record of $1,817.60 an
ounce in  New York  today. He said the company has no plans to
hedge against declining prices because demand for the precious
metal continues to climb, driven by the market turmoil following
the downgrade in U.S. credit worthiness, European debt and Asian
economic growth.  “There may be a short-term correction in gold but I don’t
think it would be huge and I don’t think it would last very
long,” Hall said.  George Paspalas, the former chief operating officer of
 Silver Standard Resources Inc. (SSO)  in  Argentina , will become the
company’s chief executive officer on Aug. 15., and Hall, 64,
will remain as chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  