-- 
Australia Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Rises; Traders Increase Rate-Cut Bets

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-11T05:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/australian-jobless-rate-rises-most-since-october-2010-currency-declines.html
Australia ’s jobless rate
unexpectedly rose to an eight-month high in July as hiring
stalled, prompting Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty to
predict as many as two interest-rate cuts this year.  Unemployment jumped to 5.1 percent in July from 4.9 percent
a month earlier, the first increase since October, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The number of workers
fell by 100 after a revised 18,200 gain in June. That compares
with the median estimate for 10,000 additional jobs in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.  Exporters and retailers such as  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  are
getting hurt by a currency that’s risen 14 percent in the past
year, and by consumers who are saving more, prompting the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia to keep its benchmark interest rate at
4.75 percent since November. Goldman Sachs predicted that pause
will end next month and that Australian unemployment will climb
above 5.25 percent.  “The shift in tone of the July employment report, in
concert with the sharp deterioration in business and consumer
surveys, is material new information for policy makers,”
Goldman Sachs economists David Colosimo and Tim Toohey wrote in
a report today, predicting 25-point cuts each in September and
November. A basis point is 0.25 percentage point.  Full-Time Work  The number of full-time jobs declined by 22,200 in July,
and part-time employment rose by 22,100, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, which measures the  labor force 
as a percentage of the population over 15 years old, held at
65.6 percent in July, it showed.  David Jones , the nation’s second-biggest department store
chain, today reported second-half same-store sales declined 6.9
percent, with Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra saying “we are
facing an extremely difficult trading environment.”  Investors are betting the central bank will cut rates by
almost 125 basis points by December, interbank cash-rate futures
show. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on Aug. 9 said RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep borrowing costs unchanged at
4.75 percent this year.  The two-year government bond yield dropped 13 basis points
to 3.66 percent, heading for its biggest decline this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0252 at 3:04 p.m. in
Sydney, heading for its second weekly loss, from $1.0210 before
the jobs report. It traded below parity with the greenback this
week after reaching $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since
it was freely floated in 1983.  Bond Yields  “There’s no doubt that the high dollar has had an impact
on our domestic economy,” Australian Finance Minister  Penny Wong  told Bloomberg Television today in an interview before the
report was issued. “There are firms in Australia finding the
high dollar a very significant challenge.”  The RBA last week forecast growth in 2011 will average 2
percent, down from its May 6 estimate of 3.25 percent as a
recovery from first-quarter flooding takes longer than
previously expected, In 2012, gross domestic product will
accelerate 4.5 percent, stronger than the prior estimate for a
4.25 percent expansion, the central bank said.  The central bank’s forecast are dependent on growth driven
by demand for coal,  iron ore  and other natural resources from
China and  India , two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population.  ‘More Protracted’  “The increase in resources exports will boost GDP outcomes
over coming quarters, although the rebound is likely to be more
protracted than previously expected,” the RBA said last week in
its quarterly monetary policy statement.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($30.8 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this
year.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  economist Paul Bloxham, a former RBA
official, said he still predicts the next move in rates will be
higher. Volatility in financial markets is a “clear downside
risk” to HSBC’s estimate that the RBA will boost borrowing
costs in the fourth quarter, Sydney-based Bloxham said in an e-
mailed note.  Deutsche Bank AG today said it expects the central bank
will lower  interest rates  by 50 basis points by year-end,
reversing an earlier call for policy makers to increase
borrowing costs 25 basis points in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  