-- 
Canadian Stocks Climb After U.S. Reports Retail-Sales Increase

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-08-12T21:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/avion-gold-azure-dynamics-toromont-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, completing
their biggest weekly gain since July 2010, as medium-sized
energy companies advanced after the U.S. reported an increase in
retail sales.  Baytex Energy Corp., a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, climbed 5.2 percent.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s
second-largest gold producer by market value, fell 1.9 percent
as the metal dropped a second day.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,
 Canada ’s second-biggest publicly traded copper producer, rose
5.1 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended the stock.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 2.4 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,542.20, extending its weekly
rally to 3.1 percent. The index rebounded after dropping to an
11-month low on Aug. 8 as gold advanced to a record and the U.S.
reported a decline in initial jobless claims.  “The panic seems to be going out of the market,”  David Cockfield , a managing director at Northland Wealth Management in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about
C$225 million ($227 million). “The debt ceiling thing really
shook a lot of people, but they’re basically saying that’s a
problem that’s behind us, and those employment numbers didn’t
look too bad.”  The S&P/TSX has lost less than all other developed-market
equity benchmarks this month, slipping 3.1 percent through
yesterday. Precious-metals stocks make up 14 percent of Canadian
equities by market value, according to Bloomberg data.  Riskier Assets  Medium-sized energy stocks gained after companies including
 Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  and  Bonterra Energy Corp. (BNE)  reported
quarterly financial results that surpassed some analysts’
estimates.  Recent economic data have encouraged investors to seek
riskier assets such as shares of smaller companies,  Robert McWhirter , a  money manager  at Selective Asset Management Inc. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  “The big debate revolved around, ‘Are we going into a
double-dip recession?’” said McWhirter, who oversees C$140
million. “You’ve seen the U.S. consumer having at least spent a
little bit of money.”  Baytex increased 5.2 percent, the most in two years, to
C$50.24. Celtic advanced 8.2 percent to C$22.91 as at least four
analysts raised their price estimates on the shares. Bonterra
rallied 5.4 percent to C$52.71 after Ken F. Lin, an analyst at
Paradigm Capital Inc., raised his rating on the shares to
“buy” from “hold” after the company’s cash flow topped his
estimate.  Gold futures fell 0.5 percent in  New York  after the U.S.
said retail sales increased the most in four months in July.  Goldcorp dropped 1.9 percent to C$49.48.  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the metal, slipped 1.3
percent to C$49.12. China Gold International Resources Corp.
slumped 9.9 percent to C$3.92.  Romarco Minerals Inc. (R) , which is
developing a mine in  South Carolina , sank 11 percent to C$1.45,
the lowest since February 2010.  First Quantum jumped 5.1 percent to C$23.96 after  Ian Henderson , a money manager at JPMorgan, said copper may advance
to a record due to supply disruptions and demand from emerging
markets.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , Canada’s
largest drugmaker, climbed 4.1 percent to C$39.97 after tumbling
27 percent this month through yesterday. In a note to clients
dated Aug. 10, Annabel Samimy, an analyst at Stifel Financial
Corp., said the shares “fell victim to severe dislocation in
the market” and that the company will successfully integrate
acquisitions.  Directory publisher  Yellow Media Inc. (YLO)  increased a record 19
percent to 94 Canadian cents. The shares plunged 87 percent this
year through yesterday on concern it will be unable to maintain
profitability as fewer people use printed phone books.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Taylor in New York at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  