-- 
Bank of America Credit-Default Swaps Lead Rise in Lender Risk

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n ,   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-11T21:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/bank-of-america-credit-swaps-lead-surge-in-u-s-lender-risk-for-second-day.html
The cost to protect against a
default by U.S. banks rose and a benchmark gauge of corporate
credit risk reached a 14-month high amid fear that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will infect the global financial system and sink the
economy back into recession.  Credit-default swaps on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s
biggest lender, surged to the highest since April 2009 before
paring the gain. The cost to protect against defaults by
European financial companies reached a record, and a swaps index
that gauges the perceived risk of owning  junk bonds , which falls
as sentiment deteriorates, is at about the lowest level in more
than a year.  Investors are turning to the derivatives to protect against
losses as European leaders struggle to contain a crisis of
confidence that’s sent borrowing costs for Spain and  Italy  to
euro-region records and this week caused credit swaps on  France 
to soar. Confidence in corporate credit deteriorated even as
U.S. jobless claims fell and stocks soared.  “There’s clearly a panic going on in the market,”  Andrew Feltus , a money manager at Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in
 Boston , said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene , discussing junk
bonds. “Prices are at such a point that you can even survive a
recession, but people aren’t looking at the fundamentals.
They’re just looking at the technicals, and ‘get me out of
here,’” said Feltus, who oversees the $2.1 billion Pioneer High
Yield Fund.  BofA Swaps  Swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
soared as much as 71 basis points to a mid-price of 375 basis
points, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. They fell
back to 310 basis points as of 4:25 p.m. in New York.  The contracts have been pushed to the highest ever relative
to its peers as investors speculate the bank will have to
bolster capital as mortgage investors sue to force the lender to
buy back faulty home loans.  Bank of America swaps are trading at 112 basis points more
than the average for the six biggest U.S. banks, up from 48
basis points on Aug. 5, CMA prices show.  Credit swaps on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  added 5 basis
points to 200, and those on  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed 6 basis
points to 200 basis points, Phoenix price show. Contracts on
Morgan Stanley fell 4 basis points to 270 after earlier climbing
to 290, Phoenix prices show.  “Concerns around the EU and risk in general seem to be
dominating fundamentals at this point,” said  Joel Levington , a
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York.  France, Belgium  Swaps on Societe Generale SA, the French bank whose shares
have plunged 16.5 percent the past two days, reached a record
high for the fourth straight day. The contracts rose as much as
42 basis points to 379 basis points before ending lower at 328,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Swaps on the French government fell from a record high
reached yesterday, declining 10.1 basis points to 169.2 basis
points, according to CMA.  Contracts on Dexia Credit Local SA, a unit of Dexia SA,
Belgium’s largest bank by assets, rose 38 basis points to a
record 607 basis points, CMA prices show. Swaps on Belgium’s
debt, which rose to a record 270 basis points yesterday, fell
back to 266 today.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index, linked to the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers, jumped as much as 26 basis points
to a record 257 before falling back to 241,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
prices show.  Overnight Borrowing  Paris-based SocGen, France’s second-biggest bank, is among
banks being targeted by investors because of its perceived
dependence on short-term funding, according to analysts at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Banks’ overnight borrowings from the  European Central Bank 
jumped to the highest in three months today, a sign some lenders
may have need for emergency cash. The gap between the three-
month euro interbank offered rate and the overnight indexed swap
rate widened to the most since April 2009, a sign that European
banks are becoming increasingly reluctant to lend to each other
for longer than overnight.  “It has the risk of creating a self-fulfilling prophecy,”
Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in  London , said in a telephone interview. “Sovereign
weakness creates the widening you see with banks, and that
creates more concern about the financial system in said country,
which causes sovereign spreads to widen further. There’s been an
inability to break that linkage.”  Temper Concerns  Helping to temper concerns the  U.S. economy  is slowing,
first-time applications for jobless benefits in the U.S.
decreased 7,000 in the week ended Aug. 6 to 395,000, the fewest
since April, the Labor Department said today in  Washington .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 4.6 percent to
1,172.64 after tumbling 4.4 percent yesterday.  The Markit Group CDX North America High Yield Index, tied
to the debt of 100 companies with below-investment grade
ratings, rose 0.1 percentage point to 93.1 percent of face value
as of 5:17 p.m. in  New York . It earlier fell to as low as 90.9,
the lowest since September 2009.  The index includes companies such as Texas power producer
Energy Future Holdings Corp. and Clear Channel Communications
Inc. that were acquired in leveraged buyouts before the credit
crisis three years ago.  Hedge Funds  Traded  A broader gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk that gains as
investor confidence deteriorates, reached the highest level
since June 2010. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index of credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added as much as 11.1 basis points to a mid-
price of 126.5 basis points earlier today. The gauge was up 1.9
basis points to a mid price of 117.4 at 5:28 p.m. in New York.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  Investors have gravitated to the credit swaps market this
week at about double the volumes from the previous month, data
from London-based Markit Group Ltd. show.  Banks, hedge funds and other money managers traded 770
contracts on the benchmark investment-grade index yesterday,
compared with an average of 445.6 the past month, the data show.
A day earlier, 926 five-year index contracts were traded,
according to Markit. Most of the trading is done in five year
contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  