-- 
Bank of Korea Holds Interest Rate at 3.25% as Stock Rout Clounds Outlook

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-08-11T09:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/bank-of-korea-holds-interest-rate-for-second-month-after-global-stock-rout.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept interest
rates unchanged for a second month after an increase in June as
the U.S. rating downgrade and Europe’s debt woes intensified
threats to the world economic recovery.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. The decision was predicted by 10
of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Kim said the vote
was unanimous.  South Korean policy makers banned short-selling from Aug.
10 after the  Kospi index (KOSPI)  had its biggest drop since October 2008
amid a global stock rout that has wiped away about $8 trillion
in market capitalization. BOK board members may need to weigh
lowering rates to protect the economy from the global slowdown.  “A further rate hike is unlikely and we may even see a
rate cut if global conditions get worse,” said Lee Sang Jae, an
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The BOK can
worry less about inflation as it’s expected to ease as the
global slowdown weakens demand and lowers import prices.”  The Kospi stock index rose 0.6 percent to 1,817.44 at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul. The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,081.74
against the dollar after sinking on Aug. 9 to the weakest level
since May 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Downturn Momentum  “The sharp decline in the equity markets themselves, if
not reversed soon, could generate its own downturn momentum,
suppressing consumption and delaying or cutting back
investments,” Kwon Goohoon, a Seoul-based economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note after reversing his call for
an interest-rate increase. “Current market conditions point to
high risks of less hikes or even rate cuts.”  Kim said at a press conference today that future rate
increases would need to be carried out “very cautiously.”
While the BOK is committed to “normalizing”  interest rates , it
refrained from altering policy today in order to monitor
developments in global financial markets, he said. The central
bank raised rates by a quarter-percentage point each in January,
March and June.  Tensions with  North Korea  have added to uncertainty with
South Korea’s military saying yesterday it fired two artillery
rounds after hearing three explosions from near a disputed sea
border that was the scene of a deadly shelling in November.  A possible recession in the U.S. and euro area nations
would hurt the Korean economy, according to Kwon Young Sun, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., who doesn’t
expect the bank to increase rates until February 2012. Still,
lower  oil prices , a stronger yen and weaker won should help
cushion the impact and eventually bring a “V-shaped, export-led
recovery” after the initial negative shock, he said.  ‘Enough Policy Room’  South Korea has “enough policy room” to weather global
uncertainties and a possible crisis as the nation has a “solid”
fiscal position and a flexible monetary policy, Deputy Finance
Minister Choi Jong Ku said. The government will continue efforts
to reduce “excessive” volatility in the local foreign-exchange
market, Choi said at a briefing in Seoul today.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark interest
rate at a record low at least through mid-2013 to revive a
recovery that’s “considerably slower” than anticipated. The
 Philippines ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  are among nations pausing on
interest-rate increases.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said on Aug. 8 that
the slump in markets around the world is turning into a
“survival game” that’s made international cooperation vital in
seeking solutions to the global crisis.  The government will step up monitoring of capital flows and
currency movements to guard against volatility, the  finance
ministry  said Aug. 7 after Vice Minister Yim Jong Yong held an
emergency meeting with officials from the central bank and
financial regulators.  Slower Growth  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  last week cut its 2011 growth
forecast and signaled it may extend an interest-rate pause into
a second year.  Singapore  this week reduced the top end of its
growth forecast for 2011. The U.S. Federal Reserve held rates
steady in its latest policy meeting.  Consumer prices rose 4.7 percent last month from a year
earlier, the biggest gain in four months and exceeding the
central bank’s 4 percent target limit for a seventh straight
month. Core prices, which exclude fuel and food prices, advanced
3.8 percent. Producer prices jumped 6.5 percent in July, the
biggest increase in three months, a report this week showed.  “The dilemma facing policy makers in balancing the risks
of inflation versus growth is at its greatest point in the
current rate-hike cycle,” Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at
Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “Inflation may accelerate to
5 percent if the central bank does not move this time.”  4 Percent  South Korea  should raise its benchmark interest rate to at
least 4 percent over time and allow its currency to appreciate
further to help fight inflation, the  International Monetary Fund 
said on Aug. 4.  “The economy is strong enough to weather higher borrowing
costs and the central bank should secure more policy rooms in
case the recent turmoil escalates into another global crisis,”
said Lee at Shinhan, one of five economists in the survey
forecasting a 25 basis-point increase in the rate.  Since President Lee declared “war” on inflation in
January, his government has imposed price controls and allowed
the won to appreciate. His public support has dwindled partly on
the back of rising living costs, with a poll conducted from Aug.
1 to Aug. 5 giving him a rating of 31.8 percent, down from 76
percent when he came to power in February 2008, according to
Seoul-based Realmeter.  The nation’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the second
quarter from the previous quarter, when it advanced 1.3 percent
as a stronger won and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis weighed on exports.
The economy grew 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since the third quarter of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  