-- 
Barclays’s Pantyushin Calls Russia’s GDP Slowdown ‘Dispiriting’

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-11T09:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/barclays-s-pantyushin-calls-russia-s-gdp-slowdown-dispiriting-.html
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist
at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, comments on the first reading of
Russian second-quarter gross domestic product, released today,
and gives his outlook for the third quarter.  Pantyushin spoke in a telephone interview.  On  Russia ’s second-quarter growth of 3.4 percent:  “Economic growth has been the weak link in Russia lately.
There’s a political factor -- concern about the elections -- but
growth, in my opinion, is no less important. It’s the factor
driving capital outflows from Russia. Foreign investors and
Russian companies are looking at the economy much more
skeptically than in, say, 2006 or 2007.”  “Industrial production data has been good, but let’s not
forget that the base effect is playing a role here. Last year
the recovery, despite the crisis that began to unfold in  Europe 
in April and May, was doing fine in the second quarter and
that’s when people started saying that we were putting the
crisis behind us.”  On the economic outlook:  “I’m actually looking a little further than the second
quarter. Without a doubt, it’s a dispiriting number but take
what we’ve seen lately. First of all, industrial production is
continuing to show good results, and secondly, investment has
clearly started to climb out of its hole since the start of the
year and that should have a positive effect on GDP in the third
quarter.”  “Thirdly, the consumer sector continues to be doing fairly
well. There were some steps to the side, you could say, on wages
but the pace of sales remains positive and at a good level.
Another factor that also suggests things will be better in the
third quarter is the so-called base effect since last year the
fires led to declines in the third quarter. I’m looking a bit
further than the second quarter. For me, this news is negative
and unexpectedly weak, but it will most likely be one step to
the side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 