-- 
Basci Says Turkey Trade Gap to Narrow on Global Slowdown

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-11T13:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/basci-says-turkey-rate-cut-forward-looking-in-global-slump-1-.html
Erdem Basci, the Turkish central
banker who surprised investors by cutting  interest rates  last
week, said the country’s current-account deficit probably
dropped to $5 billion last month as the world economy slows.  The gap will narrow to $27 billion in the second half of
the year, from $45 billion in the first, Basci said in written
answers to Bloomberg questions e-mailed to the Ankara-based
central bank. The deficit in June was $7.5 billion.  Basci, 45, cut the benchmark one-week repo rate by half a
percentage point to 5.75 percent on Aug. 4. Early monetary
policy action can help to reduce the impact of a global slowdown
that’s now widely expected, he said today.  The rate cut extended a slump in the lira, and was
criticized by investors and economists who argued that  Turkey 
needs higher rates to curb a credit-fueled boom and prevent a
flight of the foreign money that’s needed to finance the trade
deficit.  “Right now, as many central banks acknowledge one after
another, there is an economic slowdown forthcoming,” Basci
said. Against that backdrop, “it’s only natural if you have a
forward-looking perspective to act in a way to support the
economy upfront.”  “The downside risks ahead for the global economy are not
inflationary, they are deflationary,” he said in subsequent
comments.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds dropped 2 basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.14 percent at 3:30 p.m.
in Istanbul.  Lira Slide  The lira was weakened to 1.793 per dollar. Its decline
accelerated after last week’s rate cut, extending losses to 8.3
percent in the past month, the most among 31 main global
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Basci kept rates at a record low in the first seven months
of this year, even as the current-account deficit widened to
record levels. The central bank used curbs on bank lending to
rein in credit growth of about 40 percent a year, arguing that
higher interest rates would attract short-term inflows,
strengthen the lira and hurt Turkey’s exporters.  When he took over from Durmus Yilmaz as head of the bank in
April, Basci inherited an inflation rate of 4 percent, the
lowest in four decades. The rate has climbed since then to 6.3
percent in July.  Global Solution  The changing global backdrop means Basci is right not to
focus on rising prices, said Vassilis Karatzas, managing
director of Levant Partners, a hedge fund in  Athens  that has
$125 million invested in Turkey and the  Middle East .  “There’s a 50 percent chance of a recession in the west,
so he’s absolutely right to do that, he has to loosen policy,”
Karatzas said. “The world is facing a problem of deflation.
Turkey’s problem is inflation, so the world solves Turkey’s
problems.”  Turkey’s economy grew at an 11 percent annual pace in the
first quarter, the most among the Group of 20 industrialized
economies. The central bank says growth is slowing. Industrial
production has dropped for five straight months.  The slide in the lira shows many investors are concerned
about Basci’s focus on shoring up growth, say analysts including
Tim Ash, the chief economist for emerging markets at Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc in  London .  There has been a “significant change in  market psychology 
towards Turkey in recent weeks,” with many investors believing
that “Turkey is just a short,” Ash said in an e-mailed note on
Aug. 9. He revised his year-end forecast for the lira to 1.90
per dollar, from between 1.75 and 1.80.  Export Advantage  The currency’s performance coupled with gains in
productivity leaves Turkish exporters “in a relatively
advantageous situation” compared with their peers in other
countries, Basci said today.  Basci, a school friend of Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, has worked at the bank since 2003. Before that he was
an assistant professor of economics at Bilkent University, a
private college in Ankara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 