-- 
Basci Sees Global Deflationary Risk as Turkey Cuts Rates (Text)

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-11T11:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/basci-sees-global-deflationary-risk-as-turkey-cuts-rates-text-.html
Following is the text of Turkish
 central bank  Governor Erdem Basci’s response to Bloomberg
questions, sent by e-mail from the Ankara-based bank today.  Bloomberg: You predict that the current-account deficit will
start narrowing on a monthly basis, yet it remains large. Is it
financeable? And how?  Erdem Basci: The way we identify the problem is that there is
ample financing to start with. And that ample financing, mostly
short-term in nature, causes a high and growing current-account
deficit. So, if you look at the situation from this perspective,
then you would by definition not have a financing problem; you
would have a problem of “how do I restrain that kind of a boom
in the economy?”  Therefore, all of our actions so far and if needed further
actions in the future, should be read from this perspective. But
coming back to the current account deficit issue, today the
current account data for June has been out, and there we see
that, the first 6 months cumulative current account deficit
figure is $45 billion. We expect a very rapid and sizeable
reduction in the deficit starting from July. We see this in all
of the leading indicators. Probably a smaller deficit figure
which should be around $5 billion in July, and a further $22
billion in the remaining 5 months of the year, roughly.  So, that would make $27 billion of current account deficit in
the second half of the year which compares quite favorably, with
the first 6 months, and also shows that our measures have
actually worked quite well already.  Bloomberg: How do you explain the difference in risk perception
among foreign investors? What is it that you know about  Turkey 
that they cannot see or underestimate?  Basci: A short answer would be the fact that we are not printing
money. We have withdrawn not only excess central bank money via
our exit strategy but also some inside money via reserve-
requirement hikes.  Bloomberg: Many emerging-market economies have raised  interest
rates . The Turkish central bank now appears more likely to cut
further than to raise. Is that perception correct, and what is
it about Turkey that allows it to behave differently?  Basci: Currently, we consider two main alternative scenarios.
One of them is that the liquidity injection by major central
banks continues in an appropriate way, I should say, until the
major problems which are related to fiscal debt sustainability
are solved. This is true for  Europe , this is true for the  United
States .  So, in the meantime, given the extra monetary expansion, given
the official liquidity increase in the world economy, the first
scenario is that there would be a further round of appreciation
pressures and credit-growth pressures on many emerging markets.
So, this is the first scenario. The second scenario is that the
liquidity injection alone is either not sufficient or is
perceived as negative in the markets and therefore the
turbulence, the uncertainty in the markets grows or is not
reduced from the excessively high current levels, and therefore
we have a financial shock that translates into a real sector
shock.  In such a case, we could be in a situation where we have a more
than anticipated contraction in the world economy. In such a
case, obviously not only the Central Bank of Turkey, but all
central banks would try to use all tools at their disposal in a
way to support the global economy. But under the first scenario,
we would basically use measures more on the macro prudential
side in order to restrict excessive risk-taking and excessive
credit growth in the banking sector. In this environment we
should do that via methods which would not hurt the
profitability of the sector and pick our instruments among such
set of tools.  Bloomberg: The Bank’s mandate is “to achieve and maintain  price
stability .” How to you respond to critics who say you’re now a
growth-targeting bank and no longer targeting inflation?  Basci: The primary objective of the Central Bank of Turkey is
price stability. Without prejudice to that, the Central Bank is
also supposed to look at employment and growth. So, this is what
our Law, the Central Bank Law, says. There is a lexicographic
ordering. You should definitely have price stability first and,
given that, you should also be able to take care of other real
objectives.  In an additional article of the same law, there is also a duty
specified. One of the fundamental duties of the Central Bank is
to contribute to financial stability. But obviously the Central
Bank is not the only institution which has that duty. There are
other government institutions and agencies which are responsible
for financial stability. So, the Central Bank is mainly
responsible for price stability, but should also keep an eye on
the financial stability as well as employment and growth.  If your question relates to our recent decision, the interim
meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee, there one should
consider this decision with a forward-looking perspective. We
always take decisions regarding what could happen in the future.
Right now, as many central banks acknowledge one after another,
there is an economic slowdown forthcoming. On top of that, there
are downside risks. These risks are, if you think from a price-
stability perspective, not inflationary, they are deflationary.  So, therefore from a price stability perspective, you can act by
stimulating the economy in an appropriate and suitable way,
without hurting the price-stability objective and you should do
that, because we have seen the consequences of not doing that or
doing that a little bit late in the post-Lehman episode. So,
early action can mitigate, if not eliminate impacts of slowdown,
recession or a bigger contraction on both price stability,
growth, employment as well as financial-stability objectives.
Therefore it’s only natural if you have a forward-looking
perspective to act in a way to support the economy upfront.  Bloomberg:  Germany  is Turkey’s biggest single trading partner
and there’s a $5 billion trade deficit in the first half of the
year. Is Germany’s trade surplus a problem for Turkey and for
Europe? What could be done to change that?  Basci: What we observe in the first half of 2011 is that there
has been a very rapid increase in investment-goods imports. So,
these are machinery and equipment, vehicles and all related
investments, the capital goods. Obviously part of these are
imported from Europe and elsewhere, but the main thing is the
prices of those are, relatively speaking, quite low.  We have a
box article on this in the most recent Inflation Report.  Since the relative prices of investment goods are quite
reasonable right now, mainly because nobody else in the world is
buying them. And since the domestic economy’s revival in Turkey
has been quite strong so far, there has been quite a lot of
investment demand. That explains only part of the demand for
such goods. And that obviously has a temporary element, because
part of it is postponed demand from the post-Lehman crisis, and
part of it is thanks to the low cost of financing and low price
of these items. Therefore we also see that the investment
spending in the coming months will return to more normal levels
after this phase of adjustment has been completed.  Bloomberg: The lira has weakened sharply and domestic rates
fallen. If things go well, how will the Turkish export industry
emerge from the global downturn you believe is possible?  Basci: Turkish exporters face a very challenging global
environment; the external demand is already relatively weak
compared to domestic demand. But yet, Turkey is able to increase
its exports at a pace faster than 20 percent year-on-year in
U.S. dollar terms.  So, how do the exporters do it? Basically there are two reasons:
One of them is the very rapid productivity growth that the
Turkish producers and exporters exhibit. This is partly due to
the new capital-equipment investments that I mentioned before.
And also the new methods of production; so this is one channel,
the productivity channel.  The second channel is the fact that we have been able to take
the undue appreciation pressures on the currency; therefore on
the currency front, compared to our peers again, they are in a
relatively advantageous situation. So, from both channels, the
exporters will possibly be able to cope with a further slowdown
in the world economy and external demand.  Bloomberg: In the current economic climate, which economists or
schools of thought do you personally find helpful in giving
insight about the challenges facing modern central banks?  Basci: It’s very hard to find two economists agree on a
particular problem or its solution. But luckily and fortunately
now there is a consensus among not only the academics, but also
the central bankers and broadly speaking all the policy makers
in the world, on the need for financial regulation. There is now
a consensus emerging that a strong and sound financial sector
regulation is needed. This is also emphasized in all the
documents of the G20, the Financial Stability Board, the Basel
Committee and the Committee of Governors and Heads of
Supervision. Since there is such a consensus, life becomes
easier for us to implement basically what that consensus
requires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 