-- 
Beating Brazil Shows Calderon Prepared After ‘08: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-11T21:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/beating-brazil-bonds-shows-how-calderon-prepared-after-2008-mexico-credit.html
Mexican government and corporate
bonds are outperforming securities sold by their Brazilian
counterparts as investors bet  Latin America ’s second-largest
economy is better prepared to weather a global slowdown.  The 27-basis point drop in Mexican government dollar bond
yields in the past month compares with a decline of 25 for
Brazilian notes, snapping five straight months of
underperformance, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The two-
basis point increase in Mexican corporate borrowing costs in the
past month compares with a jump of six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, for their Brazilian peers. Previously,
Brazilian corporate securities had outperformed for two
consecutive months.  President Felipe Calderon’s administration has lined up a
$72 billion credit line from the  International Monetary Fund ,
extended debt maturities and shunned capital increases embraced
by  Brazil , the region’s largest economy, to protect against a
slowdown in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of the Latin
American nation’s exports.  “They are strengthening public finances here in Mexico,”
 Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “The Mexican
market has become much easier and flexible to trade as Brazil
boosts capital controls.”  100-Year Bond  Mexican  government bonds  yield 4.65 percent, or 6 basis
points less than Brazilian debt, according to JPMorgan. The gap
has swelled from one basis point on July 28. Notes sold by
Mexican companies yield 6.31 percent, compared with 5.93 percent
for Brazilian corporate securities. The 37-basis point gap is
down from 53 on July 28.  Mexico sold $1 billion of 100-year bonds overseas
yesterday, taking advantage of a plunge in benchmark U.S.
borrowing costs to bring back a record-long maturity it unveiled
a year ago. The government issued the notes due in 2110 to yield
5.96 percent, or 242 basis points above 30-year U.S. Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mexico financially has never been as well protected and
sound as it is today,” said Alejandro Diaz de Leon, head of the
 finance ministry ’s public debt unit in an interview yesterday.
“Mexico has been able to take advantage of a privileged
position because of the steps it has taken.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut Mexico’s rating to BBB, the second-
lowest investment grade, from BBB+ in December 2009, citing
declining oil output and “diminishing” prospects for widening
the tax base to replace oil revenue. Brazil is rated one level
lower at BBB- by S&P.  The Brazilian finance ministry declined to comment in an e-
mailed statement.  IMF Credit Line  The IMF renewed and boosted the size of Mexico’s credit
line in January from $48 billion. The Washington-based fund
originally approved the facility in 2009 to boost confidence in
the economy. The central bank has been buying as much as $600
million monthly though options since March 2010 to bolster
foreign reserves, which surged 84 percent in the past two years
to a record  $133.9 billion , according to the central bank.
Brazil’s reserves rose 65 percent over the same period to $349.6
billion.  “All these contingency plans and credit lines are
favorable factors for an investor, who may say that in the case
of another crisis Mexico won’t likely be as volatile,” Eduardo Avila, an economist with Monex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview.  Currency Tumble  The peso tumbled 20 percent in 2008 as U.S. demand for the
country’s exports slumped. Mexico’s gross domestic product
shrank 6.1 percent the following year, the most since 1995 and
the second-worst contraction of the economies tracked by
Bloomberg after  Russia . The  U.S. economy  contracted 3.5 percent
in 2009.  Yields on Mexican government debt in the two months after
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. filed for bankruptcy in 2008 surged
165 basis points, compared with an increase of 142 for Brazilian
securities.  “We are a lot better prepared, especially relative to
other countries, for a situation that could deteriorate
externally,” Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  on June 2.
“All this points to a broad framework of creating additional
spaces for a potential adverse scenario going forward. That’s
what we are here for -- to prepare for negative scenarios.”  Mexico’s total net debt is 35 percent of GDP, below the 40
percent for Brazil. The government has been extending local debt
maturities to a record 7.3 years in 2011, from 6.4 years in
2009.  Capital Controls   Brazil imposed a 1 percent tax on some currency derivatives
on July 27, the latest government measure aimed at stemming the
42 percent appreciation of the real since the end of 2008. Since
October, Brazil has also tripled to 6 percent a tax on
foreigners’ purchase of bonds, raised the cost of foreign
borrowing by local companies and restricted bank bets against
the real. The peso has gained 9.1 percent during the same
period.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 12 basis points
to 174 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The peso rose 2.3 percent to 12.2748 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 161, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Growth Forecasts  Mexico ’s central bank lowered its forecast for economic
growth this year and next while keeping its consumer price
forecasts unchanged, according to its quarterly inflation  report 
published yesterday. It cut its 2011 growth forecast to a range
of 3.8 percent to 4.8 percent and its 2012 forecast to 3.5
percent to 4.5 percent. The bank said in its May report the
economy may expand as much as 5 percent this year and up to 4.8
percent in 2012 growth. It kept its 2011 and 2012 consumer price
forecasts at 3 percent to 4 percent.  “The balance of risks for growth in the Mexican economy
has deteriorated,” the bank said in the report, citing lower
global growth prospects.  JPMorgan’s Casillas and Iker Cabiedes reduced their 2011
Mexican growth forecast yesterday to 4.2 percent from 4.5
percent.  ‘Aversion to Risk’  Economists in Mexico will likely continue to cut growth
forecasts this quarter after the  Federal Reserve  indicated that
it will keep rates low through mid-2013, said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  “If the Fed is saying it’s keeping rates steady through
2013, than things aren’t going well at all,” Belaunzaran said
in a telephone interview. “There may be an aversion to risk
toward long-term securities if the outlook worsens.”  Mexico will wait until November 2012 to raise the benchmark
lending rate from a record low 4.5 percent, according to trading
in TIIE futures.  While Mexico’s annual inflation rate slowed to a five-year
low in March and is within the central bank’s target range of 3
percent to 4 percent this year, Brazil has struggled to contain
price increases. Inflation quickened to 6.75 percent last month,
the highest in six years and almost double the 3.55 percent rate
in Mexico in July.  “There are a lot of factors that make Mexico stand out
from the rest of the emerging markets,” Monex’s Avila said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  