-- 
Berlin Marks 50 Years of Wall Building, Taunts to Border Guards

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/berlin-remembers-naked-taunts-to-border-guards-on-50th-anniversary-of-wall.html
East Germany’s communist regime
built the  Berlin Wall  overnight, by stealth, on a Sunday in
August 1961 when many Berliners were out of town.  Just two months earlier, as the exodus out of East Germany
swelled to a flood, the communist leader Walter Ulbricht had
said, “No one intends to build a wall.” That wall, reinforced
over the years to become the most impenetrable border in the
world, survived for 28 years and claimed at least 136 lives,
including nine children.  Dozens of exhibitions, events and ceremonies in Berlin mark
the 50th anniversary of Aug. 13, 1961. One of the most
intriguing is  “The Other View,”  a photographic documentation
of the wall in the years after it was built.  The photos were taken by East German border guards equipped
with official cameras and show the rarely seen eastern side. The
pictures -- more than 1,000 of them -- were discovered in an
innocuous-looking cardboard box in the Intermediate Military
Archive in Potsdam by the author Annett Groeschner and
photographer Arwed Messmer.  They show a border that has nothing to do with the image of
the Berlin Wall that first springs to mind -- those 4-meter-high
walls of reinforced concrete with curved tops on either side of
the treacherous death strip and painted with colorful graffiti
on the western side.  Patchwork Wall  In the early years, the wall was a patchwork of whatever
materials the East German regime could scrape together: barbed
wire, bricks, concrete, even wooden fencing. It was also easier
to communicate across, as the exhibition in the dilapidated
former Italian Cultural Center on Unter den Linden makes clear.  The East German border guards were under orders to note
details of any attempted contact from the west and were barred
from responding to the sometimes bizarre taunts, exhortations to
flee and invitations.  “Nordgraben, 12:40: Two West Berlin building workers pull
down their trousers and show the border guards their naked
behinds,” is one dry entry. “Puderstrasse, 11:30: A man throws
Bild newspapers over the wall” is another.  Equally well documented is an incident the guards must have
been tempted to keep to themselves: “Britzer Allee-Bruecke,
19:15: A woman and a man silently throw a parcel over the
border. It contains two packs of cigarettes with 24 cigarettes
in each, two bags of peanuts, two bars of chocolate, one West
German pfennig coin, and a note saying: ‘Best wishes and
greetings to you and your colleagues.’”  Patterns in Snow  The guards’ notes serve as captions to the photos, which
were digitally stitched together by Messmer to create a 250-
meter panorama of 43 kilometers of Berlin Wall.  Groeschner also documented praise and criticism from border
guards for colleagues, noted in the logs of regiments. Some of
the reprimands are very funny. “When bored, he used his feet to
make patterns in the snow while on duty,” is one example.  Others are more tellingly sinister: “He used his gun at
such an angle that the border violator was not forced to stop.”  Information on “The Other View”:
 http://www.aus-anderer-sicht.de   Merkel Event  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President  Christian Wulff  will
be among the guests at tomorrow’s official event at the  Berlin
Wall Memorial  on Bernauer Strasse, where one of the few intact
sections of the wall still stands.  A huge  program  of events includes accounts by eyewitnesses
of the construction of the wall, concerts, discussions with
people who assisted refugees in their escape, readings of the
biographies of victims and a dance performance.  The outdoor museum and a new area of parkland with
information posts about the Berlin Wall don’t give much of a
sense of how formidable it was. Twenty-two years later, this is
now one of the most desirable residential areas of town, with
swish new townhouses encroaching onto the former death strip.  To remember what it was really like, go inside the
documentation center and watch the film shown on a loop there,
shot from a helicopter 50 meters above the wall in 1990, just
months after the border opened.  Information on the film:  http://www.mauerflug.de/ .  For the Berlin Wall Memorial site, go to
 http://www.berliner-mauer-gedenkstaette.de/en/ .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 