-- 
Billionaire Wiese Targeting Nigeria as Wal-Mart Seizes Foothold in Africa

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-12T11:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/billionaire-wiese-targets-nigeria-with-pepkor-as-he-expands-african-empire.html
South Africa’s biggest clothing
company,  Pepkor Ltd. , plans to expand into  Nigeria  as retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  fight for a share of some of the
world’s fastest growing retail markets.  “Africa is awakening,” Pepkor Chairman Christo Wiese said
in an interview in  Cape Town  on Aug. 10. “It’s a huge market of
almost a billion people with huge resources and a young
population. People spend when they’re young.”  Pepkor, which targets low-income earners, plans to open its
first  Nigerian  store this year and may invest as much as 100
million rand ($14 million) in the first stage of its expansion,
which may see about 50 outlets opened in Africa’s most populous
nation, the billionaire said.  Pepkor’s expansion mirrors the growth strategy of other
international retailers, including Wal-Mart, which bought a
controlling stake in South Africa’s  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  to
gain a foothold on the continent. The 16.5 billion-rand purchase
gave Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart 51 percent of the
largest wholesaler in South Africa, which also has operations in
12 other African nations.  Wiese, whose net worth is an estimated $1.6 billion
according to Forbes Magazine, controls  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,
Africa’s largest grocer, and holds more than a third of  Brait
SA (BAT) , the biggest South African private equity company.  Faster African Growth  The 69-year-old is betting economies in Africa will expand
faster than the U.S. and  Europe . The entry into Africa of Wal-
Mart, the world’s largest retailer, hasn’t changed Wiese’s
plans, he said. “There’s enough for everybody. It’s a growing
market.”  Pepkor will “ride on the coat tails” of Shoprite, which
has 76 supermarkets in 15 African countries outside of  South
Africa . Pepkor will then expand in “nodes” across the
continent, as it adds to its 2,800 stores in southern Africa,
which include the Pep, Ackermans and Best & Less brands.  Pepkor’s expansion follows a June reorganization of the
retailer’s shareholding, which Wiese and Johannesburg-based
Brait used to increase their stakes in the 46-year-old company.
Pepkor’s shareholders can now “take a long-term view and don’t
have the pressure of having to close their investment in the
company,” he said.  ‘Not For Sale’  The “synergistic benefits” between Pepkor and Shoprite
also makes it unlikely Shoprite will be sold, Wiese said. “As
it stands, our business is not for sale,” he said.  Wiese’s son, Jacob, 30, is already involved in his
businesses while his two daughters will probably retain
ownership of his companies when he retires.  “It’s a family business,” he said. “I believe I am good
for another five to seven years.”  Wiese’s  Tradehold Ltd. (TDH) , which owns property and retail
assets in the U.K., will make acquisitions within the next year
outside of its existing businesses, he said, declining to be
more specific.  “Tradehold has been my stepchild,” he said. “We’ve been
fighting fires there and most of these have been dealt with.”  Any acquisitions would be the first step in making sure
Tradehold has “more firepower,” Wiese said.  The son of a farmer and gas station owner in Upington in
South Africa’s Northern Cape, Wiese will also push the African
expansion of Invicta Holdings Ltd., a distributor of bearings,
seals and agricultural machinery.  ‘Unlimited Agricultural Potential’  “We’re looking at growth opportunities” for Invicta,
which will include acquisitions, to help triple sales into the
continent as it benefits from increased agricultural production,
he said. “The agricultural potential of  Africa  is unlimited.”  For the continent to lure more investment, African
governments must improve governance while ensuring they allow
immigrants to transfer skills and removing bureaucracy that
stifles entrepreneurial development, Wiese said.  South Africa, the continent’s largest economy, is losing
its advantage as an entry point into Africa because of
impediments to starting new businesses, allowing foreign workers
into the country and its labor legislation, he said.  Companies, labor and the government should hold talks to
solve South Africa’s unemployment crisis in the same way that
negotiations were held that led to the end of apartheid in 1994,
he said. “We’ve been debating issues and don’t have
agreement,” he said. “Let’s first get people employed.”  Talk by the youth wing of the ruling  African National
Congress  about whether South Africa’s mines and banks should be
nationalized is also “regrettable” as it makes “the
atmosphere less conducive to a growing economy,” he said.  “The debate on nationalization won’t be very long amongst
clever people,” he said. “Those who support it must come and
put their case forward and show where it works.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   Kwong11@bloomberg.net  