-- 
Billionaire Abramovich’s 17-Year-Old Son Seeks Oil Deals

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-11T16:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/billionaire-abramovich-s-son-seeks-russian-oil-deals-with-zoltav.html
Arkadiy Abramovich, the 17-year-old
son of Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , is seeking to snap
up oil and gas assets in  Russia  and the former  Soviet Union ,
potentially making a purchase early next year.  Arkadiy’s Zoltav Resources Inc. is searching in areas where
an acquisition could be used as a “building block,” Symon Drake-Brockman, executive chairman of the London-listed company,
said in a telephone interview. While there’s no set timeframe,
deals may come as soon as six months from now, he said.  The billionaire’s son is following his father’s lead in
investing in natural resources, Russia’s biggest export earner.
Roman Abramovich, former governor of Chukotka region in Russia’s
Far East, has invested in Evraz Group SA and Highland Gold
Mining Ltd., and sold his stake in oil producer OAO Sibneft to
state-controlled OAO Gazprom for $13.1 billion in 2005.  “We have the fortunate position of a strong shareholder
that has a deep understanding,” Drake-Brockman said yesterday.  Arkadiy’s ARA Capital Ltd. investment vehicle increased its
holding in Zoltav, formerly known as Crosby Asset Management, to
40 percent this month, according to a regulatory statement.
Zoltav installed a new management team including Drake-Brockman,
former head of capital markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and former Marathon Oil Corp. executive Steven Lowden.  The company’s management has already held talks about
possible acquisition targets, Drake-Brockman said, without
elaborating. So far, his discussions have been exclusively with
Arkadiy who, to the best of his knowledge, is acting
independently of his father, the chairman said.  Zoltav rose 4 percent to 3.25 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in  London , giving the company a market value of 12.2 million
pounds ($19.8 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 