-- 
BlackRock Sees Buying Chances in Energy, Picks Schlumberger

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-12T10:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/blackrock-picks-schlumberger-as-oil-shortfall-underpins-prices.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, says the global market rout may be a chance to
pick up energy stocks as a shortfall in global crude production
underpins oil prices.  Oilfield services companies such as  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  make
up four of the top 10 holdings of BlackRock’s $6 billion BGF
World Energy Fund, run by Robin Batchelor, 40, and Poppy Allonby, 33. They provide equipment, engineering expertise and
people to drill and maintain wells. Oil explorers that don’t
need funding for drilling may also be a good bet, they said in
an Aug. 10 interview in London.  “We are starting to see some service price inflation,”
said Batchelor, who studied geology at the University of
Glasgow. “This should benefit oil service companies if  oil
prices  stay relatively high.”  Batchelor and Allonby join billionaire  Warren Buffett  in
arguing the slide that wiped more than $6 trillion off global
equity markets since July 26 may be an opportunity to buy. Brent
crude prices have dropped 9 percent in the past three weeks on
concern the global economy is slowing. Oil has fallen less than
equities, where the MSCI World Index has slipped more than 12
percent.  Problem of Supply  “What keeps us from getting too bearish over the medium
term is the problem of supply,” said Allonby, who holds a
degree in physics and has managed the fund with Batchelor since
it launched a decade ago. “It is clear that we are seeing
weakness in demand. But less attention is being paid to the
supply dynamic. It is the balance of demand and supply that
counts longer term.”  Global oil consumption will increase by 1.2 million barrels
a day this year and 1.6 million barrels in 2012, according to
the  International Energy Agency ’s Aug. 10 report. Batchelor and
Allonby expect oil supply growth to fall short of demand every
year to 2015, only coming close in 2014 as production from Iraq
comes through.  The BGF World Energy Fund has beaten the MSCI World Energy
Index every year except two since 2002. Through July of this
year, it returned 3.8 percent, compared with an 8.6 percent
return on the index in 2011. Since July 26, the MSCI World
Energy index has plummeted 16 percent.  European stocks climbed today, extending the Stoxx Europe
600 Index’s rally from a two-year low.  Slowdown or Recession?  “The question everyone’s considering is, is this a
slowdown or a recession?” Batchelor said. As a precaution,
“our fund has taken some bets off the table.”  The oil services sub-index of the U.K.’s FTSE 350 stock
index has tumbled 19 percent in the past three weeks. U.K.
exploration and production companies have fallen 14 percent in
the global rout.  The pressure to increase output to meet global demand may
allow services companies to charge their customers more even if
oil prices slip further, Blackrock said. Schlumberger,  National
Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  are the third, fourth and
fifth biggest holdings.  Technip SA (TEC) , the French services company,
is the ninth.  The energy fund’s two biggest holdings as of the end of
July were U.S. explorer Anadarko Petroleum Plc and  BP Plc. (BP/)   The world’s biggest oil companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , BP and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  typically
don’t perform as well as explorers and services providers when
oil prices are rising, though they also won’t fall as quickly if
oil prices collapse, they said.  Conoco, Marathon  The plan by  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the fund’s 10th largest
holding, to spin off its refining unit into a separate company
will add to returns for investors, they said.  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) , which completed a similar move this year, was one of the
fund’s biggest holdings before splitting in two.  “We like majors if they’re cheap versus peers and we can
see how they can release value,” Batchelor said. “Recently,
people have been focused on Conoco’s announcement to split.
However the real action started a few years ago when it
announced that it would sell assets, reduce spending and,
importantly, return the proceeds to shareholders.”  The fund also has  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  in its top 10. Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , an explorer
with assets in the U.S., Africa and the Mediterranean, is the
eighth-biggest holding in the fund.  “You have to distinguish between the exploration and
production companies that need to raise money and those that
don’t,” he said. “If the companies live within their cash flow
and funding, we might want to pick them up in a downturn.”  The drop in crude prices may hurt many oil explorers with
weak balance sheets, Batchelor said. He prefers companies with
strong assets and catalysts that may cause shares to perform
regardless of oil prices.  “We don’t currently think this is a long-term down
trend,” Batchelor said. “But we’re watching the economic
indicators closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  