-- 
BNY Mellon Sued by Florida, Virginia Over Retirement Fund Currency Charges

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/bny-mellon-sued-by-florida-over-currency-trade-charges-for-retirement-fund.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was
accused by Florida and  Virginia  in a lawsuit of allegedly
failing to give the states the best possible prices when making
foreign currency trades for their state pension funds.  The bank overcharged the Florida Retirement System Trust
Fund by millions of dollars, said Pam Bondi, the state’s
attorney general, in a statement yesterday. Her Virginia
counterpart, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli, said his state has lost
about $40 million.  “BNY Mellon added hidden spreads, including markups and
markdowns to those foreign exchange trades rather than pricing
the trades at the  exchange rate  at which it actually executed
the transactions,” Florida said in its complaint filed
yesterday in state court in Tallahassee, the capital.  BNY Mellon, based in  New York , served as custodian for the
Florida fund, which had about $128.9 billion in assets at the
end of June and for the Virginia Retirement System, which had
about $54.3 billion as of March 31.  The two states are intervening in 2009 whistleblower
lawsuits filed against BNY Mellon by FX Analytics, described in
court papers as a Delaware general partnership.  The bank, in an e-mailed statement, called the cases
“unwarranted” and said they “reflect a flawed understanding
of foreign  currency markets .” BNY Mellon said it would fight
the lawsuits and was confident it would prevail.  ‘First Choice’  “While our first choice is always an amicable resolution,
we refuse to be coerced into paying for and admitting to
wrongdoing where none exists,” the bank said.  Florida  accuses BNY Mellon of violating the state’s false
claims act by submitting fraudulent claims for payment and false
records in support of those claims. The bank also used false
records to avoid an obligation to pay money to the state,
according to the complaint.  Florida seeks triple its damages plus $11,000 in penalties
for each false claims law violation.  Virginia, in its complaint in state court in Fairfax, also
is pursuing claims on behalf of the Arlington and Fairfax county
retirement funds, Cuccinelli said in a statement yesterday.  “It appears that the bank charges the funds the most
expensive price of the trading day -- or very close to it --
rather than the actual  interbank rate  at which the currencies
were purchased,” Cuccinelli said.  That state seeks triple damages totaling about
$120 million, plus $11,000 in fines for each of 73,784 falsely
reported executed trades, or more than $811.6 million in
penalties.  The Florida case is State of Florida v. The Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., 2009CA4140, Circuit Court of the Second
Judicial District, Leon County, Florida (Tallahassee). The
Virginia case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. The Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., CL-2009-15377, Fairfax County, Virginia,
Circuit Court (Fairfax, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  