-- 
Boeing’s 787 Nears August Certification, September Delivery

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-08-11T20:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/boeing-expects-to-deliver-first-dreamliner-next-month-correct-.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said it expects to finish
flight tests for the 787 Dreamliner this weekend and to get
approval from the  Federal Aviation Administration  next week, in
time to meet its target of delivering the plane in September.  Getting the plane to its first customer,  Japan ’s All Nippon
Airways Co., will be “difficult,” just as other milestones
have been,  Jim Albaugh , the planemaker’s commercial chief, said
today at a conference hosted by Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “The good news is we only have 24 hours left in our flight
test program, and we hope to complete the flight test program
probably sometime this weekend,” Albaugh said. “We think the
FAA will hold their type certification review board next week,
and we hope to get our ticket so we can start delivering the 787
yet this month.”  The Dreamliner, the world’s first composite-plastic
airliner, is more than three years behind schedule amid
struggles with the new materials and production system Boeing
developed for it. It’s still Chicago-based Boeing’s most popular
new plane ever, with about 830 orders from 52 customers, and is
sold out through 2019, Albaugh said.  Next Challenge  The production increase is the next challenge, he said. In
July Boeing froze the assembly line for another month to let
suppliers catch up. The rate will go back to two a month
beginning in a week or so and then will rise to 2.5 about a
month after that, with increases continuing until workers reach
10 a month in 2013, Albaugh said. That will be a record rate for
a wide-body aircraft.  The supply chain “looks pretty good,” Albaugh said,
adding that the “pinch point” is still the South Carolina
factory Boeing bought from Vought Aircraft Holdings Inc. and
Global Aeronautica. That plant assembles part of the fuselage
for the 787 and is adjacent to a new facility Boeing is setting
up for final assembly.  The FAA is meeting this week to review the 747-8, another
airliner that is the biggest version of the jumbo jet Boeing has
ever built, Albaugh said. That plane has completed its flight
tests and the regulator should give its approval in a couple of
weeks, with first delivery also slated for September, he said.
The improvements will extend the life of the 41-year-old
aircraft by another three or four decades, Albaugh said.  Next Steps  Boeing won’t build another all-new plane until sometime
next decade, after last month’s decision to offer new engines to
improve the narrow-body 737, he said. The company hasn’t yet
decided whether to replace the 737 next or to offer something to
fill the gap left when the larger 757 went out of production, he
said.  In the meantime, the “very modest” cost of adding new
engines to the 737 rather than replacing it frees up cash to
improve the 777 and do a stretched version of the 787 to compete
with larger rival Airbus SAS, he said. The company is in talks
with half a dozen airlines about the “777-X,” he said.  “Decisions we make and how we execute over the next couple
of years will really set the tone for what kind of company we
are in decades to come,” Albaugh said.  Albaugh said he wouldn’t be surprised if Boeing takes in
more orders this year than it fills. The company booked new
contracts for 19 more 777s in the past week, bringing its net
orders so far this year to 268. Boeing said last month it will
deliver 485 to 495 planes in 2011.  Boeing rose $1.44, or 2.5 percent, to $58.85 at 4:01 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading amid a broad market
recovery. The shares are down 9.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  