-- 
Boiler-Room ‘Mastermind’ Marsh Must Wait Until September to Learn Sentence

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-11T20:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/boiler-room-mastermind-marsh-must-wait-until-september-to-learn-sentence.html
Kenneth Marsh, the “mastermind”
behind the Gryphon Holdings Inc. boiler-room operation, must
wait until next month to learn how much prison time he will
serve after a federal judge said he was leaning toward imposing
five years and then postponed the decision.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in  Brooklyn , New York,
after deciding all aspects of Marsh’s sentence today except the
prison term, said he would impose sentences for all 18 Gryphon
defendants on Sept. 14, after holding individual hearings.  Weinstein mentioned the five years for Marsh, 44, before
hearing from seven victims and listening to tapes of Marsh
training members of Gryphon’s sales force.  Roger Burlingame, one of the prosecutors, told Weinstein a
five-year term was “preposterous” and said there were
“hundreds of people whose lives were destroyed” by the Gryphon
fraud. Nonbinding federal sentencing guidelines call for 12 to
14 years for Marsh, he said.  “Maybe he just wants to think about what he’s heard,”
Alan Futerfas, one of Marsh’s lawyers, said about the judge’s
action in an interview after the hearing. “A lot of stuff has
been presented to him in the past two weeks.”  Investment Recommendations  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to a related civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. All 18 defendants in the Gryphon scheme, including
members of its sales force, pleaded guilty.  Marsh “is the mastermind behind a devastating fraud,”
prosecutors wrote in an Aug. 8 letter to the judge.  Marsh pleaded guilty in April to one count of  securities
fraud , admitting he misled investors into paying for phony stock
tips. Gryphon defrauded almost 5,500 people out of $20 million,
according to the government.  “I would just like to apologize,” Marsh said in court
today.  At the hearing, Weinstein ordered Marsh to pay, along with
the other defendants, restitution to victims of about
$10.5 million. Marsh also agreed to forfeit $774,792. After
doing his prison time, he will have five years of supervised
release. He made $1.9 million through Gryphon, according to the
SEC complaint.  Profitable Trades  Marsh has been in jail since November, after he was accused
by prosecutors of engaging in conduct similar to actions that
led to his arrest and he was unable to raise the additional bail
required.  Futerfas argued for leniency because the trades he
recommended were consistently profitable. Futerfas did say Marsh
lied about his credentials and career history.  Gryphon falsely claimed to have a trading desk and a
$1.4 billion hedge fund, according to the government. The
company sometimes told investors its office was in the  New York 
Stock Exchange when it was in a strip mall in the New York
borough of  Staten Island , according to prosecutors.  “They managed to talk me into $65,000,” one victim, 80-
year-old Lorna McCune, told Weinstein today from her wheelchair.
“I lost everything.”  Two other victims traveled from  London  and  Canada  and some
said they lost hundreds of thousands of dollars through the
Gryphon fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 