-- 
Brazilian Retail Sales Slowed Less Than Economists Had Forecast in June

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-11T13:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/brazilian-june-retail-sales-rose-0-2-from-month-earlier.html
Brazilian retail sales slowed less
than economists expected in June even after the government
raised  interest rates  five times this year and took steps to
slow lending growth.  Sales rose 0.2 percent in June, even while spending at 
supermarkets fell 0.4 percent, the national statistics
agency said in  Rio de Janeiro . Analysts were forecasting sales
growth to remain stagnant, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 33 analysts, after a revised 0.7 percent
expansion in May. Sales rose 7.1 percent from a year ago,
beating a median estimate of 6.4 percent.  “The number came in a bit stronger than I expected but
this still doesn’t negate that a deceleration is happening,”
said  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil
SA in  Sao Paulo . “The stronger number helps  Brazil ´s outlook in
the context of uncertainty abroad. When looking at interest
rates, now everyone has their eyes abroad.”  Traders this week reversed bets on interest rate increases,
and now expect policy makers to cut borrowing cuts for the first
time in two years, on concerns that the U.S. and Europe may re-
enter recession and growth in  China  may slow. Central Bank
President Alexandre Tombini has raised the benchmark Selic rate
five times this year, to 12.5 percent, to control prices rising
at the fastest pace since 2005.  Interest-Rate Futures  Traders in the interest-rate futures market reduced bets
for interest rate increases, pushing contracts due January 2013
down one basis point to 11.86 percent at 9:10 a.m. New York
time. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.6322 per dollar.  The declines follow a sell-off in markets around the world
on concern global growth is slowing and  Europe ´s sovereign debt
crisis is hurting French banks.  The 0.2 percent increase in sales in June was the third-
worst performance this year, after a 0.2 percent contraction in
April and 0.1 percent growth in February. The broader retail
sales index, which includes sales of vehicles and construction
materials, rose 0.5 percent after a 0.9 percent increase in May.  Inflation, which quickened to 6.87 percent in July,
breached the upper limit of the government’s 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent target range in April.  Spending Cuts  To slow consumer demand and tame prices, President Dilma Rousseff’s administration is relying on a mix of higher
borrowing costs, spending cuts and measures to slow credit
growth.  Still, retail sales are being bolstered by  consumer lending 
growing at a 20 percent annual pace and a tight jobs market. In
June, the  unemployment rate  in Latin America’s biggest economy
fell to 6.2 percent, the lowest since January.  Consumer
confidence  rose 5.4 percent to a record high in July, according
to the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  Brazil jumped to first place, from fifth in 2010, in a
study of top global markets for retail expansion published last
month by management consulting firm A.T. Kearney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio De Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  