-- 
California Seizure of $1.7 Billion in Redevelopment Funds Blocked by Court

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/california-seizure-of-1-7-billion-in-redevelopment-funds-blocked-by-court.html
California ’s plan to use
$1.7 billion from redevelopment agencies for the state budget
was put on hold by the California Supreme Court.  The San Francisco-based court said yesterday that two laws
that divert the funds can’t be enforced except for provisions
that preclude redevelopment agencies from incurring new debt,
transferring assets and entering new contracts, according to an
e-mailed statement from the court. A final decision on the laws
will be made before Jan. 15, when the funds diversion was
scheduled to begin, the court said in an order.  “It’s a very positive sign that the court accepted the
case and recognized a very serious constitutional question that
needs to be resolved,” Chris McKenzie, executive director of
the League of California Cities, said in a telephone interview.
“Agencies no longer have to decide whether they will shut down
or pay a ransom to the state.”  The league, along with the cities of  San Jose  and Union
City and the California Redevelopment sued California Controller
John Chiang and the California Department of Finance July 18 to
overturn the two laws. The cities and the associations allege
the statutes violate a ballot initiative approved by voters last
year that prevents the state from seizing revenue dedicated to
local government.  Affordable Housing Projects  The decision affects road, sewer, lighting and affordable
housing projects across the state administered by 400
redevelopment agencies, McKenzie said.  Yesterday’s ruling temporarily halts the move by Governor
 Jerry Brown  to divert $1.7 billion from redevelopment agencies
to balance California’s 2011-12 budget. The Brown administration
had counted on the money to avoid deeper cuts to education.  California’s $86 billion spending plan took another hit
earlier this week when Chiang said July revenue had fallen more
than 10 percent short of projections.  H.D. Palmer, spokesman for the California Department of
Finance, said yesterday’s ruling isn’t an omen of how the court
will ultimately rule. He said in a phone interview the issue
will be resolved before Jan. 15, when the redevelopment agencies
are due to turn over their first installment of $850 million to
the state.  ‘We’re Confident’  “We’re confident that the state is on solid legal footing
in this case,” he said. “Redevelopment agencies were created
by an act of the Legislature and they can be dissolved by an act
of the Legislature.”  The money from redevelopment agencies was earmarked for K-
12 public schools and community colleges, Palmer said.  Jacob Roper, a spokesman for Chiang, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the court’s
order.  The high court yesterday ordered the state to explain why
the seizure of redevelopment funds shouldn’t be blocked.  “We’re glad the court took the case and we’re glad it
issued the stay,” said Steve Mayer, an attorney for the
plaintiffs.  California lawmakers approved a budget in June that kept
alive 400 redevelopment agencies while requiring them to turn
over $1.7 billion.  The case is California Redevelopment Association v.
Matosantos, S194861, California Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 