-- 
Cameron Maybin Leads Padres Past Mets for 3-2 Victory, 4-Game Series Split

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-11T19:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/cameron-maybin-leads-padres-past-mets-for-3-2-victory-4-game-series-split.html
Cameron Maybin hit a solo home run
and later stole two bases in the eighth inning before scoring
the deciding run on an error as the  San Diego Padres  beat the
New York Mets 3-2 today at Citi Field, earning a split in their
four-game series.  Maybin singled off Mets starter Jonathon Niese to open the
eighth inning, then stole second and third base. Niese’s 122nd
and final pitch of the game, which Aaron Cunningham grounded to
shortstop with two outs, was booted by Ruben Tejada, allowing
Maybin to break a 2-2 tie.  Tejada was called up by the Mets from the minor leagues
earlier this week when regular shortstop  Jose Reyes  went on the
disabled list with a strained left hamstring.  “We brought him here to play shortstop until Jose Reyes
comes back,” Mets manager Terry Collins told reporters after
the game. “He’s just got to let this roll off his back.”  The Mets opened a 2-0 lead in the third inning on a two-run
double by Lucas Duda. The Padres cut the lead in half on
Maybin’s sixth-inning home run, the 24-year-old outfielder’s
seventh of the season, and tied the game on a run-scoring single
by Luis Martinez in the seventh.  Niese (11-9) allowed seven hits and three runs in 7 2/3
innings. He walked two and struck out seven. The Mets managed
three hits off five San Diego pitchers and left nine men on base
to conclude a nine-game homestand with three wins.  Padres reliever Heath Bell, who played with the Mets from
2004 to 2006, pitched a hitless ninth inning for his 32nd save
of the season. Chad Qualls (6-6) got the win in relief.  The Mets won the first two games of the series with a pair
of late comebacks before losing 9-5 yesterday. The team is now
58-59, 19 games behind the  Philadelphia Phillies  in the  National
League East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  