-- 
Cate Blanchett Seduces in Furious D.C. `Vanya’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-11T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/cate-blanchett-pouts-seduces-in-furious-d-c-uncle-vanya-jeremy-gerard.html
Cate Blanchett’s come-hither look
could turn water to ice.  She’s prowling the vast stage of the Eisenhower Theater at
the Kennedy Center in the  Sydney Theatre Company’s  propulsive
staging of Anton Chekhov’s “Uncle Vanya.” Watch out.  The chill in her eyes doesn’t prevent the frustrated men on
a shabby-genteel estate from falling foolishly, hopelessly in
love with her Yelena, the lethally bored wife of a boorish
academic.  None falls harder than the sad-sack Vanya, who has managed
the estate for a quarter-century, supporting Yelena’s husband,
Serebryakov, previously married to Vanya’s sainted sister.  He describes Yelena as a goddess, beautiful and
untouchable, and Blanchett in slinky gowns -- cream in the first
act, scarlet in the second -- and crowned by a Marilyn Monroe-
style blonde ‘do -- fits the bill.  Bringing her an armful of fresh-picked roses, Vanya
stumbles humiliatingly on Yelena in an illicit clinch with
Astrov, the local doctor, a vegetarian proto-tree-hugger so
smitten he has all but moved in for the summer.  When Astrov tries to interest her in his mission to save
the countryside from overdevelopment, she can barely conceal the
yawns. But later, when anomie urges her to give him a tumble (it
doesn’t go well), she blurts out, “You only live once!”  Cartoon Music  Such anachronisms aren’t as jarring in Andrew Upton’s fleet
adaptation as Tamas Ascher’s free-wheeling staging of the play,
having its only U.S. outing here. Moving Chekhov’s end-of-the-
last-century  Russia  to the Soviet era, Ascher introduces scenes
with what sound like the scores from 1940s cartoons.  This Hungarian director takes Chekhov at his word when he
called his moody melodramas of unrequited love and mournful
lives comedies.  That split-personality sensibility is also captured in
Zsolt Khell’s weathered-pine tomb of a set that makes these
people look ever so small.  Yelena and Serebryakov (John Bell, a vision of practiced
rectitude) have been summering at the estate. It’s home to Vanya
and his niece, Sonya, Serebryakov’s daughter. Richard Roxburgh
plays Vanya in a raffish performance of bottled rage that turns
deeply moving when he finally explodes.  Plain-jane Sonya (Hayley McElhinney, in a nuanced,
restrained performance) is unknowingly competing with her step-
mother for the attention of the doctor, Astrov (sensitive Hugo
Weaving, with muttonchops and a bottomless glass of vodka).  She doesn’t stand a chance against Yelena, whose
frustration has made her wily, any more than Vanya can compete
with the comparatively suave Astrov.  And so this “comedy” ends in a way that predicts Samuel Beckett, with deep-rooted characters in existential paralysis.
Taking his leave with Yelena, the smug Serebryakov tells the
hard-working Vanya, “You must do something. Do something!” Some
joke.  Through Aug. 27 at the Eisenhower Theatre, Kennedy Center,
 Washington . Information: +1-202-467-4600;  http://www.kennedy -
center.org/tickets
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 