-- 
Chile Can Fund Education Without Raising Taxes, Larrain Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-08-11T19:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/chile-can-fund-education-without-raising-taxes-larrain-says-2-.html
Chile ’s growing economy will
generate enough  tax revenue  to overhaul an education system that
has been the subject of nationwide protests over the past two
months, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  Increasing tax rates isn’t necessary to fund the
government’s education and social programs, he said today at a
Santiago seminar in response to calls from lawmakers including
pro-government Senator Lily Perez to raise corporate taxes.  “I have clearly stated that we don’t require tax increases
to finance our reforms,” Larrain told reporters today at the
seminar. “People have asked for a tax increase because some of
them didn’t believe this government would be able to boost the
economy. When economies grow, tax revenues increase.”  President Sebastian Pinera has proposed the creation of a
$4 billion fund as part of a package of education reforms after
hundreds of thousands of students staged street marches to push
for higher-quality, lower-cost schooling. Larrain called for
“honest dialogue” rather than violent protests to achieve the
improvements needed to meet people’s increased demands.  Leaders from both houses of Congress called for dialogue to
end demonstrations that continued in the nation’s capital today,
the Senate said in a  statement  on its website.  Increasing Subsidies  Pinera said that the government plans to boost student
subsidies and scholarships and ease loan terms without giving in
to demands to fully eliminate the cost of higher education.  “Nothing in life is free,” the billionaire investor-
turned-politician said in a speech televised by TVN.  Violence from the protests is a concern to business
leaders, Enrique Cueto, chief executive officer of Santiago-
based  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , told reporters today. Cueto said he
wouldn’t rule out tax changes.  “There are social issues that are overdue,” he said at
the conference after Larrain spoke. “We as business leaders
believe the country must resolve its problems.”  While violence generates obstacles to economic development,
the government’s goals of accelerating Chile’s entry into the
developed world remain intact, Larrain said.  The economy is well positioned to withstand global
turbulence and probably will grow 6.6 percent this year before
decelerating as expected, the minister said, adding that the
country remains a net creditor.  Fiscal spending in Chile will reach 22.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year and the government has room to expand
spending in the second half, Larrain said. The fiscal surplus
will be 1.3 percent of GDP this year, Larrain said.  ‘Responsible Budget’  “Our social programs will be financed as part of a
responsible budget that won’t include tax increases,” he said.
“Imbalances in public finances always end up hurting those who
have less as well as the middle class. The weak always end up
paying the price for bad public policy through inflation and
unemployment.”  Inflation slowed to 0.1 percent in July from 0.2 percent in
June, while the  unemployment rate  declined to 7.2 percent in the
three months through June from 8.5 percent in the same period
last year.  Larrain also announced the creation of a fiscal advisory
committee to improve transparency and forecasting.  Made up of five external experts, the committee will help
the government establish variables used to develop budgets such
as copper price estimates and forecasts for potential growth
rates, he said.  “Make no mistake: we will keep the Chilean economy firmly
on course,” he said. “Fiscal discipline is non-negotiable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  