-- 
PBOC Adviser Says China Needs Urgent Review of U.S. Holdings, News Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T01:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/china-should-urgently-review-u-s-debt-risk-central-bank-s-paper-reports.html
China  should urgently assess risks
from being the main foreign investor in  U.S. debt  and diversify
its foreign-currency reserves more quickly, the Financial News
reported today, citing Xia Bin, a central bank adviser.  In the short term, China can adjust the structure of the
reserves, the central bank publication cited Xia as saying.
Longer-term, the key is to keep foreign-exchange holdings at a
“reasonable” level, according to Xia, an academic member of
the monetary policy committee of the People’s Bank of China.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan pledged this month to
“closely” monitor U.S. efforts to tackle its debt burden. The
global stock market rout that saw Tokyo shares sliding this
morning follows  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. debt
rating from AAA and a widening of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  China is the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries, with
more than $1 trillion of the securities, and its foreign-
exchange reserves are the world’s largest at more than $3
trillion.  The  U.S. economy  has entered a long cycle of economic
weakening that will put pressure on China’s holdings of dollar
assets, Xia wrote in a microblog on Aug. 6. He is the director
of the Finance Research Institute at the Development Research
Center of the State Council, China’s cabinet.  China should buy more non-financial assets with its
reserves to diversify risks, Xia wrote, adding that the country
should also pursue national strategic interests, and seek to
globalize the yuan. He previously said that China should use its
reserves to increase holdings of gold and some other precious
metals.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  