-- 
China Guangdong May Make Fresh Offer for Kalahari Minerals, Patersons Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T12:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/china-guangdong-may-make-new-offer-for-kalahari-patersons-securities-says.html
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
Co. may bid again for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) , triggering an
acquisition of uranium explorer  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , after
withdrawing an offer in May, Patersons Securities Ltd. said.  “The Chinese will be back,” Simon Tonkin, senior
resources analyst at Patersons, said by telephone today from
Perth. “It’s likely.”  The U.K. Takeover Panel barred state-owned Guangdong
Nuclear from lowering a March proposal of 290 pence a share that
valued Kalahari at 756 million pounds ($1.2 billion), the
London-based resource company said on May 10. Both companies
approached the panel with a price cut to 270 pence a share,
after  Japan ’s nuclear crisis slashed the value of Kalahari’s 43
percent holding in Sydney-listed Extract.  Guangdong Nuclear is permitted to make a fresh bid starting
yesterday, three months after the previous acquisition offer was
denied, under the U.K. rules, Tonkin said. A new offer for
Kalahari may be about 250 pence a share, he said.  Kalahari gained 1.8 percent to 222 pence at 1:38 p.m. in
 London , valuing the company at 545 million pounds. The stock
climbed 4.8 percent yesterday.  Hugo de Salis, a spokesman for Kalahari in London, and John
Gardner, a Sydney-based spokesman for Extract, declined to
comment. Six telephone calls to Guangdong Nuclear’s public
relations department seeking comment weren’t returned.  Offer For Extract  With Kalahari owning 43 percent of Extract, Australian
rules would normally require Guangdong Nuclear, China’s second-
biggest atomic plant builder, to make an offer for Extract,
Patersons said in March.  Extract, which yesterday announced a 37 percent gain in
reserves at its Husab project in  Namibia , rose 0.8 percent to
A$7.26 by the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, valuing the company at
A$1.8 billion ($1.8 billion). The shares have fallen 23 percent
this year, compared with a 13 percent decline in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  An acquisition of Kalahari would give Guangdong Nuclear
access to Extract’s Husab project as  China  seeks uranium to
increase nuclear power generation. Extract expects China will
remain keen to expand its atomic power program after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan crippled the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant north of  Tokyo , Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie said on March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  