-- 
China’s Ship-Fuel Demand May Rise 8% This Year, Brightoil Petroleum Says

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-08-11T08:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/china-s-ship-fuel-demand-may-rise-8-this-year-brightoil-says.html
China ’s demand for bunker fuel,
burned in ships, may increase as much as 8 percent this year,
said Brightoil Petroleum Ltd., a Hong Kong-based supplier.  Northeast Asian countries including  South Korea  will
provide “enough demand growth” for the company’s China
division to expand sales, Quek Chin Thean, chief executive
officer of unit Brightoil Petroleum ( Singapore ) Pte, said in an
interview in Singapore on Aug. 8. He didn’t provide comparative
figures for last year. China’s total bunker demand is likely to
grow by about 8 to 10 percent annually over the next few years,
Quek said.  “We are looking at strengthening our overall supply chain,
developing tanks in China,” Quek said. The company estimated
that China’s bonded bunker demand was at 9 million metric tons
last year. The world’s second-biggest crude user consumed 17
million tons of the fuel in 2010, the company said.  Brightoil, which currently leases fuel storage in China, is
building tanks along the country’s north and east coast to tap
rising demand. The centers being built at Zhoushan in Zhejiang
province and Dalian in Liaoning, will store as much as 17.5
million cubic meters of fuel, according to Brightoil. Rotterdam-
based Royal Vopak NV, the world’s largest chemical and oil-
storage company, has a capacity of 25.6 million cubic meters.  China’s demand for  fuel oil , which includes bunker fuel and
grades used by  power plants , is forecast to rise 0.7 percent
this year to 535,000 barrels a day, the  International Energy
Agency  said in a report yesterday.  Singapore Rental  Brightoil, which has leased 500,000 tons of fuel-storage
capacity in Singapore, has no immediate plans to rent more at
the world’s biggest bunkering port, Quek said. That’s because it
plans to use its offices in Singapore and Geneva to support its
bunkering business in China, where the bulk of the company’s
expansion is taking place.  Brightoil’s total fuel sales were at 3.4 million tons in
the six months ended Dec. 31. That was 87 percent of the 3.9
million tons sold in the year ended June 30, 2010. The increase
resulted from expanded operations in Singapore at the end of
last year and in China, according to Quek.  The company’s shares fell 7 cents, or 2.8 percent, to
HK$2.48 at the 4 p.m. close in  Hong Kong , compared with a 1
percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . They closed at
HK$2.47 on Aug. 9, the lowest since February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  