-- 
China’s Yuan Strengthens Beyond 6.40 Per Dollar for First Time Since 1993

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-08-11T09:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/china-s-yuan-strengthens-beyond-6-40-per-dollar-for-first-time-since-1993.html
The yuan strengthened beyond 6.4 per
dollar for the first time in 17 years, supported by the  Federal
Reserve ’s pledge to keep  interest rates  at a record low and
signs China will use currency gains to help rein in inflation.  The currency rose 0.37 percent to close at 6.3945 in
Shanghai, its biggest jump in nine months, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.3895, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. The central bank’s reference
rate was boosted 0.27 percent to 6.3991.  The  International Monetary Fund  said last month a stronger
yuan would help stabilize the global economy, as well as aid
government efforts to tame inflation and rebalance the nation’s
growth toward domestic demand and away from exports. Data this
week showed record overseas sales helped drive  China ’s trade
surplus to a two-year high in July and consumer prices rose the
most in three years.  “The inflation and trade data, together with the Fed’s
policy to maintain extremely low interest rates, have fueled
faster appreciation,” said Banny Lam, an economist at CCB
International Securities in  Hong Kong . “Strong economic growth,
supported by the latest export figures, also provides investors
with confidence to buy the yuan in these turbulent times.”  U.S. Criticism  The yuan is the sole gainer this month among  Asia ’s 10
most-used currencies excluding the yen, having advanced 0.7
percent versus the dollar as a  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of
the U.S. credit rating and a rout in global equities prompted
investors to pull back from riskier assets. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of shares dropped 14 percent since July.  The Fed said on Aug. 9 it would maintain its record-low
policy rate of zero to 0.25 percent at least through mid-2013 to
revive a recovery it described as “considerably slower” than
anticipated. The  Federal Open Market Committee  is “prepared to
employ” additional tools to bolster the economy, said the
monetary authority, which bought $2.3 trillion of debt since
December 2008 during two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  The U.S. will likely announce a third round of asset
purchases, which would spur global inflation and boost the flow
of “hot money” to China, the Beijing-based National
Development and Reform Commission said yesterday. Kenneth Rogoff,
a Harvard University economist, a day earlier also forecast the
Fed will pump more dollars into the financial system.  Increased supply contributed to the dollar being the worst
performer of 16 major global currencies since quantitative
easing began.  Australia ’s dollar, the Swiss franc and  Brazil ’s
real were the three best performers, climbing 44 percent or more
versus the greenback since 2008. The yuan gained 6.7 percent.  Forwards Jump  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.38
percent today to 6.3875 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards rose 0.96 percent to 6.2940, the biggest gain since
June 2010, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium to
the onshore exchange rate widened to 1.6 percent from a two-year
low of 0.4 percent on Aug. 9, the largest two-day jump since
December 2008.  China may adjust its foreign-exchange policy to place less
emphasis on the yuan’s value versus the dollar, the Economic
Information Daily reported today, citing Pan Zhengyan, a
researcher with the  Shanghai  Academy of Social Sciences.  Treasury Holdings  The People’s Bank of China buys dollars to limit currency
gains as capital flows into the country, a policy that’s made it
the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries. Faster appreciation
may stem purchases of U.S. government debt as the Fed’s loose
monetary policy weighs on the dollar.  China’s $3.2 trillion of reserves are the world’s largest
and compare with a combined $1.1 trillion for Brazil, India and
 Russia . Policy makers should urgently assess the risks from
being the main investor in  U.S. debt  and accelerate
diversification of the reserves, the Financial News reported
today, citing Xia Bin, a central bank adviser.  “The strong rebound in the  trade surplus , together with
less willingness to accumulate more foreign-exchange reserves
given the structural weakness of the  U.S. dollar , are likely
behind the recent rapid pace of yuan appreciation,” said Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in Hong Kong, who
formerly worked for the  World Bank . She predicts the currency
will appreciate at a rate of 5 percent to 7 percent a year.  China’s overseas sales rose 20 percent from a year earlier
to $175.1 billion in July, exceeding imports by $31.5 billion,
the customs bureau reported yesterday. U.S. officials including
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and New York Senator
Charles Schumer say China keeps the yuan undervalued to gain an
unfair trade advantage.  Trading Band  After keeping the  exchange rate  stable for a decade, China
allowed its currency to strengthen 21 percent from July 2005 to
July 2008, including an initial, single-day gain of 2 percent.
Appreciation was then halted for almost two years to help
exporters weather a global recession and the currency has
advanced 6.3 percent against the dollar since controls were
loosened on June 19, 2010.  A return to a fixed exchange rate is unlikely as “the
economy is more resilient than it was three years ago,”
according to Liu Li-Gang, chief China economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. Faster appreciation
“may signal China’s intention to widen the yuan trading band,”
he said.  The yuan is currently allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily  reference rate  set by the central bank.
The band was last expanded on May 18, 2007, from 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  