-- 
Cisco Shares Surge After Profit, Sales Top Analyst Estimates

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-11T20:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/cisco-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-after-chambers-cuts-jobs-expenses.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  shares rose the
most in more than nine years after the company’s profit and
sales beat analysts’ estimates, the first time in six quarters
that the shares gained the day after results.  Cisco rose $2.19, or 16 percent, to $15.92 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The jump was the biggest
one-day increase since May 2002, and trimmed the stock’s loss
for the year to 21 percent. Cisco was the biggest gainer in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , which rose 4 percent.  Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of networking equipment,
has reined in operating expenses, unveiling a plan to cut about
6,500 jobs worldwide and closing the Flip video camera unit to
concentrate on its more profitable switches and routers. Though
the company’s gross margin, or the percentage of profit left
after production costs, narrowed to 62.7 percent, Cisco forecast
earnings this quarter that may top analysts’ estimates.  “Earnings were pretty solid and a lot of that is just due
to op-ex cuts,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in  San Francisco , who has a “neutral” rating on
the shares. “Low single-digit growth at Cisco is disappointing
and gross margin degradation is disappointing, but they’re
offsetting some of that with headcount cuts.”  Profit, excluding some costs, was 40 cents a share in the
fiscal fourth quarter, the  San Jose , California-based company
said yesterday. Analysts on average had predicted 38 cents,
according to Bloomberg data. Sales rose 3.3 percent to $11.2
billion in the period, which ended July 30, compared with an
estimate of $11 billion.  Net Income, Forecast  Net income fell to $1.23 billion, or 22 cents a share, from
$1.94 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier, Cisco said. The
previously announced reorganization expenses weighed on profit
in the period.  Sales will grow 1 percent to 4 percent in the current
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on a
conference call. That equates to as much as $11.2 billion.
Analysts had predicted $10.9 billion. Profit before certain
costs will be 38 cents to 41 cents a share, compared with an
average analyst estimate of 39 cents.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+
from AAA last week, roiling stock markets. That had raised
concerns that technology spending might suffer. Central banks
are trying to prevent a new recession, with Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  vowing earlier this week to keep
borrowing costs at an all-time low to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than expected.  ‘Fundamental Change’  As part of a plan to reduce costs by $1 billion next year,
Cisco said July 18 that it would eliminate workers through
firings and an early-retirement program. It also sold a factory
in  Mexico . Cisco recorded pretax restructuring costs and other
charges of $772 million last quarter.  “While I wish we had never had to go through this, it
clearly was time for a fundamental change at Cisco,” Chambers
said on the call. “I feel very confident about Q1 in terms of
what we can control and influence, and we have built some
conservatism into it.”  Cisco is making the cuts as rivals gain market share in
both routing and switching, which combined made up half of the
company’s revenue last year. Cisco’s share of worldwide
switching revenue dropped 5.8 percentage points to 68.5 percent,
and its share of router sales dropped 6.4 percentage points to
54.2 percent, according to a May report from Dell’Oro Group.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  gained switching share, while  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  added share in the router market.  To win back customers, Cisco introduced new products in the
quarter, including upgrades to its flagship switches to handle
more data and video traffic. The company also unveiled
technology to improve efficiency and security of cloud networks
and new products for its TelePresence conferencing system.  Five Priorities  Chambers said the company is focusing on five areas:
routing and switching, workplace collaboration, data centers,
video, and architecture that integrates the network.  “We feel comfortable with the progress we’ve made on the
restructuring side,” Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni
said in an interview yesterday. “We also feel comfortable with
where we’re making investments to drive growth in those five top
priorities for the company.”  Cisco’s results are seen as a bellwether for the technology
industry because its switches and routers dominate the market.
Organizations buy the switches to direct  Internet traffic  on
their networks, while phone and Internet-service providers rely
on the company’s routers.  “Even in a weak economy, there’s strong demand for Cisco’s
products,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in  New
York , who recommends buying the shares. “They’re right smack in
the middle of the growth of the Internet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  