-- 
Citadel Said in Talks to Sell Investment Bank, Shut Equity-Research Unit

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-11T19:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/citadel-said-to-be-in-discussions-to-sell-investment-bank-shut-research.html
Ken Griffin , founder of $11 billion
hedge fund Citadel LLC, is in talks to sell his investment bank
and is shutting its equity-research group, ending a three-year
effort to build a business he said would rival  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , according to two people briefed on the move.  Citadel Securities will disband the research team headed by
Jaine Mehring, a former managing director at  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc., said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been made public. It’s also firing
employees elsewhere in the investment bank, the people said.  Griffin, 42, founded New York-based Citadel Securities in
late 2008 to offer underwriting, stock, bond and derivatives
trading, and advice on mergers, acquisitions and restructurings.
The unit, whose efforts were hampered by executive turnover,
will now focus on providing electronic trading to institutions
and on its market-making business, which started in 2002, the
people said.  “He had visions of taking on the giants of  Wall Street ,
and he found it too hard,”  Geoff Bobroff , an investment-
 management consultant  in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island , said
today in a telephone interview. “Managing these types of
business is a lot different from investing in them.”  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel,
declined to comment.  Societe Generale  Citadel has been looking for buyers to hire its investment
bankers and take over any obligations to its employees,
according to two people familiar with the matter. Citadel also
talked to Societe Generale SA, about the Paris-based bank taking
on a team of fixed-income salespeople and traders, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private. No deal has been struck, they said.  Calls to  Societe Generale  seeking comment weren’t
immediately returned.  Citadel’s foray into investment banking was typical of
Griffin, who has seized opportunities when others were in
distress since founding his hedge fund in 1990 at age 22.  “What has served us well over the last 20 years is a
constant willingness to innovate and to go where we see
opportunity,” Griffin, who started trading convertible bonds
from his Harvard University dorm room, said in an October 2009
interview. “I do believe in the next five years we will have
created one of the great sales and trading operations.”  Executive Turnover  Griffin hired Rohit D’Souza in October 2008 to spearhead
the securities business and a slew of former Merrill Lynch & Co.
executives to run the group. D’Souza quit a year later and was
replaced by Patrik Edsparr, who was ousted after seven months in
the role following disagreements over business strategy and
management.  At least another eight executives left in the past two
years, including  Todd Kaplan , who ran  investment banking , Brad Kurtzman, who ran equity derivatives sales and trading, and Carl Mayer, head of leveraged finance.  “Citadel Securities has been in flux almost since day
one,” said Gregory Cresci, an executive recruiter at Odyssey
Search Partners in  New York . “It seemed like an opportunistic
move back in 2008, but they clearly didn’t manage to get enough
traction.”  Citadel Securities had more than 400 employees globally as
of September 2009, according to a marketing presentation. The
unit had about 500 clients trading contracts valued at more than
$1 billion a week, Spurgeon said in October.  Research Team  The investment bank started offering research to clients
last September and planned to have a team of 12 senior analysts
by the middle of this year, Spurgeon said in October.  Citadel Securities reported earnings of $81.6 million on
revenue of $1.01 billion in 2009, most of which came from
Citadel’s options and equities market-making business, according
to financial statements filed February 2010 with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Griffin in May agreed to sell his hedge fund-servicing
business, Omnium LLC, to Northern Trust Corp. for at least $100
million.  Citadel’s biggest  hedge funds  lost 55 percent in 2008 as
global markets tumbled. Those funds have produced annual gains
since then and returned about 14 percent this year through July,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Hedge funds on
average lost 19 percent in 2008 and gained 4.4 percent this year
through July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors will applaud the renewed focus on the asset-
management business, if Citadel is moving in that direction,”
said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey Quirk & Associates LLC,
a Darien, Connecticut-based firm that advises asset managers.  Fixed-Income Arbitrage  Griffin started making fixed-income arbitrage trades in
1999, profiting from the price differences between related
bonds, after hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP lost
more than $4 billion and was bailed out by its lenders, who also
pulled back from that type of investing.  Three years later, after the bankruptcy of Enron Corp.,
then the world’s largest energy trader, Griffin hired a dozen
investment professionals and a team of meteorologists and
started buying and selling oil, gas and electricity contracts.  In 2006, he bought natural-gas positions from hedge fund
Amaranth Advisors LLC after it lost $6.6 billion. Citadel
managed as much as $21 billion before the losses in 2008.  As banks were taking bailouts from the U.S. government in
2008, Griffin again saw an opportunity. He said he would win
business by providing better  customer service  than larger firms.  ‘Fill the Need’  “The chance to build, to fill the need created in 2007 and
2008, was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Griffin said in
the 2009 interview. Some brokers failed their customers in the
fourth quarter of 2008, when global markets plummeted after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, by not providing bids for those
who wanted to sell securities or by low-balling them on prices,
he said at the time.  Instead of getting weaker, the big banks thrived. Goldman
Sachs reported its most profitable year in 2009, and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  made its most money ever last year.  “Citadel is a take-no-prisoners principal investor, not a
financial-services provider to clients,” said  Roy Smith , a
finance professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business. “They may think the business is a natural extension
of their financial know-how, but potential clients will know
that real and imagined conflicts of interest are too big to
ignore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  