-- 
Investors Can’t Find Clarity With AAA Company Yields More Than Treasuries

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/clarity-eludes-investors-as-aaa-companies-yield-more-than-u-s-.html
Credit ratings are becoming
irrelevant in a  bond market  where investors still perceive AAA
companies from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to be a
higher risk than recently downgraded U.S. Treasuries.  The extra yield investors demand to own bonds issued by
top-rated companies versus Treasuries reached 0.81 percentage
point, the most since July 2010, after S&P cut the U.S. one
level to AA+ on Aug. 5, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. A wider spread indicates investors perceive
the higher-rated companies to be a greater credit risk.  S&P, which along with Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings was  blamed  by U.S. investigators for fueling the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression by assigning AAA
ratings to bonds backed by subprime mortgages, is again muddying
the waters for investors attempting to divine the relative
creditworthiness of fixed-income securities.  “The Treasury bond is still regarded as the ultimate risk-
free security,” Edward Marrinan, the head of macro credit
strategy at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
e-mail. “The U.S. government has taxing and legislative
authority over corporations domiciled in this country. In the
most extreme of financial circumstances, the U.S. has the
ability to print its own currency to honor its debt
obligations.”  ‘Quadruple-A’  In cutting the U.S. one step to AA+ on Aug. 5, S&P cited
the weakening “effectiveness, stability and predictability of
American policymaking and political institutions.”  Moody’s and Fitch affirmed their AAA rankings on Aug. 2,
after President Barack Obama and Congress avoided default by
agreeing to lift the debt ceiling. Warren Buffett, the world’s
most successful investor, said S&P erred and the U.S. should be
rated “quadruple-A.”  Demand for  U.S. debt  was on display yesterday as the
Treasury auctioned $24 billion of 10-year notes at a record-low
yield of 2.14 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand
which compares total bids with the amount of securities offered,
was 3.22, versus an average of 3.11 at the previous 10 sales and
3.17 at the last auction on July 13. The U.S. will sell $16
billion of 30-year bonds today.  Investors are seeking Treasuries as the economy slows and
stocks tumble. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has plunged 13.3
percent this month after declining 2.2 percent in July.  ‘Highest Quality’  “The Treasury is still the highest quality, most liquid,
safest asset in the world, as the asset of choice when you’re
looking for safety,” said John Donaldson, director of fixed
income at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., which
manages $6 billion. While “the current trajectory of spending
and deficits is a long-term negative, we would think a negative
outlook is more appropriate than a downgrade,” he said in an
Aug. 10 interview.  The amount of marketable  U.S. government debt  outstanding
has risen to $9.4 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007 as
the government borrowed to bail out the nation’s banking system
and spur the economy out of recession. The U.S. is poised to run
a budget deficit of $1.6 trillion this fiscal year.  Treasury yields fell on average to a record 1.27 percent on
Aug. 8, the first trading day after S&P downgraded the U.S.,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields on
two- and 10-year Treasuries tumbled to all-time lows the next
day after the  Federal Reserve  reduced its growth outlook and
pledged to keep its target rate for overnight loans between
banks near zero through mid-2013 to help revive growth.  Widening Spreads  Yields on corporate bonds rated AAA have risen from 58
basis points more than Treasuries in April. The spread averaged
about 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, from 1998
through 2001, the last time the U.S. had budget surpluses.  “This is indicative of investors viewing Treasuries as the
risk-free benchmark,” said John Milne, who oversees about $1.8
billion as chief executive officer of JKMilne Asset Management
in  Fort Myers ,  Florida . “Everything is still trading off of
Treasuries.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , J&J, Microsoft and  Automatic Data
Processing Inc. (ADP)  are the only U.S. non-financial companies ranked
AAA by S&P and Aaa by Moody’s. S&P said Aug. 8 that its
downgrade of the U.S. won’t affect companies that carry the top
grade.  Exxon, J&J and Microsoft are strong financially and depend
less on the U.S. than other companies do because they get much
of their income from international markets, the firm said. While
ADP earns most of its profits domestically, demand for its
products has held up well and it relies little on the public
sector and is diversified, according to the statement.  J&J’s Cash  J&J bonds yield 57 basis points on average more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Securities issued by Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, pay a spread of
55 basis points.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , had $29.7 billion
of cash and short-term investments as of July 3, compared with
$13.7 billion of long-term debt, according to a regulatory
filing. That ratio, combined with the company’s stable and
geographically diverse businesses, accounts for its top rating,
according to Michael Kaplan, a managing director at S&P.  “They have more cash than debt on their balance sheet,”
Kaplan said in a telephone interview Aug. 10. “It’s general
knowledge that the U.S. government has a lot more debt relative
to those factors that we consider important than J&J does. Based
on our criteria, J&J is a stronger credit.”  ‘Comparable View’  Ratings should represent the same level of creditworthiness
across the spectrum of assets, S&P President Deven Sharma said
in a  speech  on Sept. 21.  “Our goal is to have our AAA ratings, or our A ratings,
reflect a comparable view of creditworthiness in one asset
class, or one country, as any other, whether it is applied to a
Japanese bank or a U.S. municipal,” Sharma said.  It’s not unprecedented for a country to have domestic
companies that are rated higher than their government while
paying bigger yields on their debt.  Sao Paulo-based Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, or Ambev, is
Latin America’s largest brewer and is rated A- by S&P. Its notes
due in September 2013 yield 1.64 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Those of BBB- ranked  Brazil  that mature in
June 2013 yield 0.8 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Ratings Inquiry  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch drew criticism for ratings of
financial products linked to subprime mortgages after losses and
write downs by the world’s biggest financial institutions
reached $2.1 trillion as measured by Bloomberg data.  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called S&P and
Moody’s “key enablers of the financial meltdown” in its
January report. In April, a Senate panel said that the rating
firms engaged in a “race to the bottom” to assign top grades
on mortgage-backed securities in order to win fees from banks.  S&P kept an A- rating on Iceland until October 6, 2008,
when the country’s government was forced to guarantee all
domestic bank deposits after its currency plunged. It affirmed
the AAA grade on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s financial
products unit on Sept. 12, 2008, three days before the bank
failed. It cut Bear Stearns Cos. to BBB on March 14, 2008, two
days before JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to buy the failing
securities firm.  Sovereign Borrowers  S&P gives 18 sovereign borrowers its top AAA ranking,
including  Australia ,  Hong Kong ,  France  and the Isle of Man,
according to a July report. The U.K., which is estimated to have
debt that is 80 percent of its gross domestic product this year,
or 6 percentage points higher than the U.S., also has the top
credit grade.  U.K. gilts due in 10 years yield 2.48 percent, while French
government debt of the same maturity is at 3.06 percent, both
higher than the 2.1 percent for Treasuries.  Liquidity, or the ease with which an asset may be converted
to cash, is also a reason for Treasuries yielding less than
higher-ranked company debt, said  John Lonski , chief economist at
Moody’s Capital Markets Group in  New York . Greater liquidity
typically makes it easier for investors to get their money back.  “Liquidity helps explain what’s going on here to a
considerable extent,” Lonski, whose division is separate from
the ratings group, said Aug. 10 in a telephone interview.
“Ultimately the financial markets assign value, not the credit
rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  