-- 
Clinton Calls for East Africa Famine Aid as U.S. Commits Extra $17 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-11T19:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/clinton-calls-for-east-africa-famine-aid-as-u-s-commits-extra-17-million.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
announced $17 million in additional U.S. aid to East  Africa  for
famine relief while calling for greater international support of
long-term development.  “Time is not on our side,” Clinton said today in a speech
in Washington to the  International Food Policy Research
Institute . “Every minute more people -- mostly women and mostly
children -- are dying. They’re becoming sick. They are fleeing
their homes. We must respond.”  The new donation brings the total of U.S. humanitarian
assistance to more than $580 million this year, making the U.S.
the largest single contributor to relief in the Horn of Africa,
Clinton said. The aid will reach more than 4.6 million people in
 Somalia , Ethiopia and Kenya, she said.  More than 29,000 children have died since mid-May in East
Africa’s worst drought in decades and more than 12 million
people need life-saving care, said Shenggen Fan, director
general of the institute, a research group seeking to end world
hunger.  Clinton used her 30-minute speech to link the immediate
famine with the need for long-range development strategies that
she said would begin “breaking the cycle” of chronic food
shortages.  “Investing now decreases the chances that Americans or
others will be called upon in the future to face these same
challenges in 10 or 20 years from now,” she said.  The Obama administration has pledged $3.5 billion as part
of its “Feed the Future” initiative to support the
agricultural systems of partner countries, Clinton said. She
said the program helps farmers gain access to fertilizers and
improved seeds, and supports the creation of cooperatives so
farmers have greater purchasing power, among other things.  “We got very good at delivering emergency assistance when
we put our minds to it, but we lost our way,” Clinton said.
“We have to do both -- both the crisis and the future
investments -- so that we can see progress in very tangible
ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 