-- 
Commodities Record Biggest Two-Day Rally Since May on U.S. Jobless Claims

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-08-11T20:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/commodities-rise-for-second-day-led-by-metals-as-china-s-yuan-strengthens.html
Commodities rose, capping the
biggest two-day gain in three months, after an unexpected drop
in U.S. jobless claims spurred optimism for the  U.S. economy ,
bolstering prospects for crop and industrial-metal demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose
2.1 percent to settle at 643.41 at 3:45 p.m. in  New York . Metals
including lead and zinc led the rally. Corn, wheat and soybeans
jumped after the U.S. government forecast smaller crops. Gold
tumbled the most in seven weeks.  “Things may not be as bad as some people were
predicting,” Tom Mangan, who helps oversee $2.8 billion at
James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia, Ohio, said in a
telephone interview. “The chances of a recession might seem
somewhat less today as reflected by stock prices, and, of
course, if the economy is going to grow, then demand for
commodities will grow.”  On Aug. 8, investors dumped equities and most raw materials
for the relative safety of Treasuries, the Swiss franc and gold
amid mounting concern over a faltering global economy and
mounting debt woes in the U.S. and  Europe . Today, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index jumped as much as 5.8 percent, and the franc
plunged.  “It’s now back a little bit to risk-on trade,” said  David Thurtell , the head of metal research at Citigroup Inc. in
Singapore. The Chinese yuan’s jump “is definitely good for
commodities as that allows  China  to import more, and it’s a sign
that the government is confident enough about the strength of
domestic demand and cares less about exports,” he said.  The Chinese currency strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for
the first time in 17 years after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep U.S. interest rates at a record low.  Lead, Corn  In  London , lead jumped as much as 5.1 percent. Copper
futures in New York climbed 3 percent, the most since March 17.
In Chicago, corn jumped as much as 4.4 percent.  Gold fell 1.8 percent after CME Group Inc. boosted margins
on Comex contracts, prompting investor sales following a rally
to a record topping $1,817.60 an ounce.  The GSCI index jumped 2.5 percent yesterday, led by
precious metals. In two days, the gauge climbed 4.7 percent, the
most since May 10. The measure has climbed 23 percent in the
past year, while the  S&P 500  gained 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  