-- 
Cookie, Potato-Chip Sales Seen Driving India Palm Oil Imports to Record

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 
2011-08-11T04:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/cookies-potato-chips-sales-seen-driving-india-palm-oil-imports-to-record.html
Palm oil  imports by India, the
largest buyer, may climb to a record this year as rising incomes
stoke demand for cookies and potato chips, potentially stemming
a decline in prices from a more than nine-month low.  Purchases may jump as much as 10 percent to about 7 million
metric tons in the year ending Oct. 31 from 6.38 million tons a
year earlier, according to five processors and analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. The highest-ever palm oil imports
previously were 6.43 million tons in 2008-09 season, data from
the  Solvent Extractors’ Association of India  showed.  Rising Indian imports may help palm oil futures limit
losses after slumping 26 percent from a 35-month high of 3,967
ringgit ($1,320) a ton reached on Feb. 10 as output expands in
Indonesia and Malaysia, the biggest producers. A rebound in
prices may also boost earnings at producers including  Sime Darby
Bhd. (SIME)  and Indonesia’s PT Astra Agro Lestari and raise costs for
users including Nestle SA and Unilever.  “India’s buying will support prices,” Prasoon Mathur,
senior agriculture analyst at Religare Commodities Ltd., said in
a phone interview yesterday. “News on the  U.S. debt  and
weakness in crude  oil prices  will be other major factors”
influencing prices, he said.  Mathur expects palm oil to trade between 2,800 ringgit a
ton and 3,100 ringgit for the rest of the year.  Palm oil plunged to a nine-month low on Aug. 9 on concern
that demand for commodities may drop as the U.S. economic
recovery stalls.  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 cut the rating of
the U.S.’s long-term debt. The  Federal Reserve  on Aug. 9 pledged
to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low for another
two years to bolster the economy.  ‘Huge Discount’  Indian importers are being lured by the “huge discount”
that palm oil offers compared with its rival  soybean oil , Murali
Krishna P.V., chief executive officer of TransGraph Consulting
Pvt., said from the southern city of Hyderabad.  Soybean oil’s premium over palm oil widened to $213.22 a
ton today from the 12-month average of $119.43 a ton, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium climbed to $271.68 a
ton on July 13, the highest since December 2008.  Palm oil for October delivery gained as much as 0.8 percent
to 2,959 ringgit per ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange in
 Kuala Lumpur  today. December-delivery soybean oil climbed as
much as 0.8 percent to 54.03 cents per pound.  “Soybean oil is expected to become more expensive in the
next three months, which also coincide with India’s festival
season,” said Raj Kumar Shah, deputy managing director of Kuala
Lumpur-based Josovina Commodities Sdn. Bhd.  Peak Season  The peak season for India’s edible oils demand starts with
the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan this month and ends with the
Hindu festival of Diwali in late October. Imports may climb to
about 720,000 tons a month in the three months through October,
compared with an average 659,000 tons bought during the same
period last year, according to the Bloomberg survey.  “Palm oil imports will be higher for rest of the season as
the local production is almost over now and festivals are early
this year,” Ashok Sethia, senior vice president of the  Central
Organisation for Oil Industry & Trade , said in a telephone
interview from Kolkata.  Prices of palm oil are lower in India compared with
rapeseed, cotton seed and soybean oils and the gap may widen
further as output in Malaysia and  Indonesia  rises, said Vijay Data, vice president of the Solvent Extractors’ Association.  India’s edible oil consumption may expand around 3 percent
this year as population and percapita income grow, TransGraph’s
Krishna said. India consumes 1.2 million tons to 1.5 million
tons of edible oil each month, he said.  Brazil,  Argentina   Soybean oil purchases may fall to 1 million tons in the
year ending Oct. 31, from 1.67 million tons a year earlier,
Sandeep Bajoria, chief executive officer of Sunvin Group said on
July 5. India meets more than half its edible oil demand through
imports. The nation buys palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia,
and soybean oil from Brazil and Argentina.  Vegetable oil imports by  India  fell 8 percent to 5.1
million tons in the eight months through June because of higher
domestic oilseed production, according to the extractors’
association. Palm oil imports in the November-June period were
almost unchanged at 3.9 million tons from a year earlier, while
purchases of soybean and sunflower oils slumped 24 percent to
986,213 tons, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  