-- 
Cypriot Opposition May Block Government’s Budget Plan

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-08-11T16:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/cypriot-opposition-may-block-government-s-budget-deficit-plans.html
(Corrects first paragraph to say million.)  Cyprus’s opposition political
parties may try to block or change the government’s proposed 750
million-euro ($1.1 billion) austerity plan, saying it doesn’t do
enough to help the country avoid the need for a bailout.  The pro-business DISY, the largest party in the east
Mediterranean island’s parliament, wants a more extensive
overhaul of the public-sector pension system and lower tax
increases, its deputy president, Averof Neofytou, said in a
telephone interview today. “We may propose the abolition of the
current pension system for public employees,” and replace it
with that for private employees, he said.  DIKO, the third largest party in the parliament, may also
support Neofytou’s proposal, said its vice-president, Nicholas
Papadopoulos. The package is due to come before the parliament
on Aug. 25.  Finance Minister Kikis Kazamias asked opposition parties to
approve his fiscal-consolidation package, which aims to cut the
fiscal shortfall by as much as 150 million euros in 2011 and 600
million euros in 2012. “We can solve our problems on our own
and do not need anyone else to do it on our behalf,” Kazamias
told reporters in Nicosia today.  Kazamias assumed office earlier this month, as Cyprus tries
to avoid becoming the latest euro nation to need a bailout amid
rising borrowing costs and an energy crisis caused by a
munitions depot explosion that ruined half the island’s power-
generation capacity. Cyprus may post a deficit of up to 6.5
percent of output if the package is not passed, he said.  Cyprus, had its  credit rating  cut to BBB from A- by  Fitch
Ratings  yesterday. The move by Fitch, which cited concerns the
country will have difficulty raising funds, followed downgrades
last month by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  