-- 
Daimler Best Placed Among Luxury-Car Makers to Benefit as Auto Stocks Reel

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-12T13:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/daimler-leads-german-havens-as-europe-automotive-sector-reels.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  may be better poised than
 Renault SA (RNO)  to recover from a selloff of European auto stocks,
backed by strong cash reserves and resilient demand for
Mercedes-Benz cars.  High-end carmakers such as Mercedes,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi tend to weather downturns
better than mass-market auto manufacturers like Renault and  Fiat
SpA (F)  because wealthy consumers still have money to spend even
when the economy slows, investors and analysts said.  “German premium-auto manufacturers are by far the best
bet,” said Juergen Meyer, a  fund manager  with SEB Asset
Management in Frankfurt. “BMW, Audi, Mercedes and Porsche are
the most stable investment havens. I continue to be very
relaxed” about the prospects for the largest luxury-car makers.  Concern about a slowing global economy heightened after
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating and the
 European Central Bank  began buying Italian and Spanish
government bonds, prompting investors to sell auto stocks. The
Euro Stoxx Automobile and Parts Index lost 35 billion euros ($50
billion), or 19 percent, of its value this month in the worst
run since November 2008. The 14-member index rose as much as 4.5
percent today.  Daimler climbed as much as 1.60 euros, or 4.2 percent, to
39.24 euros. Renault advanced as much as 2.1 percent to 29.48
euros. Fiat jumped as much as 6.8 percent to 5.24 euros.  Buying on Drop  Fiat, the Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler Group
LLC, has led the sector’s decline with a 25 percent drop this
month, followed by Daimler’s 23 percent fall. Automakers are
closely tied to the economy because consumers tend to delay
major purchases when they’re worried about the future. For some
investors, the declines have made the stocks attractive.  “After the recent slump, we are buying VW and Daimler,
which is actually our favorite stock in the sector because it
has very good margins and a good penetration in emerging
markets,” said Patrizio Pazzaglia, head of financial
investments at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV in  Rome . “We prefer
German carmakers and are skeptical of the French ones. Fiat may
be a good opportunity as the integration with Chrysler is faster
than expected.”  In a sign that consumers are becoming wary of making major
purchases, car dealers in  Germany  raised discounts last month.
Average rebates in  Europe ’s largest auto market were 11.2
percent in July, compared to 10.5 percent in June, according to
a monthly survey from Autohaus PulsSchlag. Fiat, the leading
discounter, increased its rebates to 14.4 percent from 12.2
percent. Audi had the lowest incentives at 8.9 percent.  Analyst Favorites  Volkswagen, which is combining with Porsche SE and also
owns Lamborghini and Bentley, is the most recommended European
carmaker, with 85 percent of analysts rating the stock a
“buy,” according to Bloomberg data. Daimler is second with 71
percent, while 44 percent recommend Renault and 47 percent
advise buying PSA Peugeot Citroen.  Other European automotive companies are also in favor.
Truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  is rated a “buy” by 73 percent of
analysts, while tire and car-parts maker Continental AG is
recommended by 79 percent of analysts.  BMW, Audi and Mercedes, the world’s three largest makers of
 luxury vehicles , are all targeting record sales this year as
growing wealth in  China  fuels deliveries and historically high
profit margins. The strong earnings have been used to boost
financial reserves.  Better ‘Reserves’  Daimler plans to maintain a “reasonable cushion” of cash
in light of potential volatility in the global economy, Chief
Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said in a March 14 interview. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer, which is also the world’s
largest truckmaker, had 11.5 billion euros in net liquidity at
its industrial operations at the end of June. Renault’s net
automotive debt was 1.22 billion euros on June 30.  “German carmakers’ financial reserves are in better shape
than those of French or Italian manufacturers,” said Aleksej Wunrau, an analyst at BHF-Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “That might
give them an edge in a possible crisis scenario.”  Still, with much of the growth and profits of luxury-car
makers tied to China, they may be vulnerable to a global
slowdown as the Asian country’s economic expansion cools.  “If there will be a double-dip recession, it’s a sector to
avoid, German carmakers included, because the emerging markets
will also slow at that point,” said Emanuele Oggioni, who
oversees about 600 million euros at Saint George Capital
Management in Lugano,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  