-- 
Debt Panel Leader Murray Counts Defense Industry as a Top Donor

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/debt-panel-co-chairman-murray-counts-the-defense-industry-as-a-top-donor.html
When  Washington  Democrat  Patty
Murray  fought to keep her Senate seat last November, two allies
emerged: the lobbying community and the defense industry.  As the newly appointed co-chairwoman of the 12-member,
bipartisan committee charged with finding $1.5 trillion in
budget savings, Murray’s campaign supporters now are sure to
come calling for her help.  “If lobbyists are not trying to get to her, then their
clients should probably fire them,” said Steve Ellis, vice
president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a budget watchdog group
in Washington. “Every lobbyist is going to go through their
Rolodex to try and figure out all the connections to the 12
members of the ‘super committee.’”  About $900,000 in campaign contributions from lobbyists and
political action committees associated with them poured into
Murray’s 2010 campaign account, according to disclosure reports
categorized by the Center for Responsive Politics. Defense
companies’ PACs and employees chipped in almost $200,000 more,
while hometown employer Boeing Co. delivered a critically timed
endorsement in her re-election bid.  Those ties will be particularly important for the defense
industry, which has been targeted for about $500 billion in
automatic cuts if the committee fails to fulfill its charge.  “It is normal for members of Congress to raise money from
lobbyists,” said Trevor Potter, former chairman of the U.S.
Federal Election Commission and president of the Campaign Legal
Center, a Washington-based organization that defends campaign
finance limits.  Support Base  “If you are part of a member’s financial support base, you
hope and expect to have access to that member. It’s not that the
member would give something that you would not get otherwise,
but you certainly expect to get your phone calls returned,”
Potter said.  Murray is the only senator on the panel who counts
lobbyists among her top donors, and she is the only member, so
far, who serves on the defense appropriations committee. House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  hasn’t announced her appointments
to the panel.  “Senator Murray’s only concerns in supporting any defense
project have been protecting our men and women in uniform,
bolstering our national security and creating jobs,” said Matt McAlvanah, Murray’s spokesman.  In the case of three former Murray aides, the senator’s
campaign allies merged as one: They are lobbyists who represent
such defense and aerospace companies as General Dynamics Corp.,
Raytheon, BAE Systems, General Atomics, Science Applications
International Corp. and Boeing.  Former Staff Chief  Her former chief of staff, Rick Desimone, is a vice
president at McBee Strategic Consulting LLC, a firm which
represents defense companies and other Washington state
interests such as technology companies.  Shay Hancock, who worked as Murray’s defense aide, is a
vice president at Denny Miller Associates, another lobby shop
with ties to her home state and defense companies. And Jeff
Bjornstad, another former chief of staff, joined Washington2
Advocates, which represents Boeing on aerospace issues, and
military healthcare provider Triwest Healthcare Alliance.  Murray’s former staff members aren’t all representing
defense companies.  Former aide Dale Learn went to work for Gordon Thomas
Honeywell, which doesn’t represent defense companies, according
to the Senate lobbying disclosure database. Another former
member of her staff, Justin LeBlanc, now runs his own lobby
shop, LeBlanc Government Relations LLC, and doesn’t have any
defense clients.  Ranking Third  Over the span of Murray’s congressional career, donations
from individual lobbyists and their firms’ PACs rank third with
about $1.06 million, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  In 2010, when Murray faced a strong challenge from
Republican  Dino Rossi , a former state senator who narrowly lost
in the 2004 governor’s race, lobbyists and lobby firm PACs
donated $908,917 to her campaign and were counted as her top
donor source. The donations include Murray’s campaign committee
and her leadership committee,  M-PAC .  For the 2010 race, defense and aerospace PACs donated
$82,000 to Murray. Individuals working for defense companies
donated about $105,000 to her campaign. Throughout her
congressional career, defense company PACs and individuals
donated $385,000, according to the center.  Of the $187,000 in defense contributions Murray received
for her Senate re-election race, $136,000 came from Boeing,
which employs 77,889 in Washington state.  Boeing Endorsement  As evidence mounted that the national environment was
souring for Democratic incumbents in summer of 2010, Murray
released a Boeing endorsement that her campaign hoped would slow
any Rossi momentum.  “Senator Murray has been a true advocate and champion for
the Boeing Co. and for our 75,000 Washington-based employees
throughout her three terms, and therefore we support her in her
re-election bid,” said company spokesman Doug Kennett.  Murray was an outspoken advocate for Boeing in its bid to
win a $35 billion contract for the  Air Force ’s new refueling
tanker aircraft. Boeing on Feb. 25 beat out European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. for the Pentagon contract. Boeing
manufactures the 767-model aircraft, which serves as a basis for
the military planes, in Everett, Washington.  Murray also heads the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee and
is on the Budget Committee and the Health, Education, Labor and
Pension Committee.  “Certainly her role will be to defend discretionary
spending not just defense,” said Ellis. Defense companies
“will have to pick their poison” in terms of cuts if they want
to ensure the special committee’s recommendations are passed by
Congress.  Otherwise, he said, a compromise deal on cutting the
deficit would trigger automatic cuts of $1.2 trillion, half of
which would come from national security spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 