-- 
DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says Client Relationships Were His More Than TCW’s

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-he-didn-t-plan-to-leave-tcw-before-he-was-fired.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  said clients who invested with his funds at TCW Group
Inc. counted on him and his team for money-managing
“strategies” rather than his former employer.  Gundlach, who started DoubleLine within weeks after TCW
fired him in December of 2009, testified yesterday at a trial
that pits him and three other former TCW employees against the
asset-management firm over claims they stole TCW’s trade secrets
to start the rival business and counterclaims that TCW fired
them to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in fees.  “The clients, some of them, really felt that if I wasn’t
there, the strategies would cease to exist,” Gundlach said in
response to questions from TCW lawyer John Quinn regarding
contingency plans TCW made in case he was to leave. “I wasn’t
going anywhere.” TCW “didn’t have to be concerned about being
left in the lurch.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, and three other ex-employees in January 2010,
a month after he was fired and more than half of TCW’s fixed-
income professionals had joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets,
including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  ‘Through the Roof’  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying that TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  Gundlach told jurors in California state court in  Los
Angeles  that he didn’t approach TCW’s chief executive officer,
Marc Stern, about a negotiated separation of his group from TCW
in 2009 because he never made a decision to leave.  Gundlach wrote “the war is on” in a May 2009 e-mail about
a meeting Stern sought with Philip Barach, the No. 2 man at
Gundlach’s group at TCW, before Stern was named interim CEO the
following month. Asked yesterday about that, Gundlach said he
thought Stern had not been straightforward in his approach to
Barach.  “They should’ve said ‘We want to get rid of Jeffrey and we
want you to take over,’” Gundlach said yesterday. “One of my
big hang-ups with TCW is that they wouldn’t tell the truth to
people.”  ‘Very, Very Angry’  In excerpts from his video deposition shown to the jury
before Gundlach took the stand yesterday, he said that he was
“very, very angry” in September 2009, when he believed Stern
was about to fire him.  Gundlach said in the deposition that he spoke with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s financial group about “ways to improve
things with TCW” and looked at  office space  for a separate
business. He said he was less worried about being fired after
TCW was selected for the Treasury Department’s program to buy
troubled mortgage securities from banks.  Gundlach also said in the deposition that he immediately
reversed a September 2009 instruction to his team to collect TCW
information. He disputed that TCW has any proprietary
information with the exception of perhaps one software program
and a kitchen recipe.  ‘Just Data’  “In the things I was involved with, I don’t think TCW had
any proprietary information,” Gundlach said in the deposition.
He said it was “experience and thinking” that was making money
for clients rather than TCW’s analytical systems, which were
“just data.”  Cris  Santa Ana , a former managing director of Gundlach’s
mortgage-backed securities group at TCW, testified earlier
during the trial that Gundlach instructed him in September 2009
to start backing up data that “might be useful to have” in
case Gundlach was fired. Santa Ana is a co-defendant and cross-
complainant with Gundlach.  Santa Ana, who was fired together with Gundlach and joined
DoubleLine, said that he downloaded or asked others to copy
client contracts, portfolio holdings and contact information, as
well as files of trade orders and TCW’s entire mortgage-backed
securities database. Santa Ana said he downloaded part of the
data to an external hard drive.  Smuggled in Bra  A TCW vice president testified that she smuggled Santa
Ana’s hard drive out of TCW’s office in her bra the evening of
Dec. 4, 2009, the day he was put on leave and escorted from the
building. Santa Ana testified that he and other former TCW
employees that joined DoubleLine didn’t use any of the TCW’s
proprietary information at the new firm.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started within weeks after he was fired if he hadn’t
had access to TCW  trade secrets  and confidential information.  Gundlach’s lawyers have argued that TCW Chief Executive
Officer Marc Stern started to investigate ways of replacing
Gundlach as early as June of 2009. Gundlach, who managed more
than half of TCW’s $110 billion assets under management, was put
on leave the day TCW announced it had bought Metropolitan West
Asset Management to manage its fixed-income funds.  Brad Brian, a lawyer for Gundlach, told jurors at the start
of the trial that TCW didn’t want to pay hundreds of millions of
dollars in performance fees for the distressed-asset funds that
Gundlach had set up and that had performed beyond expectation.  TCW lawyers have argued that Stern started to look for a
replacement for Gundlach because he had become increasingly
difficult to work with and hostile to Stern, and because he had
threatened to leave.  TCW executives, including Michael Reilly, chief investment
officer of TCW’s equities group, and Garrett Walls, a former
marketing executive, testified earlier during the trial that
they had each expressed concern about Gundlach to Stern in
September 2009, citing “disrespectful” behavior and concern
for the health and stability of TCW.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  