-- 
Dunkin’ Seeks to Replicate ‘Cult-Like Following’ in U.S. West

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/dunkin-seeks-to-replicate-cult-like-following-in-u-s-west.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. may
struggle to duplicate the loyalty of its northeastern customers
as the doughnuts-and-coffee chain expands across the U.S.  Dunkin’ has “really not been proven west of the
 Mississippi , but it does have a cult-like following in the
Northeast,” said Christopher O’Cull, a Nashville, Tennessee-
based analyst at researcher SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. “The
question is: can that be replicated?”  Based on expectations that Dunkin’ can take on the likes of
Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET) 
nationally, investors have driven up the chain’s shares 44
percent since last month’s initial public offering, compared
with a 16 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Investors are “betting that it’s going to grow a lot
faster than it has been growing,” said Darren Fabric, managing
director at Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which oversees
about $2.5 billion and bought Dunkin’ shares for a managed
mutual fund. “They have lofty growth plans.”  Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ has 6,800 U.S. stores,
mostly in the east. Its growth plan includes opening as many as
250 new U.S. locations per year in 2011 and 2012. In the next 20
years, the company plans to more than double its number of U.S.
stores to 15,000.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  has about 14,000 U.S.
locations, while Starbucks has 10,900.  Dunkin’s speedy service and brand power mean the chain will
“get a good reception” in the western U.S., Chief Executive
Officer Nigel Travis said in a telephone interview. About two-
thirds of the stores Dunkin’ opened last year were outside the
company’s home region, he said.  Lower Sales  So far, locations outside the northeast have generated
lower sales than the home-region stores. Midwestern locations
brought in, on average, $602,029 in sales for the year ended
Oct. 31, compared with $996,247 for New England locations,
according to the company’s Franchise Disclosure Document. The
100-plus store in the West averaged $718,100 in sales.  McDonald’s stores on average generate more than double the
unit sales of Dunkin’ locations, which brought in an average of
$866,042 in the U.S. last year, according to the franchise
disclosure document. Starbucks cafes, which are company owned in
the U.S., average more than $1 million in sales, Cliff Burrows,
president of Starbucks’s U.S. stores, said during an investor
conference last year.  Stealing caffeine addicts from other coffee shops in the
western U.S. won’t be easy because people may prefer mom-and-pop
cafes and smaller chains such as Peet’s Coffee & Tea, said
Conrad Lyon, a Los-Angeles-based analyst at B. Riley & Co. “You
do have a different kind of customer out West that likes the
more distinctive, different type of product.”  Anti-Corporate Streak  “People are willing to pay a bit of a premium for an
ultra-premium coffee brand that is somewhat unique and
different,” said Nima Samadi, a Los Angeles-based analyst at
market researcher IBISWorld Inc. “In  California , there is a bit
of an anti-corporate streak.”  The U.S. West already contains a disproportionately high
number of coffee and snack stores -- 26 percent of the U.S.
total, compared with 17 percent of the population, according to
IBISWorld. Dunkin’s “target market probably will be and should
be low to middle income,” Samadi said.  Emeryville, California-based Peet’s has more than 180
stores on the West Coast, while Starbucks has about 1,670  stores 
in California and more than 400 in its home state of  Washington .  “In San Francisco, every block has some place that’s got
character,” said Matt Spowart, a 44-year-old teacher waiting
for a coffee outside a Blue Bottle Coffee Company cafe in  San
Francisco . “I prefer to go to a place that’s not a chain.”  Bagel Twists  To boost sales, Dunkin’ is expanding its food menu,
particularly in the traditionally slower hours between 2 p.m.
and 5 p.m. The chain aims to lure customers with stuffed
breadsticks, bagel twists, wraps and sandwiches.  “Food is an important part of our mix,” said CEO Travis.
“In terms of sandwiches, which we see as part of snacking,
we’re pleased with the success we’re having.”  Other restaurants in the U.S. are already pushing food in
the afternoon. McDonald’s introduced its line of chicken snack
wraps about five years ago and has since started selling McCafe-
branded fruit smoothies as a post-lunch pick-me-up.  Starbucks has revved up its afternoon food with chicken
wraps and noodle “Bistro Boxes.” This year it started selling
smaller desserts for people craving an afternoon sugar rush.  Moving beyond breakfast will take some doing, according to
Dennis Lombardi, executive vice president at restaurant
consultant WD Partners.  “Dunkin’ started out with a history of coffee and
doughnuts,” said Lombardi, who is based in Dublin,  Ohio . “It’s
always been difficult and challenging to sell a broader category
of food, whether that be lunch or dinner.”  If Dunkin’ “can replicate their customer loyalty and
almost fanaticism for their coffee that they enjoy in the
Northeast across the country, they will be a wildly successful
company,” Lombardi said. “But there lies the challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  