-- 
Eagles Reach One-Year Deal With Former Giants Wide Receiver Steve Smith

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/eagles-reach-one-year-deal-with-former-giants-wide-receiver-steve-smith.html
Steve Smith , the former New York
Giants Pro Bowl wide receiver who suffered a season-ending knee
injury in 2010, reached a one-year free-agent agreement with the
 Philadelphia Eagles .  Smith is the sixth Pro Bowl selection to sign with the
Eagles since July 29. Philadelphia also added cornerbacks
Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and Nnamdi Asomugha, defensive end
Jason Babin, quarterback  Vince Young  and running back Ronnie Brown.  “It’s pretty exciting,” Smith told reporters. “Even just
when I wasn’t part of the Eagles yet I was just like, ‘Wow,
they’re making some really big moves.’”  Smith has 220 receptions for 2,386 yards and 11 touchdowns
in 46 career regular-season games and 16 catches for 169 yards
in five playoff games. He was chosen by the Giants with the 51st
overall pick in the 2007 National Football League draft and
played in the  Pro Bowl  following the 2009 season.  “He’s a Pro Bowl-quality receiver that we will work into
our offense as soon as he’s ready to go,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said in a statement on the team’s website last night.
“He’s played very well against us in the past few years and
we’re happy to have him on board.”  Smith, 26, had surgery to repair cartilage damage eight
days after he was injured in the Giants’ Dec. 13 victory against
the  Minnesota Vikings . In nine games last season, he caught 48
passes for 529 yards and three touchdowns. He said he’ll leave
it to the Eagles’ medical staff to decide when he can resume
practice.  “If it was up to me I could go practice tomorrow, but we
want to be extra careful with this thing,” Smith said. “Just
because you’re feeling pretty good today, you don’t want to rush
it and have any setbacks.”  Terms of the contract weren’t disclosed. Smith, who had 190
receptions for 3,019 yards and 22 touchdowns for the University
of  Southern California , said he was “pretty sure” the Giants
couldn’t match the Eagles’ offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  