-- 
ECB Overnight Lending to Banks Jumps to Three-Month High

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-11T12:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/ecb-overnight-lending-to-banks-jumps-to-three-month-high-1-.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
overnight lending to banks jumped to a three-month high
yesterday, a sign some lenders may need emergency cash.  Banks tapped the ECB’s marginal lending facility for 4.06
billion euros ($5.76 billion), compared with 147 million euros
on Aug. 9, data released by the Frankfurt-based central bank
showed today. The ECB charges banks 2.25 percent for overnight
loans, 75 basis points more than in its main refinancing
operation.  “The spike is pretty unusual for the first day of the
reserve maintenance period,” said Thomas Hegen, a money market
trader at UniCredit AG in Munich. “Possibly one institution
faced technical problems but the figure also shows lasting
tensions in the market and volatility will likely remain high.”  European bank shares tumbled to the lowest since March 2009
yesterday, led by  Societe Generale  SA, amid concern that
 France ’s creditworthiness was in doubt. ECB policy makers raised
the benchmark  interest rate  for a second time last month to
tackle inflation, even as the region’s debt crisis threatened to
spread to Italy and  Spain .  Speculation about the worsening debt crisis pushed the cost
of insuring France’s government debt against default up about 54
basis points this month to 176.3 basis points, prices from data
provider CMA show. Credit-default swaps on Societe Generale’s
senior debt climbed 31 basis points to a record 368 basis
points, according to CMA prices.  Solid and Resilient  French banks are solid, resilient and well-capitalized,
Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in an e-mailed
statement today. They are unaffected by recent declines in their
share prices, he added.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market increased for a fourth straight day, a sign of
concern that officials in the region are struggling to contain
the fiscal crisis. The cost of converting euro-based payments
into dollars, as measured by the one-year cross-currency basis
swap, fell two basis points to 50 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, at 11:34 a.m. in  London .  Banks parked less money with the ECB overnight, with use of
the deposit facility falling to 39.56 billion euros yesterday
from 62.51 billion euros a day earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  