-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for August (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-08-11T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-august-text-.html
The following is the text
of the  European Central Bank ’s August monthly bulletin:  ﻿Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 4 August 2011 to
keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged, following the 25
basis point increase on 7 July 2011. The information that has
become available since then confirms the assessment that an
adjustment of the accommodative monetary policy stance was
warranted in the light of upside risks to price stability. While
the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity remains
ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures.
As expected, recent economic data indicate a deceleration in the
pace of economic growth in the past few months, following the
strong growth rate in the first quarter. Continued moderate
expansion is expected in the period ahead. However, uncertainty
is particularly high. For monetary policy, it is essential that
recent price developments do not give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures. Inflation expectations in the euro area
must remain firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s
aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over
the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make an ongoing contribution towards supporting
economic growth and job creation in the euro area. At the same
time, short-term interest rates remain low and financing
conditions are favourable. Thus, the monetary policy stance
remains accommodative. The Governing Council will continue to
monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to  price stability . Given the renewed tensions in some
financial markets in the euro area, the Governing Council also
decided at its meeting on 4 August to conduct a liquidity-
providing supplementary longer-term refinancing operation (LTRO)
with a maturity of approximately six months. The operation will
be conducted as a fixed rate tender procedure with full
allotment. The rate in this operation will be fixed at the
average rate of the main refinancing operations (MROs) over the
life of the supplementary LTRO. The operation will be announced
on 9 August 2011, with ﻿allotment on 10 August 2011 and
settlement on 11 August 2011, and will mature on 1 March 2012.  The Governing Council also decided to continue conducting its
MROs as fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as
long as necessary, and at least until the end of the last
maintenance period of 2011 on 17 January 2012. This procedure
will also remain in use for the Eurosystem’s special-term
refinancing operations with a maturity of one maintenance period,
which will continue to be conducted for as long as needed, and
at least until the end of the last quarter of 2011. The fixed
rate in these special-term refinancing operations will be the
same as the MRO rate prevailing at the time. Furthermore, the
Governing Council decided to conduct the three-month LTROs to be
allotted on 26 October, 30 November and 21 December 2011 as
fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment. The rates in
these three-month operations will be fixed at the average rate
of the MROs over the life of the respective LTRO.  As stated on previous occasions, the provision of liquidity and
the allotment modes for refinancing operations will be adjusted
when appropriate, taking into account the fact that all the non-
standard measures taken during the period of acute financial
market tensions are, by construction, temporary in nature. As
regards the economic analysis, in the first quarter of 2011 euro
area real GDP posted a strong quarter-on-quarter increase of
0.8%. Data and survey releases for the second quarter point
towards ongoing real GDP growth, albeit, as expected, at a
slower pace. This moderation also reflects the fact that the
strong growth in the first quarter was in part due to special
factors. The underlying positive momentum of economic growth in
the euro area remains in place and continued moderate expansion
is expected in the period ahead. Euro area exports should
continue to be supported by the ongoing expansion in the world
economy. In addition, the present level of consumer and business
confidence in the euro area supports private sector domestic
demand. However, growth dynamics are currently weakened by a
number of factors contributing to uncertainty, and activity is
expected to be dampened somewhat by the ongoing process of
balance sheet adjustment in various regions and sectors.  ﻿In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook for the euro area remain broadly balanced in an
environment of particularly high uncertainty. On the one hand,
consumer and business confidence, together with improvements in
labour market conditions, could continue to provide support to
domestic economic activity. On the other hand, downside risks
may have intensified. They relate to the ongoing tensions in
some segments of the euro area financial markets as well as to
global developments, and the potential for these pressures to
spill over into the euro area real economy. Downside risks also
relate to further increases in energy prices, protectionist
pressures and the possibility of a disorderly correction of
global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.5% in July 2011, following 2.7% in June. The
relatively high inflation rates seen over the past few months
largely reflect higher energy and other commodity prices.
Looking ahead, inflation rates are likely to stay clearly above
2% over the coming months. Upward pressure on inflation, mainly
from energy and other commodity prices, is also still
discernible in the earlier stages of the production process. It
remains of paramount importance that the rise in HICP inflation
does not translate into second-round effects in price and wage-
setting behaviour and lead to broad-based inflationary pressures.
Inflation expectations must remain firmly anchored in line with
the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to, 2% over the medium term.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices. Furthermore, there is a risk
of increases in indirect taxes and administered prices that may
be greater than currently assumed, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years. Finally, upside risks may
stem from stronger than expected domestic price pressures in the
euro area. Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth
rate of M3 decreased to 2.1% in June 2011, from 2.5% in May.
Looking through the recent monthly volatility, M3 growth has
broadly stabilised over recent months, after edging up until the
first quarter of 2011. The annual growth rate of loans to the
private sector declined to ﻿2.5% in June, from 2.7% in May.
Overall, the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
moderate. At the same time, monetary liquidity accumulated prior
to the period of financial market tensions continues to be ample,
and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures in the
euro area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1 remained
unchanged at 1.2%, whereas growth in other short-term deposits
declined to 3.7%. The growth differentials continue to reflect
in part the gradual increase in the remuneration of short-term
time and savings deposits over recent months. At the same time,
the still relatively steep yield curve implies a dampening
impact on overall M3 growth, as it reduces the attractiveness of
monetary assets compared with more highly remunerated longer-
term instruments outside M3. However, this impact is likely to
be waning. On the counterpart side, the annual growth of loans
to non-financial corporations continued to edge up, from 0.9% in
May to 1.5% in June, whereas the annual growth of loans to
households hovered over recent months around rates of slightly
above 3%.  The overall size of MFI balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged over recent months. Where it is necessary to provide
adequate scope to expand the provision of credit to the private
sector, it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to
the market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take
full advantage of government support measures for
recapitalisation. In particular, banks that currently have
limited access to market financing urgently need to increase
their capital and their efficiency. In this respect, the
Governing Council welcomes the EU-wide stress-testing exercise,
which was prepared by the European Banking Authority and
national supervisors, in close cooperation with the ECB. It also
welcomes the commitment made by national authorities with regard
to the provision of support facilities for banks where private
sector means are insufficient.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB  interest rates 
unchanged, following the 25 basis point increase on 7 July 2011.
The information that has become available since then confirms
the assessment that an adjustment of the accommodative ﻿monetary
policy stance was warranted in the light of upside risks to
price stability. A cross-check with the signals coming from the
monetary analysis indicates that while the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity remains
ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures.
As expected, recent economic data indicate a deceleration in the
pace of economic growth in the past few months, following the
strong growth rate in the first quarter. Continued moderate
expansion is expected in the period ahead. However, uncertainty
is particularly high. For monetary policy, it is essential that
recent price developments do not give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures. Inflation expectations in the euro area
must remain firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s
aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over
the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make an ongoing contribution towards supporting
economic growth and job creation in the euro area. At the same
time, short-term interest rates remain low and financing
conditions favourable. Thus, the monetary policy stance remains
accommodative. The Governing Council will continue to monitor
very closely all developments with respect to upside risks to
price stability.  Turning to fiscal policies, the Governing Council stresses the
need for strict and timely implementation of the IMF/EU
adjustment programmes in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . In
addition, it underlines the importance of the renewed commitment
of all Heads of State or Government of the euro area to adhere
strictly to the agreed fiscal targets. For several countries,
this requires announcing and implementing additional and more
frontloaded fiscal adjustment measures. Those that enjoy better
than expected economic and fiscal developments should make full
use of this room for manoeuvre for faster deficit and debt
reduction. The common aim should be to put public debt ratios
and public finances on a sustainable path as soon as possible.
As emphasised by the Heads of State or Government of the euro
area, the inflexible determination of all euro area countries to
fully honour their own individual sovereign signature is a
decisive element in ensuring financial stability in the euro
area as a whole.  ﻿The Governing Council also welcomes the renewed commitment of
all Member States to improve competitiveness and address
macroeconomic imbalances. Indeed, substantial and comprehensive
structural reforms need to be implemented in the countries of
the euro area in order to increase the flexibility of their
economies and their longer-term growth potential. The removal of
labour market rigidities and the implementation of measures
which enhance wage flexibility, notably the elimination of
automatic wage indexation clauses, are of key importance.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains one article. It
describes major enhancements to the ECB’s monetary and financial
statistics which help to keep these statistics fit for use.  The statement by the President of the ECB of 7 August 2011 can
be found in the following box.  Statement by the President of the ECB on 7 August 2011  1. The Governing Council of the European Central Bank (ECB)
welcomes the announcements made by the governments of Italy and
 Spain  concerning new measures and reforms in the areas of fiscal
and structural policies. The Governing Council considers a
decisive and swift implementation by both governments as
essential in order to substantially enhance the competitiveness
and flexibility of their economies, and to rapidly reduce public
deficits.  2. The Governing Council underlines the importance of the
commitment of all Heads of State or Government to adhere
strictly to the agreed fiscal targets, as reaffirmed at the euro
area summit of 21 July 2011. A key element is also the
enhancement of the growth potential of the economy.  3. The Governing Council considers essential the prompt
implementation of all the decisions taken at the euro area
summit. In this perspective, the Governing Council welcomes the
joint commitment expressed by Germany and  France  today.  4. The Governing Council attaches decisive importance to the
declaration of the Heads of State or Government of the euro area
in the inflexible determination to fully honour their own
individual sovereign signature as a key element in ensuring
financial stability in the euro area as a whole.  5. It equally considers fundamental that governments stand ready
to activate the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) in
the secondary market, on the basis of an ECB analysis
recognising the existence of exceptional financial market
circumstances and risks to financial stability, once the EFSF is
operational.  ﻿6. It is on the basis of the above assessments that the ECB will
actively implement its Securities Markets Programme. This
programme has been designed to help restore a better
transmission of our monetary policy decisions - taking account
of dysfunctional market segments - and therefore to ensure price
stability in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  