-- 
ECB Says Professional Forecasters Expect Faster Inflation

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-11T08:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/ecb-says-professional-forecasters-raise-inflation-expectations.html
The  European Central Bank  said
professional forecasters raised their expectations for inflation
in the euro area this year and next.  Forecasters predict inflation of 2.6 percent in 2011 and 2
percent in 2012, up from 2.5 percent and 1.9 percent three
months ago, the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its monthly bulletin
today, citing a quarterly survey. Forecasters expect economic
growth of 2.6 percent this year, up from a previous estimate of
2.5 percent, and 1.6 percent next year, down from 1.7 percent,
the ECB said.  The central bank has raised interest rates twice this year
to tame inflation, which has been in breach of its 2 percent
limit since December. At the same time,  Europe ’s worsening
sovereign debt crisis and a faltering global economy are damping
the growth outlook.  “Recent economic data indicate a deceleration in the pace
of economic growth in the past few months, following the strong
growth rate in the first quarter,” the ECB said in the
bulletin’s editorial, echoing President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s
Aug. 4 policy statement. “Continued moderate expansion is
expected in the period ahead. However, uncertainty is
particularly high. Downside risks may have intensified.”  Bond Purchases  The ECB started buying Italian and Spanish government bonds
this week after their yields soared to records. Banks in the
region are also becoming more reluctant to lend to each other,
prompting the ECB to offer them an emergency six-month loan and
extend its unlimited liquidity provision through the end of the
year.  Still, the ECB reiterated its concern about inflation and
said its benchmark  interest rate  remains “accommodative” at
1.5 percent.  “For monetary policy, it is essential that recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures,” the ECB said. “Short-term interest rates remain
low and financing conditions are favorable. Thus, our monetary
policy stance remains accommodative. We will continue to monitor
very closely all developments with respect to upside risks to
 price stability .”  Professional forecasters’ long-term inflation expectation
remained at 2 percent, the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  