-- 
Hedge Funds Boost Yen-Sensitive Short Sales, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-11T23:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/hedge-funds-boost-yen-sensitive-short-sales-deutsche-bank-says.html
Hedge funds investing in  Japan 
increased short-selling of companies sensitive to the yen’s
strength as the currency surged amid the U.S. credit downgrade
and concerns that  Europe  can’t contain its debt crisis,
according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “What we have seen is selective shorting of foreign
exchange-sensitive companies increase,” said Christopher Donald,
managing director and the head of global prime finance trading
in Japan at Deutsche Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “If things were
to worsen, some people may be looking to put on some shorts.”  The yen has climbed 5 percent over the past three months
to 76.98 per dollar as of 8:52 a.m. in Tokyo, near the post-
World War II record of 76.25 that it touched on March 17. A
stronger yen reduces the value of overseas profits by Japanese
exporters when converted back into the home currency.  The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund index has gained 1.4
percent this year through July, compared with a 1 percent
advance by the global benchmark. Shorting involves selling
borrowed securities with the view their prices will fall and
they can be bought back cheaper to make a profit.  Stock-Picking Game  Signs of earnings growth may prompt some funds to buy
stocks following the sell-off, Donald said. Deutsche Securities
has seen inflows from Japan-focused  hedge funds  increase 10
percent to 15 percent since April 1, he said.  “Some long-short funds are thinking there could be some
opportunities,” Donald said. “This is very much a time for
selective stock-picking, where people can go in and take a look
at the underlying companies that have good solid earnings that
might have been unfairly punished or sold out of.”  Japan’s stock benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has
slumped 8.7 percent this month and closed at 8981.94 yesterday.  Funds betting on volatility and high-frequency or quant
funds may have benefited from the recent increase in market
swings, while funds that had long or short-bias bets may have
been affected, he said.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, had the second-largest percent drop ever on Aug.
9, reversing the biggest surge in four years the day before,
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  promised to keep
 interest rates  at record lows to revive economic growth.  “We’re not seeing a hedge-fund fallout and we’re not
seeing any redemptions, which could have a cascading effect
where managers have to sell out of their portfolios,” said
Donald. “The question is what is going to be the long-term and
do people have the stomach to withstand the volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  