-- 
Lehman Creditors Demand Details on Payout Plan as Vote Nears

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-11T23:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/lehman-liquidation-plan-description-draws-objection-by-german-bank-group.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
creditors are demanding the failed investment bank disclose more
details about its plan to liquidate and pay claims before the
proposal moves forward.  Lehman hasn’t provided the information creditors need to
evaluate the plan and decide whether to support it, several of
them said in court filings today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New
York , including Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and the German
central bank.  Lehman “fails to apprise creditors of the substantial
risks underlying the debtors’ plan and arm creditors with
information necessary to assess those risks,” said the national
association of German private-sector banks.  The objections come as Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy
almost three years ago, is moving forward with a plan to pay
creditors with claims that Chief Executive  Bryan Marsal  has
estimated will total about $322 billion. Lehman is scheduled to
ask a judge on Aug. 30 to approve a description of the proposal
for creditors, who would then vote on the plan.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the objections. Others who said Lehman’s disclosures fall
short included LibertyView Capital Management, Wilmington Trust
Co., and the arm of the Justice Department that monitors
bankruptcy proceedings.  Risks for Creditors  Those objecting said Lehman should provide more information
about risks for creditors, recoveries under different scenarios,
and a central compromise that would allocate distributions among
some creditor groups. Deutsche Bundesbank, German’s central
bank, called a liquidation analysis by Lehman “materially
misleading and incomplete.”  Lehman is pitching its plan after striking a deal with
creditors, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and hedge fund
Paulson & Co. Before the agreement, two groups of creditors were
fighting Lehman and pushing rival liquidation plans. Lehman has
said that creditors holding more than $100 billion in claims now
back its proposal. The competing plans will be held “in
abeyance” while Lehman’s proposal moves ahead, Lehman said.  Goldman Sachs,  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) ,  UBS
AG (UBSN) , a bondholder group, and others filed papers today asking
that Lehman’s plan description, known as a disclosure statement,
be approved.  Lehman, once the fourth largest investment bank in the
U.S., filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets of $639
billion. It hopes to go to court by the end of the year for
approval of the plan, Macleod said.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 