-- 
Electronic ‘Tattoo’ May Offer New Flexible Way to Monitor Brain, Heart

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-11T18:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/electronic-tattoo-may-offer-new-flexible-way-to-monitor-brain-heart.html
Weightless, skin-like bandages with
microelectronic components may one day replace the bulky
monitors and electrode patches now used in hospitals to monitor
patients’ vital signs, researchers said.  The ultrathin patches, which are applied to the skin like
temporary tattoos, contain miniature electronic components that
sense and send information for diagnosing and monitoring medical
conditions. The novel device, developed by a team led by
engineers from the  University of Illinois , is described today in
the journal  Science .  The engineers envision uses for the patches for measuring
brain waves, muscle impulses and heart beats, including prenatal
monitoring. The size and flexibility of the device may allow
scientists to monitor areas that were previously difficult, such
as the throat, they said in today’s paper. An experiment showed
the device is sensitive enough to use the signal from throat
muscles moving for speech to control a video game with 90
percent accuracy.  “What we’re trying to do is reshape electronics to allow
integration with the human body,” said  John Rogers , a professor
of material science at the University of  Illinois  at Urbana-
Champaign in a telephone interview. “The real value is the
extent you can get it to doctors and patients who can use it.
That’s our ultimate success.”  The patches are mounted on a thin film of plastic and
laminated to the skin with water. The device contains sensors, a
power supply, and light-emitting components. The current power
supply relies on wireless coils that need to be near a main coil
to function, though that design may change, Rogers said.  Thickness of a Hair  The current methods of monitoring heart, nerve and muscle
activity require bulky monitors and complicated wiring, and the
adhesives on electrode patches cause rashes, wrote  Zhenqiang Ma ,
an engineer at the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison, in a
commentary in Science. The bandage is about the thickness of a
human hair, and doesn’t cause the same kinds of discomfort, Ma
wrote.  One potential broader use of the bandage is providing a
sense of touch to prosthetic devices, such as artificial legs,
Ma said.  To commercialize the technology, Rogers helped found
closely held  Mc10  Inc., where he sits on the board. The
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company is developing two classes
of electronics, including devices with  Reebok , a unit of  Adidas
AG (ADS) , that may aid in helping athletes recover from injury and
another to help treat abnormal heart rhythm.  Electrodes applied to the skin can  stimulate muscles ,
helping with recovery from injuries. An advanced version of
today’s device may do the same, helping people recover from
injury faster and avoiding muscle atrophy, Rogers said. That’s
being tested in collaboration with  Johns Hopkins University  in
Baltimore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 