-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses; Micex Snaps 7-Day Drop

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-08-11T08:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/emerging-market-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-micex-snaps-7-day-drop.html
Emerging-markets stocks swung
between gains and losses as the cheapest valuations in more than
two years limited declines spurred by concern the global
recovery will slow.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.1 percent to 982.11
as of 4:10 p.m. in  Singapore , erasing an earlier drop of 1.4
percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.3 percent,
paced by China Eastern Airlines Corp. South Korea’s Kospi Index
added 0.6 percent, reversing a 4 percent slump. Russia’s Micex
Index jumped 2.4 percent, halting a seven-day retreat.  Speculation the U.S. recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread has dragged the emerging markets measure
down 15 percent this month. That sent valuations on the gauge to
9.6 times estimated annual profits, the lowest level since March
2009, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  “The markets look oversold, most investors have cashed up,
I’ve been selectively picking,” Lye Thim Loong, who helps
manage about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur ,
said in an interview. “There are a lot of good stocks to buy,
good stocks that have come off.”  China Eastern jumped by the 10 percent daily limit in
Shanghai after China said it will suspend approvals on new
railway projects after a deadly train crash last month.  ZTE
Corp. (763) , China’s second biggest maker of telephone equipment, sank
14 percent in  Hong Kong  after saying profit unexpectedly fell in
the first half because of rising costs. OAO Lukoil paced a rally
among energy shares after  oil prices  climbed.  Global Rebound  U.S. equity-index futures jumped, while the Stoxx Europe
600 Index rose 1.8 percent, rebounding from the lowest level in
more than two years. The  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 9 to
keep  interest rates  at a record low at least through mid-2013
and the European Central Bank is buying bonds to stem a
contagion that’s threatening to spread to France.  China Vanke Co. led the nation’s developers higher,
rallying 1.3 percent in Shenzhen trading after the 21st Century
Business Herald said some local governments have resisted
expanding restrictions on home purchases.  “The rebound came only because earlier losses were
excessive and won’t change the overall downward trend for the
near future,” said Yang Delong, a fund manager at China
Southern Fund Management Co., which oversees $21 billion.  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for the first
time in 17 years, supported by the Federal Reserve’s pledge to
keep interest rates at a record low and signs China will use
currency gains to help rein in inflation. The currency rose 0.36
percent to 6.3948 per dollar, its biggest jump in nine months.  South Korea , Oil Shares  Defense-related shares rose in Seoul trading after South
Korea said North Korea fired artillery salvos near a disputed
sea border that was the scene of a deadly shelling in November,
a charge North Korea denied. Victek Co., which makes electronic
warfare equipment, added 4.4 percent and Speco Co., a military
installation parts developer, added 5 percent to 2,220 won.  Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, climbed 2.3
percent. PetroChina Co. added 0.7 percent in Shanghai. Crude for
September delivery increased 1.7 percent to $84.32 a barrel in
 New York , extending yesterday’s 4.5 percent jump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  