-- 
Merkel Meets Sarkozy as Debt Crisis Roils France

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-11T15:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/merkel-to-meet-sarkozy-in-paris-as-euro-region-s-debt-crisis-roils-france.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet next week as concerns
over the spread of the euro-area debt crisis rattled French
markets.  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies will discuss
economic governance of the 17-nation euro region in Paris on
Aug. 16, according to separate statements issued today by
Sarkozy and Merkel’s offices.  Sarkozy and Merkel have called for their parliaments to
approve measures by the end of September to strengthen the euro-
area bailout fund as agreed by European leaders on July 21. They
have also backed a European Central Bank role in determining
when bond buying is needed to stop contagion.  Both leaders said at the July summit that “they would
formulate joint recommendations aimed at strengthening political
and economic governance in the euro area before the end of the
summer,” the statement issued by the Chancellery in Berlin
said. The proposals will feed into steps drawn up by European
President  Herman Van Rompuy  on “improved working methods and a
better  crisis management  in the euro area.”  The leaders meet amid market turmoil that prompted
Sarkozy’s government to announce yesterday that it was speeding
up completion of its 2012 budget.  France ’s commitment to its
deficit goals is “untouchable,” Sarkozy said in a statement
after interrupting his vacation to chair an emergency meeting in
Paris yesterday as France’s benchmark index slumped.  The  CAC 40 Index (CAC) , which lost 5.5 percent yesterday, climbed
2.9 percent in Paris today.  German Rejection  German coalition lawmakers this week rejected a further
expansion of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund or introduction of
joint euro-area bonds to staunch the sovereign debt crisis, as
the ECB extended its bond-buying program to Italy and Spain.  German 10-year bonds dropped today, sending the yield up 11
basis points to 2.3 percent as of 5:47 p.m. in Berlin.  The rise in yields is probably due to a recovery of risk
appetite and an easing of recent “panic buying” rather than
any expectation Merkel is about to announce her backing for
additional crisis-fighting measures, said  Christoph Rieger , head
of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  “We’ve had plenty of those meetings between politicians,”
he said in an interview. “Until we get to the point where the
German government officially embraces much larger solutions to
the market tensions, like for instance a common bond, I don’t
think this will be a reason for tensions easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  