-- 
Merkel to Discuss Euro Crisis With Pahor During Slovenia Visit

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-08-11T13:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/merkel-to-discuss-euro-crisis-with-pahor-during-slovenia-visit.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
discuss  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis with Slovenia’s Prime
Minister Borut Pahor during a visit to the euro nation later
this month, Slovenia’s government said.  “The German chancellor is coming to Ljubljana on Aug. 30
and, yes, she will very likely discuss the debt problems in
Europe with the prime minister and other officials,” Spela
Vovk, Pahor’s spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  Merkel will also hold talks with Janez Jansa, the former
premier, who leads the largest Slovenian opposition party,
according to the party’s website. A German government spokesman
declined to comment on details of the trip, saying it hasn’t
been officially announced in Berlin.  Slovenia, which joined the euro in 2007, is among the 17
countries in the single currency that needs to pass legislation
to enhance the scope of the European rescue fund to implement a
July 21 agreement by euro-area leaders. Slovenia’s minority
government may have trouble doing so after the resignation
yesterday of Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, a move that
risks pushing the former Yugoslav nation into early elections.  Pahor’s administration, which took power in 2008, has 33
lawmakers in the 90-member assembly after two coalition partners
left the ruling group since May. The loss of a minister may also
hamper attempts to cut public spending after voters rejected a
proposed pension overhaul in a June referendum. Regular
elections are planned for late 2012.  Slovenian 10-year bonds rallied for a second day today as
yields dropped to 4.89 percent as of 3.12 p.m. in Ljubljana, the
lowest level since July 8.  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, is Slovenia’s biggest
export market, representing about 20 percent of its exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 