-- 
Eto’o to Get Record $485,000 a Week Pay Deal in Russia: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-11T09:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/eto-o-to-get-record-485-000-a-week-pay-deal-in-russia-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Windfall for Eto’o  Inter Milan striker Samuel Eto’o will get record wages of
300,000 pounds ($485,000) a week with Russian club Anzhi
Makhachkala, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Those wages would make the 30-year-old from Cameroon the
highest-paid soccer player in the world.  Eto’o, who scored 34 goals last season for Inter, may be
sold to the Russian club for as much as 32 million pounds, the
paper said.  Cerci to City?  Manchester City  may sign Fiorentina winger Alessio Cerci
should a transfer deal with Arsenal’s Samir Nasri fall through,
the  Sun  reported.  The Italian club is asking for 5 million pounds for the 24-
year-old, who wants to leave after he fell out with fans.  Fabregas’ Expensive Move  Cesc Fabregas has agreed to pay Arsenal 4.5 million pounds
to seal his transfer to Barcelona, the  Sun  reported. The player
will pay the London club 900,000 pounds out of his own wages for
the next five years of his Barcelona contract, the paper said.  Spurs Players Fear Riots  Tottenham goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes said there is “fear in
the squad” following four days of rioting in  London , the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Tottenham’s home game against Everton this weekend may be
canceled because of the unrest. There have been 16,000 police
patrolling the British capital to restore calm. Buildings in
Tottenham were set on fire while hundreds of people looted shops
last weekend.  “We’ve spoken in the dressing room and the club have told
us to stay home and avoid the streets,” the paper quoted
 Brazil ’s Gomes as saying. “My home is about 20 minutes from the
centre of the riots and that is a danger. This happens in
Brazil, but we never believed it was possible in  England .”  Gomes’ teammate Roman Pavlyuchenko has banned his wife
from returning to Britain because he thinks it’s not safe, the
paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 