-- 
EU Heading for Eurobond Clash Amid German Dread Over Looming Fiscal Union

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-08-12T10:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/eu-heads-for-eurobond-clash-amid-german-dread-over-looming-fiscal-union.html
European ratification of a
reinforced crisis-management fund will act as a prelude to an
even more divisive debate: whether to put more money into the
pool and use it to borrow on behalf of all 17 euro states.  The question of “eurobonds” or “fiscal union” -- toxic
language in northern countries like  Germany  -- will force itself
onto the agenda once the retooled rescue fund is in place as
soon as next month.  The trigger will be a  European Commission  feasibility study
of jointly sold eurobonds, seen by a growing number of
economists as the only way of guaranteeing to the markets that
countries such as Italy won’t go bust. Unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the  European Central Bank  have so far failed to
stamp out the crisis that is menacing the region’s core members.  “No single currency has ever survived without some form of
debt mutualization,” said Simon Tilford, chief economist at the
London-based  Centre for European Reform , a research institute
focused on European integration. “There’s an increasing
recognition that that is the only way of stabilizing the  euro
zone .”  The European debt crisis that began in Greece in late 2009
has triggered 365 billion euros ($521 billion) in emergency
bailout loans, exposed cracks in the euro’s architecture and
rattled markets around the world. The fallout may overcome the
unwillingness of euro leaders to forge a U.S.-style fiscal union
and give up control over national budgets.  ‘Reverse the Dynamic’  “Only Germany can reverse the dynamic of a European
decay,” billionaire investor  George Soros  wrote in today’s
Handelsblatt, the Dusseldorf-based newspaper. “Germany and
other countries with a AAA rating have to approve some sort of
euro-bond regime. Otherwise, the euro will implode.”  For now, the focus is on country-by-country approval of the
July 21 decision to empower the 440 billion-euro  European
Financial Stability Facility  to buy bonds in the secondary
market, grant precautionary credits and recapitalize banks.  A raucous parliamentary exchange is shaping up in Germany,
already dragged by the debt crisis into an unforeseen role as
the euro zone’s guarantor after assenting to the EFSF in 2010.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who meet in Paris on Aug. 16, have an end-of-
September ratification target to enable the EFSF to relieve the
ECB of the bond-purchasing job.  Along with September’s planned enactment of laws to
strengthen Europe’s deficit-limitation rules and monitor
economic imbalances, the EFSF upgrade will touch off a fracas
Merkel has sought to avoid.  ‘Taboo, Damaging’  “Iron Chancellor Opposes Eurobonds,” German newspaper  Die
Welt  headlined last December when Merkel blunted earlier talk of
the idea. Eurobonds are “taboo, damaging, undesired,”  Norbert Barthle , budget-policy spokesman for her Christian Democratic
bloc in parliament, told Bloomberg News on Aug. 5.  While the opposition Greens Party agrees that the EFSF
package should be passed as quickly as possible, “we don’t
think it’s sufficient,” co-leader Juergin Trittin said on ZDF
television today.  “In  Europe , we need to stop individual states from
refinancing themselves with bonds: We need European bonds,”
Trittin said. “That’s the only way to finally stop the
speculation against the crisis states and these endless pictures
of Merkel and Sarkozy going from summit to summit.”  Polls suggest the Greens and their Social Democratic
allies, who also back eurobonds, would defeat Merkel’s coalition
if elections were held now.  Commission Report  Acting on a  July request  by the  European Parliament , the
Brussels-based commission will before year-end issue a report on
how the pooling of borrowing could reinforce a monetary union
that markets view as no stronger than its weakest link. Greece
is the most expensive country in the world to insure against
default.  The commissioner drafting the proposals, Olli Rehn of
 Finland , is already promoting them in a way that appeals to the
fiscally tight countries in the euro area’s north.  The study will examine whether eurobonds “could contribute
to fiscal discipline and increase liquidity in the bond markets
in Europe so that the countries enjoying highest credit rating
standards would not see their borrowing costs higher,” Rehn
said on Aug. 5.  Borrowing Costs  Germany, which authored the rules that failed to prevent
Europe’s debt explosion, fears that mutual borrowing would drive
up its financing costs, historically the euro area’s lowest and
the benchmark for the region.  A switch to shared borrowing would push up German funding
costs by 1.22 percentage points -- German 10-year yields are
about 2.3 percent -- adding 25 billion euros a year to Germany’s
interest bill, Kai Carstensen of the Ifo Institute in Munich
told the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  on July 19.  “In terms of a eurobond, if it goes well then fine, but
there is a real possibility that it won’t and the Germans will
have to pay for it,”  Charles Goodhart , a former Bank of England
policy maker and professor at the  London  School of Economics,
said in a telephone interview. “It is essentially a transfer
union in disguise.”  Two broad options are under consideration in Brussels,
according to EU officials: building out the EFSF and its
successor as of mid-2013, the European Stability Mechanism, into
a Europe-wide borrowing agent; or issuing joint bonds.  ‘Stabilize the System’  A jumbo fund that acts like a bank would be less
controversial, since the EFSF already exists and is run by a
former German Finance Ministry official, Klaus Regling. It would
need close to 2 trillion euros to chase speculators away from
 Italy  and  Spain , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimates.  “What we need is a sort of European monetary fund that can
go in and stabilize the system with the backing of the central
bank,”  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG, told
Bloomberg Television.  The best-known joint-issuance proposal is the so-called
blue-red model, drafted by researchers at the Brussels-based
 Bruegel institute . It foresees the 17 euro users selling common
bonds to cover debt up to 60 percent of each country’s gross
domestic product, the level deemed “sustainable” by the euro’s
founding treaty. Greece’s debt last year was 143 percent of GDP,
compared to Italy’s 119 percent and Germany’s 83 percent.  That tranche of “blue” bonds would carry a common
 interest rate . Debt over the treaty limit would be financed by
“red” bonds, sold by each country on its own at penalty rates
that provide an incentive to keep deficits down.  Growth Market  Blue bonds would form a 5.6 trillion-euro market, dwarfing
today’s national pools, according to the authors of the May 2010
proposal, Jacques Delpla and Jakob von Weizsaecker.  By turning the euro market into the world’s second largest
after U.S. Treasuries, the liquidity boost would quash the
Germans’ cost concerns by saving each country 30 basis points
per bond, the authors wrote.  Under a  variant  mooted by economists Paul De Grauwe and Wim
Moesen in 2009, the interest coupon on a common bond would be
computed as the weighted average of yields paid by each national
borrower.  Germany and  Greece  would pay the same rate differential as
before, banishing the risk of the rich subsidizing the weak, De
Grauwe and Moesen wrote. The advantage for Greece would lie in
guaranteed  market access , they said.  “There is no way you can help the weaker parties without
hurting the strongest parties,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-
income credit research at Evolution Securities in London, said
on Bloomberg Television. “But unfortunately for them, they’re
in a union. So they’re either in it, or they’re not. And they
either have to have some kind of transfer of money, some kind of
guarantee system or the whole thing’s going to fall apart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  