-- 
EU Rules May Push Back U.K. Nuclear, Wind Investment, E3G Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-08-11T15:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/eu-rules-may-delay-u-k-nuclear-wind-law-e3g-s-burke-says-1-.html
European antitrust rules may delay
legislation on U.K. electricity market reform and put back
investment in nuclear and wind power, according to a former
government adviser.  The U.K. proposed a shift in  energy policy  to rein back the
market structure put in place over two decades ago to help
replace about a quarter of Britain’s power stations preparing to
close.  Chris Huhne , energy secretary, recommended guaranteeing
long-term prices for low-carbon energy such as nuclear and wind
power, setting a minimum price for CO2 emissions and providing
payments for back-up power stations.  The proposed changes may fall foul of European Union rules
restricting state aid, Tom Burke, a co-founder of environmental
lobby E3G, said in an interview in London. Burke has advised the
U.K. on international climate change policy. The European Union
can take up to 18 months to grant consent under state aid rules,
he said. A spokesman for the U.K.’s department of energy and
climate change, who declined to be identified citing government
policy, didn’t immediately comment.  Britain’s power market shakeup, which would fix returns
through so-called contracts-for-difference, or CfDs, is hoped to
spur investment into atomic and renewable sources to help the
nation meet a European target of getting 15 percent of its
energy from green sources and its own domestic ambition of
slashing CO2 emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.
The government is due to pass its electricity market reform
legislation next May.  Unfair Subsidies  “CfDs for renewable energy are not dissimilar to existing
renewable support mechanisms around  Europe  which have been
approved from a state aid perspective, Ronan O’Regan, a London-
based director of energy at consultant PWC, said by e-mail.
“For nuclear, it seems unlikely that the Government would have
progressed this far without being confident that they would be
compliant with state aid rules.  Policies that impact markets must be granted approval from
the Brussels-based European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory
arm, to ensure they don’t give unfair subsidies to certain
technologies.  The legislation was criticized as disguised support for
nuclear by  Tim Yeo , chairman of the Parliamentary energy and
climate change committee. Proposals are “skewed by the wish of
the coalition to disguise support for nuclear,” Yeo, chair of
the committee and a Conservative member of Parliament, said in a
May 16 telephone interview in  London . “If meeting targets
involves giving nuclear some support, then it would be sensible
for the government to just admit that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  