-- 
Yen Has Biggest Weekly Advance Versus Euro Since July; Swiss Franc Tumbles

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-12T21:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/euro-heads-for-weekly-drop-before-industrial-production-greece-gdp-data.html
The yen had the biggest weekly gain
versus the euro in a month as lower-than-forecast economic data
fueled concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is weighing on growth,
damping appetite for higher-risk assets.  The dollar erased a loss versus the euro after an index of
U.S. consumer confidence fell to the lowest level since 1980.
The  Swiss franc  dropped versus the 17-nation currency for a
second day after reaching a record high on Aug. 9. Industrial
output fell in Europe, Greece’s economy contracted and the
French economy stalled.  Canada ’s dollar tumbled.  “It’s been a week of very volatile foreign-exchange moves,
and I don’t think we’re out of the woods,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New
York. “The sentiment is a little bit improved at the end of the
week, but we haven’t seen the end of safe-haven pressure on the
yen, the franc and the dollar.”  The yen rose 0.1 percent to 109.3 to the euro at 5 p.m. in
 New York , from 109.42 yesterday, and posted a weekly gain of 2.4
percent, the most since the five days ended July 15. The dollar
fell 0.2 percent to at 76.72 yen, compared with 76.84 yesterday
and the post-World War II low of 76.25 yen reached March 17. The
euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.4248, from $1.4241.  The Swiss franc depreciated 2.2 percent to 1.1086 per euro,
following yesterday’s plunge of more than 5 percent, and
weakened 2.1 percent against the dollar to 77.79 centimes. The
franc rallied to a record 1.0075 per euro on Aug. 9.  Gain for Month  The franc climbed 5.9 percent over the past month against
the currencies of nine developed-nation counterparts, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen
appreciated 2 percent, the euro rose 0.6 percent and the dollar
dropped 1.6 percent.  Switzerland ’s currency tumbled the most against the euro
yesterday since the shared currency’s 1999 debut after Swiss
National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan was reported as
saying a temporary peg to the euro would be legal as policy
makers try to stem the currency’s gains.  “There’s unwinding of short euro-Swiss positions on market
jitters over the prospect of the SNB pegging the franc to the
euro,”  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10 currency
strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York, said today.
“Regardless of the legality and the likelihood of that, it’s
enough to start squeezing short Swiss positions from the
market.” A short position is a bet a currency will fall.  Confidence Plunges  The dollar slipped versus the yen as the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment slumped to 54.9 from 63.7 the prior month. The gauge
was projected to decline to 62, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said in a speech policy makers gave a “sober
assessment” of the  U.S. economy  this week and that he cut his
forecast for growth.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged
Aug. 9 to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at zero to 0.25
percent until at least mid-2013 to revive an economic recovery
“considerably slower” than it anticipated.  Implied volatility among currencies of the Group of Seven
nations reached the highest level yesterday since June 2010,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. Index. It touched 14.72
before easing today to a reading of 13.28, still a 13 percent
increase since the end of July.  Short-Selling Bans  France, Spain, Italy and Belgium will impose bans on short
selling from today to stabilize markets after shares of European
banks including French lender Societe Generale SA hit their
lowest level since the credit crisis, the European Securities
and Markets Authority said.  “If this ban is temporary and calms the markets and
restores the credit markets, the euro will breathe a sigh of
relief,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at the
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  Credit default swaps on AAA-rated France doubled in the
past six weeks to 169.8 basis points, more than triple the cost
for the U.S., before easing to 147.5 basis points today. The
U.S. lost its AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Germany ’s  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet next week after concern the region’s
debt crisis is spreading rattled French markets.  Industrial production in the euro area fell 0.7 percent in
June after a 0.2 percent increase in May, data showed today.
 Greece ’s economy shrank 6.9 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, a fifth straight decline. French economic growth
stalled in the second quarter from the previous three months,
when it expanded 0.9 percent.  Euro Bets Reversed  Futures traders reversed their bets that the euro will gain
against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 8,273 on Aug. 9,
compared with net longs of 1,763 a week earlier.  Canada’s dollar fell against most of its major counterparts
as consumer sentiment plunged in the U.S., its biggest trade
partner. The currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 98.73 cents per
 U.S. dollar .  Brazil ’s real was the top performer against the greenback,
gaining 0.9 percent to 1.6117 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  