-- 
European Commercial Mortgage Repayment Rates Fall, Moody’s Says

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-08-11T13:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/european-commercial-mortgage-repayment-rates-fall-moody-s-says.html
Repayment rates on European
commercial property loans fell to 33.8 percent in the first half
as borrowers struggled to meet lenders’ tighter criteria for
refinancing the debt, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The repayment rate of commercial real estate, or CRE, loans
dropped from 47.4 percent last year and 65.2 percent in 2009,
London-based analyst Lisa Macedo wrote in a report today. Almost
37 percent of the borrowing due in the first half was in
default, compared with 20.5 percent in 2010, based on commercial
mortgage-backed securities tracked by Moody’s.  “Current refinancing prospects remain gloomy for a
significant proportion of CRE loans,” Macedo said in the
report. “Funding availability for CRE investment dropped off
with the onset of the credit crunch, and has not recovered
meaningfully.”  The increased refinancing risk along with the decline of
prices for offices, warehouse and other commercial real estate
assets prompted ratings cut on 103 securities. Mortgage-backed
notes package home loans, allowing lenders to raise capital more
cheaply than by issuing unsecured debt.  Most lenders now limit their loan-to-value lending levels
on prime real estate to 60 percent to 65 percent, Moody’s said.
A “majority” of loans in commercial mortgage-backed securities
aren’t backed by high-quality property and a “significant”
portion of the borrowings have LTVs of more than 65 percent, the
ratings company said.  About 23.5 percent of loan facilities had maturities
extended in the first half, up from 20.5 percent in 2010,
Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  