-- 
Europe Lodges WTO Complaint Against Canada Over Renewable Energy

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-08-11T15:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/europe-lodges-wto-complaint-against-canada-over-renewable-energy.html
The European Union lodged a
complaint at the  World Trade Organization  against  Canada  over
subsidies the province of Ontario gives to  renewable-energy 
producers that use domestic technology.  Under Ontario’s feed-in tariff program, created by the
province’s  Green Energy Act , above-market rates are paid to
producers of renewable energy provided it is generated with a
certain percentage of Canadian-made equipment. The act aims to
help Ontario meet its goal of shutting all its coal-power
generators by 2014.  A provision of the program that began in October 2009
requires projects to use goods and labor from Ontario for as
much as 60 percent of supply costs, depending on the type of
renewable-energy source.  “This is in clear breach of the WTO rules that prohibit
linking subsidies to the use of domestic products,” the
European Commission said today in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels. The Ontario Power Authority “has set conditions that
favor domestic products and services.”  Under the program, 40 percent to 50 percent of the initial
costs to develop a solar-energy project must be made of up
products or services from Ontario, rising to 60 percent for
projects developed after 2011, the commission said. For  wind
energy , the rates amount to 25 percent for initial costs and
rise to 50 percent for projects developed after 2012, it said.  Japanese Complaint  Today’s request for consultations is the first step in the
case and follows a similar complaint  Japan  lodged last year on
Sept. 13. Under WTO rules, the EU and Canada must now hold talks
for at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute. If the
talks fail, the EU can ask WTO judges to rule.  EU exports to Canada in wind power and photovoltaic power-
generation equipment are “significant,” according to the
commission, ranging from 300 million euros ($426 million) to 600
million between 2007 and 2009.  “These figures could be higher should the local-content
requirements be removed from the legislation in question,” the
commission said. “The EU is also increasingly concerned by such
measures taken by other trading partners.”  The complaints stoke a broader debate over plans by
countries including Canada, the U.S. and  China  to reserve public
works as well as energy and environmental projects worth
billions of dollars for local companies. Japan has said it is
“seriously concerned about a proliferation of such
protectionist measures all over the world.” The WTO agreed on
July 20 to set up a panel of judges to probe  Japan’s complaint 
against Canada.  Caitlin Workman, a spokeswoman for Canada’s Trade
Department in Ottawa, said her government will “vigorously
defend Canada’s interests during these proceedings” at the WTO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  