-- 
European Banks Have Not ‘Come Clean’ About Financial Holdings, Rajan Says

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-08-11T17:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/european-banks-have-not-come-clean-about-financial-holdings-rajan-says.html
European banks haven’t “come
clean” about their holdings, said  Raghuram Rajan , a professor
at the University of Chicago and a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund .  “There is a need for some concern because the Europeans
haven’t yet come clean on what their banks hold,” Rajan, 48,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In Business”
with Margaret Brennan. “We need to have a better sense of what
it means if these sovereigns take a hit and what it means to the
banks.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel plan to meet next week as concerns over the spread
of the euro-area debt crisis rattled French markets. Societe
General SA, France’s second largest bank, plunged 15 percent
yesterday amid speculation that a downgrade in the nation’s
credit rating would damage the company’s stability. The stock
rebounded today, closing up 3.7 percent in Paris trading at 23
euros ($32.68).  All three major credit-rating companies affirmed  France ’s
top rating amid worry that Greece’s debt crisis may spread to
the region’s second-largest economy.  “We are some distance away from having to worry about
France defaulting and we are some distance away from worrying
about the consequences for French banks,” Rajan said today.
“It is quite possible the market’s come to terms with this and
settled down, but it is something that people do worry about.”  Market Volatility  Volatility in stock markets in the U.S. and  Europe  is due
in part to investors reacting to possible slow growth in the
 U.S. economy  and to the European debt crisis. U.S. gross
domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter, Commerce Department figures showed last week.  Investors “can start thinking what if  Greece  goes? What if
Portugal goes, France goes and eventually perhaps what if
Germany goes?” Rajan said. “When you focus on those tail risks
the only answer is sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  