-- 
U.S. Stocks Rebound on Jobless Claims; Treasuries Fall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-12T14:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/european-stocks-u-s-futures-rally-with-metals-as-treasuries-franc-drop.html
(Corrects size of  S&P 500 ’s drop in third paragraph of
story that moved yesterday.)  U.S. stocks surged, reversing most
of yesterday’s plunge, and Treasuries sank as an unexpected drop
in jobless claims and higher-than-estimated earnings tempered
concern the economy is slowing as Europe’s debt crisis widens.
The Swiss franc slid on plans to temporarily peg it to the euro.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 4.6 percent to
1,172.64 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
rallied 3.2 percent, rebounding from a two-year low. Treasuries
extended losses as demand weakened at an auction of 30-year
bonds, sending the benchmark 10-year note yield up 22 basis
points to 2.32 percent. The franc slid at least 4.8 percent
against all 16 major peers. Gold retreated from a record above
$1,800 an ounce, while zinc and lead rallied.  The S&P 500 rebounded after plunging 17 percent from July
22 through yesterday amid concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and
a political battle over the U.S. debt ceiling that prompted S&P
to cut the country’s credit rating. Both European shares and the
Russell 2000 Index of small American companies entered a bear
market this week, falling at least 20 percent from their
previous highs, as two and 10-year Treasury yields reached
record lows.  “If there is no recession, stocks are discounting an awful
lot of bad news right now,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer
at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC,
which oversees $3.8 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“The jobless claims report is another indication that the
economy is growing at a moderate pace. Still, the market is very
fragile. So much of what’s moving the market is centered in
Europe,” he said. “Is this is a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis? I don’t think so.”  Short-Selling Ban  After the close of U.S. trading today, the European
Securities and Markets Authority said in a statement that
Belgium, France, Italy and Spain plan to impose a ban on short
selling or on short positions as the region sought to restore
investor confidence in the markets.  U.S. equity futures erased losses before markets opened
today after first-time applications for jobless benefits
decreased 7,000 in the week ended Aug. 6 to 395,000, the fewest
since early April. Economists forecast 405,000 claims, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The Labor
Department said the number of people on unemployment benefit
rolls and those getting extended payments also dropped.  Cisco, News Corp. Rally  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  rallied 16 percent, the most in nine
years, as the world’s largest maker of networking equipment
reported profit that topped estimates after the company cut jobs
and pared its businesses. News Corp. jumped 17 percent for its
biggest gain since October 2008 as the owner of Fox television
and the Wall Street Journal reported better- than-estimated
earnings and increased its dividend 27 percent, cushioning
investor losses stemming from a phone-hacking scandal at its
London paper News of the World.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rallied 423.37 points, or
4 percent, to 11,143.31 after sliding almost 520 points
yesterday. This week’s trading marks the first time the Dow has
moved more than 400 points either up or down for four days in a
row.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and  Wells Fargo & Co . rallied more than 6 percent to pace a
rebound in banks as all 81 financial shares in the S&P 500
advanced. The group sank to a two-year low on Aug. 8.  Earnings Season  Concern the economy is slowing as Europe’s debt crisis
spreads has overshadowed a second-quarter reporting season that
has seen per-share earnings top estimates at three-quarters of
the 429 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since
July 11. Net income has increased 16 percent for the group on a
13 percent surge in sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A rout in global equity markets since July 26 erased $7.9
trillion in market value through yesterday and made stocks in
Europe and the U.S. the cheapest relative to earnings in about 2
1/2 years. Central bankers are trying to restore investor
confidence, with the  Federal Reserve  pledging to keep  interest
rates  near zero through at least mid-2013 to bolster U.S. growth
and the European Central Bank buying bonds to cap borrowing
costs.  France, Italy, Spain and Belgium plan to ban short selling,
the ESMA said in a statement on its website. “They have done so
either to restrict the benefits that can be achieved from
spreading false rumors or to achieve a regulatory level playing
field, given the close inter-linkage between some EU markets,”
it said.  ‘Unfounded Information’  France’s stock market regulator said that rumors had been
circulating about French financial companies and that the
spreading of “unfounded information” may lead to punishment.
The market turbulence has led  Turkey  to curb short sales and
threaten “severe penalties” for stock manipulation, joining
nations from  Greece  to South Korea in trying to stem bearish
bets after the worst tumble in global shares since 2008.  “It had been rumored around today, so not as if it’s
coming out of left field,”  Michael James , a managing director
at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles, said in an e-mail.
“But I would be surprised if it didn’t have a positive impact
on European markets at least to start the day.”  Companies in the S&P 500 started today’s session trading at
11.3 times estimated profits, near the cheapest since March
2009. Europe’s Stoxx 600 was valued at 9.1 times projected
earnings.  The slide in equities has sent executives at banks and
investment firms scrambling to halt the spread of panic.  ‘So Much Better’  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer Brian T.
Moynihan said yesterday the lender will meet its capital targets
because economic conditions are “so much better” than they
were during the financial crisis in 2008-2009. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon told CNBC yesterday that
the fundamental strength of the economy is “still here.” Bank
of America’s shares are down 53 percent from their 2011 high in
January, while JPMorgan has lost 25 percent from a February
peak.  Brian Rogers, chairman and chief investment officer of T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., warned in an e-mail to investors last
night that “emotional responses to financial downturns rarely
produce good results.”  “While we’re experiencing a perfect storm of political
dysfunction, slowing economic growth, and the debt downgrade,
the market backdrop is very different from that of 2008 when we
were truly in the crosshairs of a global financial crisis,”
Rogers wrote to investors with the company, which had $521
billion under management as of July 26. “The sharp decline has
been so sudden that I believe a good portion of the decline is
behind us. Nonetheless, markets will remain volatile.”  Insider Buying  More executives at S&P 500 companies are buying their stock
than any time since the depths of the credit crisis after
valuations plunged 25 percent below their five-decade average.  Sixty-six insiders at 50 companies bought shares between
Aug. 3 and Aug. 9, the most since the five days ended March 9,
2009, when the benchmark index for U.S. equities reached a 12-
year low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  and two other
managers purchased 175,000 shares of the New York-based bank as
the stock fell to the lowest level since March 2009, according
to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Today’s gains in stocks and drop in Treasuries pulled the
S&P 500’s dividend yield back below the rate on the 10-year
Treasury. The dividend payout, currently at 2.22 percent, rose
above the 10-year yield for the first time since May 2009
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-Default Swaps  Even as bank stocks rallied today, the cost to protect
against a default by a U.S. lender rose and a benchmark gauge of
corporate credit risk reached a 14-month high amid fear that
Europe’s debt crisis will infect the global financial system.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America, the nation’s
biggest lender, surged to the highest since April 2009 before
paring the gain. The cost to protect against defaults by
European financial companies reached a record, and a swaps index
that gauges the perceived risk of owning junk bonds, which falls
as sentiment deteriorates, is at about the lowest level in more
than a year.  Banks in the Stoxx 600 climbed 3.9 percent as a group,
reversing an earlier tumble that dragged them to the lowest
level since April 2009.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA rose 3.7 percent
after tumbling 9.1 percent earlier and 15 percent yesterday. The
French bank is among lenders being targeted by investors because
of its perceived dependence on short-term funding, analysts
said.  France’s top credit ratings were affirmed yesterday by all
three major rating firms amid concern the country’s
creditworthiness was in doubt, and Societe Generale issued a
denial of “all market rumors” as its stock slumped.  ‘Dented’ Confidence  “The mix of euro doubts and rating fears in recent days
and weeks may have dented the confidence of funding
counterparties, which has then fed back into equity markets,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts including Stefan
Stalmann said in note to clients today.  U.S. Treasuries retreated after the 10-year real yield,
which accounts for inflation, dropped to negative 1.45 percent
yesterday, approaching the lowest since 2008. The 30-year
Treasury 30-year bond yields rose 26 basis points to 3.77
percent as demand waned at today’s auction of the debt.  The first auction of the securities since S&P cut the U.S.
credit rating on Aug. 5 produced a yield of 3.750 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 3.622 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount offered, was 2.08, compared with an average of 2.64 at
the past 10 sales. Yesterday’s auction of 10-year debt drew a
record low yield.  ‘Didn’t Show Up’  “People didn’t show up for this one,” said  Scott Sherman ,
an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
Federal Reserve. “The Fed fixing the Fed funds rate for two
plus years provided a lot of support for the front and
intermediate parts of the curve, but it increases inflation
expectations because there is concern that the fed is tying
their hands further if inflation worries arise.”  The Swiss franc tumbled the most against the euro since the
shared European currency was introduced in 1999, losing as much
as 5.7 percent, and sank 4.8 percent against the dollar. Swiss
central bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said policy makers
could peg the franc for the first time in more than three
decades as they struggle to stem a record-breaking rally. The
dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to 76.93 per yen after yesterday
approaching the postwar low of 76.25.  Rising Yuan  China ’s yuan breached the 6.40 level against the dollar for
the first time since the nation unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. The central bank raised its
reference rate for the currency by 0.27 percent to 6.3991, the
biggest advance since November.  Copper, lead and zinc climbed at least 3.3 percent as the
strengthening yuan may boost demand in China, the biggest user
of the metals. Corn, soybean and wheat prices surged at least
1.9 percent after the government said U.S. farmers will harvest
smaller crops than forecast last month following a damaging heat
wave.  About three companies declined for every two that rose on
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index, which lost 0.6 percent. The gauge
pared an earlier drop of 2.4 percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.6 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi Index gained
0.6 percent, reversing losses of as much as 4 percent. Telstra
Corp. jumped 5.7 percent after  Australia ’s largest telephone
company posted second-half earnings that beat analyst estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.9 percent. The
21-country MSCI index has tumbled 18 percent from this year’s
high, sending the gauge to less than 10 times analysts’ 12-month
earnings estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
marking its cheapest valuation since 2009.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
surged 3.8 percent after the nation’s retail sales slowed less
than forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  