-- 
Romney Heckled by Angry Iowa Crowd Chanting ‘Wall Street Greed’

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-11T19:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fed-said-to-draft-rules-for-largest-u-s-banks-following-basel-standards.html
In his second visit to Iowa,  Mitt Romney  was heckled at the  Iowa State Fair  by crowd members he
dismissed as non-supporters.  As members of the audience began chanting “Wall Street
greed” today, Romney vowed not to raise taxes on anyone --
including businesses.  “Corporations are people, my friend,” he said.
“Everything corporations earn ultimately goes to people.”  After a shouting match with another questioner who asked
what he would do to strengthen Social Security, Romney pointed
angrily at the audience and asked them to let him answer.  “My guess is they won’t be voting for me. That’s fine,”
he said, before stepping off a small speaking podium. “We have
a lot of people running for office.”  Romney went to  Iowa  to participate in a Republican
presidential primary debate tonight. Though he leads the field
in polling and fundraising, Romney has spent little time or
money in the state, which will hold the first caucuses of the
2012 presidential nominating process. Romney’s defeat in the
2008 Iowa caucuses set his first presidential bid on a downward
spiral.  He has run no television ads in Iowa, hired only three paid
staff members and won’t participate in a straw poll on Aug. 13,
an event on which he expended considerable resources in 2007.  At the Fairgrounds  Still, the former Massachusetts governor isn’t writing off
Iowa. After speaking this morning, Romney made his way through
the fairgrounds, shaking hands and greeting potential voters. He
grilled a pork chop at the Iowa Pork Producers Stand, a
traditional activity for the many White House contenders who
visit the fair every election cycle.  “I imagine you’re going to see more of me from time to
time,” he told a group of Iowa business leaders gathered in
Pella yesterday. “I’d like to do darn well in those caucuses.”  That low-key attitude marks a stark change from the 2008
election, when Romney poured $10 million and much of his time
into Iowa. He lost after the socially conservative voters who
dominate the state party’s caucuses took issue with his past
support for abortion rights and a Massachusetts health-care law
when he was governor.  This time he has focused his efforts largely on  New
Hampshire , where he owns a vacation home, while keeping his
efforts in Iowa alive largely through a network of volunteers.  Money Spent  “What he learned is that he didn’t have to spend all that
money in Iowa,” said  Dianne Bystrom , director of the Carrie
Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics at  Iowa State
University  in Ames. “If Iowans or Iowa Republicans play the
card they did in 2007, they’re looking for the most socially
conservative candidate.”  The expected entrance of Texas Governor  Rick Perry  into the
race could force Romney to intensify his efforts in Iowa.  Perry has a strong appeal to the same Tea Party activists
and social conservatives forming the base of support for
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , who was in a
statistical tie with Romney in the most recent Des Moines
Register  Iowa Poll . If Romney can beat Bachmann in Iowa, he
would head into the New Hampshire,  South Carolina  and other
primary contests strengthened.  “If Perry were to win here, it would be hard for Romney to
stop his momentum,” said Doug Gross, an Iowa Republican who ran
Romney’s 2008 statewide campaign and is unaligned now.  Perry’s Qualifications  Romney declined to comment on Perry’s qualifications for
the presidency.  “I think I’m the right guy to be the Republican nominee
for president,” Romney told reporters in Pella. Perry is “a
fine man and a fine governor, and the record of  Texas , I think,
speaks for itself.”  Through his campaign, Romney has largely aimed his attacks
at President  Barack Obama  and the administration’s economic
policies, while touting his own experience in the private sector
as chief executive officer of private equity firm  Bain Capital .  In Pella, Romney criticized Obama for a bus tour he plans
through Iowa next week and predicted the president would lose
the state in the general election.  “He won’t carry Iowa because Iowans will recognize that
his presidency has failed,” he said. “He is not up to the task
of leading the country at a time of economic crisis, and that’s
what we have.”  Taking on Romney  Republican candidates have been eager to take on Romney.
Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. has criticized him for a
lack of leadership on the debt ceiling debate. Rick Santorum, a
former senator from  Pennsylvania , has questioned his credentials
on social issues such as abortion. Romney aides anticipate that
he will face even tougher attacks during tonight’s debate.  Democrats, too, are beginning to take aim at Romney. Less
than an hour after his comments at the state fair today,
Democratic National Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  released a statement questioning his priorities.  “It is a shocking admission from a candidate and a party
that shamelessly puts forward policies to help large
corporations and the wealthiest Americans at the expense of the
middle class, seniors and students,” she said.  Romney argues that his business background makes him the
most qualified for the presidency, as the economy struggles to
come out of the deepest recession since the 1930s.  Voters, he said, are “going to look to me as someone who
understands how the economy works and how to get it back on
track.”  That message could help him overcome his liabilities among
socially conservative Iowa voters, says Gross.  “Because of the times, the dominant issues are economic
ones. They’re not social,” he said. “Romney, if he’s smart,
he’ll get in here and capture those issues for voters.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Des Moines ,
Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  