-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Hinted at Willingness to Break Ranks on Policy in 2010

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-11T20:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fed-s-kocherlakota-hinted-at-willingness-to-break-ranks-on-policy-in-2010.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President Narayana Kocherlakota identified limits to Fed policy
in a speech last year that suggested he might be willing to
break ranks with his colleagues. On Aug. 9, he made his move.  The 47-year-old economist said in a September speech that
2.5 percentage points or more of the U.S. jobless rate is due to
mismatches between workers and businesses, including location,
which the Fed lacks the tools to fix. “Central bankers alone
cannot solve the world’s economic problems,” Kocherlakota said.  “He’s a fairly independent thinker who is not necessarily
going to fall in line with what the rest of the FOMC or the
chairman might be thinking,” said Tom Welle, president of  First
National Bank  in Bemidji, Minnesota, referring to the  Federal
Open Market Committee . Welle is a former chairman of the state
bankers’ association.  Kocherlakota, the central bank’s youngest policy maker,
joined Fed presidents  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and
Richard Fisher from  Dallas  in posing the most opposition to a
FOMC decision in almost 19 years. They dissented from the FOMC’s
decision to hold interest rates near zero at least until mid-
2013, preferring instead to maintain a commitment to do so for
an unspecified “extended period.”  Kocherlakota has repeatedly said in public remarks this
year that he’d prefer to increase the target for the benchmark
U.S. interest rate by 0.5 percentage point.  A “modest” boost
toward the end of 2011 would be “desirable” under his baseline
forecast, he said in three speeches in May.  He declined a request for an interview, according to
Minneapolis Fed spokeswoman Patti Lorenzen.  Growth Rate  In a May 25 speech to the Rochester Area Chamber of
Commerce in  Minnesota , Kocherlakota said he expects a
“disappointing” rate of growth of around 3 percent this year
and unemployment that will still be “close to 8.5 percent” by
December.  U.S. stocks surged today and Treasuries sank as an
unexpected drop in jobless claims and higher-than-estimated
earnings tempered concern the economy is slowing amid  Europe ’s
widening debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 4.6
percent to 1,172.64 after tumbling 4.4 percent yesterday.
Treasuries halted a three-day surge, sending the yield on the
10-year note up 18 basis points to 2.32 percent.  Limits of Policy  Kocherlakota’s comments on the limits of Fed policy are in
line with the views of his predecessors at the  Minneapolis Fed ,
said Varadarajan V. Chari, a University of Minnesota economics
professor who’s known the policy maker for almost 25 years.  While there are “significant differences” among
Kocherlakota and former Minneapolis Fed presidents  Gary Stern 
and Mark Willes, “they share a commitment to the idea that the
latest developments in economic theory should guide thinking
about monetary policy,” Chari said.  One example is the work done by Edward C. Prescott and
Thomas J. Sargent in the 1970s and 1980s, Chari said. Those
economists found that “monetary policy was somewhat potent
perhaps in the short term, but not very potent in the long
term,” the professor said. “That definitely influenced Gary
Stern, Mark Willes and  Narayana Kocherlakota  to warn people
against unrealistic expectations about the power of monetary
policy.”  Career in Academia  Kocherlakota, who has led the Minneapolis Fed since October
2009, built his career in academia and is former chairman of the
economics department at the University of Minnesota in
Minneapolis. The Baltimore-born economist entered  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey  at the age of 15 and received a
doctorate from the  University of Chicago  at 23. He served as a
staff economist at the Minneapolis Fed from 1996 to 1998 and a
consultant to the bank between 1999 and 2009.  Robert E. Lucas Jr., 1995 winner of the  Nobel Prize  for
economics, once called Kocherlakota “the best abstract theorist
ever to head a Federal Reserve bank.”  Kocherlakota has written or co-written more than 30 papers.
In a 2008 article in the Journal of Economic Theory, he
supported “laissez-faire” as an “optimal social contract” in
which “agents trade in unfettered markets with no government
intervention of any kind.”  In early 2009, Kocherlakota’s name, along with other
economists, appeared in an advertisement sponsored by the  Cato
Institute , a Washington-based research group promoting free-
market policies. The ad challenged President  Barack Obama ’s $787
billion stimulus program, saying  government spending  would do
nothing to improve the economy.  Asset Bubbles  Still, in a paper for an International Monetary Fund
conference in April 2009, Kocherlakota concluded government has
a “useful” role to play before asset bubbles form and should
bail out private borrowers after a collapse like that of U.S.
housing prices.  Chari said he doesn’t know why Kocherlakota supported the
Fed’s pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero for “an extended
period” at four FOMC meetings this year and then opposed the
committee’s pledge to hold rates low until at least mid-2013.  Still, “a specific commitment to a specific date,
regardless of what developments occur in between, is often
undesirable,” Chari said. “One can make a commitment that can
often undermine credibility if you don’t specify the conditions
in which you would depart from that commitment.”  “I don’t know what his reasoning was, but if I had voted
that way, that would be my main concern,” he said.  In his September speech, Kocherlakota said “a lot” of the
nation’s jobless rate was a result of mismatches between firms
and available workers -- whether due to geography, skills or
demography. He suggested that the right responses might be job
training or foreclosure mitigation.  The Minneapolis Fed president is scheduled to speak to
reporters on Aug. 30, when he also delivers a speech to the
National Association of State Treasurers in Bismarck, North
Dakota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  