-- 
Fed Said to Draft Rules for Biggest U.S. Banks Following Basel Standards

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-08-11T13:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fed-said-to-draft-rules-for-biggest-u-s-banks-following-basel-standards.html
Federal Reserve officials are
drawing up rules for the largest U.S. banks that won’t be more
stringent than global capital standards agreed to in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo cited a “goal of
congruence” between the Basel standards and the Fed’s work on
rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, which overhauls banking
regulation, in a June 3 speech. The central bank hasn’t veered
from that, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because the rules are still being drafted.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which includes
regulators from the U.S. and  Europe , set an additional capital
buffer standard for the largest international banks in June that
will range from 1 percentage point to 2.5 percentage points of
risk-weighted assets. That comes on top of a requirement of 7
percent of common equity for all banks.  “I have always thought it was very important to try to
preserve the level playing field for internationally active
banks, and those are the key terms in Basel,” said Ernest Patrikis, partner at law firm White & Case LLC and a former
general counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . “There
will be a sigh of relief” among bank executives that the Fed is
staying within the Basel framework, he said.  Largest Banks  Regulators worldwide are trying to curb the risk the
largest banks pose to taxpayers and the financial system. The
rule-making comes as bank stocks worldwide have plunged on
forecasts for lower economic growth. Higher capital levels could
have crimped bank returns even more, posing greater risk to a
flagging U.S. recovery.  “Higher and higher levels of capital mean less lending,
risking a policy error given the fragility of the economic
recovery,” said John Dearie, executive vice president for
policy at the Financial Services Forum, a Washington-based
organization whose members include Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Capital requirements  “determine how much
banks can lend.”  A draft of the Fed’s rule-making on a section of the Dodd-
Frank Act that calls for “enhanced prudential standards” for
banks with $50 billion or more in assets should be finished by
the end of September, according to the central bank. The rules
will also apply to nonbank financial firms that regulators
determine pose systemic risk. The rule proposal will also cover
liquidity requirements, credit exposure limits and risk
management standards for the biggest U.S. banks.  ‘High Enough’  Richard Spillenkothen, a former director of banking and
supervision for the Fed, said the capital standards are “high
enough to be credible.” He said the central bank still has
latitude to go even further later.  “U.S. regulators retain the authority to require any
individual U.S. global bank to operate with capital above the
Basel surcharge levels based on the bank’s unique circumstances
and risks -- which is to say that the proposed Basel surcharges
remain minimum systemic risk add-ons,” he said in an e-mail
yesterday. “This is an important tool that regulators should
not be afraid to use.”  Bank Stocks Drop  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks shares of 24 banks
including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., and  Wells Fargo
& Co ., is down 30 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent
decline in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. The Bloomberg
Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services Index is down 29
percent.  The rout in banks stocks is risky because financial
institutions could pull back on lending as they try to curb
risks and protect returns. Fed officials attempted to support
the economy this week by pledging to keep the benchmark lending
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008, for at least the next two years.  Simon Johnson , the former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  who is now a professor at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said Fed officials may be
missing an opportunity to force banks to hold even more capital
against losses.  “They certainly should have higher capital requirements
for systemically important financial institutions,” he said.
“This week is going badly in the markets partly because one or
more global megabanks is under pressure -- precisely because
their buffers against losses are so low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  