-- 
Fed Blocking Use of Small Business Loan Fund, Banks Say

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-11T23:32:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fed-blocking-use-of-small-business-loan-fund-bank-group-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  is blocking
disbursement of money from a $30 billion government fund to spur
lending to small businesses, endangering the program’s success,
a trade group for community banks said.  The central bank, which regulates banks across the U.S.,
hasn’t allowed payment of dividends on the funds, jeopardizing
approval of applications,  Independent Community Bankers of
America , which represents almost 5,000 institutions, said in an
Aug. 10 letter to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The Washington-
based group released the letter regarding the Small Business
Lending Fund to news media today.  The Fed has received the letter and will respond to it,
said  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman. Treasury has given
out $590 million of the amount authorized with less than two
months until the Sept. 27 expiration of the program, the ICBA
said. It was set up in September by Congress and the Obama
administration to give capital injections to community banks
that increase their lending to small businesses.  “Many applicants have reported that the Federal Reserve is
simply refusing to address the dividend waivers, thus
potentially neutering the success of the Treasury SBLF
program,” ICBA President Camden Fine said in the letter. “We
urge the Federal Reserve to help, not hinder, the SBLF approval
process.”  Dividend Payments  Paul Merski, the ICBA’s chief economist, said in an
interview that for Fed-regulated banks to gain access to the
SBLF, the Fed must sign off on the institution’s payment of
dividends on the funds to the government.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in June
that the Treasury Department received 869 applications for $11.6
billion in capital.  Geithner said at the time that regulators were responsible
for the slow start of the Small Business Lending Fund. “The
reason why we’re a little behind schedule is because we are
being careful and because the regulators are being careful,”
Geithner said at a House Small Business Committee hearing on
June 22. “That’s what you want us to be.”  The program lets banks refinance debt from 2008’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program. Treasury began distributing SBLF funding
on July 7 by giving six community banks a total of $123 million
in capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  