-- 
FIFA Opens Ethics Proceedings Against Caribbean Officials Over May Meeting

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-12T00:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fifa-opens-ethics-proceedings-against-caribbean-officials-over-may-meeting.html
FIFA  opened corruption proceedings
against 16 Caribbean soccer officials after an investigation
into allegations they took money from a candidate in the
governing body’s presidential election.  FIFA on July 26 gave officials from the Caribbean Football
Union 48 hours to come forward with information about a May
meeting where Mohamed  Bin Hammam , a one-time challenger to FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter , allegedly offered envelopes stuffed with
$40,000. Bin Hammam, the former head of soccer in  Asia , is
appealing the lifetime ban he was given from the sport.  Zurich-based FIFA’s ethics committee said in a statement
yesterday that it will contact all 16 people to arrange further
interviews in the proceedings. They may get lifetime bans if
they were found to be withholding information.  “It is important to note that the investigations are still
ongoing and that is therefore possible that further proceedings
could be opened,” the statement said.  The meeting of the regional body was held in May at a hotel
in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.  Bin Hammam became the highest-ranked soccer official to be
excluded from the sport on July 23.  FIFA  has spent a year trying
to deal with corruption allegations linked to the presidential
election as well as the choice of host for the  World Cup , which
brings in $4 billion.  One of FIFA’s vice presidents, Trinidad-based Jack Warner,
quit the sport after being suspended pending the investigation
into him and Bin Hammam. He arranged the Qatari’s meeting with
the CFU and the duo were first suspended May 29.  Warner Withdraws  FIFA dropped its case against Warner, saying “the
presumption of innocence is maintained,” following his
withdrawal from the sport. Warner was also head of Concacaf, the
regional soccer body for North and Central America and the
Caribbean.  Blatter secured a fourth four-year presidential term
unopposed after Bin Hammam, the only other candidate, withdrew.
Blatter promised a “zero tolerance” approach to fighting
wrongdoing upon his re-election on June 1.  Lisle Austin, a Barbados official who briefly replaced
Warner as head of Concacaf, was given a one-year ban from soccer
two days ago for taking legal action against the regional body
for suspending him, in violation of FIFA rules.  Austin said in a statement yesterday that his hearing “was
yet another attempt to marginalize and silence calls for reform
and transparency,” adding that he would continue his action in
the Bahamian court.  “FIFA’s desperate attempt to suspend me through its
kangaroo court affirms that it believes my rights to judicial
due process are inferior to its interests of sweeping under the
rug any attempt to bring transparency to the football world,”
he said. “I must fight for what is right and have no doubt that
ultimately fairness and truth will prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  