-- 
First-Time Jobless Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Decrease to Four-Month Low

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-11T20:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decrease-to-four-month-low.html
Claims for U.S. unemployment
benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to a four-month low,
signaling the job market is being hampered by a lack of hiring
rather than more firings.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments fell 7,000 in the week ended Aug. 6 to 395,000, the
fewest since early April, the Labor Department said today in
Washington. Other reports showed the  trade gap  widened in June
to the highest level since October 2008 and consumer confidence
dropped last week.  Stocks rebounded after benchmark indexes yesterday sank to
the lowest level in 11 months as the decrease in worker
dismissals relieved investor concern the recovery was stumbling.
Companies like  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are among those seeing little
sign of recession even as their customers say they will keep a
lid on payrolls.  Claims are “moving in the right direction, we’re coming
down gradually,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in New York. “At least we’re still not
seeing deterioration yet” in the labor market from volatility
in financial markets, she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 4.6 percent to
1,172.63 at 4 p.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell,
pushing the yield on the 10-year note up to 2.33 percent from
2.11 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected claims would increase to 405,000. Estimates
ranged from 390,000 to 450,000. The Labor Department revised the
prior week’s figure to 402,000 from the initially reported
400,000.  Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of networking equipment,
has reined in operating expenses, unveiling a plan to cut about
6,500 jobs worldwide. Profit and sales at the  San Jose ,
California-based company for the fiscal fourth quarter beat
analysts’ estimates.  “Our customers are saying they do not see a recession,
they are however going to be very hesitant about hiring,”  John Chambers , Cisco’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today. “Unfortunately I think
it’s gonna be a very tough job market.”  American companies also found it difficult to sustain sales
abroad. The trade deficit unexpectedly rose 4.4 percent in June
to $53.1 billion from $50.8 billion in the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed. The widening was paced by a 2.3
percent slump in exports, the biggest decline since January
2009, as overseas demand for everything from soybeans and
plastics to industrial engines and generators decreased.  ‘Shaky’ Pillar  The drop in foreign sales undermines one of the few
remaining pillars of the recovery.  “The real weakness was in exports and that’s consistent
with slower growth in the rest of the world,” said  Jay Bryson ,
a global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . Exports’ contribution to economic growth “is
going to be a little more shaky,” he said.  American households are also becoming increasingly
concerned about the economy.  Consumer confidence  dropped last
week to the lowest level since mid-May as high earners,
homeowners and those working full time turned more pessimistic,
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed today.  The sentiment gauge dropped to minus 49.1 in the period to
Aug. 7, and the second-lowest level in a year, from minus 47.6
the prior week. The measure was less than five points away from
the record low of minus 54 reached in November 2008, during the
depths of the last recession.  Confidence Undermined  The biggest one-week plunge in stocks since 2008 followed
by the downgrade of the country’s top credit rating may even be
unnerving those who are fully employed and earning more than
$100,000 a year. Rising concern among such households, which
have the wherewithal to spend, poses a risk to a recovery that
Federal Reserve policy makers said this week was already
advancing “considerably slower” than projected.  The Labor Department’s report on jobless claims showed the
number of people continuing to collect benefits dropped by
60,000 in the week ended July 30 to 3.69 million. The decrease
was the biggest since February.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
16,000 to 3.7 million in the week ended July 23.  The economy added 117,000 jobs in July, bringing the
average gain in payrolls over the past three months to 111,000,
a Labor Department report showed last week. That was about half
the 204,000 increase on average in the first four months of the
year.  Fed Decision  Slowing job growth and a weakening economy were among
reasons cited by Fed policy makers this week in their decision
to keep the benchmark lending rate near zero “at least”
through mid-2013.  The recent volatility in financial markets and mounting
concern that the recovery will falter as government agencies,
businesses and consumers cut spending may prove hurdles to
bigger increases in employment.  “It’s still an open question as to whether the decline in
confidence of late will lead to a slowdown in hiring,” said
BNP’s Coronado. “But there will be some knock-on effects from
the volatility and worries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  