-- 
FM Global Chief Says Buy Large-Cap Stocks After Increasing JPMorgan Stake

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-11T12:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/fm-global-chief-says-buy-large-cap-stocks-after-increasing-jpmorgan-stake.html
FM Global, the policyholder-owned
insurer that counts  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
among its top equity holdings, said stock market declines have
created opportunities to invest in the largest U.S. companies.  “We’ve been a net buyer of equities in the last 60 days,”
said Shivan Subramaniam, FM Global’s chief executive officer, in
a phone interview yesterday. “Across the board, the large-cap
North American stocks are all very attractive buys, especially
if they have a dividend.”  FM Global is adding to stock holdings as U.S. companies
build record cash piles and raise dividends. The plunge in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index from July 22 through yesterday
erased 17 percent from the benchmark gauge for American equities
as Congress and President  Barack Obama  clashed over borrowing
limits and S&P stripped the U.S. of its top  credit rating .  “We still have cash liquidity of a little more than $1
billion,” said Subramaniam. “If we wanted to move into the
market in a big way we could. Or, most importantly, we could
take care of all of our clients’ obligations and not have it
affect the portfolio at all.”  FM Global, which writes property coverage for corporations,
held  $4.84 billion  in equities at the end of last year,
according to a report on its website. The Johnston, Rhode
Island-based insurer boosted its stake in JPMorgan to 3.4
million shares on June 30 from 3.27 million shares three months
earlier, according to regulatory filings. It held 2.65 million
shares of Exxon at the end of the second quarter.  JPMorgan boosted its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share
from 5 cents in March. The New York-based bank has an indicated
yield of 2.91 percent. Exxon pays a quarterly dividend of 47
cents a share, yielding 2.77 percent.  CEOs have more money than ever after boosting cash for 10
straight quarters to $963.3 billion, 58 percent more than in
December 2007 near the start of the credit crisis, S&P data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  