-- 
India’s Food Inflation Accelerates to Three-Month High

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-08-12T00:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/food-inflation-in-india-quickens-to-three-month-high-amid-risks-to-growth.html
(Corrects to add that the increase was from a year earlier
in the second paragraph, in story published Aug. 11.)  India ’s food inflation accelerated
to a three-month high, maintaining pressure on the central bank
to increase  interest rates  amid the risk of a global downturn.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including rice, wheat and lentils rose 9.9 percent in
the week ended July 30 from a year earlier, the commerce
ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the most
since the week ended April 23.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, whose term
this week was extended by two years, has to weigh the risks to
economic growth as he tightens monetary policy to counter
inflation. Stocks across Asia fell today on concern  Europe  will
fail to contain its debt crisis, undermining the world economy.  “If food inflation increases and the global situation
deteriorates, the RBI will be in a spot,”  Anubhuti Sahay , a
Mumbai-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the
report. “Its still too early to say if the RBI will hit the
pause button on interest rates.”  Judging by current data, the central bank will likely
increase its repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point
to 8.25 percent in their Sept. 16 policy meeting, Sahay said.  India’s 10-year bonds fell after the food inflation report.
The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021 was at 8.22
percent at 11:55 a.m. in Mumbai, compared with 8.20 percent
before the data was published, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate was 8.19 percent yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent to 122.23
as the cost of protecting the government debt of Greece, Italy,
Spain and France rose. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
declined 0.2 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  has increased rates 11 times since mid-
March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 