-- 
Former Ohio State Quarterback Pryor Hasn’t Heard From NFL on Draft Status

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T18:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/former-ohio-state-quarterback-pryor-hasn-t-heard-from-nfl-on-draft-status.html
Former  Ohio State University 
quarterback Terrelle Pryor, who was at the heart of the scandal
that led to the school’s football team vacating all of its wins
last season, still doesn’t know if he will be eligible for the
 National Football League .  It’s also unclear what position he would play.  Pryor, 22, left college in June a week after coach  Jim Tressel  resigned, and is waiting for the NFL to decide whether
he can be included in the league’s supplemental draft on Aug.
17. He postponed a planned workout tomorrow for NFL teams until
the eligibility question is resolved, according to ESPN.  While the 6-foot-6, 233-pound Pryor won three straight Big
Ten titles as the Buckeyes’ quarterback, his future in the NFL
may not be at that position because he is not an accurate
passer, said  Russ Lande , a former scout for the Cleveland Browns
and St. Louis Rams.  “Based on his film, he’s probably no more than a fifth-,
sixth-round quarterback,” Lande said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “But I think someone would probably gamble a little
higher than that, probably in the second or third round, because
he’s a freak athletically.”  Of the last 40 quarterbacks that Lande has charted, Pryor’s
passing precision was ranked 36th.  “His accuracy is atrocious,” said Lande, who founded GM
Junior Scouting and is an analyst for the Sporting News. “His
ball is all over the place.”  Pryor was one of five Ohio State players suspended in
December for five 2011 games for selling team memorabilia to a
Columbus, Ohio, tattoo shop owner. That relationship led to an
investigation into the school’s football program.  Tressel, who resigned in May, said he knew of the
violations but didn’t tell school administrators until after the
football season.  Left in June  Pryor announced that he was leaving school in June, and the
school vacated all 12 wins from last season a month later.
School officials are scheduled to meet with the National
Collegiate Athletic Administration committee on Infractions
tomorrow.  Ohio State ruled Pryor ineligible for the entire 2011
campaign on July 26, saying that he did not cooperate with
investigators.  In considering Pryor’s petition, the NFL office is looking
at what occurred since April’s NFL draft that changed his
eligibility status, including the school’s decision to ban him
for the season after he left.  “The review process is ongoing and decisions on players
who have petitioned for eligibility will be made as soon as
possible,” Michael Signora, a spokesman for the NFL, said in an
e-mail. The draft is set aside for players whose college
eligibility changed after the regular April NFL draft.  Draft Process  Selection in the supplemental draft is determined by a
three-step lottery and a bidding process. The lottery begins
with teams that had six wins or fewer the previous season,
followed by the rest of the non-playoff teams and concluding
with those that made the postseason. Teams then make secret bids
for players by offering a pick in the following year’s draft.
Ties are broken by the order from the lottery.  So far, the NFL has declared four players eligible for the
supplemental draft,  Georgia  running back Caleb King, the
school’s leading rusher last season; Northern Illinois safety
Tracy Wilson; Western Carolina defensive back Torez Jones; and
Lindenwood University defensive end Keenan Mace.  Pryor’s agent, Drew Rosenhaus, said on Twitter on Aug. 9
that they spoke with the NFL that day and were told that no
decision had been made. If his client is included, Rosenhaus
said he would go early.  “For anyone who questions where he’s going to be drafted,
I expect him to be a first-round pick in the supplemental
draft,” Rosenhaus said at a June news conference. “This league
needs quarterbacks.”  Lande, for one, said he isn’t certain Pryor can be a
successful one.  ‘Can’t Find Quarterbacks’  “I think he’ll be given an opportunity to play quarterback
just because you just can’t find quarterbacks,” said Lande.
“He’s got a big arm and he can make every throw with ease, so
you can’t just automatically say, ‘Nope, he’s going to another
position.’”  The Buckeyes posted a 31-4 record in three seasons with
Pryor at quarterback, with wins in the Sugar Bowl and  Rose Bowl .
Pryor completed 477 passes for 6,177 yards and 57 touchdowns
while rushing for 2,164 yards. He also threw 26 interceptions.  A better fit for Pryor might be wide receiver, Lande said.  “It’s hard to move a guy to tight end, because you’re
asking a kid who’s never been a hitter to have to block and do
things like that,” Lande said. “Defense is a complete shot in
the dark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 