-- 
Atlantic Hurricane Season May Be Entering Most Active Period

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-11T12:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/four-atlantic-storm-systems-watched-as-hurricane-season-heats-up.html
A weather system off West  Africa  may
signal the start of the most active part of the annual hurricane
season in the Atlantic, with meteorologists expecting a wave of
storms to develop within days.  “Next week looks to be an active one with possibly two
storms, one of which could represent a threat to the East
Coast,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. The  National Hurricane
Center  is also watching an area of thunderstorms near Florida.  Colorado State University’s  William Gray , who pioneered
hurricane forecasting, likes to ring a bell on Aug. 20 to mark
the start of the season that lasts through the end of November.  The Atlantic is usually its warmest in late August, with
less wind shear that can tear storms apart, said  Paul Walker , a
senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. The jet stream also moves farther north, he said.  Meterologists, now watching three Atlantic weather systems,
monitor their progress due to risks to the Gulf of Mexico, home
to 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas.
Storms tend to form in the “main development region” from the
Cape Verde Islands off Africa to the Caribbean Leeward Islands,
where some of the most powerful storms on record have begun.  The hurricane center is watching a system about 650 miles
(1,000 kilometers) west of the southern tip of the islands with
a 30 percent chance of becoming a tropical storm or depression
in two days, it said on its website at 8 a.m. in  New York . “The
 Cape Verde  hurricane season looks to start,” Rouiller said.  Systems Watched  While the disturbance off Cape Verde will contend with
“loads of dry air” that may stop it developing as it moves
across the Atlantic, the system is strong and will be followed
by another coming from Africa in the next few days, Walker said.  Another area of disturbed weather about 300 miles south-
southeast of the southern Cape Verde has a 20 percent chance of
becoming a tropical cyclone in two days, the hurricane center
said. A third area of “disorganized showers and thunderstorms”
located over the Atlantic about midway between Florida and
Bermuda has a 10 percent chance,  the center  said.  “It’s not a big one, but something we have to watch,”
Walker said of the  Florida  system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  