-- 
European Bans on Short-Selling Seen as Failing to Reverse Bank Stock Slide

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-12T16:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/france-spain-italy-belgium-ban-short-sales-to-halt-rout-in-bank-shares.html
France,  Spain , Italy and  Belgium ’s
bans on short-selling may fail to reverse the fall in financial
stocks and instead may concentrate bets against banks elsewhere
in Europe, according to lawyers, investors and academics.  British financial stocks dropped 41 percent in the four
months after regulators imposed a ban on short selling following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
The benchmark FTSE 100 index fell 15 percent in the period. When
the Securities and Exchange Commission prohibited short-sales
for three weeks in September 2008 a Bloomberg Index tracking the
880 U.S. stocks affected fell 26 percent, outpacing the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index’s 22 percent decline.  European regulators are divided over how to respond after a
rout that sent the region’s bank stocks to their lowest in
almost 2 1/2 years this week.  Germany  and the Netherlands have
said they don’t plan further restrictions on short sales, while
British regulators said they don’t plan to limit the practice.  “In contrast to the regulators’ hopes, the overall
evidence indicates that short-selling bans at best left stock
prices unaffected and at worst may have contributed to their
decline,” said Alessandro Beber, a professor at  Cass Business
School  in  London  who’s studied short-sales bans in 30 countries.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  Partial Ban ‘Problem’  “The problem with a partial ban -- which is what we have
now -- is that it moves the problem to other parts of the
system,” Bob Penn, a financial regulation partner at law firm
Allen & Overy LLP in London, said. “It would be reasonable to
expect the short sellers to turn their attention to non-Italian
or non-French banks with significant exposures to those
jurisdictions, for example.”  Dexia SA, KBC Groep NV and Mediobanca SpA led the Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index up 4.3 percent in
London. Dexia, Belgium’s biggest bank by assets, climbed 17
percent and KBC advanced 9.6 percent. The index is still down 24
percent this year.  “European bank stocks, while bouncing up in a knee-jerk
response in September 2008 when a short-selling ban was
announced, dropped sharply over the next few months as the
financial and economic crisis worsened,” Barclays Capital
analysts wrote in a report to clients today. “Short-selling
bans have proven ineffective in the past, tend not to address
the real underlying issues in Europe, reduce liquidity and
increase the related risk premiums.”  Societe Generale (GLE)   In France, where Societe Generale SA shares hit their
lowest since the credit crisis this week, regulators banned the
creation of any net short positions and any increase in such
positions for at least the next 15 days. Frederic Oudea, chief
executive officer of the Paris-based lender, defended the
company against speculation that a deterioration in  France ’s
creditworthiness would damage the bank’s stability. He called
the rumors “absolute rubbish” in an Aug. 10 interview with
CNBC after the stock sank 15 percent.  “You can understand why they’ve done it, to a certain
extent, because of the rumors circulating around Soc Gen, none
of which seem to be founded,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, an
analyst at MF Global Ltd. in London. “The thing with the banks
is that it can be self-fulfilling: it’s all about confidence.”  European lenders may be struggling to fund themselves.
Banks’ overnight borrowings from the  European Central Bank 
jumped to the highest in three months yesterday, a sign some
lenders may need emergency cash. The difference between three-
month Euribor and the overnight indexed swap rate, a measure of
banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, was at 0.67 percentage
point today, close to the widest spread since May 2009.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  “EU policy makers don’t seem to understand the law of
unintended consequences,”  Jim Chanos , the short seller known
for predicting Enron Corp.’s collapse, said by e-mail. “The
vast majority of short-selling financial shares is by other
financial institutions, hedging their counterparty risks, not
speculators. The interbank lending market froze up completely in
October to December 2008 -- after the short-selling bans.”  The 11 French companies covered by the restrictions include
insurer Axa SA, BNP Paribas SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Natixis and
Societe Generale, the regulator said. Market makers will be
exempt from the ban.  Ban in Belgium  In Belgium, the local regulator said it banned short-
selling “by any means whatsoever.” Existing short positions
won’t be banned, though they can’t be increased. Ageas, Dexia
SA, KBC and KBC Ancora are covered by the limits.  Spain’s markets regulator introduced a 15-day ban on new
short sales or increasing existing positions because of “the
situation of extreme volatility” in markets, according to a
statement from the Madrid-based CNMV. The ruling applies to 16
stocks, including Banco Santander SA, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Banco Popular Espanol SA and insurer Mapfre SA.  Italy ’s securities market regulator, Consob, banned new net
short positions on financial shares for 15 days, according to a
statement posted in its website. Investors can’t increase
existing short positions even on an intraday basis, Consob said.  “Short-selling is a legitimate market practice which helps
capital markets function effectively,” said  Andrew Baker , CEO
of London-based lobby group the Alternative Investment
Management Association. “It contributes to efficient price
discovery, increases market liquidity, facilitates hedging and
other risk management activities.”  ‘Just Increasing Volatility’  The ban won’t have its intended impact of helping banks,
because money managers will also have to reduce wagers that
financial stocks will rise, said Gemma Godfrey, who chairs the
investment committee at Credo Capital Plc, a wealth manager in
London. Without the ability to make corresponding bearish bets
to mitigate risk,  hedge funds  will abandon the market, she said.  “It means hedge funds can’t manage their risk as well as
they could before, so you are just increasing volatility,” said
Godfrey, whose firm has 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion)
invested in hedge funds and other asset managers. “If they
close out their shorts, they have to close out their longs.”  The difference between 2008’s bans and today’s plan is the
inclusion of some derivatives, according to Karim Bertoni, a
 fund manager  at Banque Syz & Co., who helps manage $29 billion
including European bank stocks. The Italian ban includes short-
selling through derivative instruments on shares, Consob said.  ‘Hedge Fund Bogeyman’  “The ban on options to is new as it was not the case two
years ago, so it gives more power to the ban,” he said. “But
remember that even in Germany where the ban was expanded to all
stocks since October 2010, not just financial ones, the market
has declined substantially.”  Short-selling prohibitions are meant to restore confidence
among nervous traders, who incorrectly think that hedge funds
have driven down share prices, said Andrew Shrimpton, who
previously oversaw hedge funds at the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority. The bans don’t work, because they reduce trading
volumes, which acerbates the price impact of selling, he said.  “They are going after the hedge fund bogeyman,” said
Shrimpton, who’s now a partner at hedge-fund consultancy Kinetic
Partners LLP in London. “We tried this once before in 2008, and
proved beyond all doubt that it doesn’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  