-- 
Franc Weakens as Swiss Central Bank Says Peg Against Euro Would Be Legal

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 
2011-08-11T10:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/franc-weakens-as-swiss-central-bank-says-peg-against-euro-would-be-legal.html
The franc weakened after Swiss
Central Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said a temporary franc
peg is within the range of options that policy makers could use
to stem the currency’s record-breaking rally.  “Any temporary measures to influence the  exchange rate  are
permissible under our mandate as long as these are consistent
with long-term  price stability ,” Jordan said in an interview
with  Tages-Anzeiger  today, when asked about a general currency
peg. Swiss National Bank spokesman Walter Meier confirmed the
remarks. The franc weakened as much as 2.5 percent.  The comments highlight the scale of the crisis engulfing
the Swiss economy as policy makers seek measures to fight off
investors piling into the franc, a haven in times of crisis.
While President Philipp Hildebrand has signaled the central bank
is unwilling to give up its sovereignty, some economists have
said the franc’s surge toward euro parity is adding pressure on
the SNB to consider a peg for the first time since the Bretton
Woods currency system was abandoned in 1973.  “Relief on the franc is not expected by these comments,”
said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “The market will probably only react to
actions.”  Surprise Cut  The franc traded at 1.0517 versus the euro at 12:53 p.m. in
Zurich after rising as high as 1.0257 earlier today. It reached
a record 1.0075 against the euro on Aug. 9. The currency was at
74.10 centimes versus the dollar.  The franc has gained 31 percent versus the euro over the
past year, reflecting investor concern that the euro region’s
fiscal crisis may continue to worsen. While the SNB boosted
liquidity on the money market and earlier this month
unexpectedly trimmed borrowing costs to zero, the currency
continued to appreciate, choking economic growth and exports.  “Normally, we would have argued this could never happen,”
said Ursina Kubli, an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich,
commenting on a possible peg. “It would be a very drastic
measure but now it’s becoming more and more realistic.”  Jordan didn’t say whether the SNB is currently considering
a currency peg. Hildebrand, 48, said earlier this month that “a
fixed and permanent peg of the franc to the euro isn’t
compatible with our constitutional and legal mandate to conduct
an independent monetary and exchange rate policy.”  Independent Policy  “It’s certainly not the easiest measure to introduce
neither in political nor legal terms,” SNB Governing Board
member Jean-Pierre Danthine told Le Temps newspaper in an
interview published today. The SNB’s mandate is “to conduct an
independent monetary policy.”  With exports accounting for about half of gross domestic
product, the Swiss economy is vulnerable to an appreciating
franc.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, based in
Vevey, Switzerland, said yesterday the franc’s strength stripped
14 percentage points off its first-half sales growth.  Bank Sarasin’s Kubli said the franc’s surge could prompt
companies to shift production sites abroad to help protect
earnings and avoid “repeated exchange-rate shocks.”  “For a lot of exporters, it becomes impossible to remain
competitive,” she said. “People know that if there are any
turbulences, the franc appreciates as a result. That could be
enough of a reason for companies to leave.”  ‘Close Watch’  The SNB said on Aug. 3 that policy makers are “keeping a
close watch” on currency developments. The franc’s surge “has
accelerated sharply” over past weeks and the “outlook for the
Swiss economy has deteriorated substantially,” it said.  The central bank boosted the supply of liquidity to the
money market yesterday, expanding banks’ sight deposits to 120
billion francs ($163 billion) from 80 billion francs.  “We are able to increase liquidity even further,” Jordan
said. “We are also considering a range of other monetary-policy
measures and we’ll act as soon as we’re convinced that it’s the
right time,” he said, without elaborating.  Jordan joined the SNB in 1997 after a three-year post-
doctoral research position at  Harvard University ,  Massachusetts ,
U.S. In 2007, he joined the SNB board in 2007 and was appointed
vice chairman in 2010.  Coordinated Effort  George Magnus , senior economic adviser at UBS AG in  London ,
said he “can’t see any merit” in a franc peg.  “Any form of pegging structure actually gives them
obligations to intervene and perhaps even on a daily basis, and
I’m not sure that’s something they would want,” he said. “It
doesn’t mean that the franc won’t be subject to speculative
pressure, which would still oblige them to intervene.”  Jordan also said he considers the franc “massively
overvalued” against both the dollar and the euro. The central
bank ended attempts to weaken the franc through purchases of
foreign currencies in mid-June 2010. The measure sparked a
record loss of $21 billion last year.  Japan  last week followed  Switzerland  in seeking to stem
appreciating exchange rates, selling the yen and pledging to
inject liquidity. The central bank acted alone in the market.  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius Baer Group in
Frankfurt, said Hildebrand could try and convince global
counterparts to support a coordinated currency intervention.  “Hildebrand is very well connected,” he said. “It’s very
difficult to intervene unilaterally. But if they managed to get
other central banks on board, it would surprise markets and have
a much bigger impact.”  The SNB will hold its next quarterly meeting on Sept. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  