-- 
France, Italy, Spain, Belgium to Impose Short-Selling Curbs

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-11T21:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/france-italy-spain-belgium-to-impose-short-sale-curbs-regulator-says.html
France , Italy, Spain and  Belgium 
plan to enact bans on short selling or on short positions, the
European Securities and Markets Authority said today.  “Some authorities have decided to impose or extend
existing short-selling bans in their respective countries,”
ESMA said in a  statement  on its website. “They have done so
either to restrict the benefits that can be achieved from
spreading false rumors or to achieve a regulatory level playing
field, given the close inter-linkage between some EU markets.”  Information on the measures, which take effect tomorrow,
will be posted on the relevant regulators’ websites, ESMA said.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 Banks Index advanced 3.9 percent
after falling as much as 3.5 percent. French lender  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA rebounded in Paris trading after dropping as much as
9.1 percent. Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  defended
France’s second-largest bank, whose shares tumbled 15 percent
yesterday, saying speculation that the country’s
creditworthiness is in doubt is “absolute rubbish.”  France’s stock market regulator said that rumors had been
circulating about French financial companies and that the
spreading of “unfounded information” may lead to punishment.
The market turbulence has led Turkey to curb short sales and
threaten “severe penalties” for stock manipulation, joining
nations from  Greece  to  South Korea  in trying to stem bearish
bets after the worst tumble in global shares since 2008.  2008 Measures  Nations including the U.S., France and Germany followed the
U.K. in September 2008 in imposing temporary bans on short
selling of bank stocks to stem the damage being done to firms’
market value after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The board of  Italy ’s securities markets regulator, Consob,
postponed a meeting to review market activity to tomorrow
morning, before the market opens, said an official at the Rome-
based watchdog, who couldn’t be identified in line with its
policy. The meeting will address short sales and measures to
review the practice, the official said.  The U.K.’s authority today repeated that it has no plans
for curbs on short selling of stocks.  “We have no plans to introduce a short selling ban,”
Christopher Hamilton, a spokesman for the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said in a telephone interview earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 