-- 
French Bank Investors’ ‘Panic’ Is an Overreaction, IIF Chief Dallara Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-08-11T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/french-bank-investors-panic-is-overreaction-iif-s-charles-dallara-says.html
Financial markets are overreacting
to concerns that French banks might suffer from exposure to
their nation’s sovereign debt, Institute of International
Finance managing director  Charles Dallara  said.  Profitability and capital levels were “quite solid” in
the second quarter, even as the banks wrote down the value of
some of their securities, Dallara, who is based in  Washington ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. France has taken steps
to rein in its  budget deficit  and begin the reforms needed to
make lasting structural changes to its fiscal policy, he said.  “Some of this is, in my view, market overreaction, which
you might even call a touch of market panic,” said Dallara,
whose organization represents more than 400 banks and insurance
companies. “You look at the French banks themselves, there can
really only be one serious point of concern, which is their
sovereign-debt exposure.” That concern is “substantially”
overblown, he said.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA said its performance in July and early
August shows it will be able to post “solid” results, in an
Aug. 10 statement released after its shares plunged 15 percent
amid speculation France’s creditworthiness was in doubt. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
will meet next week to discuss Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest bank, issued a statement
after markets closed yesterday dismissing “unfounded rumors”
and citing comments by market regulators and the Bank of France
underlining the “financial stability” of French banks.  ‘Cause to Be Concerned’  France was right to stimulate its economy during the worst
of the global recession and it is now “pulling back” from that
course to bring its deficits down over time, Dallara said.
“There is cause to be concerned, but not in any dramatic
fashion,” he said.  Dallara said that banks and authorities are making progress
on how to implement a private-sector bond exchange and debt
buyback as part of Greece’s new rescue package. The deal,
approved last month by European leaders, calls for investors to
contribute about 50 billion euros ($71 billion) to the Greek
program.  So far,  39 banks  from  Germany ,  France  and other European
nations have agreed to participate, according to the IIF’s
website. Dallara said the program is making “steady progress”
and that the technical details are on track to come together
next month.  “I think it’s a matter of weeks to get this stuff done,”
Dallara said. “I don’t think that there is any lack of a sense
of urgency here on the part of European authorities.”  Dallara called on European leaders to tackle questions
about fiscal integration as they assess the structural changes
needed to curb the crisis.  “Do we also not need to move steadily, if not overnight,
toward some greater degree of fiscal unity?” Dallara said. “If
you alleviate concerns about the medium-term fiscal outlook of
 Europe , then you will take pressure off of the financial
institutions, because that’s where the core of the concern is --
their exposure to their sovereigns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  