-- 
Gas Fracking Poses Serious Environmental Risks, Panel Finds

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-11T15:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/gas-fracking-poses-serious-environmental-risks-u-s-panel-finds.html
Natural-gas companies risk causing
serious environmental damage from hydraulic fracturing unless
they commit to the best engineering practices, a  task force 
named by Energy Secretary Steven Chu concluded.  Regulations to protect public health will work best when
drillers embrace techniques that avoid “undesirable
consequences,” according to a draft report today by a
subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board. The
increased use of fracturing, or fracking, which forces water and
chemicals into rock, raises the potential for a “serious
problem,” the panel found.  The report offered recommendations for companies involved
in fracking, such as Chesapeake Energy Inc. and  Southwestern
Energy Co. (SWN) , to follow, and guidelines for state regulators that
oversee drilling.  “While many states and several federal agencies regulate
aspects of these operations, the efficacy of the regulations is
far from clear,” according to the report. “Effective action
requires both strong regulation and a shale-gas industry in
which all participating companies are committed to continuous
improvement.”  The  Environmental Working Group  in Washington, which
advocates for clean air and water, questioned the findings of a
panel it said was dominated by the gas industry. The  Independent
Petroleum Association of America  in Washington, which represents
oil and gas companies, said the report marks “a useful starting
point,” for discussions.  ‘Disruptive Activities’  Communities “need to fully understand that there will be
disruptive activities during drilling and industry needs to
improve its response to local concerns,” Barry Russell, chief
executive officer of the group, said in a statement.  In fracturing, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break up rock and allow
gas to flow. Advances in the technology have, in a few years,
pushed gas from shale to almost 30 percent of U.S. production
from a “negligible amount,” according to the report, which
will be given to Chu on Aug. 18.  “What we’re recognizing in the report is the dramatic
scale and speed which the growth of the industry has realized,”
Kathleen McGinty, a subcommittee member who led President  Bill Clinton ’s Council on Environmental Quality, said in an
interview. “Unless the imperatives that are sometimes
articulated in regulation take deep root in every action out
there, you will experience problems.”  Marcellus Shale  Lower drilling costs have lured companies to develop the
Marcellus Shale, a formation from  New York  to  West Virginia  that
includes regions not typically associated with gas production.
The growth of fracking has raised questions “about whether both
current and future production can be done in an environmentally
sound fashion that meets the needs of public trust,” according
to the report.  To resolve the concerns, the panel recommended creating an
industry organization “dedicated to continuous improvement” of
practices, such as measuring and reporting air pollution,
minimizing water use and improving well casing and cementing.
The subcommittee urged reducing emissions that contribute to
ozone and called for a national database at a start-up cost of
$20 million to link sources of public information on fracking.  The report underscores differences in public perception of
the potential consequences of gas fracking. Industry advocates
say the technique hasn’t caused a major incident for more than
60 years, though current techniques were introduced less than a
decade ago. Opponents cite failures and accidents that result in
tainting drinking water.  Fees, Taxes ‘Appropriate’  Fees and taxes are “an appropriate” way to fund better
enforcement of environmental regulations, the report found.  While the report echoes industry’s claim of “remote”
risks of fracturing fluids leaking into drinking-water sources
from deep-shale reservoirs, it said companies must engage “the
range of issues concerning the public.”  “Public concerns extend to accidents and failures
associated with poor well construction and operation, surface
spills, leaks at pits and impoundments, truck traffic, and the
cumulative impacts of air pollution, land disturbance and
community disruption,” according to the report.  Drillers should also disclose the mix of chemicals used in
fracking fluids “with an exception for genuinely proprietary
information,” the report found.  ‘Some Balance’  “There will be some in the environment community or in the
anti-fracking community who will be disappointed because it has
a message of frack-with-caution rather than don’t frack at
all,” Ben Grumbles, president of the  Clean Water America
Alliance  in  Washington , a group that backs the technique with
precautions, said in an interview. “The spin zone of the
industry is going to be very concerned about what’s between the
lines when the report is recommending that there be much more
aggressive efforts to control ozone precursors and other
emissions. It shows some balance.”  The subcommittee, formed in January, is led by former CIA
Director John Deutch and includes Fred Krupp, president of the
Environmental Defense Fund, and  Daniel Yergin , co-founder of IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates. The group will hand up a
full report in late November, Energy Department spokesman Tom Reynolds said.  Deutch, a professor at  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , was paid more than $1.4 million by  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services provider, and
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , from 2006 to 2009, and is on the board of
Cheniere, the Environmental Working Group said in a statement
before the report’s release. Six of the seven panel members have
“substantial financial connections” to energy companies.  Industry Dominance  “The  Department of Energy  made no attempt to review
financial disclosure records prior to selecting the members of
its panel,” the group said. “The Department of Energy did not
address industry’s dominance of the panel.”  The subcommittee includes Stephen Holditch, head of the
department of petroleum engineering at  Texas  A&M University in
 College Station , Texas; McGinty, former secretary of the
 Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ; Susan Tierney, managing principal of the Boston-based Analysis Group;
and Mark Zoback, professor of geophysics at  Stanford University 
in  Palo Alto ,  California .  “All of our relationships were completely disclosed,”
Deutch said yesterday in an interview. “We were chosen because
the mix of our backgrounds were considered important in
addressing this problem and we have a unanimous report.”  The subcommittee said government must keep pace with the
increase in fracking to extract natural gas.  “If effective environmental action is not taken today, the
potential environmental consequences will grow to a point that
the country will be faced a more serious problem,” according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  