-- 
Google+ Adding Games From Zynga, Rovio to Its Social-Networking Service

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-12T01:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/google-announces-addition-of-games-to-google-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most-used search engine, is adding games to its new social-
networking service from developers such as Zynga Inc. and Rovio
Entertainment Oy, creator of the hit “Angry Birds.”  Google+, the service that was unveiled at the end of June,
will start gradually rolling out the games feature today before
making them fully available, said  Vic Gundotra , senior vice
president, engineering, at Google in a blog post today. The
initial developers also include Wooga GmbH, Funzio Inc. and
Kabam Inc.  “We want to make playing games online just as fun, and
just as meaningful, as playing in real life,” Gundotra said in
the blog. “That means giving you control over when you see
games, how you play them and with whom you share your
experiences. Games in Google+ are there when you want them and
gone when you don’t.”  Google+ is the company’s latest effort to help it compete
against younger social-networking companies such as  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook Inc., the most-used social site.
Facebook has attracted users to its site with games from
providers such as San Francisco-based Zynga and Redwood City,
California-based Kabam.  The Google service reached 29 million visitors globally in
July, according to  ComScore Inc.  Google+ had reached about 25
million a week before the end of that month.  Virtual Item Sales  Game developers such as Zynga typically make most of their
money from selling virtual items within applications.  Google, in a promotional offer, will take 5 percent of the
cut for in-application purchases, a percentage that is similar
to revenue-sharing rates across Google products on the Web, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. Facebook currently gets
30 percent of virtual-goods purchases made within games, through
a payment system called Facebook Credits.  Separately, Facebook said today it is improving the way
people use applications on its site, making them more engaging
for the site’s 200 million game users, according to a blog post.
On the top right of canvas pages, which are used for
applications, Facebook will now display bookmarks for top apps
along with activity updates from friends on other games.  Facebook also will provide more room for displaying
applications, according to the blog post. In addition, the
company will roll out a new ranking system that aims for more
quality in showing application activity in the news feed.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , rose $13.12, or
2.4 percent, to $562.13 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, amid a broad market recovery. The shares have
dropped 5.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  