-- 
Grains, Soybeans Surge After Adverse Weather Cuts U.S. Crops

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-08-11T19:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/grains-surge-as-u-s-cuts-crop-forecasts-after-damaging-midwest-heat-wave.html
Corn, soybean and wheat prices
surged, signaling higher costs for food and biofuels, after the
government said U.S. farmers will harvest smaller crops than
forecast last month following a damaging heat wave.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its corn-crop
estimate by 4.1 percent, reduced the soybean forecast by 5.2
percent, and said spring-wheat production will be 5.2 percent
below what it predicted in July. The harvests for all three
crops would be less than expected by analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The U.S. is the biggest exporter of the crops.  Parts of the Midwest, the main growing region, were the
hottest since 1955 last month. Smaller supplies of corn may
increase costs for ethanol refiners such as Poet LLC, Archer
Daniels Midland Co. and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and meat producers
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , which buy the grain
for feed. The price of corn, the biggest U.S. crop, has jumped
74 percent in the past year.  “Food is needed worldwide, so we’re going to be looking at
higher prices,”  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst at
Jefferies Bache LLC, said in a telephone interview from Chicago.  Corn production will total 12.914 billion bushels (328
million metric tons), compared with 13.47 billion projected in
July, the USDA said today in its first survey-based estimate for
the crop. The average prediction of 31 analysts was for 13.079
billion. Last year’s crop was 12.447 billion bushels. Yields
were cut to 153 bushels an acres, down from 158.7 in July.  No Pollination  “Ears did not pollinate well in major parts of fields
across the Midwest,” Iowa State University agronomists said
this week in a  report .  “We needed a perfect growing season, and this was far from
it,”  Jason Britt , the president of brokerage Central States
Commodities Inc. in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said by telephone.
“From spring flooding to late planting to a hot summer, a
combination of things has been thrown at this crop.”  Corn futures for December delivery gained 25.5 cents, or
3.7 percent, to close at $7.14 a bushel at 1:40 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active
contract since Aug. 2. The price has surged from a year ago on
falling global reserves and rising feed, fuel and food demand.
The U.S. is the world’s largest grower.  Soybean Harvest  The soybean harvest will total 3.056 billion bushels, down
from last month’s forecast of 3.225 billion, the USDA said. The
average estimate of 31 analysts was 3.184 billion bushels. In
2010, production in the U.S., the world’s largest grower, was
3.329 billion.  “If soybeans don’t get rain across the next week, the hot
weather next week will reduce the yield further,”  Mark Schultz ,
the chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “Supplies are going
to be tight this year, and South America cannot have a
production problem,” once planting begins in September, he
said.  Soybeans for November delivery rose 30.25 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $13.3175 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest
jump since May 18. The most-active contract has gained 31
percent in the past year.  Reduced Margins  Falling supplies may reduce margins for oilseed processors
such as Bunge Ltd. and Archer Daniels Midland. The crush spread
-- the difference between the cost of a bushel of soybeans and
the value of the meal and oil it can produce -- has declined 39
percent this year.  About 75 million acres (30.4 million hectares) were planted
with soybeans this year, down from 75.208 million estimated in
June, according to the USDA. Farmers reduced acreage from 77.404
million last year to plant more profitable corn.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report that the USDA
numbers for corn and soybeans were “bullish,” and that it
expects agricultural-related companies to “trade broadly
higher.” The bank recommended buying shares of companies
including  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seedmaker, Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the biggest producer of fertilizer,
and farm-equipment-maker  AGCO Corp. (AGCO)   Spring-wheat production may total 522 million bushels, down
from 550.7 million estimated in July, the USDA said. The average
estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey was 536
million. Last year’s harvest of spring wheat, used to make
bread, was 616 million bushels.  Less Acreage  The USDA reduced its planted acreage estimate from its June
30  planting  report, cutting 500,000 acres from  Montana  and
450,000 from  North Dakota . The revision was made after farmers
in four northern states were resurveyed in July, as many hadn’t
finished sowing when the government collected data for its
earlier report. Parts of North Dakota, the biggest producer, had
triple the normal rainfall from April to June, National Weather
Service data show.  “Wheat fell into line with what we were looking for”
after an annual tour of crops in the northern Great Plains
signaled worse spring-crop conditions, Jefferies Bache’s
McCambridge said. “As corn prices move higher, wheat will
benefit to some degree as it will replace corn in feed.”  Total U.S. wheat production may fall to 2.077 billion
bushels, down from last month’s estimate of 2.106 billion, the
USDA said. Analysts expected 2.068 billion. In 2010, 2.208
billion bushels were harvested.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 13.75 cents, or
1.9 percent, to close at $7.33 a bushel in  Chicago , capping the
first three-day rally since May 27. The price has gained 1.1
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  