-- 
Greece-Free Banks Beat Global Peers by Most Since 2009: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-12T01:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/greece-free-banks-beat-global-peers-by-most-since-2009-australia-credit.html
Bonds of Australian banks are
outperforming overseas peers by the most in almost two years as
surging profits help them weather concerns the European debt
crisis that began in Greece will derail the global economy.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  this week reported profits rose more than 20 percent, while
European lenders are booking billions in losses on Greek debt
holdings. The U.S. government credit rating downgrade and
faltering growth drove bond risk for America’s biggest lenders
to the highest since 2009.  “Australian banks have stronger balance sheets and very
limited exposure to European sovereign debt,” said  Mark Mitchell , head of credit at Sydney-based Kapstream Capital,
which manages the equivalent of $4 billion. “Investors also
like the implied support from a AAA government whose rating is
not under threat.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian-dollar
financial bonds instead of government debt increased 23 basis
points this month to 203 basis points, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. The spread on global financial securities
widened 60 basis points to 272. The yield premium relative to
Australian debt was the biggest since August 2009 on Aug. 10.  Australian bank bonds returned 1.1 percent month-to-date
while comparable U.S. and European securities lost 1.8 percent
and 1.1 percent respectively and global financial notes dropped
1.3 percent, the data show.  Rising Profits  Commonwealth Bank’s second-half profit rose 22 percent to a
record A$3.34 billion ($3.43 billion) as the country’s biggest
lender increased business and household lending, according to an
Aug. 10 regulatory filing. National Australia Bank’s third-
quarter profit rose 27 percent, it said the day before.  The two lenders and rivals  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  hold an Aa2 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service and the equivalent AA grade from
 Standard & Poor’s , the third-highest investment grade.  That’s three levels higher than the A rating held by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , whose bond risk surged and shares tumbled this
week amid a global market rout after S&P downgraded U.S.
government debt to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5.  The average cost of credit-default swaps on the six biggest
U.S. banks including Bank of America and Morgan Stanley soared
by 51.5 basis points on Aug. 8 to 210.9, the biggest increase
since September 2008, according to CMA prices.  Australian Bonds Rally  Debt sold by  Australia ’s four biggest lenders has rallied
in August, with Commonwealth Bank adding 1.2 percent, Westpac
and ANZ Bank bonds gaining 1.4 percent and National Australia
Bank returning 1.3 percent, Merrill Lynch’s Australian Financial
Index shows.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America’s bonds
lost 5.9 percent this month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s debt
declined 3.2 percent and Citigroup Inc.’s dropped 2.9 percent, a
separate index shows.  Bonds sold by France’s biggest banks slumped, Merrill
Lynch’s EMU Financial Corporate Index shows. BNP Paribas SA’s
debt declined 3.7 percent and Societe Generale SA’s lost 6.3
percent month-to-date.  Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG’s debt lost 1.9 percent, the
index shows. Germany’s second-largest lender said Aug. 10 that
quarterly profit slumped 93 percent after it booked 760 million
euros ($1.1 billion) of impairments on Greek sovereign bonds.  Australian banks have no investments in  Greece , compared
with $56.7 billion owed to French banks, according to data from
the Bank for International Settlements as of the end of 2010.  Greek Crisis Spreads  A second bailout for Greece in July failed to bolster
investor confidence and the  European Central Bank  last week
restarted its bond-purchase program after an 18-week hiatus,
including the debt of Italy and Spain, the region’s third-and
fourth-largest economies. The central bank also will lend
European banks almost 50 billion euros in emergency six-month
cash to ease tensions in financial markets.  Paris-based Societe Generale said Aug. 3 that it may miss
its 2012 earnings target after second-quarter profit fell 31
percent because of a writedown on Greek government debt.  The yield premium over German bunds on  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s
1.35 billion euros of 3.75 percent bonds due in August 2014
surged 224 basis points to 382 this month, according to Lloyds
Banking Group Plc prices.  The spread on 2 billion euros of 3.5 percent National
Australia Bank notes due in January 2015 has climbed 40 basis
points to 187, the prices show.  U.S. Growth  Federal Reserve policy makers pledged Aug. 9 to keep their
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least through mid-
2013 to bolster the  U.S. economy  amid a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  Economists expect U.S. gross domestic product will increase
2.5 percent in 2011 and 2.9 percent in 2012, surveys by
Bloomberg News show. They’re forecasting 2011 growth of 1.95
percent in Australia, where natural disasters have curbed
expansion, before a rebound to 4.3 percent in 2012.  Australia’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in July as employers cut full-time staff, according
to statistics bureau data released yesterday, with exporters and
retailers suffering after the nation’s currency rose 15 percent
in the past year against the  U.S. dollar .  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, bought $1.0316 as of 11:18 a.m. in Sydney today.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  is
balancing a weakness in consumer-led parts of the economy with
the nation’s biggest-ever mining investment boom, driven by
demand for commodities from its largest trading partner  China .  ‘Market Carnage’  “The RBA is truly between a rock and a hard place. The
recent financial market carnage has only made this situation
worse,” Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in
Sydney and a former RBA official, said in a note to clients
yesterday. “What we are likely to see over the next few months
is one of the biggest tests the inflation targeting regime has
ever faced.”  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.65 percent for the next five years, the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 13
basis points to 4.46 percent yesterday, the lowest since April
2009, and was little changed at 11:19 a.m. in Sydney today.  While Australian lenders weathered the turmoil that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
without U.S.-style government bailouts, they face tumbling
demand for home loans after the central bank boosted borrowing
costs seven times between October 2009 and November 2010 to 4.75
percent, the highest in the developed world.  Credit Growth Slows  Credit to home buyers in June increased at the slowest
annual pace since 1977, when central bank data began, while  home
prices  slid in the second quarter by 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest drop in more than two years.  “There are some questions about Australian financials but
definitely they are not as vulnerable to U.S. and European
political difficulties, which remain the core of the current
problems,” said  John Sorrell , head of credit at Tyndall
Investment Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney, which manages
about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets. “The U.S. and
European banking systems are more challenged, or at least more
the focus of rumors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 