-- 
Greek Lessons for Italy and Spain: Papaioannou and Vayanos

-- B y   E l i a s   P a p a i o a n n o u   a n d   D i m i t r i   V a y a n o s
-- 
2011-08-11T00:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/greek-lessons-for-italy-and-spain-papaioannou-and-vayanos.html
The crisis in the euro region is
spreading to Italy and  Spain , triggering emergency purchases
of those countries’ bonds by the  European Central Bank .  Further ECB support is likely to be conditional on
progress by those nations in fulfilling pledges to accelerate
fiscal consolidation and carry out structural reforms.  But can Italy and Spain succeed in overhauling their
economies, and how should institutions such as the ECB and the
European Union help catalyze change? Some answers can be found
by examining the pitfalls exposed by the rescue of Greece,
where the problems are the most acute.  The  bailout plan  adopted by the Athens government more
than a year ago is failing to meet some of its central
objectives. The country is grappling with a deeper-than-
expected recession, which has been aggravated by a credit
crunch due to banking-sector problems. Tax revenue, meanwhile,
is below target, and progress on structural reforms has
slowed. More worrisome, polls showed that an overwhelming
majority of the population favored the plan initially, but
support is now below 25 percent.  That public backing, which is a necessary condition for
success, is vanishing for several reasons. The recession and
austerity measures are perceived as evidence that the plan is
failing. And the lack of progress in carrying out structural
reforms is causing the rescue to be associated with the
government cutbacks, which are primarily hitting the poorest.
That adds to the existing feeling of injustice: High-profile
corruption cases involving politicians and well-connected
businessmen haven’t been prosecuted, and  tax evasion  is still
pervasive and in plain sight.  Follow-Up Plan  A few weeks ago, the troika of the ECB, EU and
International Monetary Fund decided to support Greece with a
huge follow-up assistance plan.  Yet there are two prerequisites for that proposal to
succeed that were missing from the initial blueprint: The
government must persuade the public of the plan’s benefits;
and it must move forward with deep institutional reforms. This
includes changes specified in the initial plan, such as
liberalizing labor and product markets, privatizing state-
owned businesses, opening closed professions and strengthening
tax collection.  The authorities now must go further by introducing
accountability and incentives in the public sector, where tax
collectors who are found to have accepted bribes are punished
with a six-month salary freeze. The government should also
overhaul the absurdly slow and inefficient justice system,
which takes years to resolve even simple disputes or to
prosecute corruption cases.  Protecting Shareholders  In addition,  law enforcement  should be enhanced, and
strong corporate governance mechanisms to protect minority
shareholders and creditors need to be put in place.
Institutional reforms will have dramatic effects on growth by
removing major obstacles to investment and entrepreneurship.
Some of the benefits will accrue quickly, which will make it
possible to relax austerity measures (particularly those
affecting the low-income retirees who experienced tremendous
cuts) and will increase the plan’s popularity.  These improvements will be popular as Greeks are
increasingly aware that the status quo only protects
minorities such as members of closed professions, corrupt
public servants and government suppliers, who enjoy large
benefits financed by high taxes.  Time and Resources  Giving momentum to these changes requires modifications
both to the bailout plan’s design and its implementation. The
troika should focus more on the reforms and less on fiscal
targets, and give  Greece  the necessary time and resources to
implement them.  This emphasis has been lacking. For example, the plan
makes little reference to improving the justice system or
corporate governance. Progress can be achieved with simple
policies such as bringing the court system into the computer
age, which will increase efficiency and transparency at a
small cost. Applying restrictions on trial postponements (it
isn’t uncommon for a case to be granted five postponements)
will also produce large gains at no fiscal cost.  The plan also does too little to hasten institutional
changes. The government was pushed to make up for fiscal
shortfalls with new austerity measures, which deepened the
recession. Yet in several instances where market
liberalization was more limited than required -- such as
opening up the pharmacist, notary and legal professions -- the
troika didn’t apply sufficient pressure.  Competitive Structure  Likewise in the privatization debate, the troika
myopically focuses on the short-term proceeds, without paying
sufficient attention to the governance of the businesses that
will be privatized and the competitive structure of the
industries in which they will operate.  The institutional transformations must be extended to
Greece’s public administration. The current system isn’t based
on merit, lacks accountability and has misaligned incentives.
This has created a dysfunctional bureaucracy that is largely
unable to implement the enormous changes that are required.
The recent wage cuts, salary caps for senior public officials
and hiring freezes have demoralized existing employees and
make it hard to recruit new talent at a time when it is most
needed.  Privatization Process  As a result, government agencies charged with important
tasks such as tackling tax evasion, designing the
privatization process, and executing product-market and
financial-market reforms lack specialized personnel.  The troika should help remedy these deficiencies by
providing technical expertise and financing for specific
projects. The reforms, however, should be designed and
implemented by Greeks, both within the country and from the
thriving Diaspora.  That will enhance the legitimacy of the plan in the eyes
of the public and bring much-needed human capital from abroad.
Senior positions in public administration should be filled
with talented technocrats, and pay should be increased. To
minimize populist opposition and the appointment of party
loyalists, selections could be approved by parliamentary
committees.  Meaningful institutional change would clearly require
additional resources from the troika. These costs are
miniscule relative to the return that they will generate: a
significantly increased chance of success for the bailout
plan, and the backing of the Greek people, who desperately
want their country to change.  Given the troika’s huge financial commitment to Greece,
and the long timescale of the new plan, it would be disastrous
to focus myopically on monthly tax revenue or privatization
proceeds, rather than on the institutional framework that will
drive the long-term growth of the  Greek economy .  The assistance to Italy, Portugal and Spain should have
the same focus. Even though the institutional deficiencies in
these countries aren’t as severe as in Greece, they remain a
major impediment to growth.  (Elias Papaioannou is assistant professor of economics at
 Dartmouth College  and  Harvard University . Dimitri Vayanos is
professor of finance at the  London School  of Economics. The
opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Elias Papaioannou at  papaioannou.elias@googlemail.com ;
Dimitri Vayanos at  D.Vayanos@lse.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 