-- 
Guinness Fund Bets on Chinese Wind After Clean-Power Shares Drop

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-11T12:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/guinness-fund-bets-on-chinese-wind-after-clean-power-shares-drop.html
Guinness Asset Management Ltd.,
whose alternative-energy fund fell 27 percent in the past year,
expects a decline in wind-turbine prices in  China  to bolster
returns after shares in the industry plunged.  The fund, which manages $40 million, has channeled 28
percent of its investments into Chinese renewables including
wind developer  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916) , said co-manager
Edward Guinness. Renewables stocks are attractive, he said, even
as the Bloomberg Wind Energy Index lost 17 percent this year.  “The stocks are incredibly cheap, particularly now, but
the outlook is still challenging for the next 18 months,”
Guinness, son of Chief Executive Officer Tim Guinness, said in a
London interview. “The real winners will be the people who are
installing and can make the most of these lower charges.”  Shares in the Bloomberg Wind Energy Index fell 3.9 percent
last month and the Bloomberg Large Solar Index sank 9.4 percent
as investors sold higher-risk securities on concern the debt
crises in the U.S. and  Europe  would hurt the world economy. The
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index of 500 stocks declined 2.2 percent.  The Guinness fund, based in Dublin and Los Angeles, has no
connection with the Irish stout beer company. It focuses on
renewables, and Chinese investments represent the biggest chunk
of its holdings.  Chinese turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. and hydropower generator Dongfang Electric Corp.
are creating a “price war” in the country, driving down
equipment costs for developers, Guinness said.  Canada Renewables  In June, the fund sold its holding in Iberdrola Renovables
SA, the clean-energy unit of  Spain ’s biggest utility. Guinness
said he’s looking for a stock to replace it and, in the “long
term,” favors renewables companies in  Canada  and hydropower
developers in  Brazil .  Government incentives in Canada have a fueled a renewables
boom and the fund is focusing on Ontario and British Columbia,
Guinness said. “Some of the utilities in Canada are trading on
quite cheap evaluations,” he said, adding that Canada’s economy
is likely to “ride through the crisis” better than others.  The Ontario Power Authority awarded contracts to 40
renewable-energy ventures totaling 872 megawatts of capacity in
 February . The projects, including 35 solar, one hydro and four
wind plants, will require about $3 billion in private
investment, the authority said at the time.  Brazil Hydro  Guinness also favors hydro and ethanol projects in  South
America , and holds  Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais (CIG) , a Brazilian
electricity generator. The nation gets about 35 percent of its
energy from hydropower, the most in the Americas.  “There are a handful of Brazilian hydroelectric utilities
that are very much on our radar screen,” Guinness said. He’s
also studying ethanol projects in  Peru , where until 2008 the
fund invested in  Maple Energy Plc (MPLE) , an ethanol refiner that
generates power and explores for oil.  In Britain, Guinness is raising a new fund to finance small
solar, wind and hydro projects for homes and businesses. His
Enterprise Investment Scheme, aimed at funding as many as four
companies to carry out free installations from next month, has
3.5 million pounds ($5.7 million) and may reach 6 million pounds
with “follow-on co-investments,” Guinness said.  He seeks to capture a slice of the rooftop solar market for
homes, benefiting from incentives that ensure premium rates for
renewable electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  