-- 
Li & Fung Climbs Most in Seven Weeks After First-Half Net Beats Estimates

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-08-12T10:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/li-fung-first-half-profit-236-million-beating-estimates-1-.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , rose the most in more than a year in Hong Kong
trading after first-half profit beat all analysts’ estimates.  Li & Fung, which was upgraded at Citigroup Inc. and CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets, gained 7 percent, the most since July
2010, to HK$12.84 at 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The stock was
the biggest gainer on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Net income declined 15 percent to $236 million and core
operating profit, excluding items such as interest income, taxes
and acquisition-related costs, fell 16 percent to $282 million,
the supplier to Toys “R” Us Inc. and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara said in
a statement yesterday. Net income beat the $206 million average
of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is better than expected as we were looking for a 21
percent decline” in operating profit, said Aaron Fischer,
CLSA’s Hong Kong-based chief consumer analyst. “We believe
earnings will rebound,” said CLSA analysts Fischer and Mariana Kou, who upgraded the stock to “buy” from “outperform.”  Li & Fung has declined 43 percent this year, compared with
a 15 percent drop for the benchmark index.  Consumer Sentiment  Costs as a percentage of sales have started to decline in
the second half, Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said at
a briefing in  Hong Kong  yesterday. Expenses increased after
acquisitions last year that included Integrated Distribution
Services Group Ltd., Li & Fung’s biggest purchase in at least
the past decade, doubled the size of its workforce.  Sales derived from the U.S. were 58 percent of the total
$8.8 billion, the lowest percentage since at least 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Asia sales were boosted
by the purchase of Integrated Distribution Services, which
operates in the region.  Consumer sentiment has been worsening in the U.S., where Li
& Fung, which sells to Limited Brands Inc. and Kohl’s Corp.,
made 65 percent of last year’s revenue.  “Sentiment obviously is not great, but most of our
customers are in good shape, financially,” Rockowitz said in an
interview late yesterday. “In a bad market, it’s not terrible
for us” said Rockowitz, adding that Li & Fung gained market
share during the financial meltdown in 2008 and the year after.  ‘Margins Recovery’  “What’s terrible was 2008 and 2009, when people went
bankrupt,” he said. “This market is different.”  More private-label goods are being supplied by Li & Fung to
clients as they seek to bolster margins amid concerns over
faltering economic growth. “People are looking for value,
they’re looking for higher margins, and private label is the way
to get that,” Rockowitz said.  Li & Fung may make 20 percent of its sales in  Asia  by the
end of its three-year plan in 2013, Rockowitz said. The Hong
Kong-based company’s stated goal is to boost annual core
operating profit to $1.5 billion.  “Management is confident of margins recovery in the second
half with stronger profits from distribution and logistics and
rationalization of its operating costs” Eddie Lau, Hong Kong-
based analyst for Citigroup, wrote in a note to clients. He
upgraded the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  Adding Jobs  The first-half profit margin of 2.68 percent is the lowest
since the second half of 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had a median
forecast of 2.76 percent.  Costs will be reduced as the company moves workers from the
U.S. and  Europe  closer to production sites such as China, India
and  Bangladesh , Deputy Chairman  William Fung  said yesterday.  The company will add about 2,000 jobs, mostly in “lower-
cost countries,” as it restructures, Rockowitz said in a
Bloomberg TV interview.  “We expect the uncertain environment of the U.S. and
European markets will continue for the better part of the three-
year plan,” Rockowitz said.  The division supplying Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed
company, will continue to grow, and will probably hit its target
of $2 billion sales this year, Rockowitz said, declining to
provide a forecast for 2012.  ‘Enough Acquisitions’  Revenue expansion of 33 percent was the fastest six-month
growth since the second half of 2007. Annual sales for Li &
Fung, whose clients include Esprit Holdings Inc., L’Oreal SA and
Coty Inc., grew in all but one of the last 19 years.  Li & Fung yesterday said it bought children’s clothing
company Fishman & Tobin and fashion jewelry and accessories
maker Crimzon Rose this month. It earlier announced acquiring
clothing supplier Loyaltex Apparel and TVMania, a European
supplier of branded products whose character licenses include
Hello Kitty and  Mickey Mouse .  The four companies had total annual sales of about $900
million, Rockowitz said. Li & Fung acquired 10 other companies
this year with combined annual revenue of about $300 million, he
said.  “This business has enough acquisitions to drive
significant revenue growth for the remainder of this three-year
plan,” Vineet Sharma and Phoebe Tse, Hong Kong-based analysts
at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a report . They kept their
“overweight” rating on the stock.  Keep Looking  Li & Fung sourced 30 percent more goods from  China , where
it made 53 percent of its products, in the first half, Rockowitz
said. That compared with growth of 52 percent in Bangladesh and
20 percent in  Indonesia , the second- and third-largest
production bases for Li & Fung, according to the CLSA analysts.  While Li & Fung will keep looking for acquisition targets,
“we’re now focused on costs and integration,” the CEO said.
“We now really have scale and a lot of opportunity for organic
growth.”  The company has about $500 million left in its acquisition
fund, from about $1 billion earlier this year, he said. Cash and
bank balances amounted to $575 million as of June 30, compared
with $969 million at the end of December.  Li & Fung has used acquisitions to boost growth, spending
more than $3 billion on deals from 2006 to 2010, doubling both
sales and profit in the five-year period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will continue to make acquisitions next year,
focusing on China and Asia, Rockowitz said. “We are far from
slowing down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  