-- 
Libyan Rebels Push to Take Town of Tawarga as Conflict Enters Sixth Month

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-11T15:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/libyan-rebels-push-to-take-town-of-tawarga-as-conflict-enters-sixth-month.html
Libyan rebels in the besieged city
of Misrata launched an offensive to try and break through the
eastern frontline and take the government-held town of Tawarga.  The attack began in the early morning and three rebel
fighters were killed and 44 wounded by 3 p.m. local time,
according to officials at Misrata’s Mujamma Aliadat hospital.
There were no immediate reports on government casualties.  “We are in the town, we made a big attack this morning,”
wounded rebel fighter Loie Mohammed, 19, said from his hospital
bed, referring to Tawarga. “Our guys went in a circle to get
around the town and attack from behind it.”  The conflict between the rebels and forces loyal to Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is in its sixth month, with little recent
progress on either side. Qaddafi retains control of the capital,
Tripoli, while the rebels are holding on to Benghazi in the east
and Misrata in the west. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization
has supported the rebel fighters with an air campaign that began
in March.  Misrata’s eastern front has been comparatively quiet for
the past two months with most rebel offensives focused on
pushing west toward the town of Zlitan. Government forces hit
the center of Misrata with missiles on Aug. 9 for the first time
since May, injuring one man.  Heavy shelling could be heard from the direction of Tawarga
throughout the day and a stream of ambulances arrived in the
city from the front line 30 miles (50 kilometers) to the east.  Mohammed said he was wounded by shrapnel as he was manning
a mortar. He had bandages over a wound on his side and lay
covered in a green sheet with drip feeds in both arms.  “When they tell me it’s OK, I am going back,” he said,
referring to the front line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 