-- 
Tiger Faces ‘Monstrous’ Battle as Australia Flights Resume After Grounding

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-12T09:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/tiger-air-faces-monstrous-battle-as-australia-flights-resume.html
Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) , the
budget carrier part-owned by  Singapore  Airlines Ltd., resumed
Australia flights today, about six weeks after being grounded by
regulators because of safety violations.  The airline initially will fly only on the Melbourne-Sydney
route, Australia’s busiest, and it has curtailed services to 18
flights a day nationwide for the rest of the month. The carrier
also is improving pilot training, crew scheduling and fatigue
management, as well as hiring more qualified personnel.  Tiger was selling round-trip tickets for the 90-minute
flight from about A$100 ($103) online, including taxes and fees,
less than half the price of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s mainline and
budget units. That may not be enough to overcome passengers’
concerns following the grounding, said Douglas Dow, an associate
professor at the University of  Melbourne ’s business school.  “It will be a monstrous, uphill battle to come back from
this,” he said. “The whole reason they appeal to people is low
price, and too often that is associated with cutting corners.”  The Singapore-based carrier sold 1,500 seats in a day after
resuming sales yesterday, Chief Executive Officer Tony Davis
said in an interview at Melbourne’s Tullamarine Airport ahead of
the first flight. Davis has personally taken charge of the
Australian unit, after the former head left. His group
responsibilities have been assumed by Executive Director Chin Yau Seng on an interim basis.  “There is a confidence issue we need to build on, but it
is a business model that has been proven around the world,”
Davis said. The carrier plans to stay in  Australia  for the
“foreseeable future,” he said.  Suspension Cost  Regulators grounded Tiger after one of its planes came into
land too low in Melbourne on July 1. The airline was already
under a safety review.  The suspension has cost Tiger more than A$10 million, said
Davis, who will continue to run the Australia operations until a
new unit manager is found.  “We are looking for a new Australian head but there is no
rush,” he said. “There is no prescribed timeframe for when I
need to get back to Singapore.”  Tiger, 33 percent owned by Singapore Air, fell 1 percent to
S$1.01 in Singapore trading today. It has dropped 15 percent
since flights were suspended. Qantas has fallen 18 percent in
Sydney in the period, while  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) , parent of
Virgin Australia, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, has
declined 19 percent.  Fleet Cut  Tiger has pared its Australia fleet to eight Airbus SAS
A320 aircraft from 10 because of the reductions in service. It
also shut a base in Adelaide and temporarily closed another one
in Avalon airport, near Melbourne. The carrier can apply to the
Civil Aviation Safety Authority for permission to expand service
at the end of the month.  The fleet cut will reduce Tiger’s share of domestic
capacity to about 4.5 percent from about 5.5 percent, said Scott Carroll, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. The
carrier’s return to operations may have little effect on the
domestic leisure-travel market, which is already weighed down by
excess capacity and higher fuel costs, he said.  “While Tiger’s presence may delay the pace of a recovery,
its market share is relatively small,” he said in an Aug. 11
note.  Qantas is also shielded by its dominance of the corporate-
travel market, Carroll said. Qantas, including Jetstar, has
about 65 percent of the domestic market. Virgin Australia holds
most of the rest.  Unprofitable Operations  Even before the grounding, Tiger had been unprofitable in
Australia. The local unit’s operating loss in the quarter ended
June 30 more than doubled from a year earlier to S$23.2 million
because of higher fuel costs and disruptions caused by volcanic
ash blown across the Pacific from  Chile .  The carrier’s Singapore arm made an operating profit of
S$7.5 million in the period. Operations at the Southeast Asia
unit weren’t affected by the Australian grounding.  Tiger Australia had been under extra scrutiny since
regulators issued a  “show cause”  notice in March asking why
the carrier should keep its air-operating certificate. The
regulator earlier imposed conditions, including improving pilot
proficiency and better maintenance control.  The airline, which began domestic Australian flights in
November 2007, has kept costs and fares down by charging extra
for food, airport check-in and checked-in luggage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  