-- 
High-Frequency Firms Tripled Trades Amid Rout, Wedbush Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-12T17:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/high-frequency-firms-tripled-trading-as-s-p-500-plunged-13-wedbush-says.html
The stock market’s fastest
electronic firms boosted trading threefold during the rout that
erased $2.2 trillion from U.S. equity values, stepping up
strategies that profit from volatility, according to one of
their biggest brokers.  The increase from Aug. 1 to Aug. 10 over their 2011 average
surpassed the 80 percent rise in U.S. equity volume, showing
that high-frequency traders made up more of the market during
the plunge, Gary Wedbush, executive vice president and head of
capital markets at Wedbush Securities, said in a telephone
interview. Wedbush is the largest broker supplying bids and
offers on the Nasdaq Stock Market, according to exchange  data .  “We’re seeing a tremendous amount of high-frequency
trading,” said Wedbush, whose company is one of the biggest
execution and clearing brokers catering to high-speed firms.
“Their business is a trading business, and volatility creates
far more opportunities. Some of their algorithms and automated
systems are trading two, three or five times as many shares as
they would have in a more normalized volatility environment.”  The role of high-frequency firms in periods of market
swings has come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from U.S. share values. In contrast
to their behavior this month, the traders and other professional
investors were said to have withdrawn bids as the 2010 selloff
worsened, according to a Sept. 30 report from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Rising Volume  Equity volume from Aug. 4 through Aug. 10 was a record for
any five-day period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Credit Suisse Group AG. The daily average of 15.97 billion
shares beat the previous record of 15.94 billion from Sept. 15
through Sept. 19, 2008.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed for
bankruptcy on Sept. 15.  Wedbush, which has about 1,000 employees including about
400 in Los Angeles, has been the largest provider of bids to buy
and offers to sell shares on Nasdaq every month this year,
according to data from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  The next-largest
was Morgan Stanley in New York.  Daily volume averaged 7.5 billion shares in the first half
of 2011 when the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, or VIX, was 18.04. It rose 80 percent to 13.6 billion
shares from Aug. 1 through Aug. 10 while the VIX climbed to
32.69 and the S&P 500 slid 13 percent. The VIX measures the cost
of using options as insurance against declines in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, processed a record 43.7 billion ticks, or price quotes,
globally on Aug. 10, compared with 27.5 billion on May 6, 2010.  Rapid Orders  High-frequency trading is a technique that relies on the
rapid and automated placement of orders, many of which are
immediately updated or canceled, as part of strategies such as
market making and statistical arbitrage and tactics based on
momentum. It accounted for about 53 percent of trading earlier
this year, down from 61 percent in 2009, according to Tabb Group
LLC, a New York-based financial industry research firm. In 2006
it was 26 percent of the market, Tabb said.  Wedbush estimated the firms have made up 75 percent of
American equity volume in August. They have boosted trading in
shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc., Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. since early July after reducing
business the first half of 2011, Wedbush said. The traders are
active in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, iShares Russell 2000 Index
Fund and other exchange-traded funds, he said.  Regulatory Probe  U.S. prosecutors have joined a regulatory investigation
into whether some high-speed traders are manipulating markets by
posting and immediately canceling waves of rapid-fire orders,
two officials said in April. Justice Department investigators
are working with the SEC to review practices “that are
potentially manipulative,” according to Marc Berger, chief of
the Securities and Commodities Task Force at the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Southern District of  New York .  Algorithms, or strategies that execute bigger orders by
breaking them into smaller pieces and sending them to different
exchanges, also use high-frequency techniques. Mutual, pension
and hedge funds employ algorithms built by brokers or vendors to
automate some of their trading instead of manually placing
orders in markets or turning to humans to buy or sell blocks.  Wedbush said professionals who add bids and offers on
exchanges make trading more efficient and reduce the cost to
investors of buying and selling shares.  Adding Liquidity  “The bulk of high frequency traders are adding liquidity
to the marketplace,” Wedbush said. “Automated traders employ a
myriad of strategies that seek to profit from a stock’s short-
term volatility, but the mass of HFT is adding liquidity by
being on both sides of the market or doing creation/redemption
arbitrage for ETFs.”  Authorized brokers can buy the stocks in an index and swap
them for shares in an ETF based on the benchmark, or sell ETF
units and get shares of its companies. That reduces price
differences between an ETF and the index on which it’s based.  High-frequency firms generally focus on the most active
securities, with about 80 percent of their trading limited to
the 20 percent that are the most popular, Wedbush said.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.7 percent at 10:31 a.m. in New York
today after the gauge surged 4.6 percent to 1,172.64 yesterday.
The index had plunged as much as 18 percent from its 2011 high
and traded at 12.3 times reported earnings on Aug. 10, the
lowest valuation since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures rose 28 points,
or 0.3 percent, to 11,112 today.  63% of Volume  Tim Quast, founder of ModernNetworks IR LLC, a Denver-based
consulting firm that advises Cisco Systems Inc., Accenture Plc
and other companies about market structure and trading,
estimates that high-frequency firms are handling about 63
percent of U.S. equities volume, up from about 61 percent in
July and down from last year’s 70 percent.  Surges and rapid declines in the S&P 500 are being driven
by institutional investors turning over baskets of stocks and
investment banks hedging positions in response to actions by
central banks in  Japan ,  Switzerland ,  Europe  and the U.S., Quast
said. Institutional investments generally focus on correlation
between products and asset classes whereas speculative trading
is driven by divergence from historical price relationships
among stocks, indexes, currencies and other gauges, he said.  “Institutions are engaged in massive efforts to transfer
risk across multiple asset classes because of fluctuations in
the yen, franc, euro and  U.S. dollar ,” Quast said. His firm saw
shifts in institutional money increase beginning on Aug. 4.
“This is causing volume and volatility to increase, which in
turn attracts volatility traders,” he said.  Trading Range  The S&P 500 has moved in an average range of 2.65
percentage points between intraday highs and lows in the past
month, the biggest gyrations since the 20-minute crash on May 6,
2010. That pushed the VIX up 50 percent to 48 on Aug. 8, the
biggest surge since February 2007, then down 27 percent the next
day for the second-largest drop in its 21-year history.  “You can look at a VIX chart and that’s almost perfectly
correlated to high-frequency trading volumes,” said Wedbush,
who returned early from a family vacation in  Lake Arrowhead ,
 California , to monitor trading at the firm as volatility rose.  Other senior executives cut short their holidays, Wedbush
said. Employees in the company’s technology and operations
department, who normally get to the office at 3 a.m.  Los Angeles 
time, have worked extra hours each day to run reports and deal
with trade breaks that must be reconciled. The only problems
Wedbush has seen is delays in reports about trades settling at
the end of the day.  ‘Heightened’ Monitoring  The brokerage is conducting the same type of risk and
technology monitoring it does every day although it’s been
“heightened,” Wedbush said. The investment bank also buys and
sells shares for institutional customers like mutual funds and
engages in proprietary trading. He added that one reason the
securities industry has functioned smoothly even as volume
surged is increased automation.  “There’s been a tremendous amount of investment by broker-
dealers and exchanges in the last three years,” he said.
“Because of cost-saving efforts and the commission environment
being squeezed, people have had to automate their systems.
Automation brings less chance for human errors and it’s paid off
in this time of high risk, volume and volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 