-- 
Incoming PG&E CEO Earley Says Gas, Power Systems Can Be Made Nation’s Best

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-08-11T15:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/incoming-pg-e-ceo-earley-says-gas-power-systems-can-be-made-nation-s-best.html
 Anthony Earley,  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s
incoming chief executive officer, says he will improve
electricity and gas delivery systems at the San Francisco-based
utility, the largest in  California .  “My focus is going to be on making the electricity and gas
operations at PG&E the best in the country, and there is no
reason why that can’t occur,” Earley said today in a telephone
interview.  Earley, the 62-year-old executive chairman of Detroit-based
 DTE Energy Co. (DTE) , will take the helm at PG&E on Sept. 13, about a
year after one of the company’s natural gas lines exploded in
San Bruno, California, killing eight people and destroying 38
homes in the San Francisco suburb.  The utility is facing heightened regulatory scrutiny for
its pipeline safety practices, a criminal investigation related
to the San Bruno blast and customer backlash against a new
“smart meter” initiative to track electricity usage.  After taking over, Earley said he will assess how PG&E
compares to other utilities in areas such as response times to
outages and safety practices.  “Organizations pay attention to what the leader focuses
on,” Earley said. “So my focus is going to be making this an
operationally excellent company and then all the other things
will fall into place,” Earley said.  Earley, who will also be chairman and president at PG&E,
will succeed Peter A. Darbee, 58, who resigned in April, telling
the board the company needed new leadership after a
“challenging year.” It’s the first time PG&E has chosen a
leader from outside the organization, the company said in a
statement announcing Earley’s appointment.  PG&E rose 54 cents to $39.75 at 11:02 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company shares have fallen
more than 17 percent this year, making it the worst performing
member of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 