-- 
India May Abandon Solar Bidding Method If Offers Aren’t Viable

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T11:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/india-may-abandon-bidding-for-3-000-megawatts-of-solar-permits.html
India  may abandon the reverse-
bidding process used in its first auction of solar permits after
criticism that the procedure led to offers that aren’t viable
from inexperienced companies.  The country plans to award licenses to build another 3,000-
megawatts of solar  power plants  and may call for bids as early
as this year,  Deepak Gupta , secretary of the Ministry of New and
 Renewable Energy , said in  New Delhi .  “Bidding is likely to happen, but should there be
alternatives that is something to consider,” he said. “We’ll
have a better idea,” of what method to use after a second round
of bidding for 350 megawatts is carried out over the next few
months, he said.  In India’s first auction last December, companies offering
to sell electricity from their plants at the cheapest rates won
in a process known as reverse-bidding. The winners, some who
offered discounts of more than 30 percent, committed to building
plants at unviable rates because they don’t understand the costs
of new technology, according to  Tata BP Solar Ltd. , a solar
panel maker jointly owned by the  oil company  and one of India’s
largest non-state power producers.  ‘Flipping’ Licenses  The government may consider tightening rules on developers
to prevent them from selling stakes in projects too quickly,
Gupta said. To prevent winners from “flipping” licenses,
guidelines say developers can’t change their shareholding in a
project after bidding until the project is built unless they’re
a public company.  “There might be more stiffening of this lock-in time,”
Gupta said.  “People who bid must implement. We don’t want to
encourage,” switching of ownership, he said.  The rules also require projects to use locally made
equipment unless they’re using thin-film panels. As of now,
there are no plans to extend local content rules to thin-film,
Gupta said.  By 2022, India plans to build 20,000 megawatts of solar
capacity, about the euqivalent of 18 nuclear plants, making it
one of  Asia ’s top three producers along with China and  Japan .
The first 1,000 megawatts is slated to be built by 2013,
followed by another 3,000 megawatts by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 