-- 
Indonesian Muslim Groups to Aid Terror Agency on Education

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 
2011-08-11T09:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/indonesian-muslim-groups-to-aid-terror-agency-on-education.html
Indonesia ’s anti-terrorism agency
signed a memorandum of understanding with eight Muslim
organizations to study programs that could help prevent attacks
fueled by religious extremism.  Among the groups to sign the agreement was  Nahdlatul Ulama ,
the country’s biggest Muslim group. The memorandum calls for
discussions about religious radicalism without providing details
on what the future programs might involve.  “Working with Muslim leaders is our priority after so many
people have said they are fighting in the name of Islam,”
National Anti-Terror Agency Chief Ansyaad Mbai told reporters
today in Jakarta after the signing. “This is our long-term
project.”  Indonesia, a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, is taking steps to address religious
extremism as part of a broader crackdown on terrorism. Security
forces have stepped up raids since 2009 bombings at Jakarta’s JW
Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels killed nine people, including
the two attackers.  Today’s agreement took place on a day when terrorism
suspect Umar Patek returned to Indonesia under police custody
from  Pakistan , according to Indonesian National Police Chief
Timur Pradopo. Patek, who is accused of helping carry out the
2002 Bali bomb attacks that killed 202 people, was arrested in
the Pakistani town of Abbottabad along with his wife on March 31,
Sutanto, head of the Indonesia Intelligence Agency, told
reporters in Jakarta on March 31.  The U.S. had offered a  reward  of $1 million for Patek’s
capture, according to the website Rewards for Justice, run by
the State Department. Patek is a member of Jemaah Islamiyah,
which is listed as a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
according to the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  