-- 
Industrial Metals Lead Commodity Gains as Yuan Strength Buoys China Demand

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-11T06:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/industrial-metals-lead-commodity-gains-as-yuan-strength-buoys-china-demand.html
Commodities increased for a second
day as the Chinese currency strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar
for the first time in 17 years, raising the purchasing power of
the world’s top consumer of energy and industrial metals.  Metals led the advance on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index, which gained 0.4 percent to 632.27. Three-month delivery
zinc jumped as much as 4.3 percent, the most since May 18, while
copper climbed as much as 3.4 percent. Crude oil increased while
gold declined.  The currency increased 0.36 percent to 6.3948 per dollar as
of 1:47 p.m. in  Shanghai , its biggest jump in nine months,
according to the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.3938, the strongest level since the country unified official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The central bank’s
reference rate was boosted 0.27 percent to 6.3991.  “It’s now back a little bit to risk-on trade,” said  David Thurtell , head of metals research at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore .
The yuan’s advance “is definitely good for commodities as that
allows China to import more, and it’s a sign that the government
is confident enough about the strength of domestic demand and
cares less about exports,” he said.  The Chinese currency was supported by the  Federal Reserve ’s
pledge to keep  interest rates  at a record low and signs China
will use currency gains to help rein in inflation. The
 International Monetary Fund  said last month a stronger yuan
would help stabilize the global economy, as well as aid
government efforts to tame inflation and rebalance the nation’s
growth toward domestic demand and away from exports.  Decade-Long Rally  Commodities rallied in eight out of 10 years through 2010,
driven by demand in China where urbanization and population
growth spurred consumption of coal, grains and metals. Above-
target consumer prices forced policy makers to increase interest
rates and banks’ reserve ratio to rein in the growth, adding to
investors’ concerns about global slowdown as governments in the
U.S. and  Europe  battled with piling debts.  China may adopt “targeted easing” in the second half to
support financing for agriculture, small business and social
housing, the China Securities Journal reported today.  The People’s Bank of China has increased interest rates
five times since September and boosted major lenders’ reserve -
requirement ratios to a record 21.5 percent.  Chinese copper imports expanded 9.5 percent to the highest
level since January last month, according to customs data. Still
they were 11 percent lower than 342,901 tons a year ago.  Copper, Gold  Copper for delivery in three months gained 3.2 percent to
$8,870 a ton on the London Metal Exchange, paring the month’s
loss to 9.8 percent. The contract closed at the lowest since
December yesterday because of concerns the growth outlook will
worsen.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating by one
notch to AA+ after the political impasse over debt crisis.  Many investors are holding a lot of cash and looking for
the right time to get back into financial markets, Thurtell said.
“It’s not a repeat of the second half in 2008. It’s going to be
tough but we’ll muddle through.”  Immediate-delivery gold dropped as much as 0.8 percent to
$1,779.20 and traded at $1,785.65. The metal earlier rallied as
much as 1.2 percent to a record $1,814.95 on concern economic
growth is stalling as governments in the U.S. and Europe remain
constrained by debt.  Higher Margins  Gold’s loss today came after CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures market, raised margins on gold contracts 22
percent with effect from the close of business today, prompting
investors to sell the metal after a four-day rally.  “We did see a little bit of selloff just after the
announcement,”  Darren Heathcote , head of trading at Investec
Bank ( Australia ) Ltd., said today from Sydney. “At the end of
the day there’s overwhelming upward pressure on gold because of
the uncertainties in other markets.”  Crude for September delivery increased 0.6 percent to
$83.40 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It earlier dropped as much as 2.1 percent to $81.14.  Corn and soybeans gained in  Chicago  ahead of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture report due at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington 
today that may show the agency cutting its estimates on the
nation’s harvests as hot weather curb yields.  Corn for December delivery advanced 0.6 percent to $6.925 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and soybeans increased 1.3
percent to $13.1875 a bushel. Wheat for December delivery gained
0.5 percent to $7.23 a bushel.  -- With assistance from Glenys Sim in Singapore. Editor: James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  