-- 
Intel Opens $300 Million Fund for ‘Ultrabook’ Laptop Push

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-11T13:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/intel-opens-300-million-fund-to-back-ultrabook-laptop-push.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, said it will invest as much as $300 million to back
the development of technology to speed up the introduction of
 notebook computers  it’s calling “ultrabooks.”  Intel will put the money in companies building hardware and
software to create thinner, lighter laptops that can go all day
without a battery charge, the  Santa Clara , California-based
company said in a statement. The investments will take place
over the next three to four years.  Intel, whose processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s computers, is trying to fire up demand by adding some of
the features that have made  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet and its
competitors a threat to personal-computer sales. In May Intel
said the new computers will be less than an inch thick, have
days of battery life on standby, start up in seconds and sell
for less than $1,000. Intel is aiming to convert 40 percent of
consumer laptops to the new category by the end of 2012.  “The Intel Capital Ultrabook fund will focus on investing
in companies building technologies that will help revolutionize
the computing experience and morph today’s mobile computers into
the next ‘must have’ device,” said Executive Vice President
Arvind Sodhani, who runs Intel Capital Corp., the chipmaker’s
investment arm.  The first ultrabooks will appear by the end-of-year  holiday
shopping season , an effort that will require collaboration among
the whole PC industry, Intel said. The company is working on
cutting the amount of power its processors use to enable the
machines to draw less battery power, it said.  While Intel also is developing new chips for tablet
computers, the company so far has struggled to translate its PC
dominance into success in that market. Apple’s iPad runs on
mobile-phone chips, rather than Intel processors. Tablets from
Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  also rely on non-Intel chips.  Intel rose 30 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $20.23 at 9:33 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had lost
5.2 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  