-- 
Investors in U.S. `Keep Their Heads’ After S&P Downgrades Municipal Bonds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-08-11T15:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/investors-in-u-s-keep-their-heads-after-s-p-downgrades-municipal-bonds.html
Individual municipal-bond investors
aren’t fleeing the market after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
credit rating of thousands of bonds.  The ratio of buy orders to sell orders, a measure of
investor demand, was 2.5 for municipal-bond trades on the
 BondDesk Group LLC  platform yesterday, meaning there were more
buyers than sellers, said Chris Shayne, senior market strategist
for the group, a bond marketplace that works with dealers,
advisers and discount brokers. That ratio showed demand was
about normal and up from earlier in the week when demand was
“substantially” weaker than normal, said Shayne, who’s based
in  Mill Valley ,  California .  Investors may not be dumping their bonds in part because
they’re more focused on the underlying ability of issuers to
repay principal and coupons, said Tom Spalding, who oversees
about $10 billion in municipal securities in mutual funds and
closed-end funds at Nuveen Investments Inc. in  Chicago .  “They’re taking a longer-term view,” Spalding said. “The
overwhelming evidence is that municipal credit is still a
relative safe haven for investors.”  Flows this week have been mixed in the mutual funds
Spalding manages with “modest” inflows to short-term
municipal-bond funds and similar outflows from long-term funds,
he said.  Collateral Damage  “We have not seen the collateral damage in muni land,”
said  Marilyn Cohen , president of Los Angeles-based Envision
Capital Management Inc., which manages $328 million in fixed-
income assets for individuals. “People were braced for it. They
understood it does not mean that the credit metrics have
deteriorated immediately.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell about 520 points, or
4.6 percent yesterday, to the lowest level since September 2010.
Standard & Poor’s assigned AA+ ratings, the second-highest
investment-grade rating, to about 11,500 municipal securities
this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The affected
bonds generally are tied to the federal government, which lost
its AAA long-term credit rating from S&P on Aug. 5.  “Getting in and out of the municipal market causes its own
friction, and I’m not going to do it willy nilly because
everyone is running around with their heads cut off,” said New
York-based Thomas Dalpiaz, who oversees $280 million as senior
vice president of  Advisors Asset Management Inc.  “It’s my job
to keep my head when everybody is losing theirs.”  Wait and See  Individual investors generally don’t sell bonds as quickly
as they may sell stocks in reaction to bad news, said John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York .  “They might wait a couple of days to see how things shake
out before they decide what they are going to do, and they also
need time to talk to their financial advisers,” he said.  Investors pulled about $14.5 million out of municipal-bond
mutual funds on Tuesday, the seventh straight day of flows from
the funds, according to data from TrimTabs Investment Research.
There was about $861 million in total withdrawals from U.S.
municipal-bond mutual funds in the week ended Aug. 3, before the
downgrade, and that was the greatest weekly outflow since April,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows.  Fund Withdrawals  Mutual-fund investors took money out of the funds for six
straight months beginning in November 2010, according to data
from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , including $13 billion in
outflows in December, the month when analyst  Meredith Whitney 
forecast that there could be 50 to 100 “sizable” municipal-
bond defaults. From May through July investors were adding money
to the funds, Morningstar said.  “There’s no parallel,” in current fund flows to the
outflows municipal-bond funds experienced in late 2010, said
Spalding.  Municipal bonds fell 0.04 percent this week through
yesterday, as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Municipal Master Index. Prerefunded municipal bonds, or those
backed by Treasury bonds held in escrow, gained 0.07 percent, as
measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal
Prerefunded Index.  Some investors may be holding on to municipal-bond
investments because there are few other safe havens available,
said Robert Kane, founder and chief executive officer for
 BondView , which provides bond-market data for advisers and
individual investors.  “There’s a kind of tug-of-war going on here with people
wanting muni bonds and thinking longer term, and people thinking
‘Gee, I want to get out,’” he said. “But if you do get out,
where do you go?”  Signs of Selling  There were some signs of selling following the U.S.
downgrade. Shares of the iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond
Fund, an exchange-traded fund, closed Monday at a 1.77 percent
discount to its net asset value, or the underlying value of its
holdings, the largest discount for the fund since December 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That discount may be because shares of the exchange-traded
fund are more liquid than bonds sold over-the-counter, so market
movements may show up in its shares before they are reflected in
prices of the underlying bonds, said Matt Tucker, head of fixed-
income investment strategy for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s IShares unit. On
Wednesday the shares closed at a 0.77 percent discount to net
asset value.  No New Issuance  Closed-end municipal-bond funds traded Monday at an average
discount of 8.39 percent to their net asset values, the largest
discount since April 2009, said  Cecilia Gondor , executive vice
president at Miami-based  Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc.  The
discount narrowed to 5.48 percent at the close of trading
Wednesday.  Declining new issuance has limited the supply in the
municipal-bond market, and many investors value the tax-exempt
income provided by the bonds, said Josh Gonze, a co-portfolio
manager who oversees $6.5 billion in municipal-bond assets at
 Thornburg Investment Management Inc.  in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .
The funds he manages have not seen any significant inflows or
outflows this week, Gonze said.  There was $141 billion in municipal-bond issuance in 2011
through July, compared with $216 billion in the first seven
months of 2010, said Thomas Doe, chief executive officer and
founder of Concord, Massachusetts-based  Municipal Market
Advisors .  Best Defense  Bonds issued by providers of essential services such as
utilities should be less vulnerable to the effects of any future
cuts in  government spending , said Howard Cure, director of
municipal-bond credit research for  Evercore Wealth Management
LLC  in New York, which oversees about $2.9 billion.  Evercore recently purchased bonds issued by the  Puerto Rico 
Electric Power Authority that mature in 2019 at a yield of 4.04
percent. Interest from Puerto Rico municipal bonds is generally
exempt from state and local income taxes for residents of any
state.  “We think that diversification is our best defense,” said
Elizabeth Fell, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Barclays
Wealth, which manages about $272 billion. Fell, who’s based in
New York, is advising clients to hold general-obligation and
certain revenue bonds.  There may be better opportunities among high-yield
municipal bonds, which individual investors may not be able to
analyze, said Jason Thomas, chief investment officer at
 Aspiriant , which manages about $7.5 billion.  No Flashing Sign  “The municipal-bond market is driven by the retail
investor, who is drawn to the apparent safety of general-
obligation municipal bonds,” said Los Angeles-based Thomas.  About 37 percent of municipal bonds are held directly by
households and 32 percent is held by mutual funds, according to
U.S. Federal Reserve  data .  Bond investors who purchased individual bonds with a long-
term time horizon generally should not sell, Kane said. They
should selectively trim holdings with very low  interest rates  or
long time horizons, and bonds likely to be downgraded.  “The fundamentals aren’t flashing a red warning sign,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net 
Ryan Mac in New York   rmac3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 