-- 
Is There Enough Money on Earth to Save the Banks?: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-08-11T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/is-there-enough-money-to-save-world-s-banks-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Forget free-market fundamentals.
What matters most to the capital markets now is whether the
governments of the U.S. and western  Europe  have the will and the
wherewithal to save the global financial system from disaster
yet again.  A healthy climate for the efficient allocation of capital,
this is not.  By pledging to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero
through at least mid-2013, the  Federal Reserve  succeeded (for a
couple of hours) in propping up U.S. stock markets after two
days of gut-wrenching declines, especially in financial stocks.
The news came a day after the  European Central Bank  embraced the
role of savior by buying sovereign debt of Italy and Spain,
sending yields on those countries’ bonds plunging and offering
respite to financial institutions that hold them.  The notion that the world’s governments won’t permit an
economic meltdown seemed to be operative, less than two weeks
after the  U.S. Congress  threatened to torch the nation’s full
faith and credit. Then yesterday the equities markets fell out
of bed again. The open question is how long investor confidence
in the policy makers’ powers can last.  This has added relevance in light of one of the
developments that sent  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s stock down 20
percent Aug. 8 -- the news that  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  had accused the company of  securities fraud  in a lawsuit
seeking more than $10 billion. Naturally the question arises:
Didn’t AIG consult with anyone at the Treasury Department, which
owns 76.7 percent of AIG, about whether to fire this market-
sinking torpedo at a too-big-to-fail bank so soon after  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating?  Bailouts at War  It would seem not. A Treasury spokesman,  Mark Paustenbach ,
said: “As per our stated principles, Treasury does not
interfere with the day-to-day management of the company.” Just
when you think the government might have matters under control,
we find out it can’t even keep a bailed-out company it controls
from trying to blow up Bank of America, which itself needed
federal bailout money to stay afloat.  One thing that’s certain is that investors aren’t feeling
very good about large financial institutions’ balance sheets. As
of yesterday, there were 186 U.S.-based financial-services
companies trading for less than 60 percent of their book value,
or common shareholder equity, including Bank of America,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , AIG and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) 
Together they had a stock-market value of $300.5 billion,
compared with $686.4 billion of book value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Broken Cycle  When I ran the same stock screen for a June 2008 column, a
few months before the financial crisis reached full flower, it
turned up 168 companies with a combined $120.3 billion market
value and a book value of $270.3 billion. The way the credit
crunch was playing out then, market declines were begetting
writedowns, leading to more market declines and then more
writedowns. A year later the cycle broke, thanks to
unprecedented government intervention. The largest U.S. banks
were reporting quarterly profits again.  Like a  Slinky  walking down a flight of  stairs , though, all
it may take is the slightest push for inertial energy to set the
writedown cycle in motion again. For instance: Bank of America,
at 33 percent of book value, finished yesterday with a $68.6
billion market capitalization. That’s less than the $71.1
billion of goodwill on its June 30 balance sheet. (Goodwill,
which isn’t a saleable asset, is the ledger entry a company
records when it pays a premium price to buy another).  You Gotta Believe  So, Bank of America would have us believe the goodwill by
itself was more valuable than what the market says the entire
company is now worth. Investors don’t buy that. They see a
company that needs to raise fresh capital, judging by the
discount to book value, in spite of the company’s claims it
doesn’t need to. The more the stock price falls, the more shares
Bank of America would need to issue to appease the markets,
leading to fears of even more share dilution.  The same story is playing out in Europe, driven by the
sovereign-debt crisis. The 32 companies in the Euro Stoxx Banks
Index yesterday had a stock-market value of 313.2 billion euros
($444 billion) and a combined book value of 620.5 billion euros.
France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the index’s third-largest bank by
assets, trades for just 34 percent of book.  Two years ago the central planners convinced investors that
the biggest surviving financial institutions would be able to
earn their way back to health, in part through low interest
rates and taxpayer support. The pressing question soon may be
whether there is enough money on the planet to save the system
as we know it, and if so, how much longer it will be before a
crisis comes along that finally swamps the ability of
governments to contain it.  One-hit wonders such as Fed-induced stock-market rallies
can induce euphoria momentarily. They don’t fix the big problem.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 