-- 
Italy Approves $64 Billion Plan to Balance Budget in 2013 to Defend Bonds

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-13T15:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/italy-may-pass-deficit-cutting-measures.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet approved 45.5 billion euros ($64 billion)
in deficit cuts to balance the budget and try to convince
investors the country can tame the region’s second-biggest debt.  The plan will raise the capital gains tax, increase levies
on the highest earners, cut  government spending  and reduce
funding to regional administrations. It was passed last night in
Rome by decree, meaning it will take effect immediately and then
must be approved by parliament within 60 days.  “Our heart is bleeding as we have always maintained that
we wouldn’t put our hands in the pockets of Italians, but the
international scenario has deeply changed,” Berlusconi said
after the meeting. “The measures go in the direction that the
ECB wanted.”  The  European Central Bank  had asked  Italy  to make
additional budget cuts before it would buy the nation’s debt on
the market in a bid to arrest surging borrowing costs. Yields on
Italy’s 10-year bond have plunged 105 basis points since the ECB
started the purchases on Aug. 8, after reaching a euro-era high
of 6.3 percent on concern Italy would become  Europe ’s next debt
victim.  Berlusconi said he’s confident the decree won’t need a
confidence vote in Parliament. The  Northern League , Berlusconi’s
main ally, is “satisfied” with the measures, Industry Ministry
Paolo Romani said yesterday. The League’s leader  Umberto Bossi 
had said he would have fought against any pension cuts.  Balanced Budget  The package includes 20 billion euros of deficit-reduction
measures to trim the budget gap to 1.4 percent of gross domestic
product next year. Another 25 billion euros of cuts will come in
2013 to allow a balanced budget a year earlier than pledged in
the government’s original 48 billion-euro plan last month.  Under the package, which is mainly in addition to the
previous plan, the capital-gains tax will be increased to 20
percent from 12.5 percent, and the highest earners will pay an
extra 5 percent tax on income over 90,000 euros a year and 10
percent on income of more than 150,000 euros. The  wealth tax 
will be applied from this year and will fetch about 1 billion
euros a year, along with taxes on gaming and tobacco and a
crackdown on  tax evasion , Tremonti said at a press conference in
Rome today.  Regional Entities  Contributions to regional entities and administrations will
be cut by 9 billion euros over the two years, and 8.5 billion
euros trimmed from government ministries. A levy on energy
companies is expected to generate about 2 billion euros,
Tremonti said.  The government approved the liberalization of professional
services and local public service companies and measures to make
local labor contracts possible, which gives legal backing to
contracts struck by carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  for two of its plants. It
also approved Italy’s contribution to the expanded European
Union rescue facility  “While the impact of service-sector liberalization and
privatizations may be positive on medium-term growth, the budget
cuts are likely to have quite negative effects on the short-term
GDP dynamic,” Citigroup Inc. economists including Giada Giani
in  London  wrote in a note yesterday. “We expect Italian GDP
growth to slow to close to zero in 2012 and 2013.”  Growth Forecasts  Tremonti said today the government doesn’t plan to revise
growth forecasts while the 2011 deficit may be lower than
originally predicted as some new measures take immediate effect.
Italian economic growth has trailed the euro-region expansion
for more than a decade, fueling concern among investors that
balancing the budget without spurring growth won’t be enough to
lower a 1.9 trillion-euro debt. Even with the drop in the
country’s bond yields on ECB buying, the cost of insuring
against an Italian default reached a euro-era record this week.  “It is clear that the crisis doesn’t affect just our
country, it can also affect other European countries” Tremonti
said, adding that problems will persist until a plan to sell so-
called common eurobonds to fund member countries is approved. He
added there are “great expectations” for the Franco-German
summit on Aug. 16.  Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the main opposition
 Democratic Party , said the decree “doesn’t resolve the
country’s problems” and is unfair, Ansa news agency cited him
as saying.  Tremonti also said that the government is studying
“hypotheses” of privatizations of state-controlled companies.  The benchmark FTSE MIB Index gained for a second day before
yesterday’s approval, adding 4 percent. Still, the index has
fallen 14 percent in the past month as stocks suffered from
debt-crisis contagion. Securities market regulator Consob said
yesterday it banned new net short positions on financial shares
for 15 days, in line with similar moves in  Spain ,  Belgium  and
 France .  The austerity measures were “a case of necessity and
urgency,” said Tremonti.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  