-- 
Japanese Machinery Orders Rise for a Second Month on Rebuilding Demand

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-11T00:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/japan-machinery-orders-increase-for-second-month-on-earthquake-rebuilding.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rose for a
second month in June as companies increased spending to restore
businesses and production disrupted by the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  Factory orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three
to six months, rose 7.7 percent in June from May, the Cabinet
Office said today in  Tokyo . The median forecast of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.7 percent increase.  The report follows production and export data suggesting 
that the corporate sector has been recovering faster than 
expected from the March disaster. Now, the nation's recovery is 
at risk as stocks plunge and a yen near a postwar high threatens
exporters' profits.   “Companies have been pretty optimistic about their
spending plans and more people are confident that the post-quake
slump will be short-lived,”  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the
report. “Demand to restore factories damaged by the disaster is
also a significant factor supporting demand.”  Toshiba Corp., the world’s largest maker of flash memory
chips, is among companies counting on reconstruction demand to
boost business later this year. The company posted 470 million
yen ($6 million) in net income in the three months ended June 30,
exceeding analysts’ estimates.  Rebuilding Demand  Fumio Muraoka, corporate senior executive vice president at
Toshiba, told reporters on May 9 that the company expects to
benefit from demand for televisions, refrigerators, and air
conditioners in the current fiscal year as the nation rebuilds.  The yen has climbed more than 4 percent against the dollar
in the past month and yesterday breached the 76.97 per dollar
level it strengthened to on Aug. 4 when authorities intervened.
It is also stronger than the 82.59 average rate companies have
based their profit forecasts on, in a quarterly  Bank of Japan 
survey of business activity.  “The  exchange rate  is at a level that has an extremely
damaging effect on the Japanese economy,” Osamu Masuko,
president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors Corp., said last week.  Industrial production has rise for three straight months
since plunging in March and companies forecast they will boost
output this month as well to make up for lost capacity resulting
from the earthquake and tsunami. The nation’s largest firms
expect to increase spending 4.2 percent in the year ending March
2012, according to the central bank’s Tankan survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  