-- 
Jefferson Creditors’ Plan May Match or Beat County Holding Down Sewer Fees

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/jefferson-creditors-plan-may-match-or-beat-county-holding-down-sewer-fees.html
Owners of Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
sewer debt may offer to match or reduce three years of 8 percent
annual sewer-fee increases in a county plan to restructure its
bonds, said the court-appointed receiver managing the system.  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , a bond insurer that guarantees some
of the $3.14 billion at stake, may back part of a new issue to
help cut borrowing costs and meet the county’s rate target, the
receiver, John Young, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Commissioners may get the offer this morning, he said.  “The creditors are going to have an offer coming back that
will have potential rate increases equal or below what the
county has proposed,” Young said. “We’re doing everything we
can do to minimize the rate impact, which we believe the focus
ought to be on.”  Commissioners in Jefferson County, home to Birmingham,
Alabama’s biggest city, scheduled a meeting tomorrow where they
will vote either to seek Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection or to
approve terms of an agreement with creditors, which include
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and bond insurers Assured, Syncora Guaranty
Inc. and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. A bankruptcy would be
the largest by a municipality in U.S. history.  The size of any rate increases has become a sticking point
because of who uses the system, said Commissioner George Bowman,
who represents one of the two poorest districts in the county.  Rising Fees  “Any rate increase, no matter how small, is going to come
on top of all the rate increases we’ve had to date,” Bowman
said by telephone. “So far, it’s been more than 300 percent.”  Almost 70 percent of sewer users are in the two county
districts with the lowest average incomes, Bowman said.  “These are the poorest people in Jefferson County that are
going to pay this,” Bowman said. He said he is encouraged by
the apparent movement on the issue.  Jefferson County’s sewer system serves about 478,000 people
through 144,000 accounts, according to a June report from Young.
The median  household income  in the county is $43,312 a year,
U.S. Census Bureau figures show. Many sewer customers reside in
Birmingham, where the median household income was $26,735 in
1999, according to the latest census data available.  The average residential wastewater bill is $37.74 a month,
according to Young. He has previously proposed setting up a
bill-assistance program for low-income customers, funded by $75
million from a  settlement  paid by JPMorgan over alleged
securities violations by the bank related to the sewer bonds.  ‘Encouraging’ News  A fresh proposal from holders of the bonds that goes beyond
the county’s in terms of restraining sewer-fee increases would
be welcome, said Commissioner Joe Knight.  “That’s encouraging, but we still have a long way to go,”
he said. “There are a lot more parts to this proposal and we’ll
have to take a look at the whole thing.”  Assured backs $495.8 million of Jefferson County sewer
debt, according to its latest filing. Assured’s municipal-bond
insurance subsidiary is rated AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s , the
second-highest investment grade.  Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman for Assured, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Last week, creditors proposed reducing the amount of sewer
debt the county owes by $1 billion, while asking for 8 percent
annual increases in system fees for five years, according to
commissioner Sandra Little Brown. Jefferson officials have asked
the creditors to write off $1.17 billion of the debt, the
Birmingham News  reported  yesterday. Bowman and Knight said they
couldn’t confirm the report.  Climbing Rates  County officials are under political pressure to restrain
fees, which have climbed more than threefold from 1997 to 2008
as the sewer system was rebuilt under a federal consent decree.  Young, a former chief technology officer at American Water
Co. in Voorhees,  New Jersey , has been working with Alabama
officials to broker a deal. He was appointed by a state judge to
manage the system last year after a lawsuit by the trustee for
the debt.  A deal struck by tomorrow’s deadline would begin a process
that may last into next year, Jefferson County Commission
President David Carrington said Aug. 9. The county would approve
a term sheet that would have to be crafted into an agreement, he
said, and the Alabama Legislature would have to pass changes
needed to help Jefferson County rebuild its finances.  The state may further improve the creditworthiness of a new
sewer-bond issue by offering a nonbinding promise that it will
consider appropriating money if system revenue isn’t enough to
pay debt service, Young has said. The Legislature would have to
pass the so-called moral obligation backing.  State lawmakers would also need to clear the creation of an
independent utility board that would assume control of the sewer
system and issue the new debt, Young has said.  “My focus is to minimize rates and put together a
successful corporation,” he said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Walid El-Gabry at 
 welgabry@bloomberg.net  