-- 
Jefferson Ch. 9 Vote Chance ‘50-50,’ Commissioner Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-12T00:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/jefferson-county-ch-9-vote-chance-50-50-commissioner-little-brown-says.html
(Corrects Guaranty to Guarantee in fifth paragraph.)  There is a “50-50” chance that
Jefferson County,  Alabama , officials will vote to file for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy tomorrow, Commissioner Sandra Little Brown
said today after seeing creditors’ latest offer.  While the gap between creditors holding $3.14 billion of
the county’s sewer debt and local officials has narrowed over
proposed sewer-fee increases, differences remain over issues
including a fund to help poor residents pay wastewater bills,
Little Brown said. She previously had estimated there was an 85
percent chance the five-member commission would approve a
Chapter 9 filing.  Divisions also exist between state legislators representing
the county of 660,000 residents over how to shore up its general
fund, according to interviews with delegation members. Any
agreement to avoid bankruptcy will require state lawmakers to
pass “strong legislation,” to raise revenue, Little Brown
said.  “We’ve got everything they’re going to give,” Little
Brown said in an interview in Birmingham. “Hopefully we can get
this settlement; still, a few things concern me.”  The commission has scheduled a meeting tomorrow morning at
which it said it may vote to file the largest-ever U.S.
municipal bankruptcy. The session comes after three weeks week
of negotiations with creditors including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and bond insurers  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , Syncora Guarantee Inc.
and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co.  Creditors’ Terms  County commissioners received an offer from creditors
around noon today. Terms of the proposal include four scenarios
for raising sewer rates, with yearly increases ranging from 6.1
percent to as high as 7.8 percent over three years, Little Brown
said. She said she was satisfied with the size of rate increases
the creditors are willing to accept, though she said the
conditions on the lower boosts were less favorable to the
county.  State lawmakers would need to agree to offer a non-binding
promise to make up for any deficiencies in sewer revenue that
would back a new bond issue of about $2 billion.  Legislators have been unable to reach an agreement on how
or if to bolster the county’s revenue, and interviews this week
indicate the disagreements persist.  New Taxes  State Senator Scott Beason, a Republican from Gardendale,
derailed a bill during the legislative session that would have
given the county the power to levy new taxes.  Jefferson was forced to cut more than 500 employees and
close satellite courthouses in June after Beason blocked a bill
that would have let the county boost levies on sales, leases and
rentals, alcoholic beverages and other goods and services.  Beason said he would fight such a tax again.  “I’m still opposed to raising taxes,” he said. “I think
you can right-size this county without raising its revenues.”  State Representative  John Rogers , a Democrat from
Birmingham, meanwhile, said he didn’t support the state backing
the county’s debt.  “Where are you going to get the money to do that,” he
said. “We’ve got enough problems at the state. We can barely do
a budget. We can’t even fund the prisons right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  