-- 
Kenya’s Oil and Gas Investment Grows as Tullow, Apache Draw Attention

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-11T08:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/kenya-s-oil-investment-grows-as-tullow-apache-exploration-draws-attention.html
Kenya’s planned investment in oil
and gas exploration may rise to a record as the discovery of
crude in neighboring Uganda piques interest in the largely
untapped territory, Petroleum Commissioner Martin Heya said.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the London-based explorer with the most
licenses in Africa, plans to sink two test wells in north-
western Kenya this year and early 2012, while U.S.-based  Apache
Corp. (APA)  may drill offshore next year, Heya said in an interview
yesterday in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. Spending on
exploration and drilling is estimated at $126 million, and other
companies may follow as more plans are approved, he said.  “The level of activity is at a high and we think once
Tullow starts drilling we must prepare ourselves for even more
interest,” Heya said. “The more wells that are drilled, the
faster a discovery will be made.”  Exploration companies are increasing spending in Kenya as
neighboring Uganda, with an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil
reserves, prepares to become a crude producer next year when
Tullow expects to start pumping from the Lake Albert Basin. Only
32 exploratory wells have been drilled in Kenya. That compares
with 480 in East Africa, 14,500 in the west of the continent and
19,000 in north and central Africa, according to data from U.K.-
based explorer  Afren Plc. (AFR)   “Big companies like Tullow coming into the country
automatically creates more interest,” Dragan Trajkov, an oil and
gas analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in  London , said an e-
mailed response to questions today. “I wouldn’t be surprised if
the Kenyan government tries to capitalize on it, as it provides
credibility to potentially finding more discoveries.”  Neighboring Producers  Kenya has no proven reserves. Tanzania to the south
produces commercial gas from two offshore deposits for domestic
power generation, and neighboring South Sudan is sub-Saharan
Africa’s third-biggest oil producer, after Angola and Nigeria.  About 14 oil and gas companies including  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , based in Texas, Canada’s  Vanoil Energy Ltd. (VEL)  and Afren
have signed 26 production-sharing agreements with Kenya, Heya
said.  This month,  Simba Energy Inc. (SMB) , based in British Columbia,
said it entered a production-sharing accord for a northeast
Kenyan block, and U.K.-based  Dominion Petroleum Ltd. (DPL)  announced
it was granted rights to explore in the Lamu Basin. BG Group Plc
said in May it signed leasing contracts with the Kenyan
government for two offshore exploration blocks.  Officials from France-based  Total SA (FP)  have held “early”
talks with Kenya on possibly acquiring a deepwater block that’s
not yet been designated as a zone for exploration, Heya said.  “They had come here in June or July and we discussed on a
block, but it is not gazetted by the government,” he said. “We
need to follow up on it.”  In  Kenya , once new legislation required under a
constitution enacted last year is put into force, there may be
tighter restrictions on entrants to the oil and gas industry as
lawmakers will have to approve exploration plans, Heya said.  “Now is the right time for people to come,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in London at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 