-- 
Kimberley Process Undermined By Allowing Zimbabwe Diamonds, Rapaport Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-08-11T14:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/kimberley-process-undermined-by-allowing-zimbabwe-diamonds-rapaport-says.html
The  Kimberley Process , which aims to
curb the sale of diamonds used to fund wars, is being undermined
by gems from  Zimbabwe , accused by human rights groups of
committing abuses against its residents, Martin Rapaport,
chairman of Rapaport Group.  The Kimberley Process has recently certified more than $200
million worth of diamonds from Zimbabwe’s Marange fields,
opening up a “Pandora’s box of complex ethical, legal and
financial issues” for the industry, Rapaport, which runs a
diamond-pricing service, said in a report on its website today.  Zimbabwe, the world’s seventh-largest diamond producer in
2010, will probably earn about $334 million from the export of
the gems this year, according to state-owned Zimbabwe Mining and
Development Corp., the main producer in the country.  Human
Rights Watch , based in  New York , said in a 2009 report that
diggers at the Marange field were  killed and tortured  by
security forces.  “The diamond trade can no longer get away with telling
consumers and each other that having a Kimberley Process
certificate ensures that diamonds are legitimate,” Rapaport
said. “Even a child can see the KP’s emperor has no clothes.”  The Kimberley Process, which is currently based in
Kinshasa, the capital of  Democratic Republic of Congo , didn’t
answer calls to their offices today. The organization consists
of government and industry representatives from 75 nations.  Stockpile  Zimbabwe was given permission by the Kimberley Process to
hold its first monitored sale of a $1.7 billion stockpile of
gems a year ago. The KP has said it won’t allow unmonitored
sales of Marange diamonds and asked Zimbabwe to tighten controls
on smuggling in the area. Marange is located in eastern
Zimbabwe, near the border with  Mozambique .  Diamond buyers should establish their own ethical
certification scheme to ensure gem entering the U.S. are
conflict-free. Sanctions on Zimbabwe Mining and Development
Corp. make it illegal to trade in stones mined by that company.  The ZMDC mines in two joint-ventures in Marange with
closely held Mbada Mining (Private) Ltd. and Canadile Mines
(Private) Ltd. Under U.S. law it’s illegal to do business with
several Zimbabwean companies linked to President  Robert Mugabe ’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 