-- 
Nascar Tracks, Railroads, American Samoa Bid to Keep Tax Breaks

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/nascar-tracks-railroads-american-samoa-bid-to-keep-federal-tax-breaks.html
Short line railroads , the government
of  American Samoa  and owners of Nascar tracks are among a
diverse group that may encounter added resistance in a drive to
protect billions of dollars in U.S. tax breaks.  Each year or two lawmakers collect dozens of unrelated tax
advantages for businesses and individuals and renew them in one
measure. The grab bag is a bonanza for lobbyists stretching from
 Daytona Beach ,  Florida , to Pago Pago in American Samoa.  “Over time, they’ve been collected together and considered
as a package. Some of these provisions move by inertia,” said
Marc Gerson, a former Republican tax counsel to the  House Ways
and Means Committee . “There hasn’t been a separate evaluation
of their merits,” he told Bloomberg Government.  Though such tax breaks are a relatively small part of the
proposed $3.7 trillion federal budget, they are sure to undergo
tougher scrutiny at a time when Congress is pressing for cost-
cutting solutions to narrow the federal deficit.  The most recent array of at least 33 tax renewals -- also
known as extenders -- add up to an estimated $30 billion for
2012, according to the  Joint Committee on Taxation . That doesn’t
count a $6 billion ethanol tax credit that the Senate in June
voted to end.  The ethanol credit and other tax breaks in the current
extenders package are due to expire on Dec. 31. In the meantime
Congress may consider an overhaul of the  tax code  while lowering
the overall rate, making it more likely each extender will be
studied individually.  Ending Extenders  “If it’s part of  tax reform , I think a lot of these
extenders go away,” said Christopher Condeluci, a former tax
counsel to the  Senate Finance Committee .  Language mandating an analysis of the extenders was removed
at the last minute from the most recent package approved by
Congress last December. They were renewed under the Tax Relief,
Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of
2010, which also continued Bush-era tax cuts through 2012 along
with an extension of federal jobless aid for 13 months and a 2
percentage point cut in the  payroll tax  for one year.  Lloyd Doggett, the Texas Democrat who inserted the analysis
provision into the extenders legislation, said lawmakers can’t
afford to ignore wasteful or unnecessary spending of any size.  “Just as with direct expenditures, we need a reasonable,
systematic process evaluating every tax expenditure to weed out
those which have outlived their usefulness,” Doggett said in a
statement.  Public Benefit  John Buckley , former Democratic chief counsel to the House
Ways and Means Committee, said many of the breaks benefit the
public and could survive a review process and deserve to become
permanent.  One reason they aren’t permanent is that it’s easier to win
approval of something with a smaller price tag, said Buckley,
now a visiting professor at Georgetown Law School. “To extend
it permanently is very costly,” he said.  Permanent tax breaks are evaluated for projected cost over
10 years rather than annually. The temporary nature of the
current provisions means ending them doesn’t save much money.  It’s become more common in recent years to offer an
incentive through the tax code rather than with an earmarked
grant.  “It’s a lot easier to give benefits through the tax code
than it is through a spending program. One makes the government
look smaller. But they both do the same thing,” said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington, which is funded by the non-partisan  Urban Institute 
and the  Brookings Institution .  Wide Support  Some tax breaks, such as the research credit for businesses
and the individual deduction for state and local general sales
taxes, get wide support among lawmakers. Other provisions are
fiercely defended by narrow constituencies prepared to argue
that they are vital.  Rail executive Mark Blazer said eliminating a tax credit
for short-line railroads would slow or eliminate upgrades to
tracks and bridges and push shippers to use trucks. “That means
greater wear on roads and more cost to state and local
government,” said Blazer, a senior vice president at Watco Cos.
Inc., the Pittsburg, Kansas-based operator of 23 short-line
routes.  The 50 percent tax credit for track maintenance would cost
the Treasury about $166 million in forgone revenue next year.  Watco and other short-line rail operators also are backing
legislation to extend the credit for five years.  Daytona’s Break  Daniel Houser, chief financial officer of the  International
Speedway Corp. (ISCA)  of Daytona Beach, which operates 12 Nascar
tracks, said shortened depreciation of track construction
projects -- expected to cost the Treasury about $29 million if
extended in 2012 -- is an economic stimulus.  “These are shovel-ready projects that we are financing,”
he said.  The speedway group is lobbying to make its 7-year-old tax
benefit permanent, Houser said.  The government of American Samoa is pushing for at least a
five-year extension for an economic development tax credit,
expected to cost $19 million next year.  The year-to-year credit benefits StarKist Co., a unit of
South Korea-based Dongwon Industries Co. Ltd., which operates a
cannery in Pago Pago, the capital of the  Washington , D.C.-sized
U.S. territory, according to Edward Ing, a lobbyist for the
American Samoan government.  Ing said lengthening the time the credit is available would
give businesses certainty about financing when they plan
development projects on the islands.  Williams of the  Tax Policy Center  said the sheer number of
special provisions, both permanent and temporary, make the tax
code needlessly complex and expensive to comply with and
undermines confidence in its fairness.  “The opacity makes it hard for people to understand what
the tax code is doing,” Williams said. “It makes people
suspicious. They think somebody else is getting a tax break and
I’m not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  