-- 
NDRC’s Zhang Says Yuan Gains to Be ‘Gradually,’ Radio Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T12:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/ndrc-s-zhang-says-yuan-gains-to-be-gradually-radio-says-1-.html
An official at  China ’s top economic
planning agency said the nation’s currency will continue to
appreciate against the dollar “gradually,” China National
Radio reported today.  The yuan’s appreciation is the result of a weakening dollar
after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating last
week, the state broadcaster reported, citing an interview with
 Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission. Loose U.S. monetary policy will also erode
the purchasing power of China’s foreign exchange reserves, Zhang
was cited as saying.  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for the first
time in 17 years today after the U.S. Federal Reserve said Aug.
9 it would maintain its record-low policy rate of zero to 0.25
percent at least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery. The yuan
touched 6.3895, the strongest level since the country unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. China is
the biggest holder of U.S. debts.  Slowing economic growth in developed nations will reduce
demand for commodities and cause prices to decline in the short
term, helping to reduce China’s inflationary pressure, China
National Radio cited the NDRC’s Zhang as saying.  A weakening dollar will at the same time push up prices of
commodities in the medium and long term as funds shift to raw
materials as alternative investments, Zhang was cited as saying.  It’s still too early to predict if the global economy will
enter a double-dip recession, Zhang was cited as saying.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Jing Jin and  Alfred Cang 
in Shanghai. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  