-- 
Nestle, Novartis, Roche Show Franc’s Appeal: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/nestle-novartis-roche-show-franc-s-appeal-chart-of-the-day.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  are among the world’s 25 largest companies by market
value, their standing a testament to the Swiss franc’s strength.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks this year’s stock performance
of the companies, Switzerland’s largest by market value, in
dollars and francs. The comparison is based on indexes that were
equally weighted by share price when the year began.  Nestle, the world’s largest foodmaker, and Roche, the
world’s biggest producer of cancer drugs, are higher for the
year in dollar terms even though their shares have dropped 17
percent and 15 percent, respectively. Novartis, Europe’s second-
largest drugmaker by revenue after Roche, has declined 6.4
percent in dollars and 27 percent in the company’s home
currency.  The franc rose more than any other currency against the
dollar this year through yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, as investors seeking a haven from financial-market
turmoil turned to  Switzerland .  With a 29 percent advance, the franc was also the only
currency to exceed this year’s gains in precious metals. Gold
for immediate delivery advanced 26 percent on the spot market
and spot silver rallied 27 percent.  Nestle, based in Vevey, was the sixth-largest company by
market capitalization worldwide, according to Bloomberg’s data.
Novartis ranked 22nd and Roche ranked 25th; both companies are
based in Basel. Their combined value was 45 percent higher than
the market cap of Apple Inc., which surpassed Exxon Mobil Corp.
to become the world’s most valuable company this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  