-- 
New York Gasoline Gains as Refinery Outages May Curb Supply

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-11T22:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/new-york-gasoline-gains-as-refinery-outages-may-curb-supply.html
New York gasoline strengthened on
work at two Canadian refineries and speculation that a third,
Irving Oil Corp.’s St. John plant, is trying to restore output
at a catalytic cracker.  Conventional gasoline to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
in New York Harbor strengthened 2 cents to a premium of 4.38
cents to futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
3:30 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fuel has climbed from a deficit of 6.88 cents on
July 28.  “I think that the unit at Irving, combined with the
Imperial Halifax being down, combined with the delays in the
Come by Chance Newfoundland refinery returning back from
maintenance, have all contributed to significant tightness of
New England gasoline supplies,” Andy Lipow, president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said in a telephone interview.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  started a turnaround at the Dartmouth
refinery near Halifax early after a  power outage  forced the
plant shut July 21. Longer-than-expected maintenance at Korea
National Oil Corp.’s Come by Chance refinery has also fueled
speculation that gasoline imports will be limited.  Irving Oil Corp. is trying to restore output at a residual
catalytic cracker at the Saint John refinery in  New Brunswick 
that halted production yesterday, EnergyNewsToday reported.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest widened 1 cent to 2.25 cents.  EPA Waiver  The Environmental Protection Agency said it’s waiving
summer-grade gasoline requirements in Shelby County, Tennessee,
as a fire that shut  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Memphis refinery may
create a fuel shortage in the area.  Bill Haslam, Tennessee’s governor, said in a letter to the
EPA that the refinery shutdown has already “left the Memphis-
Shelby County Tennessee market with an extremely short supply.”  The refinery may not be back at full production for at
least 60 days, Haslam said in the letter, which was e-mailed to
Bloomberg.  The waiver will allow Valero to sell winter-grade gasoline,
some of which will come from refinery storage,  Bill Day , a
spokesman for the San Antonio-based company, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  