-- 
New BMWs a Dollar More Than Used Show Closing Market Gap: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/new-bmws-a-dollar-more-than-used-show-closing-market-gap-cars.html
Record-high prices for used luxury
automobiles are driving more buyers to new-car lots.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s 2011 3-Series compacts and M3
sedans now cost $34 more a month than one-year-old used models,
according to Edmunds.com.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet
Corvette is about $12 a month cheaper to buy new than used, the
auto-pricing website says.  There is an industrywide shortage of used cars in the U.S.,
the product of manufacturing cuts amid slumping sales the last
three years. That means some people have effectively been priced
out of the used-car market and into brand-new models. As many as
500,000 new vehicles by mid-2012 may have been sold to people
who would have bought used, said economist  Paul Ballew .  “There’s a substitution effect going on between new and
used,” Ballew, chief economist for Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Co., said in a phone interview. “When you get those price gaps
closing, you get people that are willing to shop new that
wouldn’t have before.”  Two years after U.S. auto sales plunged to their lowest
level in almost three decades, the supply of used cars coming
off leases or out of rental fleets is at a trickle. With
deliveries rebounding slowly, low-mileage used cars will remain
so scarce that many shoppers will buy a new vehicle instead of
used, said Ballew, a former analyst for GM’s predecessor.  ‘Significant Run-Up’  The Manheim Used Vehicle Value Index, determined through
the largest auto-auction company’s more than 5 million annual
U.S. sales, reached a record 126.6 this April and rose to 127.8
in May. It held at 125.9 in July.  The luxury segment’s index reached a record 109.74 in June.
Manheim started its value index in 1995.  Used prices have had “a significant run-up” from late
2008, Tom Webb, Manheim Consulting’s chief economist based in
Marshall,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview. The shortage
of low-mileage used models “will last for some time.”  While GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  forecast about a 10 percent
boost in U.S. new-vehicle sales this year, deliveries will
remain well below the pre-recession pace. GM and Ford are
forecasting at least 13 million sales this year, including
medium- and heavy-duty trucks. The U.S. averaged annual light-
vehicle deliveries of 16.8 million vehicles from 2000 to 2007,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  With  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , maker of Lexus luxury cars, losing
production after the March earthquake in  Japan , BMW and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz have taken the lead in high-end new-vehicle
sales.  U.S. deliveries of BMWs through July rose 13 percent to
135,114, and Mercedes sales increased 7.3 percent to 129,932,
while  Lexus ’s fell 19 percent to 102,549.  Corvette Cruising  Corvette sales have increased 8.4 percent this year through
July to 8,187, outpacing the luxury sports-car segment’s
2.9 percent growth, according to Autodata. Sales of Nissan Motor
Co.’s Z cars, the second most-popular model in the segment, have
dropped 22 percent.  As Toyota and Honda Motor Co. rebuild new-car inventories
in the second half, executives at the largest U.S. automakers
and retailers expect spending on incentives and marketing to
rebound from five-year lows. That would make new vehicles even
more affordable compared with used ones.  Sweetened deals for 2011 Tacoma pickups and FJ Cruiser
sport-utility vehicles have reduced typical payments for each
model to less than $490 a month, Edmunds says. The monthly
discount for used Tacomas and FJ Cruisers has narrowed to about
$20 for each model.  18 Months  “I don’t expect any dramatic decreases in used prices for
at least 18 months,” Joe Spina, an analyst at  Santa Monica ,
California-based Edmunds, said in an e-mail. More than 70 models
are cheaper or nearly the same price new as used, Edmunds said
in a July 20  posting  on its website.  Honda’s Acura TL sedan, has a monthly payment of $583 new
and $601 used, Edmunds said, putting the savings over a 60-month
term at $1,080.  Used pricing will show “continued strength” for at least
18 to 24 more months, said Mike Maroone, chief operating officer
of AutoNation Inc. Demand from price-conscious buyers that was
already strong because of the slow economic recovery was
exacerbated by Japan’s production disruptions and the shortages
of new vehicles that followed, he said in an interview.  New lease sales fell to 1.96 million in 2008 and 1.13
million in 2009, according to Manheim. Lease originations that
averaged 2.78 million during the previous 10 years dried up as
lenders such as GMAC Inc. and Chrysler Financial Corp. withdrew
financing offers.  Leased vehicles’ input to used-vehicle supply will be
2.08 million units this year, a 40 percent drop from 2002 levels,
according to Manheim. Off-lease volumes will keep declining
through at least next year, to 1.53 million, Manheim says.  Rental Inputs  Sales to rental fleets, which fell to 1.13 million vehicles
in 2009 from more than 2 million in 2006, may not exceed 1.5
million until after this year, according to Manheim. The 2011
contribution to used-vehicle supply from rental fleets will be
about 1.4 million vehicles, a 30 percent drop from 2005 levels.  “We had two or three years of very suppressed industry
levels, which means that the normal availability of used cars is
lower than you’d expect,”  Lewis Booth , Ford’s chief financial
officer, said in a July 26 interview.  Higher values for used cars make trading in for a new
vehicle more attractive and may help boost sales, according to
Booth and GM’s  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales.  Trade-ins  “That’s bringing a lot of people into showrooms because
they can get a great value on their used vehicle, which helps
them get into a new vehicle a lot quicker,” Johnson said on a
June 1 conference call.  Robert Anckaitis is in the market for a Chevrolet Cruze,
Ford Fiesta or Kia Forte, which would be his first purchase of a
new vehicle since driving an Oldsmobile station wagon home from
a dealer 41 years ago.  A recently retired township manager from Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , Anckaitis, 66, said he usually buys bigger, two-or
three-year-old Mercedes-Benzes or Cadillacs. Now he sees value
in smaller new cars for $5,000 less.  “Used-car prices are pretty high right now,” Anckaitis
said in a telephone interview. “We’ll have a larger car for
traveling and the smaller one for skipping around town.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  