-- 
Nigeria’s Interswitch Plans Africa Buys With Helios Cash After Uganda Deal

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-08-11T15:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/nigeria-s-interswitch-plans-african-buys-with-helios-funding.html
Interswitch Ltd. , a Nigerian company
that processes payments for banks in the West African nation,
took a 60 percent stake in  Uganda ’s only company of the kind
amid plans for more African acquisitions.  Lagos-based Interswitch will use the 26 billion naira ($170
million) injected into it by Helios Investment Partners LLC in
December for expansion on the continent, Chief Executive Officer
Mitchell Elegbe wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  “We are targeting acquisitions in other countries, and
where we can’t acquire, we will partner with the owners,” he
said. Interswitch concluded the deal for the majority stake in
Kampala-based  Bankom Ltd.  yesterday, Elegbe said. He declined to
say how much was the deal was worth.  The growth plans for Interswitch, which also runs a network
of 10,000 automated-teller machines and 11,000 point-of-sale
terminals, come as the Nigerian central bank seeks to encourage
more non-cash transactions in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-
biggest economy. A cash-withdrawal limit of 150,000 naira for
individuals and 1 million naira for companies will take effect
in June 2012.  Growth Phase  London-based Helios, a closely held  investment company  that
focuses on Africa, bought into Interswitch “at a time when
Nigeria is getting set for the next phase of growth in
electronic payments,” said Elegbe. “We think the partnership
will enhance Interswitch’s strong growth within and outside the
country,” he said.  No official at Helios’s London office was available to
comment on the deal, a company representative said when
Bloomberg news called.  Interswitch was established by seven Nigerian banks, four
of which still  hold shares  in the company, including  First Bank
of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,  United Bank for
Africa Plc (UBA)  and  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , according to its website.  Adlevo
Capital  of Mauritius and TechInvest Ltd., the holding company of
Telnet Nigeria Ltd., also hold stakes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  