-- 
Nordex in Talks With Potential Partner to Tap Chinese Market

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-11T09:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/nordex-posts-second-quarter-net-loss-of-2-2-million-euros.html
Nordex SE (NDX1) , the German turbine maker
that today reported a loss for the second quarter, said it’s in
talks with a potential strategic partner in  China  to expand in
the faster-growing Asian market.  Nordex is in discussions to “further open up” the Chinese
market, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Richterich said on a
conference call with reporters. The company is also looking for
partners to develop offshore wind parks in  Europe , he said. The
shares jumped as much as 8.4 percent in Frankfurt trading.  Nordex and its larger competitors Vestas Wind Systems A/S
and Siemens AG are under pressure to sell their inventories amid
falling turbine prices caused by overcapacity in the market.
Turbine makers are seeking to tap into Asian markets as well as
the U.K. and  Germany  which plan to build more wind farms at sea.  “Nordex would benefit from outside partners,” said
Michael Tappeiner, an analyst at Unicredit Bank AG in Munich.
“In China, it’s difficult to succeed as an outsider, and in
offshore, where Nordex is a bit late to the game, a partner
would help to create critical mass to be cost-effective.”  Nordex earlier reported a loss of 2.2 million euros even as
its sales and order intake grew. The company said it won’t reach
a target for an earnings before interest and tax margin of 4
percent this year.  Richterich, who will step down as CEO of the Hamburg-based
company in June 2012, plans to cut 50 million euros in staff and
operating costs to boost sales to 1 billion euros by the end of
this year and reach the Ebit target in 2012.  Nordex was up 7.6 percent at 4.241 euros as of 11:21 a.m.
in  Frankfurt . That valued the company at 309 million euros. The
stock has lost 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  