-- 
Nvidia Shares Surge After Sales Forecast Tops Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-12T13:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/nvidia-predicts-sales-that-may-top-estimates-after-gaining-share-from-amd.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
chips, rose the most in more than five months after market share
gains contributed to a higher-than-estimated sales forecast.  Third-quarter revenue will rise 4 percent to 6 percent from
the second quarter, indicating sales of as much as $1.08
billion,  Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia said yesterday in
a statement. That compares with the $1.05 billion predicted by
analysts on average, according to Bloomberg data.  Nvidia is wooing customers away from  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  in the market for so-called discrete graphics chips, which
are used in  notebook computers , according to Mercury Research
analyst Dean McCarron. The company has also started winning more
orders for its Tegra processors from makers of mobile phones.  “Things really changed during the last month of the
quarter,” said  Patrick Wang , an analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York . He has an “underweight” rating on the
shares. “They were really aggressive in shipments of discrete
graphics chips for desktops.”  Nvidia gained 58 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $13.99 at 9:51
a.m.  New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, after earlier
touching $14.86 for the biggest intraday gain since February.
The shares had declined 13 percent this year before today.  Nvidia said earlier this week that Samsung Electronics Co.
will use the Tegra 2 processor in its new Galaxy R smartphone.
That’s the first time Samsung will sell a phone sporting an
Nvidia chip.  ‘Still Robust’  Nvidia Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang is aiming to
lessen Nvidia’s dependence on chips used in PCs with a push into
processors for mobile phones and tablet computers. That
business, based on Tegra, has also won him orders from LG
Electronics Inc. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  “We have an opportunity to gain share in both notebook and
desktop, but probably the most important thing is that the
graphics processor market is still robust,” Huang said in a
telephone interview. Markets outside the U.S. have a much higher
rate of graphics chip use in PCs, he said.  Net income in the second quarter was $151.6 million, or 25
cents a share, compared with a loss of $141 million, or 25
cents, a year earlier, the company said in the statement. Sales
in the period that ended July 31 rose 25 percent to $1.02
billion. Analysts on average had predicted profit of $156.1
million, or 25 cents a share, on sales of $1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  