-- 
Obama Shows Spunk Pushing Brave Education Plan: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-08-11T23:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/obama-shows-spunk-pushing-brave-education-plan-jonathan-alter.html
Although President  Barack Obama  is on
the ropes, with even some Democratic allies describing him as
weak and passive, this week he showed boldness and imagination
in one vital area: education.  Obama backed Education Secretary Arne Duncan’s announcement
that he will grant waivers to states that want to be excused
from the punitive provisions of  No Child Left Behind      ,
Washington’s much-maligned 2002 overhaul of elementary and
secondary education policy.  Republican lawmakers complain that the White House waivers
run roughshod over the legislative branch -- and they’re right.
But gridlock demands more robust use of presidential authority
and, at least in this case, we’re getting it. Unless Duncan’s
action is challenged and reversed on constitutional grounds, No
Child Left Behind will be left behind for good.  Under Obama, education was supposed to be fertile ground
for bipartisan compromise. That’s because Obama has executed a
“Nixon to  China ” maneuver; only a Democratic president can
successfully take on the teachers unions, and the president has
done so in a shrewd way that avoids teacher bashing and keeps
the lines of communication with the unions (big backers of
Democrats) open.  Republican lawmakers broadly endorse Obama’s policies, but
they’re philosophically committed to less federal involvement in
education and politically committed to opposing the president
whenever possible. So they’ve dragged their feet on
reauthorizing NCLB, as have Senate Democrats who can’t agree on
how to move a bill.  Duncan’s waivers, which are good for four years, actually
enhance local control while ensuring greater accountability. But
it’s a different kind of local control and a different vision of
accountability than we’ve seen before.  Obama and Duncan are selling something ambitious --a new
relationship between  Washington  and the states. The idea is to
set high education standards, then let states figure out how to
meet them. “We want to give them a lot more flexibility, get out
of their way and let them hit that higher bar,” Duncan said last
week.  Some Republican governors, such as  Mitch Daniels  of
 Indiana , joined Democratic governors in praising the plan. They
and just about everyone else connected to American education are
frustrated that so many schools are deemed “failing” under NCLB,
even when they aren’t.  There’s a racial subtext to all this. The most common
reason schools receive a failing grade is that minority students
don’t perform well, dragging down a school’s scores. Duncan’s
waivers will require continued focus on the achievement gap
between whites and minorities, yet introduce more sophisticated
accountability standards that set realistic goals for
improvement.  While it deserves credit for bringing accountability into
American education, NCLB inadvertently provided incentives to
states to dumb down standards so that fewer schools would fail.
 Tennessee , for instance, was “lying to children, lying to
parents,” as Duncan put it, in 2008 when state tests showed 91
percent of its children proficient in math. When Tennessee,
under pressure from Washington, replaced those tests with
legitimate ones the following year, only 34 percent of students
proved proficient.  To underscore the urgent need for action, Duncan warned
this spring that with NCLB’s standards, 80 percent of the
nation’s 100,000 schools could soon be deemed failures under the
law’s crude pass-fail system, which goes by the most dreaded
acronym in American education: AYP -- Adequate Yearly Progress.  A more accurate assessment of schools suggests that about
40 percent are headed for a failing grade, but the point
remains: NCLB isn’t working. It penalizes schools for
circumstances beyond their control -- like the poor preparation
of incoming students -- and sets standards that tens of
thousands of schools cannot meet. Expecting all students to be
proficient in reading and math by 2014, as the law dictates, is
a fantasy.  Duncan and Obama rightly believe that there is middle
ground between what President  George W. Bush  memorably called
“the soft bigotry of low expectations” and pie-in-the-sky
demands for proficiency. They favor replacing AYP with more
sensible evaluations of classroom teachers, who will be judged
partly on whether their students have shown improvement -- even
from a low baseline -- over the course of a school year.  Instead of being based entirely on student tests, new
teacher evaluations will also require classroom observation,
student ratings and other means of assessment. Colorado, Indiana
and  Florida  are leading the pack in developing the sophisticated
accountability standards necessary for better performance.  We won’t know until September exactly what Duncan will
demand of states in exchange for granting them waivers, but the
price is likely to resemble the requirements imposed by  Race to
the Top , the competition launched by the Department of Education
in 2009 that has inspired a flowering of reform across the
country.  This time, states won’t compete with each other for federal
money. But they will probably have to meet many of the same
accountability standards demanded by Race to the Top, including
closing genuinely failed schools, incorporating student
performance in teacher evaluations, and applying new “common
core” academic standards that are more rigorous than those
adopted in the past.  Steven Brill’s forthcoming book, “ Class Warfare ,” offers a
compelling account of Race to the Top, which, for all of its
success, has also been marred by the failure of some states to
meet their commitments to more rigorous teacher evaluation.  For years, teachers unions have wanted their members to be
considered professionals without being held accountable for
performance like other professionals. The Obama policy goes a
long way toward changing that. Not surprisingly,  Randi Weingarten , head of the  American Federation of Teachers , told me
this week that she opposes Duncan’s waivers because they shift
too much accountability to teachers.  Duncan will need to use the power of the executive branch
to enforce both the requirements of Race to the Top and whatever
broad reforms he demands in exchange for state waivers. If that
requires withholding federal funds from recalcitrant states --
good. If it means overriding a dilatory and dysfunctional
Congress -- even better.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor on this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 