-- 
Obama Says ‘Partisan Brinksmanship’ Stalls Work on Economy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/obama-says-partisan-brinksmanship-in-congress-stalling-work-on-economy.html
President Barack Obama sharpened his
attacks on Congress, blaming them for gridlock in Washington
that has held up work to bolster the economy, as he sought to
regain control of the political narrative with lawmakers on
August recess.  On a visit to a battery manufacturing plant yesterday in
Holland, Michigan, days before he embarks on a bus tour of
Midwestern states, Obama said the downgrade of U.S. credit by
Standard & Poor’s was a “self-inflicted wound” resulting from
“partisan brinksmanship.”  “There’s nothing wrong with our country -- there is
something wrong with our politics,” Obama said at a  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI)  factory that makes  lithium-ion batteries  for
hybrid and electric vehicles. Some members of Congress “would
rather see their opponents lose than see America win.”  With polls showing voters increasingly dissatisfied over
how the government works, Obama is seeking to return attention
to employment growth after a months-long struggle with
congressional Republicans over the debt ceiling and cutting the
nation’s debt. The factory visit was originally intended to
highlight growth in alternative energy technology as a way to
revive manufacturing. Instead Obama focused largely on the
gridlock in Washington.  “You voted for divided government,” he told the Johnson
Controls employees. “But you didn’t vote for dysfunctional
government.”  Public Dissatisfaction  An Aug. 9  Washington  Post poll found that 71 percent of
Americans said the federal government is mostly focused on the
wrong things and 78 percent said they were dissatisfied with the
way the country’s political system is working. The poll has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  House Speaker  John Boehner  called Obama’s speech
“political grandstanding.”  “If the president wants to do something productive, he can
start by delivering on his promise to outline his own
recommendations to rein in the massive deficits and debt that
are undermining  job creation  in our country,” the Ohio
Republican said in an e-mailed statement.  Obama said the anxiety caused by the government’s inability
to find common ground on solutions to the nation’s challenges is
“playing out in our stock market, wild swings up and down.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index rose 4.6 percent to
1,172.64 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  S&P 500  rebounded after
plunging 18 percent from July 22 through yesterday amid concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis and the political battle over raising
the debt ceiling.  Investor Confidence  At a fundraiser in New York later, Obama said investors
demonstrated confidence in the U.S. by buying Treasuries, the
benchmark for the $34 trillion U.S. debt market that is more
than twice the value of American equities.  “I don’t know if you noticed, but when the stock market
went down what did everybody buy? After the downgrade? U.S.
Treasuries,” he said at a dinner with donors. “The market
voted with its feet.”  Treasuries sank yesterday as an unexpected drop in jobless
claims and higher-than-estimated earnings tempered concern the
economy is slowing. Yield on the 10-year note was up 22 basis
points to 2.32 percent. Current 30-year bond yield increased 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 3.77 percent at 5:01
p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Economic Initiatives  At Johnson Controls, the largest U.S. auto supplier, the
president repeated the economic initiatives he wants passed:
renewal of a 2-percentage-point cut in the employee-paid portion
of the  payroll tax  and extended  unemployment benefits  that are
set to expire on Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure
bank to fund public works spending; ratification of free-trade
deals; and overhauling  patent law .  “The problem is not that we don’t have answers,” he said.
“The problem is folks are playing political games.”  Obama is likely to amplify the theme next week when he sets
out Aug. 15 on a three-day, campaign-style bus tour through
Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois.  Obama spoke on the same day that eight of the Republicans
running for their party’s presidential nomination met for a
debate in Iowa, with the Democratic president a prime target.
 Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is leading
the other Republican contenders in polls and fundraising, said
in Pella yesterday that Obama won’t win Iowa in 2012 “because
Iowans will recognize his presidency has failed.”  Attacking Obama  At last night’s debate, Romney stressed his business
experience and criticized Obama’s handling of the debt-ceiling
issue. Asked if he would have signed into law the compromise
agreement that reached the president’s desk last week, Romney
said,
“I’m not going to eat  Barack Obama ’s dog food.” Obama has done
“the exact opposite of what was needed to be done” for the
economy, he said.  While Obama took Iowa in 2008, the state went for
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004.  Michigan, the location of the Johnson Controls plant, is
another key state in Obama’s re-election strategy. The state has
backed the Democratic candidate in the last five presidential
elections, and Obama will need to keep party strongholds in his
column amid voter unease over the economy.  Michigan’s jobless rate in June was 10.5 percent, according
to the U.S. Labor Department. While down from a high of 14.1
percent in August 2009, the rate is higher than the national
average of 9.1 percent and above the jobless rates in 29 other
states.  Two Fundraisers  From  Michigan , Obama flew to  New York City  for two
fundraisers that brought in more than $2 million for his
campaign and the  Democratic National Committee .  The first was a reception at the Ritz-Carlton by Gary Hirshberg, chief executive officer of organic yogurt-maker
Stonyfield Farm Inc. Obama then went to a dinner at the home of
Harvey Weinstein, the co-founder of Miramax Film Corp., that was
co-hosted by Anna Wintour, editor of Vogue magazine.  Sixty-five guests were scheduled to attend the two events
at $35,800 per person. The first $5,000 goes to Obama’s re-
election campaign and the remaining $30,800 goes to the
Democratic National Committee, according to a Democratic
official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  The fact that Obama is seeking $5,000 donations -- $2,500
for the primary and $2,500 for the general election -- is an
indication that he once again will forgo federal funding for the
campaign. That will allow him to take in as much private money
as he can raise and spend without limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 