-- 
Obama Seeks to Raise $2 Million at New York Fundraising Reception, Dinner

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-11T22:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/obama-seeks-to-raise-2-million-at-new-york-fundraising-reception-dinner.html
President  Barack Obama , who already
has raised more money than all the Republican presidential
contenders combined, is set to take in more than $2 million at
two events tonight in  New York City .  On the same night that eight of the Republicans vying for
their party’s presidential nomination are debating in Iowa,
Obama is addressing donors, first at an event at the Ritz-
Carlton being hosted by Gary Hirshberg, chief executive officer
of Paris-based Danone S.A.’s Stoneyfield Farm Inc., and then at
a dinner being put on by Harvey Weinstein, the co-founder of
Miramax Film Corp., and Anna Wintour, editor of Vogue.  Tickets for both were $35,800 per person, with $5,000 going
to Obama’s re-election campaign and $30,800 to the  Democratic
National Committee , according to a Democratic official who
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record. Both are the maximums
that donors can give. The official said 15 people were scheduled
to attend the reception at the Ritz-Carlton and 50 people were
to attend dinner at a private residence.  The fact that Obama is seeking $5,000 donations -- $2,500
for the primary and $2,500 for the general election -- is an
indication that he once again will forego federal funding for
the campaign. That will allow him to take in as much private
money as he can raise and spend without limits.  “Americans understand that our political system functions
the way it does and that candidates have to raise money,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  Obama arrived in New York after visiting a Johnson Controls
Inc. advanced automotive battery plant in Holland, Michigan.  The president raised $46 million from April, when he
announced his re-election bid -- to June, including $12.8
million from joint fundraisers with the DNC, like the two
tonight. He took in $58.6 million through June 30, 2007, though
he had started raising money months earlier.  On the Republican side, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney raised $18.3 million. All of the other Republican
contenders reported raising less than $5 million apiece.  Since announcing his intention to seek a second four-year
term, Obama has attended at least 35 fundraisers, including the
two today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 