-- 
Honda to Expand India Motorcycle Dealerships, Service Outlets

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-08-11T05:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/honda-to-expand-india-motorcycle-dealerships.html
Honda Motor Co., the world’s biggest
motorcycle maker, will expand its network of dealers and service
outlets in  India  by 25 percent and introduce new models to gain
sales in the nation.  The Tokyo-based company may introduce a new 100-cc
motorbike model as early as next financial year, hoping to add
on to its sales target of 2.1 million units in the current
fiscal year, said Naresh Kumar Rattan, vice president for sales,
marketing and corporate affairs, in an interview in Gurgaon,
India. Honda sold 1.5 million two-wheelers in India last year.  “India is the market for Honda, especially in
motorcycles,” said Rattan. “The Indian market is growing
across the board in all categories.”  Honda is expanding its operations in India after separating
from former partner Hero Motocorp Ltd. in March to focus on its
own fully owned local unit. The company will spend as much as 10
billion rupees ($221 million) on its third factory near
Bangalore in southern India that will be ready in 2013, Rattan
said. Honda will also introduce a new scooter and a new
motorcycle model in India this year, Rattan said.  Sales of 100-cc motorcycles account for about 50 percent of
total motorbike sales of 9.02 million in India, according to
Rattan. About 91 percent of the 4.9 million motorcycles that
Hero, the maker of over half the motorcycles sold in India, sold
last year were below 125-cc models, according to data from the
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Motorcycle Sales  Motorcycle sales in the world’s second-most populous nation
will grow about three times to about 30 million in 2020
according to Ernst & Young LLP. Rural sales will increase to 45
percent of the total in that period from the current 40 percent,
as distribution expands and incomes rise in those areas.  “As per capita incomes rise in villages, the first
aspiration is to buy a personal mobility solution,” said Rakesh
Batra, who leads the automobile practice at Ernst & Young in  New
Delhi . “In villages, there is no public transportation and the
alternative is to walk, ride on the back of a tractor or a
bicycle.”  Hero dominates the motorcycle market in India, with sales
of 4.9 million motorcycles accounting for almost 54 percent of
total deliveries in the year ended March 31, according to data
from the automakers association.  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , the second-
biggest maker, sold 2.4 million units in the same period. Third-
ranked Honda had sales of 658,067 motorcycles.  Honda, which can make 1.6 million motorcycles and scooters
in India a year at its factory in Manesar near New Delhi, will
double the capacity of its second plant to 1.2 million by the
end of this fiscal year. When its third manufacturing facility
is completed, the company will be able to produce 4 million
units a year.  Honda is planning to expand its network in rural and semi-
urban areas and is organizing camps and marketing campaigns to
boost brand awareness, Rattan said.  “In this category, it is more experience of the product
and word of mouth represent a bigger say,” he said. “That will
be our focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  