-- 
Morgan Stanley’s Wood Using Wall Street Drive as Golf Coach at Manhattan

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/morgan-stanley-s-wood-uses-wall-street-drive-as-golf-coach-at-manhattan.html
Jerry Wood is relying on skills that
helped him recruit and develop top talent at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in
his latest endeavor: coaching the  men’s golf team  at  Manhattan
College .  Wood, 57, has spent 30 years at Morgan Stanley, where he’s
a senior adviser after holding managerial roles including global
head of sales for fixed income and equities.  While the duties of part-time college golf coach may not
seem to dovetail with that of an executive at the world’s top
merger adviser, Wood says he sees similarities.  “You recruit kids from schools, you try to get the best
talent, you give them the tools to learn the business, then
basically mentor them, and hopefully they come through in a big
way,” Wood, of Huntington, New York, said in a telephone
interview. “A lot of the kids I hired as MBA’s and analysts are
now managing directors running the business. It’s very rewarding
seeing somebody who you kind of picked.”  Wood never has coached golf before but brings a competitive
background to his new job.  He was captain of the golf team in 1975 as a senior at
Manhattan, which plays in the Metro Atlantic Athletic
Conference, and has memberships at  Huntington Country Club  and
Garden City Golf Club on  New York ’s  Long Island . He finished
ninth at last year’s Long Island Senior Open at Fresh Meadow
Country Club against professionals and amateurs. He has a 2.3
handicap index and said he’s played all but six or seven of Long
Island’s 140 golf courses.  Golf Management  “If you talk to anybody who played golf in college or high
school at the competitive level, they’ll tell you that as they
got older they learned a lot more about the game and their
swing,” Wood said. “That’s what I can bring to the table for
these kids: How do you manage yourself around the golf course as
opposed to just getting up and ripping it?”  After graduating from  Manhattan  with an accounting degree,
Wood started his career at Ernst & Ernst, then spent one year at
Merrill Lynch before joining Morgan Stanley in 1978 as a
municipal bond trader. He got his MBA in 1980 after taking night
classes with his wife.  Wood left in 2003, going to Credit Suisse Group AG and
working with  John Mack , Morgan Stanley’s current chairman. Wood
returned to Morgan Stanley in 2005 and a year or so later
resumed playing competitive golf in senior tournaments. In his
current advisory position, Wood helps with Morgan Stanley’s
charity efforts and client relationships.  Wood’s ability to manage -- in the boardroom and on a long
par-5 -- appealed to Manhattan Athletic Director Bob Byrnes. The
two were introduced within the last year by a mutual golf
partner, school chaplain Rev.  George Hill , and Byrnes contacted
Wood when his previous coach  retired .  Bunker Lesson  Wood invited Byrnes out for a round at Huntington and
offered an impromptu lesson when the athletic director was
struggling in a bunker. Wood accepted the coaching vacancy soon
after, his flexibility at Morgan Stanley allowing him the chance
to pursue the new role.  Manhattan College , in  New York City ’s
Riverdale section, is about an hour’s drive from his home. He’s
donating his $11,000 salary back to the golf program.  “A lot of this is weekend and some mid-week tournaments,
and some time with practice, so it’s a full-time job that’s part
time, so to speak,” Byrnes said. “But once you meet Jerry, you
see why he’s such a successful businessman because he quickly
gets to the subject and heart of the matter. He’s a terrific
player himself and is going to be a great teacher.”  Perfect Score  Wood, who is married with three children between the ages
of 23 and 27, got a perfect score on the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s recruiting test for coaches and has
already arranged team travel for the season that begins Sept. 9
with the Central Connecticut State Blue Devil Fall Invitational.
He can’t meet or practice with his players until classes start
at the end of this month.  “I’m excited because a lot of the kids on our team are
business students or engineering students and I think that not
only will he help them in golf, but really in their future
lives,” Byrnes said. “This is a unique hire for me, and I’m
not a rookie. This is my 24th year. It’s very energizing for me
that Jerry will be with us.”  Swing Tips  Steve D’Antonio, Morgan Stanley’s global head of
securitized products, has seen Wood’s competitive drive, on and
off the course. D’Antonio, who said it’s a “rare but wonderful
moment” when he takes Wood’s money in a match, predicts his
colleague and golfing buddy will be as successful with college
players as he has been with clients.  “He’s had leadership roles, he’s a very good communicator
and he gets along with a very wide range of people,” D’Antonio,
who’s known Wood since his first day at Morgan Stanley 25 years
ago, said by phone. “He had relationships with a very broad set
of people and clients.”  Byrnes said Wood has a natural “knack for communicating
and that’s really what coaching is.”  While Wood has a lot of experience to impart, D’Antonio
joked that it’s unlikely he’ll be sharing too many swing tips
with his players when they step to the tee.  “I can tell you one thing, his kids will have much better
looking swings than his,” said D’Antonio, 51. “He has an ugly
swing, it just works. He just repeats it. The kids on the team
will have a good time with that, but he gets it done. He’s in
the fairway all day long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  