-- 
Mortgage Rates for 30-Year U.S. Loans Decline to Nine-Month Low

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-08-11T14:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-u-s-loans-decline-to-a-nine-month-low-of-4-32-.html
Mortgage rates  for 30-year loans in
the U.S. declined to a nine-month low as concern grew that the
nation’s economy is slowing.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 4.32
percent in the week ended today from 4.39 percent, according to
 Freddie Mac . The average 15-year fixed-loan rate fell to 3.5
percent, the lowest on record, from 3.54 percent, the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company said in a statement.  Borrowing costs are declining as the U.S. economic recovery
shows signs of faltering. Federal Reserve policy makers pledged
Aug. 9 to keep  interest rates  at record lows through mid-2013 to
bolster an economy that was growing “considerably slower” than
they previously projected. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note, a guide for consumer loans including mortgage rates, hit
an all-time low after the Fed’s announcement.  “The economy is going to remain weak for quite some
time,”  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at Toronto-based
Capital Economics, said in a telephone interview. “You have to
look at the impact on confidence. The big issue is the inability
or unwillingness of people to borrow or buy a home.”  The rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage is the lowest since
the week ended Nov. 11, when it was 4.17 percent, the lowest in
Freddie Mac records dating to 1971.  Sluggish Market  Low borrowing costs have done little to stimulate home
sales as banks tighten lending standards, unemployment sticks
above 9 percent and a glut of foreclosures drags down prices. In
the second quarter, home values declined in almost three-fourths
of 150 U.S. metropolitan areas measured, the National
Association of Realtors said yesterday.  U.S. mortgage applications surged last week, led by the
biggest gain in refinancing in more than two years, according to
the  Mortgage Bankers Association . The group’s refinancing index
jumped 30 percent in the period ended July 22 from the prior
week. The purchasing gauge declined 0.9 percent.  “We’re going to look back in five years and see these
historically low rates,” Doug Lebda, chief executive officer of
Tree.com Inc. in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in a phone
interview. “People are going to wish they jumped in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  