-- 
Osborne Sticks With Deficit Plan as U.K. Growth Outlook Dims

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T14:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/osborne-sticks-with-deficit-plan-as-u-k-growth-outlook-dims.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  defended his plans to cut the  budget deficit  amid
mounting concern over the economic outlook as Europe’s debt
crisis worsens.  “Ours is an absolutely unwavering commitment to fiscal
responsibility and deficit reduction,” Osborne told Parliament
in  London  today during an emergency session called to debate the
riots in  England . “Abandoning that commitment would plunge
Britain into the financial whirlpool of a sovereign-debt crisis,
at the cost of many thousands of jobs. We will not make that
mistake.”  The chancellor, who is undertaking biggest budget squeeze
in Britain since World War II, said the escalating turmoil in
Europe was a “complete vindication” of his deficit-cutting
efforts. The Bank of England cut its U.K. growth forecasts
yesterday and Governor  Mervyn King  said headwinds are
intensifying by the day.  “The recovery will take longer and be harder than had been
hoped,” Osborne said. “Instability across the world and in our
main export markets means that, in common with many other
countries, expectations for this year’s growth have fallen.”  Politicians from the opposition  Labour Party  seized on the
Bank of England warning to argue that Osborne is trying to cut
the deficit too quickly, worsening the outlook.  “Households will hear his talk of safe havens and conclude
he is either deeply complacent or in complete denial about what
is going on in this country,” said  Ed Balls , finance spokesman
for Labour. “Confidence has collapsed. It is the chancellor’s
policies, too far too fast, that have ripped out the foundations
of the house and left our economy exposed to the global
hurricane.”  Market Declines  Stock markets have fallen this month amid a global selloff
sparked by concern that  Europe  will fail to contain its debt
turmoil. The global economy is facing its “most dangerous”
period since 2008, Osborne said.  “More spending now, paid for by more government borrowing
and higher debt, would lead directly to rising interest rates
and falling international confidence that would kill off the
recovery, not support it,” Osborne said.  Osborne said his efforts to bring down a deficit that
swelled to 11 percent of gross domestic product in the aftermath
of the recession had helped to hold down U.K. market interest
rates as the euro-region debt crisis threatened to spread to
 France .  ‘Vote of Confidence’  That, he said, was “huge vote of confidence” in the
credibility of British debt and showed that Britain had become
“a safe haven in the global debt storm.”  Osborne’s 80 billion-pound ($131 billion) program of
spending cuts involve the loss of more than 300,000 public-
sector jobs and 18 billion pounds of welfare savings, including
a three-year freeze of child-benefit payments.  The Treasury, the  Bank of England  and the Financial
Services Authority agreed that banks are sufficiently
capitalized and hold enough liquidity to cope with the current
market turbulence, he said. “We have in place well developed
and well rehearsed contingency plans,” he said.  Osborne said the government will redouble its efforts to
remove obstacles to growth. The second phase of his “plan for
growth” will be announced when he updates his economic
forecasts in the fall, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  