-- 
Toshiba U.S. Reactor Advances at NRC

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/toshiba-u-s-reactor-advances-at-nrc.html
A  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  reactor remains on
track to power the first new U.S. nuclear plants approved in 30
years, as regulators signaled Japan’s Fukushima disaster won’t
deter acceptance of the proposed design.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ’s staff declared Aug. 9
that the AP1000 design by Toshiba’s Westinghouse Electric unit
is safe, and also supported its first planned use at a plant
under construction in  Georgia  by Southern Co., the largest U.S.
utility owner by market value. The full commission still must
vote to approve the reactor design and a plant license.  Southern, based in Atlanta, has dug foundations and
finished a fabrication plant for the $14 billion project
southeast of Augusta, Georgia, and wants to begin full
construction in January. Staff approval means public hearings
can begin on its license request, the company said in a
statement. The NRC plans to publish the staff safety report for
the reactor design today.  An NRC  task force  recommended last month that the agency
adopt new rules to protect the 104 existing U.S. commercial
reactors from earthquakes and floods. An earthquake and tsunami
devastated Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
in March. NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  wants the commission to
consider within 90 days which of the task force’s suggestions to
implement.  “There doesn’t appear to be any recommendation that would
affect the design-certification process for the AP1000,” NRC
spokesman Scott Burnell said in an e-mail. A commission vote to
certify the new reactor design is expected “by the beginning of
next year,” he said.  The AP1000 already has many “features and attributes
necessary to address” recommendations by the task force on U.S.
reactor safety, according to its  report .  ‘Bizarre Pretense’  Critics such as the  North Carolina Waste Awareness &
Reduction Network  say action on nuclear plants, including the
AP1000 design, should be delayed until the NRC learns the safety
lessons of Fukushima and puts changes in place.  “There’s sort of a bizarre pretense within the agency that
they won’t have to deal with the changes from Fukushima until
after they get the projects licensed and even under way,” Jim
Warren, executive director of the clean-energy group based in
Durham, said in an interview.  Federal law prohibits the NRC from acting on reactor
licenses until the agency updates its regulations to protect the
public from severe accidents or studies the environmental
impacts of failing to do so, according to a statement released
today by organizations including the North Carolina group and
Friends of the Earth.  The NRC hasn’t issued a new construction license since a
partial meltdown at  Pennsylvania ’s Three Mile Island in 1979,
the worst U.S. nuclear accident. The AP1000 is the only new
design far enough along to generate power in this decade.  Shaw Group  The  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  of  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana , has
contracts to build the reactors for Southern Co.’s Georgia Power
unit and two planned by  Scana Corp. (SCG) ’s South Carolina Electric &
Gas. Each reactor would generate 1,100 megawatts, enough to
power 880,000 average U.S. homes.  “The only two plants that seem to have a fighting chance
of moving ahead right now are Vogtle and Scana’s,”  Hugh Wynne ,
a New York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in
an interview Aug. 9. “Insofar as that is our nuclear
renaissance, the AP1000 is pretty important to it.”  Southern has said it expects its first new reactor to begin
operating in 2016 and the second about a year later. Southern
expects the NRC to vote on its license “around the end of the
year,” Todd Terrell, a company spokesman, said yesterday in an
interview.  Scana’s Target Date  Scana has set 2016 as the target date for its first reactor
to begin operations and 2019 for the second.  Scana is confident that it will receive a license to build
and operate the reactors “within our previously announced time-
frame of late 2011 or early 2012,” Rhonda Maree O’Banion, a
spokeswoman for the Cayce, South Carolina-based company, said in
an e-mail.  Companies including  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. nuclear
operator, shelved or delayed nuclear projects after wholesale
electricity prices fell in 2008. Most plan to meet new demand
with plants fueled by natural gas, which has plunged in price.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  has said it may buy a stake in the plant
to be built by Scana before tackling its own new nuclear
project.  Westinghouse Report  The AP1000’s reactor design is in the “home stretch” for
final approval, Aris Candris, chief executive officer of
Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania-based Westinghouse said in a
statement Aug. 9.  The reactor won NRC approval once before, in 2006. While
the industry praised it as the first in a new generation of
reactors, none were built before the commission ordered
modifications in October 2009 to strengthen its silo-shaped
shield building against earthquakes and tornadoes. In May, two
months after the  Japan  disaster, the commission questioned the
revised design.  Westinghouse doesn’t expect the NRC’s Fukushima report to
delay the reactor’s design further, according to company
spokesman Scott Shaw. The AP1000 “naturally cools the reactor
down” in the event of an emergency, unlike the 1960s-era units
designed by General Electric Co. that were damaged at Fukushima,
he said in a phone interview.  The AP1000 has a reservoir on its roof designed to flood
the reactor with water using only gravity if coolant is lost.
That “passive” approach avoids relying on pumps run by
electricity, Westinghouse says. Backup power failed after the
natural disaster at the Fukushima plant.  ‘Robust’ Design  “The AP1000 design is robust and its passive safety
systems should preclude many of the problems that occurred in
Japan,” Thomas Fanning,  Southern Co. (SO) ’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said on an April 27 conference call.  How well the steel-and-concrete shield building with its
load of water on the roof could withstand rocking from an
earthquake had been among the concerns of the NRC staff. The
building’s “unique” design required more thorough stress-
testing of the structural parts, John Ma, the NRC’s senior
structural engineer, said in a November memorandum.  Westinghouse gave the NRC “clarifications and minor
corrections” about the reactor that don’t affect safety, and
there’s “no material impact” on its design, according to a
June 13 statement from the company.  The NRC may require reactor owners within the next three
months to identify vulnerabilities to earthquakes and floods, a
majority of the agency’s commissioners told a Senate committee
Aug. 3.  ‘Timely’ Action  “If we don’t consider the recommendations in a timely way
it could have the potential impact of delaying the action on the
new reactor licensing,” Jaczko told the committee.  If the NRC adopts the task force’s recommendations after
approving new reactor licenses for Southern and Scana, those and
all existing reactors would be subject to the new rules. If the
commission acts on any recommendation that could affect a
license, the NRC would “issue the license with a condition that
the new requirement be met,” Burnell said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  