-- 
OTP Expects Maximum 10% of Clients to Opt for Relief Plan

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-11T11:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/otp-expects-maximum-10-of-clients-to-opt-for-relief-plan-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, expects at most 10 percent of its clients to opt for
fixing the forint’s exchange rate on their foreign-currency
mortgages as the Swiss franc surges against the forint.  That could rise to 20 percent or 30 percent if the forint
remains weak against the franc for a longer period, Istvan Gresa, OTP’s deputy chief executive officer, said at a press
conference in Budapest today.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix the franc’s exchange rate at 180 forint and the euro at
250 forint until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would obtain under the actual
exchange rates will be booked in separate forint accounts, where
debts will accumulate or diminish in accordance with changes in
the rates.  Borrowers can apply for the fixed-rate plan from tomorrow
through the end of the year.  Hungarian households, companies and local governments are
struggling to repay foreign currency loans as investors seek the
safety of the franc, raising forint payments. Two-thirds of
household loans and half of corporate loans are denominated in
foreign currencies. The ratio of bad loans may surge to 16
percent of the total by the end of 2011, according to the
central bank.  ‘Positive’ Trend Reversed  OTP, which has 160,000 franc-denominated loans on its
books, saw a “positive” trend in bad loans go into reverse as
the forint tumbled against the franc, Gresa said. Bad loans
“stagnated for three months” before the forint slid versus the
franc, he added.  The forint has weakened 9.7 percent against the franc this
month alone, reaching a record 272.62 per franc earlier this
week. Most franc-denominated mortgages were registered when the
forint traded at 160 to 180 per franc.  The number of households falling behind with their
repayments will rise as a result of the franc’s appreciation,
Istvan Binder, a spokesman at the financial supervisory
authority, told state news agency MTI yesterday. By the end of
June, 142,358 mortgage holders were more than 90 days late with
repayments and 123,000 of those mortgages were in foreign
currencies, he said.  The authority expects the proportion of loanholders
choosing to participate in the relief plan to be higher than
banks’ previous estimates of 7 percent to 15 percent, Binder
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  