-- 
Spurs-Everton Soccer Match Postponed Because of Rioting in North London

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-11T15:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/tottenham-everton-soccer-match-postponed-after-rioting-close-to-stadium.html
Tottenham’s home match against
Everton on the opening day of the English Premier League soccer
season was postponed because of this week’s rioting in  London .  The unrest started after police shot a man near Spurs’
White Hart Lane stadium in north London, spreading to other
parts of the capital and then throughout  England . The looting
forced postponement of last night’s exhibition match between
England and the Netherlands at Wembley Stadium.  Richard Scudamore, the chief executive officer of the
Premier League, said the area around the stadium couldn’t be
cleaned up quickly enough to ensure the game in two days could
go on in safe conditions.  “Tottenham High Road is a crime scene,” Scudamore said in
an interview in central London. “The police won’t be handing
that back to the local council until Friday night and it’s just
not possible to get the place put back together in a decent
enough shape to host a football match there.”  The Premier League said this weekend’s other nine games are
still on. Cheltenham’s match against Swindon in League Two has
been postponed. The Football League, made up of the three
divisions below the Premier League, said that all of its games
in London will be played this weekend.  Tottenham defender  Michael Dawson  said he was disappointed
but understood the need to postpone the match, the first to be
called off for social unrest since the league started in 1992.  Six-Weeks Training  “We’ve worked for six weeks to try and get fit and
unfortunately the first game is not going to be happening,”
Dawson said. “The most important thing is the safety, the
police wouldn’t have called it off too lightly.”  Chelsea’s  John Terry , who was to captain England against
Holland last night, called for calm.  “We’ve seen the England game and now the Spurs game called
off,” Terry said in an interview. “Looking at the images on
T.V. it’s quite devastating to see what’s happening. Hopefully a
lot more games can go ahead and we can get firing with the
season which is what everyone wants to see.”  The Premier League is the richest in soccer, and is
broadcast in more countries than any other domestic
championship. Scenes of looting and arson on the streets that
started in Tottenham on Aug. 6 before spreading to other parts
of the country have also been beamed around the world.  People Shocked  “Clearly you can’t send images like this around the world
and people not be shocked by it,” Scudamore said. “People look
to this country for a civilized society, look at many things in
this country as being good, they look at our democracy, the way
we operate and therefore it can’t be good that these scenes are
going around the world.”  The Football Association estimated a crowd of 70,000 would
travel to Wembley for the game with the Netherlands.  Dutch
players and supporters found out the news as they prepared to
check in bags for the flight to London a day before the match.  “I was dreadfully disappointed about the international
match,” F.A. Chairman David Bernstein said. “People were
coming over from Holland for the game but we had no choice at
all. Public safety has to come first.”  The only other league game for the weekend to be called off
so far has been Telford United’s home match with Luton in the
fifth-division Blue Square Bet Premier league. Telford said in a
 statement  on its website that West Mercia Police requested the
postponement.  “Telford United, Luton Town and the Football Conference
were left with little option but to agree with the request due
to the unprecedented local and national circumstances,” the
statement read.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ; Tariq Panja in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  