-- 
Panetta, Lew Pressed by GOP to Release Defense Budget Review

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-11T21:41:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/panetta-lew-pressed-by-republicans-to-release-defense-review.html
Three top House Republican lawmakers
are pressing the Obama administration to disclose interim
results of a continuing comprehensive review of military
spending.  The review, begun by former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ,
has “preceded any substantial analysis of the future roles,
missions and capabilities we want our military to perform,”
Representatives  Howard “Buck” McKeon  of  California ,  C.W.
“Bill” Young  of  Florida  and  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  wrote.  The lawmakers, chairmen of the House Armed Services,
Defense Appropriations and Budget committees, asked White House
budget director  Jacob Lew  and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  for
“an update on the status and any preliminary conclusions from
the review and the budgetary consequences.”  President  Barack Obama  in April asked Gates to find $400
billion in national security cuts over 12 years. The scope of
the review has since been revised to about $420 billion in
“security spending” over 10 years, with $330 billion in
Pentagon reductions, as part of the Budget Control Act of 2011
that Obama signed Aug. 2.  $830 Billion Potential Cuts  The bill also raised the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling
until 2013. Another $500 billion in defense spending may be cut
over the next decade for a total of $830 billion if a special
committee of lawmakers can’t agree by November on $1.2 trillion
in deficit savings.  Spokesman  Kenneth Baer  of the Office of Management and
Budget said the agency hadn’t seen the letter. The agency would
“welcome the input of members of Congress,” he said. A
Pentagon budget spokeswoman, Navy Commander Kathleen Kesler, had
no immediate comment.  The Defense Department is facing the largest reduction in
spending since the end of the  Cold War , when military budgets
declined by about 35 percent in constant dollar terms between
1985 and 1998, according to Pentagon data.  Pentagon spokesman Marine Colonel David Lapan told
reporters today “the review is ongoing. Secretary Panetta is
updated on a regular basis. We have not decided whether there
will be anything public about it or not.”  The lawmakers in their letter asked Panetta and Lew to
outline “the national security consequences” if the $500
billion in extra cuts is triggered under the new law. Panetta,
at a Pentagon news conference last week, called the triggering
of those cuts a “doomsday mechanism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  