-- 
Paulson Says Treasuries Are AAA, Political Process Isn’t

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-08-11T22:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/paulson-says-treasuries-are-aaa-political-process-isn-t-1-.html
Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said he would invest in U.S. government securities
before other sovereign debt even though the nation’s political
process isn’t working at a “AAA level.”  “Our political process, our government, hasn’t been
working at a AAA level,” Paulson, 65, said today at  Dartmouth
College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire . “But despite that, I would
take U.S. Treasuries over other sovereign debt, other AAA
sovereign debt, any day of the week. That’s not to say we don’t
have important issues to deal with in this country.”  Paulson, 65, was Treasury secretary from 2006 to 2009 under
President  George W. Bush  at the time of the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy and financial crisis in 2008. He was
chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
before joining the  Bush administration .  The biggest problem now in global financial markets are
“structural issues in the European Union,” Paulson said.  “I’m talking about the large fiscal deficits in a number
of nations there and structural issues in the EU itself,” he
said. “The leaders are working on this and it’s going to take
some time to resolve these problems.”  Paulson said the global situation is “very, very
different” than it was in 2008.  “Our issue is growth. We need growth. We need jobs,”
Paulson said. “The full extent of the housing bubble was a
surprise to the markets in 2008. It really was. Today, the risks
are, I think, pretty obvious. And I think people largely
understand them and are focused on them.”  Paulson, a 1968 Dartmouth graduate, was speaking at the
college’s “Leading Voices in Politics and Policy” lecture
series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  