-- 
Pelosi Names Van Hollen, Clyburn and Becerra to Debt Panel

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-08-11T18:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pelosi-names-picks-filling-out-debt-panel.html
House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi 
named three of her most trusted allies to the special committee
charged with finding $1.5 trillion in budget savings, amid
growing doubts about the panel reaching a compromise.  Democratic Representatives  James Clyburn ,  Chris Van Hollen 
and Xavier Becerra will join Republican counterparts Dave Camp,
Fred Upton and Jeb Hensarling. The Senate team includes
Republicans Jon Kyl,  Pat Toomey  and Rob Portman and Democrats
 Patty Murray ,  John Kerry  and Max Baucus.  Becerra brings to four the number of panelists who voted
against a deficit-reduction plan last year while serving on a
bipartisan commission set up by President Barack Obama. The
commission, led by former Republican Senator Alan Simpson of
Wyoming and Erskine Bowles, once President Bill Clinton’s chief
of staff, proposed a mix of tax increases and spending cuts.  Congressional “leadership is sending a loud signal they
didn’t like Bowles-Simpson,” said  Robert Bixby , president of
the nonpartisan Concord Coalition, an Arlington, Virginia-based
group that advocates for a balanced budget. “If you are going
to say taxes and entitlements are off the table, I don’t know
what they can do that hasn’t already been done.”  The new 12-member panel was created in the Aug. 2 law that
raised the nation’s debt limit and averted a default. Murray, of
Washington, and Hensarling, of  Texas , will be co-leaders.  ‘Golden Opportunity’  With her appointments, Pelosi underlined Democrats’
resistance to cutting benefits in entitlement programs such as
Medicare, the federal health-insurance program for the elderly.  “We must achieve a ‘grand bargain’ that reduces the
deficit by addressing our entire budget, while strengthening
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security,” the  California 
Democrat said in a statement.  The three Democrats named today are all close advisers to
Pelosi and are dedicated to maintaining spending for Social
Security and Medicare. All three favored rolling back tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans enacted under former President
 George W. Bush .  The choices from both parties include some “land mines,”
Bixby said.  ‘Alarm Bells’  Murray will cause “certain alarm bells to go off” because
she is in charge of her party’s principal fundraising committee
for senators seeking re-election, Bixby said. Toomey, of
 Pennsylvania , and Hensarling are vocal anti-tax advocates, and
all six Republican appointees have signed a pledge against
voting to raise taxes. Upton’s panel has taken the lead on
investigating Obama’s agenda, including the health-care law.  “This is not auspicious for a grand bargain,” Bixby said.  The American public is discouraged about the prospects
government can fix the nation’s economic problems, according to
a new  Washington  Post  poll . Almost three-fourths of those
responding said they have little or no confidence in the
nation’s leaders to repair the economy and almost eight in 10
say they are dissatisfied with the way the political system is
working, the Post poll shows.  The panel’s work has taken on greater urgency since
 Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit rating
for the first time, saying lawmakers weren’t doing enough to
reduce record deficits by raising taxes or cutting spending and
dismissing the Aug. 2 debt deal as inadequate. The so-called
super committee will be the central focus of political and
lobbying activity in Washington for the next four months, as
industries try to protect their interests.  Dismissing S&P  Even with the concern in Washington over the deficit and
S&P’s downgrade, yields on  U.S. debt  have dropped since the
ratings company’s action. The benchmark 10-year note’s yield has
fallen from a 2011 high of 3.766 percent on Feb. 9 to as little
as a record 2.0346 percent on Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 10-year security traded at a yield of
2.306 percent at 2:19 p.m. in  New York , less than half the
average of 5.48 percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the
government had a budget surplus.  S&P’s decision is at odds with the top grades that the
other two main ratings companies, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, still assign to U.S. debt.  Automatic Cuts Loom  While the  bond market  may not be putting on the pressure,
the new panel is still facing a deadline: Unless it pushes
through a deficit-reduction package by year’s end, $1.2 trillion
in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts will be triggered
over a decade, starting in 2013, equally targeting defense and
non-defense programs. The 12 panel members need a simple
majority to make a recommendation.  The deficit panel doesn’t include any lawmakers who backed
the recommendations of the chairmen of Obama’s debt commission,
with Becerra, Baucus, Camp and Hensarling all having voted
against. Nor does it include any of the Senate’s “Gang of
Six,” which also proposed a plan combining spending cuts and
revenue increases. Baucus skipped many of the Bowles-Simpson
commission’s meetings before blasting its proposed higher taxes
and spending reductions because of how they would affect his
home state of Montana.  “I’m discouraged,” said Bill Hoagland, a budget adviser
to Republican congressional leaders from 1982 to 2007. “This is
going to be an uphill battle to find a majority out of this
group.”  Dividing Line  All three senators named to the panel by Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  have said revenue increases should be part of
a debt plan. Republican leaders reject that, saying the group
should look only at spending cuts. The House Democrats named
today all oppose aiming those cuts at entitlements.  Van Hollen , 52, ran the party’s fundraising arm for U.S.
representatives for four years, helping expand the Democratic
House majority in 2008. Residents of his Maryland district, just
outside Washington, are better educated and wealthier than the
average citizen in the state, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Government.  Lawyers and law firms, often including lobbyists, have been
the top bloc of donors to Van Hollen, according to Washington’s
Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign-finance
data. Retirees and those in real estate come next.  Becerra, 53, of California, vice chairman of the House
Democratic Caucus, represents a district where residents have
less money and less education than California’s average,
according to Bloomberg Government data. Health professionals are
Becerra’s biggest donors, followed by those in the entertainment
business and then lawyers, according to the center.  Clyburn’s Bottom Line  Like his fellow panelists, Clyburn, 71, of  South Carolina ,
has also made a point of the need to preserve spending for the
elderly and poor. His district had a higher  unemployment rate 
than the rest of the state, according to 2009 data compiled by
Bloomberg Government.  “Throughout the deliberations on this debt crisis, my
bottom line has been to protect Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid,” Clyburn, who is assistant minority leader, said in
July, during the negotiations on the debt limit.  Clyburn’s top donor bloc during his career has been lawyers
and law firms, followed by electric utilities and transportation
unions, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net 
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  