-- 
Unmanned Lockheed Hypersonic Jet Crashes in Pacific After Hitting Mach 20

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-08-11T20:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pentagon-launches-lockheed-hypersonic-plane-loses-contact.html
An unmanned hypersonic aircraft made
by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  crashed into the Pacific Ocean after
reaching about 20 times the speed of sound and flying for more
than nine minutes, a Pentagon agency said.  The experimental Falcon Hypersonic Technology Vehicle 2, or
HTV-2, lifted off today in a Minotaur IV rocket made by  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)  at 7:45 a.m. local time from Vandenberg Air Force
Base in  California , according the Pentagon’s  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency , which is funding the program and
overseeing the tests. The agency announced the launch and
mission updates on Twitter.  The arrowhead-shaped aircraft soared to the edge of space,
separated from the booster and was “on track” to enter its
glide phase, during which it would reach speeds of Mach 20, or
about 13,000 miles per hour, before diving into the  Pacific
Ocean  off the coast of Kwajalein Atoll, according to the agency.  Around 8:22 local time, the agency reported engineers
“lost telemetry” with the aircraft.  In a statement released later in the day, the agency said
the aircraft successfully made the transition to Mach 20
aerodynamic flight and “more than nine minutes of data was
collected before an anomaly caused loss of signal.”  Today’s mission was the aircraft’s second and final planned
test flight. The first attempt on April 22, 2010, also ended
nine minutes into the flight when the on-board computer detected
a glitch and forced a splashdown. Data from the maiden voyage
indicated the craft reached speeds of between Mach 17 and Mach
22.  Mach 20  A flight from  New York  to  Los Angeles  at Mach 20 would take
less than 12 minutes, according to Darpa.  “We do not yet know how to achieve the desired control
during the aerodynamic phase of flight,” Air Force Major Chris
Schulz, the program manager, said in the statement. “It’s
vexing; I’m confident there is a solution. We have to find it.”  The project began in 2003 and cost $320 million, Eric
Mazzacone, a spokesman for Darpa, said in an e-mail. The goal is
to develop technology that might deliver a non-nuclear warhead
anywhere in the world within an hour.  Tom Collina, research director at the Arms Control
Association in  Washington , said the technology is unconstrained
by the New Start, a nuclear arms reduction agreement signed last
year by U.S. and  Russia , and isn’t likely to be confused with a
nuclear weapon because its trajectory is unlike the bell-shaped
curve of a ballistic missile.  “Most people perceive this to be a niche capability,” he
said in a telephone interview. “You’re not going to build more
than a dozen or two of these things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  