-- 
Pentagon Releases Identities of SEALs Killed, Not Unit Name

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-11T17:34:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pentagon-releases-identities-of-seals-killed-not-unit-name.html
The Pentagon today released the
 names  of the 30 U.S. service personnel killed Aug. 6 when a
CH-47 Chinook helicopter was shot down in  Afghanistan , including
17 Navy SEAL commandos from one of the military’s most elite
counterterrorism units.  The Pentagon declined to publicly identify the SEAL unit --
the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, or Devgru, based in
Dam Neck, Virginia. It is the same unit that carried out the
lethal raid against  Osama bin Laden  in May.  After the Aug. 6 crash, U.S. officials confirmed without
attribution that most of the SEALs who were killed were from
that unit, adding that they were not among the SEALs who took
part in the bin Laden raid. Today, the Pentagon described the
SEALs who were killed in the crash as “assigned to an East
Coast-based Naval Special Warfare unit.”  Marine Colonel Dave Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said the
decision not to publish the unit’s name was a Navy call. “We
publish what the services give us to publish. It’s their
decision,” he said. A Navy spokesman, Commander Danny
Hernandez, had no immediate comment on why the unit was not
identified.  The Navy has used the name of the unit in previous service
press releases, including one updated June 30 -- an official
 biography  of a former Devgru commander, Rear Admiral Edward G.
Winters III.  Winters, the biography said, took command of the unit in
August 2003 and was deployed four additional times with a joint
 task force  to Afghanistan.  Fact Sheet  The unit is also listed on the  fact sheet  that the service
issued to commemorate the posthumous Medal of Honor awarded in
2007 to Navy Lieutenant Michael Murphy, a SEAL who was not a
member of Devgru. The unit is listed as one of two “major
component commands” of the Naval Special Warfare Command.  Navy stories about Devgru  recruiters , as well as a briefing
with  slides , have been posted on the Internet.  The Navy and the Pentagon on at least two occasions have
listed the unit in releases that identified SEALs killed in
action, including two on  Sept. 13, 2008 , and a Navy summary
story  published  April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  