-- 
Perry Will Start Republican Presidential Bid With Speech in South Carolina

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-12T18:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/perry-plans-to-start-presidential-bid-at-south-carolina-meeting-ap-says.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , an early
Tea Party supporter, plans to step into the Republican
presidential campaign this weekend in  South Carolina  and  New
Hampshire , according to a spokesman.  Perry, 61, will make his bid official tomorrow, according
to Mark Miner, the governor’s spokesman. Perry’s entry follows
weeks of toying with the idea and will coincide with the Iowa
Straw Poll in Ames that will test the campaign strength of
Republicans already in the race.  “As a three-and-a-half term governor, he has more gravitas
than  Michele Bachmann  or Sarah Palin, who appeal to the most
conservative part of the party,” said James Riddlesperger, a
politics professor at Texas Christian University, in an earlier
interview. “But he also has some cachet with the center.”  The longest-serving U.S. governor likely will campaign on
his record of presiding over job growth in  Texas  and on curbing
growing federal power, Riddlesperger said. Perry is set to speak
tomorrow at a conference sponsored by RedState.com, a self-
described “conservative” group in Washington. He’s set to go
from there to New Hampshire, site of the first 2012 primary.  Perry’s appearances will divert attention from those
competing in the Iowa straw poll. He isn’t on the ballot, though
supporters can write in his name.  Palin Hovering  Bachmann, a U.S. Representative from  Minnesota , is a
declared presidential candidate. Palin, the former Alaska
governor and the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, has
hovered over the race -- much as Perry had done -- without yet
entering. She plans an appearance at the Iowa State Fair in  Des
Moines , and has said she plans to announce by next month whether
she will seek the White House.  The governor wasn’t on the stage in last night’s televised
debate in Ames that featured eight of the Republican contenders.  Perry will need to eclipse Mitt Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor who has led most surveys of likely
Republican voters. In campaigning, Romney touts his experience
creating jobs as a venture capitalist. He is a co-founder of
Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, a private-equity firm with about
$65 billion in assets that has invested in companies including
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. and
Bright Horizons Family Solutions LLC.  Fundraising Appeal  Perry’s fundraisers sent out e-mails yesterday appealing to
donors to help them “very rapidly” collect the first $1
million to get the presidential campaign started, the  Washington 
Post said. Robert Miller, a lawyer and lobbyist at Locke Lord
Bissell & Liddell LLP in Houston, has estimated Perry will need
$40 million to compete in the race.  In an Aug. 10 speech, the governor told a National
Conference of State Legislatures meeting in San Antonio that
“over the last two years, 40 percent of the net new jobs
created in the U.S. were created in Texas.”  Perry, who began his political career as a Democrat in the
1980s, also noted that Texas picked up 4.29 million residents
during the past decade. It has led big U.S. states in job
growth, according to a U.S. Chamber of Commerce  report  in June
that credited the state’s low taxes, predictable regulation and
diverse workforce.  Job Growth  Texas  added  more than 900,000 jobs from December 2000 to
December 2010, according to the U.S. Labor Department. It ranked
45th in the U.S. in terms of the state and local tax burden on
income in fiscal 2009, according to the Tax Foundation, a
nonprofit group in Washington.  At last night’s debate, when asked about Perry entering the
race, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich cited his “great
record” on jobs and termed him “a very formidable person.”  Two other candidates took shots at Perry.  “I’m very pleased he’s coming in because he represents the
status quo,” said U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas.  “That’s just one more politician and that makes this
business problem-solver stand out that much more,” said Herman Cain, a former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc.  The governor’s anticipated entry into the crowded campaign
for the chance to run against President  Barack Obama  next year
follows months of thought that Perry said on July 19 was
prompted by his wife, Anita. “‘Get out of your comfort zone,’”
she told him, he said in a briefing for reporters in Austin.  Family History  Perry and Anita Thigpen, who met at an elementary school
piano recital, were married in 1982 and have two adult children.
The daughter of a general-practice doctor, Anita worked in
health care after graduating from college with a nursing degree
and earned a master’s in the subject.  Helped by Texas political consultant  Karl Rove , Perry won
his first statewide race in 1990, for agriculture commissioner,
after switching to the  Republican Party  in 1989. Elected
lieutenant governor in 1998, he took over the top spot in
December 2000 after  George W. Bush , another Rove client,
resigned the office ahead of his swearing in as president.  “Government doesn’t create jobs, otherwise the last two
and a half years of stimulus would have worked,” Perry told the
state lawmakers gathered in  San Antonio , taking a swipe at
Obama’s spending program to boost employment. “Government can
only create the environment that allows the private sector to
create jobs,” the governor said.  Axelrod Responds  “He’s been the beneficiary of things that he had very
little to do with,”  David Axelrod , the Chicago-based adviser to
Obama, said of Perry today on ABC’s “Good Morning America”
television show. He cited the oil-industry boom and U.S.
military growth.  “Governor Perry also was the beneficiary of $17 billion of
money from the Recovery Act, though he’s been quite critical of
it,” Axelrod said. “It has helped him balance his budgets.”  Axelrod said Perry’s record is one of “decimation, not of
progress,” in education and health care.  “Perry has considered attracting business to Texas as his
job one,” said Peggy Venable, state director of  Americans For
Prosperity , a nonprofit organization based in suburban
Arlington,  Virginia , that promotes limited government. “We
weren’t number one in attracting business under Governor Bush.
This has all happened since Governor Perry.”  About 550,000 Texans earned the minimum wage of $7.25 an
hour last year, compared with 174,000 in  California  and 264,000
in  New York ,  according  to Labor Department figures. The state’s
low wage rates reflect a young workforce that is poorly educated
compared with the U.S. average, along with a low cost of living,
said Lori Taylor, who teaches economics at  Texas A&M University 
in  College Station .  Poverty Rate  “Texas has created a large number of jobs, but it also has
one of the highest poverty rates and some of the lowest
benefits,” said Dee Simpson, Texas legislative director for the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a
union that has mostly supported Democrats since the 1970s.  Perry dismissed talk of a presidential bid until May 27,
near the end of Texas’s legislative session, when he said he was
“thinking about” a run. Prospects for his entry improved when
his longtime political adviser, Dave Carney, quit Gingrich’s
campaign, part of an exodus from the former speaker’s staff.  In his 2010 book, “Fed Up,” Perry attacked expanding
federal power over states, a key  Tea Party  tenet. “Perry was
the first major politician that got in on the deal with the Tea
Party and it’s paying off for him,” Simpson said.  Raised as a Methodist, Perry now attends Austin’s
nondenominational Lake Hills Church, where services feature
rock-inspired music. The governor makes his Christian faith part
of his public persona and promoted an  all-day event  in Houston
on Aug. 6 as a “call to prayer for a nation in crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  