-- 
Peru May Hold Rate for Third Month on Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/peru-may-hold-rate-for-third-month-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged for a third month as
global market turbulence overtakes above-target inflation as the
biggest threat to the country’s commodity-dependent economy.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, will keep the overnight rate at 4.25 percent today,
according to 19 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three
analysts predict a quarter-point increase to 4.50 percent. The
board will announce its decision at about 7 p.m. New York time.  Slower global growth and a possible recession in the U.S.,
Peru’s biggest trading partner, will dent demand for the
country’s commodities, which account for three quarters of the
country’s exports. A 0.79 percent jump in consumer prices in
July, the biggest in three years, was driven by “transitory”
factors that will prove short-lived, said  Hugo Perea , chief
economist at  BBVA Banco Continental .  “The complicated external scenario creates a lot of
uncertainty and may lead to lower international prices of food
and energy,” Perea said in a telephone interview from Lima.
“The threat of inflationary pressures going forward is pretty
limited.”  The $153 billion economy expanded at the slowest pace in 15
months in May as companies scaled back spending during the
country’s presidential elections. President  Ollanta Humala , who
took office July 28, has sought to reassure investors by naming
a market-friendly economic team led by Finance Minister  Miguel Castilla and retaining Velarde in his post for a second five-
year term.  ‘Deep Concerns’  The former army rebel pledged in his inaugural speech July
28 to maintain existing economic and monetary policies after his
pledges to enlarge state companies, revise free trade accords
and introduce a windfall mining tax clouded the outlook for the
region’s fastest growing economy.  Though business confidence has improved, it’s still below
pre-election levels and economic growth will likely remain
“sub-par” in the third quarter, Italo Lombardi, an economist
at BNP Paribas, said in a Aug. 5 report.  The central bank will pause while it gauges the threat
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S. slowdown pose to exports and
foreign investment in  South America ’s sixth-biggest economy,
said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.  “Central banks across the region are communicating their
deep concerns about rising global risks and deteriorating
external conditions,” BNP Paribas said. This may lead policy
makers in Brazil and  Colombia  to join Peru and  Chile  “in the
near future” and keep rates unchanged even as domestic demand
remains “robust,” the bank said.  Peru is “prepared for slower global growth,” Castilla
said yesterday.  Declines, Peaks  Peru’s annual cement production fell for the first time in
two years in June as construction activity eased in the mining,
power, and retail industries, according to the  National
Statistics Institute .  Metal production contracted 10 percent from a year earlier
and fishing output declined.  Peru is the world’s biggest silver producer, ranked third
in copper and zinc, and sixth in terms of gold output. Mining
over the last decade has accounted for 7.7 percent of gross
domestic product and in 2009 contributed 27 percent of the
government’s total tax take.  Export growth slowed in June after rising to a record in
May, the agency said.  Inflation, Targeting  With last month’s jump in consumer prices, led by higher
prices for poultry and clothes and a seasonal rise in bus fares,
Peru’s annual inflation rate rose to 3.35 percent, a two-year
high, from 2.91 percent in June.  Though the annual rate breached the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target range for the first time since June
2009, the rise in consumer prices was supply driven and won’t be
repeated “in the coming months,” Banco de Credito del Peru
said in an Aug. 4 report.  Still, the central bank will probably have to increase the
benchmark rate by a quarter-point to 4.50 percent before the end
of the year as it seeks to keep inflation expectations anchored,
said Perea.  “If domestic demand remains resilient and prices do not
correct in the next three months, the central bank will be
forced to hike again in the fourth quarter as the need to
control inflation will mean moving above the neutral rate,”
said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based Latin America economist at
4Cast Inc.  The central bank won’t raise beyond 4.50 percent this year
as it is concerned about the sol’s 2 percent appreciation this
year and doesn’t want to slow the pace of economic activity,
Banco de Credito said.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has dropped 45 basis points
since the central bank’s June 9 pause in rate rises led
investors to bet rates would rise more slowly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 