-- 
PetroVietnam Gas to Borrow Up to $700 Million for LNG Terminal

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T08:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/petrovietnam-gas-to-borrow-up-to-700-million-for-lng-terminal.html
PetroVietnam Gas Corp. is in talks
to raise up to $700 million in foreign loans for a $1 billion
liquefied natural gas terminal in what would be the fifth
overseas borrowing by a Vietnamese company since the near-
collapse of the country’s largest shipbuilder in December.  Ho Chi Minh City-based PetroVietnam Gas, also known as PV
Gas, plans to start construction of the LNG terminal by 2012,
general director Do Khang Ninh said in a telephone interview
from the city today. The company is in discussions with more
than 10 suppliers, including Qatar Liquefied Gas Co., as it
seeks to boost imports of the fuel and meet  Vietnam ’s rapidly
rising demand for energy, he said.  PV Gas  may face higher borrowing costs after the financial
problems of Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, or  Vinashin ,
triggered a ratings downgrade of the country’s state-owned
miner, Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries Group.
Vinashin’s missed $60 million payment to international lenders
in December proved that government support for banks and state
companies isn’t guaranteed, Moody’s Investors Service said in
April.  “It’s much more difficult to borrow than in the past,”
Ninh said. “Now the government no longer guarantees loans, so
that has posed a challenge for us.” Many banks are interested
in the financing, he said, declining to elaborate.  Foreign Lenders  Vinashin, based in Hanoi, almost collapsed with debts of 86
trillion dong as of June 2010, the government said in August
last year. The shipbuilder asked foreign lenders for a one-year
extension after missing a $60 million principal payment on a
$600 million syndicated loan, the company’s Chairman Nguyen Ngoc Su said in February.  Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries Group, or
Vinacomin, had its long-term corporate  credit rating  cut to BB-
from BB by  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 6 on the likelihood of low
government support in the event of financial distress.  Four U.S. dollar-denominated loans have been signed in the
Southeast Asian nation since January, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. State-owned Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, which counts
PV Gas as a unit, borrowed $904 million in April from Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA to fund a thermal power plant, the
data show.  National carrier Vietnam Airlines signed a $475 million
facility in May with Citigroup Inc.,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and
HSBC, and will use the proceeds to buy planes, the data show.  Best Return  Dollar bonds in Vietnam are handing investors the best
return in  Asia  this year, gaining 7.8 percent, HSBC indexes
show. That compares with a 2.9 percent return for bonds in
 China , and returns of 7.6 percent and 6.9 percent for dollar
debt in Indonesia and  Thailand  respectively.  PV Gas raised 1.89 trillion dong ($90.8 million) via the
sale of a 3.2 percent stake in an initial public offering of
shares in November. The company’s pretax profit will rise 17
percent to more than 7 trillion dong this year, Ninh said in a
phone interview April 18.  PV Gas’s proposed terminal, to be built in the southern
province of Binh Thuan, will be able to handle imports of up to
3 million tons of LNG per year, Ninh said today. The terminal is
expected to be ready for first cargoes by 2015, he said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in  Hanoi  at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  