-- 
Phillies Rally From Six-Run Deficit to Beat Dodgers, Yankees Beat Angels

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-11T04:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/phillies-rally-from-six-run-deficit-to-beat-dodgers-yankees-beat-angels.html
The  Philadelphia Phillies , who have
the best record in  Major League Baseball , rallied from a six-run
deficit to defeat the Los Angeles Dodgers 9-8.  The Phillies trailed 5-0 after the first inning at Dodger
Stadium in Los Angeles yesterday and were 6-0 down after three
innings. The visitors tied it at 7-7 in the sixth before Ryan Howard hit a two-run home run to give the Phillies the advantage
they needed to improve to 77-40.  “They got ahead early, but we knew there was a lot of game
left,” Howard told reporters. “So you just kind of chip away,
get a run here and a run there, and the next thing you know
you’re back in the game.”  The Dodgers went ahead on Matt Kemp’s run-scoring single
before Juan Rivera added a three-run home run and Dioner Navarro
followed with a run-scoring double. Kemp then scored in the
third on Navarro’s sacrifice fly.  The Phillies cut the deficit in the fourth on Hunter Pence’s two-run home run and pitcher Vance Worley’s run-scoring
single before adding two runs in the fifth and four in the
sixth.  In other National League games, it was Pittsburgh 9, San
Francisco 2; Cincinnati 3, Colorado 2; San Diego 9, the New York
Mets 5; Atlanta 6, Florida 2; Milwaukee 5, St. Louis 1; the
Chicago Cubs 4, Washington 2, and Arizona 6, Houston 3.  In the  American League ,  Curtis Granderson  hit two home runs
and Robinson Cano added a third as the  New York Yankees  snapped
a three-game losing streak with a 9-3 win against the Los
Angeles Angels.  The win leaves the Yankees (70-45) 1 1/2-games behind the
 Boston Red Sox  (72-44), who lost 5-2 to the  Minnesota Twins .
Boston’s first loss in five games snapped a six-game losing
streak for the Twins.  In other American League games, it was Seattle 4, Texas 3;
Baltimore 6, the Chicago White Sox 4 in 10 innings; Cleveland
10, Detroit 3; Toronto 8, Oakland 4, and Tampa Bay 8, Kansas
City 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  