-- 
Philippine Peso Unchanged as Growth Offsets Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-08-11T04:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/philippine-peso-unchanged-as-growth-offsets-europe-debt-concern.html
The Philippine peso was unchanged
near a three-week low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening was offset by optimism investors will buy the nation’s
assets to benefit from its economic growth.  Economic fundamentals are supporting the peso and the
currency’s movement is aligned with its regional peers, central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in Manila today. Relative
borrowing costs for France, Europe’s second-largest economy,
climbed even as all three major ratings companies reaffirmed the
country’s top credit grade yesterday.  “Fundamentally, it’s still a wise bet to put your money in
the Asian region,” said Rafael Algarra, treasurer at Security
Bank Corp. in Manila. “This has tempered any initial weakness
on the peso because of  risk aversion .”  The peso traded at 42.495 per dollar as of 11:48 a.m. in
 Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
42.770 on Aug. 9, the weakest level since July 20. The peso may
trade between 42.30 and 42.70 for the rest of the week, Algarra
predicted.  Philippine economic growth in the second quarter may be
“a little bit higher” than the first quarter and expansion
will be sustained as the government catches up on spending in
the second half, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga
said in an interview in Manila yesterday. The economy expanded
4.9 percent in the three months through March from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since 2009.  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due April 2016 was little
changed at 4.94 percent, according to prices from Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp.  The  Philippines  plans to “align” its policies on the non-
deliverable forward  currency market  with global standards and is
“not closing” the NDF, central Tetangco told reporters today
in Manila. Banks are looking to limit the volume of their NDF
transactions as the central bank doesn’t favor speculative
trades, Tetangco said. Imposing  capital controls  is “not on the
table,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  