-- 
Polish Consumer Prices Probably Accelerated in July on Rising Fuel Costs

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-08-11T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/polish-consumer-prices-probably-accelerated-in-july-on-rising-fuel-costs.html
Polish inflation accelerated in July
from a four-month low on faster fuel price growth, according to
a survey of economists.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier after
slowing to 4.2 percent in June, according to the median estimate
of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  Central
Statistical Office  will publish the figures at 2 p.m. in Warsaw
today.  Inflation is abating across eastern  Europe , driven in part
by the U.S. and euro-region economies losing steam. In  Poland ,
investors in the past two weeks reversed bets on a quarter-point
increase in the benchmark  interest rate  for the next six months
and are now signaling a potential cut.  “The rebound should be qualified as a one-off event as
inflation is likely to gradually slow down over the second half,
which will be helped by the effect of high statistical base from
last year,” said Adam Antoniak, senior economist at Bank BPH in
Warsaw.  Six-month forward rate agreements are trading 22 basis
points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate,
compared with 22 above on Aug. 1.  Hungary yesterday said its July inflation rate fell for a
third month, dropping more than economists expected to 3.1
percent, the lowest in more than two years. Russian consumer
prices grew 9 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace this
year and undershooting the median forecast. The  Czech Republic 
on Aug. 9 reported 1.7 percent inflation for July, the slowest
in three months.  Polish Rate Path  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised the benchmark seven-day
rate by a total of 1 percentage point to 4.5 percent between
January and June from record low. Policy makers said last month
the monetary tightening may be enough to slow inflation to
within their 2.5 percent target next year. They also cited a
probable economic slowdown amid fiscal tightening and shrinking
public investment to justify leaving borrowing costs unchanged
in July.  The inflation rate will be within the target range of
between 1.5 percent and 3.5 percent next year, the central bank
said in a report last month. It lowered its 2013 estimate to
between 1.8 percent and 3.4 percent from a March forecast of 2.1
percent to 3.7 percent.  “The factors that led to the decision to leave interest
rates unchanged in July remain in place,” said Elzbieta Chojna- Duch, a member of the rate panel, told TVN CNBC on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  