-- 
Pound Weakens, Gilts Gain Before Osborne Addresses Parliament on Economy

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-11T11:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pound-weakens-gilts-gain-before-osborne-addresses-parliament-on-economy.html
The pound held within a penny of a
three-week low against the dollar and gilts fell before finance
minister  George Osborne  addresses parliament on the economy amid
market turmoil and the worst British riots in 30 years.  Sterling strengthened against the euro. Osborne, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, is expected to defend the steepest
government spending cuts since World War II as  Europe ’s debt
crisis deepens. Opposition politicians may seek to take
advantage of a  Bank of England  warning yesterday that the
economic outlook is worsening as they call for a roll back of
austerity measures.  “The big risk to the pound is political,” Mark Schofield,
head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London, said
by telephone yesterday. “There are a lot of tensions in the
government.”  The pound traded at $1.6159 at 12:30 p.m., from $1.6134
yesterday, after earlier touching $1.6111, the weakest intraday
level since July 20. Sterling appreciated 0.2 percent to 87.67
pence per euro, after falling as much as 0.4 percent to 88.27
pence. Britain’s currency was little changed at 123.84 yen.  The two-year gilt fell, lifting the yield by two basis
points to 0.57 percent. Yields on 10-year bonds were little
changed at 2.47 percent.  Osborne is to speak at about 1 p.m. in  London  at a special
sitting of lawmakers called after riots, looting and arson in
the capital spread to other cities this week in the worst
British rioting since the 1980s. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
facing pressure to review his policy of cutting spending on the
police following the civil unrest.  ‘Credible Plan’  “The UK has a very credible austerity plan as far as
markets are concerned but the problem is that if growth falls
off dramatically, the government might need to back away from
that plan to support the economy,” said Steven Saywell, head of
foreign-exchange strategy for Europe at BNP Paribas SA in
London.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said this morning the
government won’t water down the cuts.  The central bank lowered its outlook for the economy
yesterday and Governor  Mervyn King  said headwinds are
intensifying “by the day.” The U.K. economy grew 0.2 percent
in the second quarter, while manufacturing shrank in July.  BNP Paribas expects the U.K. economy to grow 1.3 percent
this year and 1.6 percent in 2012 “with risks to the downside
for both forecasts due to global economic uncertainties,”
Saywell added.  The implied yield on short-sterling futures expiring in
June 2013 rose two basis point to 0.95 percent. The yield fell
23 basis points yesterday as traders added to bets that
benchmark rates will remain lower for longer.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 index (UKX)  of shares fell 0.9 percent,
reversing an earlier rebound from its lowest closing level in
more than a year yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  