-- 
Pound Gains Versus Dollar as Osborne Rebuffs Opposition Cuts-Review Demand

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-11T15:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pound-gains-versus-euro-as-cameron-rejects-opposition-spending-cut-demands.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar after U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
rebuffed opposition demands to review spending cuts as the euro-
region’s debt woes roil stock markets around the world.  Sterling appreciated against half of its 16 major peers,
rebounding from a three-week low against the dollar reached
earlier. The U.K. has an “unwavering commitment” to fiscal
stability, Osborne told lawmakers during an emergency session of
parliament today called after Britain’s worst rioting since the
1980s. Recent volatility in global financial markets was a
justification for the deficit squeeze and showed the “folly of
those who said we were going too far too fast,” he added.  “There has to be a commitment to fiscal austerity, given
that the focus on the euro-zone debt crisis is still very
strong,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in
London. “The U.K. is still seen as a relative safe haven from
the turmoil. Gilts have enjoyed significant offshore inflows and
that’s rubbing off on cable,” he said, referring to the pound-
dollar exchange rate.  The pound appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.6203 at 4:27 p.m.
in London, snapping a three-day drop and rebounding from as low
as $1.6111, the weakest intraday level since July 20. Sterling
was little changed at 87.86 pence per euro after falling as much
as 0.4 percent to 88.27 pence.  Opposition to the U.K.’s deepest government spending cuts
since World War II has gained traction after riots, looting and
arson that began in  London  spread to other cities this week.
Prime Minister David Cameron today rejected demands to review
plans to lower police expenditure, saying they were achievable
“without any reductions in visible policing.”  ‘Market Credibility’  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said this morning the
government won’t water down government austerity measures.  “Market credibility is not some abstract concept -- it
saves jobs and keeps families in their homes,” Osborne told
Parliament. U.K. government bonds had benefited from financial
market turmoil as they offered investors a refuge, he added.  Yields on 10-year gilts increased three basis points to
2.52 percent, after reaching 2.55 percent. Yields on two-year
notes were seven basis points higher at 0.61 percent.  “The U.K. has a very credible austerity plan as far as
markets are concerned,” said Steven Saywell, head of foreign-
exchange strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in London.  BNP expects the U.K. economy to grow 1.3 percent this year
and 1.6 percent in 2012, though both forecasts are at risk from
“global economic uncertainties,” Saywell added.  Lower Outlook  The U.K. central bank lowered its outlook for the economy
yesterday as Governor  Mervyn King  said headwinds are
intensifying. The U.K. economy grew 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, while manufacturing shrank in July.  “The market’s view is that there aren’t going to be any
great fiscal risks to sterling,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head
of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate
and Investment Bank in London. “The U.K. is in better fiscal
shape than Europe and the U.S., and has been quick to address
fiscal expenditure concerns. That’s been pretty supportive of
gilts.”  The benchmark  FTSE 100 index (UKX)  of shares rose 3.2 percent,
rebounding from its lowest closing level in more than a year
yesterday. U.S. stocks rose, following the worst plunge since
the  bull market  began in 2009, as an unexpected drop in jobless
claims tempered concern the world’s biggest economy is slowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  