-- 
Primary Global’s Fleishman Asks U.S. Court to Impound Subpoenaed Material

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-11T23:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/primary-global-s-fleishman-asks-u-s-court-to-impound-subpoenaed-material.html
A former  Primary Global Research LLC 
sales manager charged in an  insider-trading  probe asked a judge
to impound more than 16,000 pages of evidence the government got
from third parties, including Samsung Electronics Co.,
 Omnivision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   James Fleishman asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan to impound evidence subpoenaed by both sides in
preparation for trial to permit lawyers to determine whether
their opponents complied with the law. Fleishman is scheduled to
go on trial before Rakoff on two counts of conspiracy Aug. 29.  Primary Global, based in Mountain View, California, is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at hedge
funds, technology companies, banks and consulting firms.
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was convicted
of  securities fraud  and conspiracy on June 20 after a trial
before Rakoff.  Of the 15 people charged in the investigation by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, 12 have pleaded guilty.
U.S. prosecutors yesterday announced charges against former
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. accountant Stanley Ng.  Rakoff this week denied a request by Fleishman, who has
pleaded not guilty, to bar government wiretaps of two Primary
Global conference lines as evidence in the trial.  In addition to Samsung, Omnivision and AMD, Fleishman said
in his filing today that prosecutors subpoenaed material from
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and from Primary
Global. AMD turned over a mirrored hard-drive demanded by the
government, Fleishman said.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 