-- 
Pro-Gun Group’s Call to Sell Seized Weapons Advances to States

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/pro-gun-group-s-call-to-sell-seized-weapons-advances-to-states.html
In the coming months, state
legislators are likely to find a bill crossing their desks that
requires law enforcement agencies to auction guns confiscated in
crimes rather than destroy them, as many do now.  The proposal is the brainchild of the  National Rifle
Association , and it was adopted last week by a task force at the
annual meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council, a
Republican-leaning policy group that brings together state
lawmakers, advocacy groups and corporations to write model
legislation.  The gun bill, which was passed 12 years ago in Kentucky and
recently championed by the NRA in nearby states, provides an
example of how a law in one state can be taken up by an interest
group, passed on through ALEC and spread across the country to
create quasi-national policy and momentum for an issue that
eventually could emerge in Congress.  “ALEC has, for the last 40 years, been incredibly
influential in advancing pro-corporate legislation in the
states,” said Douglas Clopp, deputy director for programs at
 Common Cause , a Washington-based policy group that works to
reduce the influence of money in politics.  Republican Rise  “Given the results of the 2010 midterm elections, many
states are now one-party controlled, Republican legislatures.
Once ALEC model legislation is introduced, there is really no
opposition, and little public debate, before the legislation is
enacted as law,” Clopp said.  Iowa state Representative Linda Upmeyer, a Republican who
sits on ALEC’s board, disputes that. After an ALEC-drafted model
bill is introduced in the state legislatures, it still has to be
debated before it becomes law. “It goes through committees and
subcommittees and hearings,” she said. “There is no voice
getting shut out of the process.”  ALEC takes credit for the similarly-worded laws or
proposals aimed at curbing the Environmental Protection Agency’s
ability to limit  carbon emissions  and block implementation of
President Barack Obama’s health-care law that were acted upon in
state legislatures earlier this year.  The gun seizure bill was one of several proposals approved
at ALEC’s 38th annual meeting in  New Orleans  last week.  ALEC 
doesn’t make its model legislation public. Bloomberg obtained
meeting agendas and copies of ALEC model bills from people who
attended the sessions.  Bill’s Authors  The model legislation was drafted and approved by ALEC’s
public safety task force, which included representatives from
stun-gun maker  Taser International Inc. (TASR) , energy conglomerate
Koch Industries, the American Bail Coalition, and the NRA,
according to ALEC documents. Corporate and special interest
group members seeking to serve on task forces charged with
writing legislative language can pay as much as $35,000 or more
to get a seat at the table, according to ALEC’s web site.  “This is a really great way for police to get money and
for people to get firearms,” said Rachel Parsons, a spokeswoman
for the NRA. She said the law takes weapons out of the hands of
criminals and gives them to law-abiding citizens.  The  Fraternal Order of Police , an association of 335,000
police officers, isn’t a member of ALEC and wasn’t at the table
when the NRA’s proposal was discussed, said James Pasco,
executive director of the group’s legislative center.  Pasco said the FOP would prefer to allow police departments
to choose whether to sell, use or destroy seized guns based on
their needs rather than having disposal mandated by the state.  Communication Difficulty  “For a variety of reasons, we’re not really communicating
very well with Republican state legislators right now,” he
said, referring to the FOP’s effort to defeat or rollback new
state laws that reduce or eliminate their members collective
bargaining rights. ALEC didn’t draft those laws, according to
Raegan Weber, the group’s spokeswoman.  The legislative drafting procedure at Washington-based ALEC
is drawing criticism from Democrats, government ethics groups
and some Republicans, who say it allows special interests an
unfair advantage.  “It’s such an insidious thing that they’ve gotten together
here,” said Brett Bonin, a Republican who serves on the Orleans
Parish School Board in  Louisiana  and is opposed to some ALEC
model legislation on education.  Corporate Cleansing  “They present these bills in their statehouses cleansed of
the fact that they were pre-approved by corporations,” said
Lisa Graves, executive director of the  Center for Media and
Democracy , a Democratic-leaning, Washington-based group that
tracks news sources.  The effort to pass the gun seizure bill began more than a
decade ago.  Kentucky state Representative  Robert Damron , a Democrat and
ALEC member, in 1998 proposed the bill to stop police
departments from destroying guns seized in crimes and instead
require that they be auctioned. Damron represented a rural area
where local police officers were looking to upgrade their body
armor and other equipment.  Under his law, local police are required to turn over
confiscated weapons to the state police within a month and they
are auctioned to licensed gun dealers. The money generated from
those sales is deposited into a fund to buy more police gear.  “I had police coming to me and saying, ‘I’m destroying
better guns than what my officers have in their holsters,’”
Damron said in an interview.  Urban Opposition  Opposition to the measure came from police departments in
Louisville and Lexington, which dealt with more street crime
than their rural counterparts and didn’t want to put seized guns
back in circulation.  “We have a city that’s saturated with firearms and we’ve
had way too many deaths by firearms,” said  Kentucky  state
Representative  Jim Wayne, a fellow Democrat who represents
Louisville. “We don’t need any more guns on the street.”  The bill passed, and NRA representatives visited Damron to
check on how the law was working. Damron informed them it was
working well. His relationship with ALEC was deteriorating,
though, and he ultimately stopped attending their meetings.  ALEC has “become, in the last few years, so partisan,”
Damron said. “The last meeting I went to, they spent all their
time bashing Democrats. I don’t particularly care for an
organization that’s so partisan.”  Tennessee Approval  With success in Kentucky, the NRA went to neighboring
Tennessee and encouraged former state Representative Douglas
Jackson, a Democrat who doesn’t belong to ALEC, to propose a
similar bill. It was approved in 2010. The new  Tennessee  law
differed from Kentucky’s in that it allows the police
departments to keep the guns for their own use.  A similar measure was passed in  Alaska  and proposed this
year in  Alabama , where it became ensnared in a broader partisan
power struggle and didn’t pass.  The NRA, through ALEC’s online legislative library, can
make the  model bill  available to state lawmakers across the
country with just a few clicks on the Internet.  ALEC, which has been in existence for almost 40 years, is
drawing more attention because of its growth and the rise of
Republican state House and Senate legislators who can advance
its model bills.  In last November’s election, Republicans won from Democrats
more than 675 state legislative seats, and now control both
chambers in 26 states’ legislatures, up from 14 before the
election, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures.   ALEC’s legislator membership topped 2,000 for the first
time in June, and the number of corporate sponsors of its annual
meeting increased to 82 from 46 in 2010. Attendance at the
annual meeting was about 25 percent higher this year than last,
according to Weber.  Upmeyer dismissed accusations of being too cozy with
corporate and special interests. “These are the same people
that are in my state,” the Iowa lawmaker said. She meets with
constituents, interest groups and business lobbyists every day
when her state’s legislature is in session. “This is not very
different in my mind,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  