-- 
MTR’s Underlying Profit Drops 24% on Fewer Apartment Sales

-- B y   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-08-11T10:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/mtr-s-underlying-profit-drops-24-on-fewer-apartment-sales.html
MTR Corp. (66) , Hong Kong’s subway
operator that gets income from real estate projects, said first-
half underlying profit dropped 24 percent after it booked less
profit from sales of apartments above its stations.  Underlying profit, which excludes investment property
revaluations and deferred tax, decreased to HK$4.4 billion ($564
million) in the six months ended June 30, the company said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. That was more
than the median HK$3.56 billion estimate of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  MTR, one of Hong Kong’s biggest owners of unoccupied
residential sites, said income from property development
decreased 61 percent from a year earlier to HK$1.45 billion. The
domestic passenger traffic increased 5.4 percent while fare
revenue recorded 7.7 growth in Hong Kong.  MTR shares rose 4.5 percent to HK$24.60 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, before the earnings. The shares have
dropped 13 percent this year compared with a 15 percent slide in
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which includes MTR.  The subway operator, 77 percent owned by the government,
said in July that it hired  Jay Walder , chairman of  New York ’s
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , as its new chief
executive officer. Walder will join MTR as CEO-designate on Nov.
1 and head the company on Jan. 1.  The company will pay a first-half dividend of 25 Hong Kong
cents per share, up from 14 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  “Our interim dividend has been maintained at 14 cents per
share from the beginning, leading to a situation that the
interim dividend is representing less than a quarter of annual
total, which is lower than normal market practice,” said Chief
Executive Officer C.K. Chow. “One should not automatically
apply the same magnitude of increase to predict the final
dividend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Jiang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Vjiang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  