-- 
Track and Field Body to Test All Athletes at World Championships in Korea

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-11T10:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/track-and-field-body-to-test-all-athletes-at-world-championships-in-korea.html
Track and field’s ruling body will
take blood samples from every athlete taking part in the  IAAF
World Championships  in  South Korea , making it the first major
sporting event to test all competitors.  The 2,000 athletes competing will all undergo blood
screening at the same time in the same conditions, the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based  International Association of Athletics
Federations  (IAAF) said today in an e-mailed statement.  The world championships, the last big meet for track and
field athletes before next year’s  Olympic Games  in  London , will
be held from Aug. 27 through Sept. 4 in Daegu.  “Suspicious results from the screening analyses performed
on-site could, where appropriate, trigger follow-up target tests
in Daegu in urine (notably for erythropoietin,) and/or further
analyses for prohibited substances or prohibited methods in
blood in Lausanne,” the IAAF said.  Erythropoietin, or EPO, is an endurance-boosting hormone
that stimulates red blood cell production which may improve the
amount of oxygen that the blood can carry to the body’s muscles.
It that has been banned since the early 1990s and a test for EPO
was introduced at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, according the
website of the  World Anti-Doping Agency  (WADA).  Instead of trying to find certain prohibited substances,
the testing focuses on an athlete’s so-called biomarkers. These
parameters are stable in athletes who haven’t used any banned
substances.  The blood testing program in Daegu comes in addition to
regular doping controls at the world championships, such as
close to 500 urine samples both from in and out-of-competition,
the IAAF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  