-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Unexpectedly Widens to $53.1 Billion

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-11T14:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/trade-deficit-of-u-s-unexpectedly-widens-to-53-1-billion-on-export-slump.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  unexpectedly
increased in June to the highest level since October 2008 as a
slump in exports exceeded a decline in shipments from overseas.  The gap widened 4.4 percent to $53.1 billion from $50.8
billion in the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. The deficit exceeded all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists in which the median was $48
billion. Exports declined the most since January 2009.  U.S. shipments of capital equipment and industrial supplies
fell in June, which may reflect the start of a cooling in the
global economy. Some companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  remain
optimistic that demand for American-made goods will be
sustained, helped in part by a weaker dollar.  “The real weakness was in exports and that’s consistent
with slower growth in the rest of the world,” said  Jay Bryson ,
a global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . “The contribution of exports is going to be a
little more shaky” in terms of growth, he said.  Deficit estimates of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
ranged from $42.5 billion to $51 billion. The Commerce
Department revised the May shortfall from a previously reported
$50.2 billion.  America’s deficits with China and the European Union
widened in June at the same time Japan’s shipments of
automobiles into the U.S. picked up.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
jobless benefits declined last week to a four-month low of
395,000 from 400,000 in the prior period, the Labor Department
said today.  Stock-Index Futures  Stocks rose after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 1.1 percent to 1,133.2 at 10 a.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  fell, pushing up the yield on the benchmark
10-year note to 2.18 percent from 2.11 percent late yesterday.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit rose to $50.9 billion from $47.9 billion. The second-
quarter deficit average of $47.5 billion compares with $50.3
billion in the first three months of the year.  A preliminary Commerce Department report last month
estimated trade contributed 0.6 percentage point to growth in
the second quarter. Trade detracted 0.3 percentage point in the
first three months of the year.  The wider deficit in June “is going to lead to about a
half percentage-point downgrade to GDP growth in the second
quarter,” Bryson said.  Imports dropped 0.8 percent to $223.9 billion in June.
Purchases of foods and feeds from overseas reached a record in
June, the report showed.  Cheaper Oil  A barrel of crude oil cost an average $106 in June, down
from $108.7 in May, helping to reduce the import bill, Commerce
Department figures showed. Excluding petroleum, the  trade gap 
widened to $23.5 billion from $20.2 billion in May.  U.S. exports decreased 2.3 percent to $170.9 billion as
shipments of goods declined more than services.  Goods shipped into the U.S. from  Japan  appeared to be
recovering from supply constraints related to the earthquake and
tsunami in March.  Imports from Japan rose 14 percent to $9.5 billion,
widening the U.S. trade gap with the Asian nation to $4 billion
from $2.6 billion. Shipments of automobiles from Japan rose to
$2.7 billion in June from $2 billion.  Auto Sales  The disruption in parts shipments and the resulting
slowdown in production are still depressing sales. Japan’s Honda
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. led declines in U.S. July sales
for Asian brands amid inventory constraints. Deliveries fell 28
percent for Honda and 23 percent for Toyota, the largest Asia-
based automaker, from a year earlier.  The trade gap with  China  climbed to $26.7 billion, the
widest since September, from $25 billion in May. Imports from
China rose to the highest level since November.  The U.S. deficit with European Union nations rose to $9.8
billion, the highest since July 2008.  Slower job and income growth has restrained the biggest
part of the  U.S. economy , limiting demand for imports.  Consumer
spending  fell in June for the first time in two years, Commerce
Department data showed last week. Manufacturing expanded in July
at the slowest pace in two years, the  Institute for Supply
Management  said last week.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the first
three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported last month.  Federal Reserve   Federal Reserve policy makers this week said economic
growth this year “has been considerably slower” than they had
expected. The “temporary factors” they had previously cited
for the slowdown, including supply chain disruptions, “appear
to account for only some of the recent weakness in economic
activity,” they said.  Manufacturers have enjoyed stronger demand from emerging
nations such as China and  Brazil  before recent concerns about
the European and U.S. economies raised the risk of a global
slowdown.  Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, the world’s largest
construction- and mining-equipment maker, posted increased
profits and sales in the second quarter, largely due to growth
overseas, the company said July 22.  “China is doing a good job of balancing growth and
inflation, and our expectations for China remain positive,”
Chief Executive Officer Douglas Oberhelman said in the
statement. “While we’ve seen some softening of growth in China,
dealer deliveries to end users were up in the second quarter of
2011 compared with the second quarter of last year.”  The drop in the value of the dollar is one reason for
optimism. A weaker dollar benefits American companies by making
their products more attractive to buyers overseas.  The dollar
dropped 7.8 percent in the 12 months ended in July against a
weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest trading
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  