-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Shrank in June on Cheaper Oil

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-shrank-in-june-on-cheaper-oil.html
The trade deficit in the U.S.
probably narrowed in June from the highest level in almost three
years, helped by cheaper imported  crude oil , economists said
before a report today.  The gap shrank to $48 billion from the $50.2 billion
deficit the prior month that was the widest since October 2008,
according to the median estimate of 74 economists. Another
report may show initial jobless claims rose last week.  Less economic growth in the first half of the year and
cheaper energy costs point to a smaller import bill that may
keep the  trade gap  from widening in coming months. Companies
like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  remain optimistic about demand for
American-made goods even with signs of cooling in emerging
markets such as China.  “We should see the petroleum gap narrow as  oil prices 
fall,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in
 New York . “The slowdown in demand should keep import growth
restrained. We see exports holding up better, particularly with
the stronger environment in some emerging countries.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gaps of $42.5 billion to $51 billion.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments increased to 405,000 last week from 400,000 the prior
period, according to the median forecast of economists ahead of
Labor Department data at 8:30 a.m. Claims have averaged 415,000
so far this year.  Oil Prices  Falling fuel prices may have contributed to a narrower
trade gap in June. The cost of imported petroleum dropped 1.6
percent during the month, according to figures from the Labor
Department. Crude-oil futures on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  have plunged so far this month on concern the global
recovery is slowing, pointing to additional declines in imports.  At the same time, goods shipped into the U.S. from  Japan 
may be recovering from supply constraints related to the
earthquake and tsunami in March.  The disruption in parts shipments and the resulting
slowdown in production are still depressing sales. Japan’s Honda
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. led declines in U.S. July sales
for Asian brands amid inventory constraints. Deliveries fell 28
percent for Honda and 23 percent for Toyota, the largest Asia-
based automaker, from a year earlier.  Lower Demand  Slower job and income growth has restrained the biggest
part of the  U.S. economy , limiting demand for imports.  Consumer
spending  fell in June for the first time in two years, Commerce
Department data showed last week. Manufacturing expanded in July
at the slowest pace in two years, the  Institute for Supply
Management  said last week.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the first
three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported last month.  Federal Reserve policy makers this week said economic
growth this year “has been considerably slower” than they had
projected. The “temporary factors” they had previously cited
for the slowdown, including supply chain disruptions, “appear
to account for only some of the recent weakness in economic
activity,” they said.  The Fed, after its one-day meeting, announced it would hold
its benchmark lending rate near zero “at least” through mid-
2013.  Emerging Markets  Manufacturers have enjoyed stronger demand from emerging
nations such as  China  and  Brazil  before recent concerns about
the European and U.S. economies raised the risk of a global
slowdown.  Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, the world’s largest
construction- and mining-equipment maker, posted increased
profits and sales in the second quarter, largely due to growth
overseas, the company said July 22.  “China is doing a good job of balancing growth and
inflation, and our expectations for China remain positive,”
Chief Executive Officer Douglas Oberhelman said in the
statement. “While we’ve seen some softening of growth in China,
dealer deliveries to end users were up in the second quarter of
2011 compared with the second quarter of last year.”  The drop in the value of the dollar is one reason for
optimism. A weaker dollar benefits American companies by making
their products more attractive to buyers overseas. The dollar
decreased 7.9 percent in the 12 months ended in July against a
weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest trading
partners.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  