-- 
Rand Advances for Second Day as U.S. Stimulus Pledge Buoys Stocks, Metals

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-11T15:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-u-s-stimulus-pledge-buoys-stocks-metals.html
The rand strengthened the most
versus the franc in almost three years after the  Swiss National
Bank  said pegging the Swiss currency to the euro may be an
option to stem its record-breaking rally. The rand also rose to
the dollar.  South Africa ’s currency surged as much as 5.1 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since November 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rand traded 4.7 percent stronger at
9.4827 as of 5:16 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The franc fell against all of its most-traded peers after
rising to records versus the euro and dollar this week as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S. economic weakness spurred safe
haven demand. The rand has rebounded from a record 10.3364 per
franc reached on Aug. 9.  “Rumors of the Swiss franc being pegged to the euro have
driven a lot of trade today,”  Brigid Taylor , head of
institutional sales at Nedbank Capital in Johannesburg, said by
phone. “The rand is trading quite closely with what is
happening in the  euro zone .”  South Africa’s currency traded 0.6 percent stronger at
7.2383 against the dollar after earlier weakening as much as 1
percent. It appreciated 0.2 percent to 10.3033 per euro.  The rand may depreciate versus the U.S. currency in coming
weeks as investors avoid risky assets on concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen,  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in a research note. The  European Central Bank ’s overnight
lending to banks jumped to a three-month high yesterday, a sign
some lenders may need emergency cash.  ‘Volatile’  “Expect continued volatile rand trade,” Cairns and
Ramkhelawan-Bhana wrote. “Risks remain two-way but the bias is
for rand losses.”  The rand’s one-month implied volatility versus the dollar
climbed as much as 1 percentage point today to 21.25 percent,
the highest in more than 14 months, as options traders
anticipate wider swings in the currency.  Bearish bets against the rand, measured by the premium of
options contracts to sell rand versus the dollar over those to
buy rand, rose 25 basis points to 5.15 percentage points. The
so-called risk reversal has more than doubled in the past two
weeks, according to the prices of options contracts monitored by
Bloomberg.  Bonds declined, lifting the yield on the benchmark four-
year securities from the lowest since November. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 dropped 30 cents to 122.71 rand, driving the
yield up seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.99
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  