-- 
Recession Threatening U.S. After Household Spending’s Consecutive Declines

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/recession-threatening-u-s-after-household-spending-s-consecutive-declines.html
Recession signals in the world’s
largest economy are flashing red again.  Growth in the second quarter slowed to a pace that has
typically been followed by a contraction within a year.
Household spending fell in June for the third straight month;
never in the past five decades has this happened outside of a
slump. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index plunged 16.8 percent in
11 days, performance that’s occurred only twice since at least
1970 without indicating a downturn.  “With so many red flags, the chances of a recession are
rising,” said  Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit
Suisse in New York. “A lot of the economic indicators are
teetering. We’ve gone very quickly from a slowdown scare to a
recession scare.”  Signs that the flagging U.S. recovery may fizzle haven’t
been lost on Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
colleagues, who pledged this week to hold  interest rates  at a
record low through at least mid-2013. Officials said they
“discussed the range of policy tools” to strengthen growth and
are “prepared to employ these tools as appropriate.”  “Downside risks to the economic outlook have increased,”
according to the Federal Open Market Committee statement after
the Aug. 9 meeting. Consumer spending has “flattened out,” the
labor market has deteriorated and the expansion is
“considerably slower” than expected.  ‘Increased Recession Risk’  “The sum total of the indicators over the last six
months” points to “increased recession risk over the coming
year,” said Jeffrey Frankel, a professor at  Harvard University 
who is a member of the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the
National Bureau of Economic Research, the official arbiter of
when recessions start and end.  Five of the nine economists on the NBER committee say the
expansion’s staying power may be waning. While the group doesn’t
forecast the odds of a contraction, individual members can make
their own predictions. Martin Feldstein, also at Harvard in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a member of the NBER panel, said
last week he sees a 50 percent chance of a new recession.  Gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, cooled to a
1.6 percent rate in the second quarter from a year earlier.
About 70 percent of the time when the pace has fallen below 2
percent, a slump has followed within a year, according to data
since World War II in an April study by Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed
board staff economist.  ‘Policy Mistake’  “At a minimum, the conditions are ripe for a recession,”
said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities
LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “When growth slows to less
than 2 percent on a year-to-year basis, the economy is simply
unable to withstand a major shock or policy mistake.”  One major source of weakness is  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. Household
purchases adjusted for inflation dropped in June for the third
consecutive month -- the first such occurrence outside of a
recession since 1959, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Household sentiment, as measured by the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index for July, has receded to a
level seen during the last recession. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort gauge already is in territory reflective of a slump.  “Consumers are dealing with a labor market that’s gotten
weaker, a hit to their wealth through declines in the stock
market and just a lot of bad news and uncertainty,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
 New York . “It makes them want to be more cautious in their
spending.”  Losing Momentum  Manufacturing, which helped pull the economy out of the
contraction that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009,
is losing momentum. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index fell last month to 50.9, the lowest since July
2009, from 55.3 in June. Figures less than 50 signal a
contraction.  The spread between ISM gauges of new orders and employment
turned negative for the last two months in the Tempe, Arizona,
group’s manufacturing and service industry surveys. This has
happened only three other times in the 14 years overlapping the
two sets of data, and a recession ensued in two of those three,
according to Credit Suisse.  The probability of a slump in the next six months has
soared to 30 percent from 5 percent at the end of July, Credit
Suisse’s Basile said. The latest reading contrasts with mid-
2010, when economists were concerned about a so-called double-
dip. That scare barely registered, as the recession probability
was 4 percent at the time, he said.  Jobless Claims  Credit Suisse bases its forecasts on measures including
stock prices, payroll momentum, jobless claims, housing permits,
consumer expectations and energy costs.  “It’s worrisome, no matter how you slice it,” said
Basile, the chair of the ISM’s New York business survey.
“There’s a lot of anxiety in the financial markets. The ground
is shifting quickly.”  The string of weak data, combined with a downgrade of the
nation’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s last week, threw
markets into turmoil that underscores the threat to the economy.  A 16.8 percent plunge in the  S&P 500 index (SPX)  over 11 days, in
the period to Aug. 8, has occurred just twice without signaling
a recession, according to figures going back to at least 1970
from ISI Group Inc. In 1987 and 2002, there was a jump in
unemployment claims with a short lag, ISI said in an Aug. 9
report titled “Recession Risk Rising.”  The stock market declines reflect investor concerns that
the U.S. may be tipping into a contraction, and also aggravate
that concern by wiping out wealth, said BNP’s Coronado.  ‘Self Reinforcing’ Uncertainty  “The uncertainty in financial markets is becoming self-
reinforcing,” said Coronado, who was on the Fed board’s
forecasting team. “People are seeking safety, and that’s not a
signal of confidence in anything. They’re not ready to go out
and hire workers or increase investment or make any kind of
decisions that increase growth.”  The  bond market  also is signaling a less-encouraging
outlook. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has been
moving down from 3.77 percent in February and briefly touched a
record low of 2.03 percent on Aug. 9 after the Fed’s dimmer
assessment of the economy.  The slope of the yield curve has a “reasonable track
record in reflecting the change in the economic environment,”
said  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist in New
York. “It tells you, generally, the outlook for growth and
inflation are lower than previously thought,” as people are
“scaling back expectations over a longer period of time.”  Shrinking Gap  The shrinking gap between the 10-year Treasury note and the
target for the federal funds rate may be another signal of
recession, according to  Paul Kasriel , chief economist at
Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago . With the benchmark rate on
overnight loans among banks stuck at near zero since December
2008, the spread between short-term and 10-year rates has
declined in tandem with the falling 10-year yield.  “A narrowing trend in the spread generally indicates
weaker economic growth ahead,” he said in a note following the
Fed’s statement. “The fact that the spread narrowed this much
in such short time under these conditions is a necessary
ingredient for the formation of a recession.”  Some regional reports point to a slump in the making. A
three-month average of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago’s
national index of economic activity was minus 0.6 in June.
Readings less than minus 0.7 following a period of economic
expansion signal an increasing likelihood a recession has begun.  Sign of Trouble  Unemployment is another sign of trouble. If the three-month
average of the rate increases by more than three-tenths of a
percentage point, the economy has either entered recession or
will do so within six months, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Chief Economist Jan Hatzius.  Joblessness, while up from 8.8 percent in March, slid to
9.1 percent in July from 9.2 percent the prior month as
discouraged workers left the  labor force , so “we’re not there”
in terms of the recession criterion, Hatzius said in an Aug. 5
Bloomberg Television interview. “But if we were to see further
spot increases over the next couple of months, that would
definitely be a warning sign.”  He forecasts a one-in-three chance of a renewed recession
within the next nine months. The  unemployment rate  will rise to
9.25 percent by the end of next year, Hatzius said last week,
when he cut his growth forecasts through the first quarter of
2012.  ‘Muddle Through’  “Clearly, this is what keeps Bernanke up at night,” said
Robert Eisenbeis, former head of research at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta and now chief monetary economist at Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc. “The employment
situation is key, but my best guess is that we’ll continue to
muddle through.”  Eisenbeis said he’s not convinced another recession is near
because corporate profits are climbing.  “I am not sure why the label is that important,” he said,
referring to a possible contraction. “Slow growth is slow
growth, regardless of what we call it.”  The economy may ride out the slow patch, said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist in New York at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. Consumer spending was weakened in part by
gasoline prices, which have fallen from May’s three-year high,
and an easing of supply disruptions from Japanese automakers may
help lift car sales and production. Jobs are being created, and
unemployment claims are declining, Rupkey said.  “A good definition of recession is three consecutive
monthly declines in nonfarm payroll jobs,” he said in an Aug. 5
note. “This is not happening, and there is no sign it is going
to happen.”  For economists at JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and BNP Paribas
who have reduced forecasts for the remainder of 2011 and next
year, there’s still enough cause for concern.  The chance of a recession is “at 50-50 and it has been
rising,” said Coronado, who until last week had put the odds at
one in three. “We’re very close to a tipping point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  