-- 
Justin Verlander Beats Sabathia to 17 Wins as Tigers Defeat Indians 4-3

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-12T04:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/robinson-cano-s-grand-slam-propels-yankees-to-6-5-home-win-over-angels.html
Justin Verlander  became the first
pitcher to reach 17 wins this season as the  Detroit Tigers 
ended a run of 13 straight losses in  Cleveland .  Verlander (17-5) racked up his 100th career win in Major
League Baseball in the Tigers’ 4-3 win against the Indians at
Progressive Field in Cleveland last night. CC Sabathia (16-6)
of the  New York Yankees  has a chance to join Verlander on 17
wins against the Tampa Bay Rays at Yankee Stadium tonight.  “It’s not like 100 wins was ever a goal,” Verlander told
reporters. “This win was special because of the other
circumstances surrounding it.”  Verlander gave up three runs and as many hits, striking
out 10 in seven innings, as the Tigers ended a run of three
losses to improve to 62-55.  Detroit  leads the American League
Central division by three games over Cleveland.  Verlander, who pitched in Detroit’s previous win at
Progressive Field on May 8, 2010, came within four outs of his
second no-hitter of the season July 31. On May 7, he became the
28th pitcher in major league history to register two no-hit
games in a career.  The Yankees start their three-game series against the Rays
after a grand slam from Robinson Cano propelled them to a 6-5
win against the Los Angeles Angels.  Fifth Grand Slam  Cano hit a two-out pitch from Angels reliever Scott Downs
into the right-field stands to break a 2-2 tie in the seventh
inning at Yankee Stadium yesterday. His fifth career grand slam
lifted him to 20 home runs for the third consecutive year.  “The day before he got me out inside and I said I’m not
going to let him get me out the same way,” 28-year-old second
baseman Cano said in a televised interview. “Good thing I made
a good swing.”  New York improved to 71-45, one game behind the  Boston Red
Sox  in the AL East. The Yankees lead the league’s wild-card
standings by eight games over the Angels. The wild-card playoff
berth goes to the second-place team with the best record.  The Rays, who are 9 1/2 games behind  Boston  after a 4-1
win against the Kansas City Royals last night, head to Fenway
Park for three games against the  Red Sox  after playing the
Yankees.  Curtis Granderson hit a two-run homer in the sixth for the
Yankees, his fourth of the series and 32nd this season,
extending his career high. Granderson is tied with teammate
Mark Teixeira for second-most home runs in the American League,
one behind  Jose Bautista  of the Toronto Blue Jays.  Elsewhere in the AL last night it was Oakland 10, Toronto
3 and the Chicago White Sox 6, Baltimore 3.  In the National League, it was San Diego 3, the  New York 
Mets 2; Cincinnati 2, Colorado 1; St. Louis 5, Milwaukee 2; the
Chicago Cubs 4, Washington 3; and Arizona 8, Houston 5 (10).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 