-- 
RTS Stock Futures Rise on Oil, U.S. Job Data: Russia Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-11T22:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/rts-stock-futures-rise-on-oil-u-s-job-data-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
advanced, signaling stocks may extend gains in Moscow, as an
unexpected drop in U.S. jobless claims and higher  oil prices 
outweighed concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September climbed 4.5 percent yesterday to 160,830, after
Moscow-traded shares gained to drive up the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  for the
first day in eight. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest
oil producer, surged 4.8 percent in  New York , and those on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, rose 2.6 percent.
Futures on OAO  Tatneft (TATN) , the oil producer located in Russia’s
Tatarstan region, gained 3.2 percent.  Stocks in the U.S. rallied yesterday, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index up 4.6 percent, as a report showed that
claims for unemployment insurance payments in the nation
unexpectedly fell last week to a four-month low. Oil futures
traded in New York and London both gained following the
employment data. Crude for September delivery dropped as much as
2.2 percent on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  earlier on
concern  France ’s creditworthiness will deteriorate.  Russian stock futures were supported by the fact that
“crude, Brent in particular, has actually weathered the storm
reasonably well,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at
CF Global Trading in London, said in a telephone interview.
“There are high degrees of correlations between all global
equity markets at the moment. We have retail sales data in the
U.S. If we have a figure better than expected, that would help
the sentiment somewhat.”  Retail Sales  A U.S. Commerce Department Report today may show retail
sales increased in July by the most in four months as automobile
purchases rebounded, economists forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase
in June that was larger than earlier estimated, the Labor
Department said yesterday. Economists had called for a gain of
85,000. The jobless rate dropped to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent
in June.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, surged 5.1 percent to $31.42 yesterday,
after reaching the lowest in almost one year on Aug. 10.  U.S.-listed Russian stocks also increased. The American
depositary receipts of Gazprom jumped 9 percent, the most in 15
months, to $11.50, while Lukoil’s ADRs jumped 6.1 percent, the
most since May 2010, to $56.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , a Russian
television network operator, added 2.1 percent to $16.17.  Policy Response  A rout in global equity markets since July 26 has erased
$7.9 trillion in equity values through yesterday. Central
bankers are trying to restore investor confidence, with the
 Federal Reserve  pledging to keep  interest rates  near zero
through at least mid-2013 to bolster U.S. growth and the
European Central Bank buying bonds to cap borrowing costs.  BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank, issued a statement
after markets closed yesterday dismissing “unfounded rumors”
and citing comments by market regulators and the Bank of France
underlining the “financial stability” of French banks. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
will meet next week to discuss  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 30-stock Micex benchmark edged up 0.5 percent
yesterday. The gauge has retreated more than 20 percent from
this year’s high reached in April, the threshold that marks a
 bear market .  “The combination of overhang from the U.S. and fears of
France now potentially being the next victim in losing its AAA
stamp” will drive the Russian stock markets in the near term,
 Luis Saenz , chief executive officer of Otkritie Capital’s U.S.
unit, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Russia Growth  Russia’s economy expanded 3.4 percent from a year earlier
in the April-June period, slower than the 4.1 percent in the
first quarter, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
yesterday. The Economy Ministry estimated growth at 3.7 percent
last month.  “People care more about sovereign liquidity than they do
about long-term growth forecasts,” said Rimmer at CF Global.
“If we had a coherent policy response from central banks, that
would turn sentiment around and that would improve things,” he
said.  Crude for September delivery climbed 3.4 percent to $85.72
a barrel yesterday in New York, extending a two-day gain to 8.1
percent. Brent oil for September settlement gained $1.34, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $108.02 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, leaped 2.5
percent to $107.03 a barrel yesterday, paring its decline in
August to 7.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Russia’s
growth may slow to an annual 2.5 percent if Urals crude drops to
$80 a barrel, Goldman estimated. Russia is the world’s largest
oil producer and the biggest energy exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  