-- 
Russian GDP Slows to 3.4% in Second Quarter, Below Estimates

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-08-11T12:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/russian-economic-growth-slows-to-3-4-in-second-quarter-missing-forecasts.html
Russia ’s economy slowed for a second
quarter and missed economist estimates as industrial growth
eased and inflation eroded consumer buying power, leaving the
world’s largest energy exporter trailing emerging-market peers.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.4 percent from a year
earlier in the April-June period, compared with 4.1 percent in
the first quarter, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
in an e-mailed statement today. The median forecast of 14
economists in a Bloomberg survey was 4 percent, with predictions
ranging from 3.7 percent to 5.3 percent. The Economy Ministry
estimated growth at 3.7 percent last month.  Russia is struggling to return to pre-crisis growth rates
as a slowing global recovery saps demand for its commodity
exports. President  Dmitry Medvedev  is targeting annual growth of
8 percent within five years to keep pace with so-called BRIC
peers  Brazil ,  India  and China. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said in May that Russia should almost double GDP per capita
within 10 years to become a top-five global economy.  ‘Dispiriting Number’  “Without a doubt, it’s a dispiriting number,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, said
by phone. “Economic growth has been the weak link in Russia
lately. There’s a political factor -- concern about the
elections -- but growth, in my opinion, is no less important.”  The statement was the statistics service’s first official
reading of second-quarter GDP and didn’t provide more details.  The report helped send stocks lower, with the  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
reversing earlier gains and slipping 2.5 percent to 1,395.90,
headed for the lowest level since August 2010, at 2:51 p.m. in
Moscow. The ruble was 0.5 percent higher at 29.6001 against the
dollar, trimming its earlier gain of as much as 1.5 percent.  Industrial production advanced 4.8 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, down from a 5.9 percent increase
in the first three months, according to the statistics service.
Natural-resources output fell while manufacturing grew. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, fell 2.9 percent in the
April-June period, its first quarterly decline in a year.  Slower Buildup  A slower buildup of inventories and increasing imports
contained the recovery last quarter,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said by e-mail today,
cutting the bank’s forecast for the economy’s expansion to 4.5
percent from 5 percent.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company,
saw output of all the metals it produces drop in the second
quarter. OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, a Russian steelmaker
focused on the domestic market, decreased second-quarter output
of finished steel products from the previous three months as
demand slowed.  “The Russian economy is dependent on the raw-materials
sector,” billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who is leading the pro-
business Pravoye Delo party into December parliamentary
elections, told reporters in Moscow today. “For 25 years the
country, in essence, hasn’t created new productive capacity.”  Russia’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent during Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before
plunging 7.8 percent in 2009. The government forecasts a 4.2
percent expansion this year, slipping to 3.5 percent in 2012,
when Russians will elect their next president. Both Medvedev and
Putin have said they may run in the March 4 vote.  Support Slips  Support for Russia’s top two politicians, known as the
ruling tandem since Putin chose Medvedev to succeed him in 2008,
has dipped as inflation during the first half of the year curbed
household spending power.  Medvedev has the support of 46 percent of Russians, up from
a record low of 43 percent last month, while Putin enjoys the
backing of 50 percent, matching his lowest level since 2005,
according to a Public Opinion Foundation  survey  published today.  Bank Rossii left  interest rates  unchanged for a third month
in August, citing a balance between risks from inflation and a
slowing economy. Central banks in  China , India and Brazil
tightened monetary policy last month.  Consumer-price growth peaked at 9.6 percent in April and
May before easing in June. Real disposable incomes fell 2.5
percent in the second quarter.  The central bank expects inflation within its 7 percent
target, the lowest since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  Capital Outflows  Economists cited disappointing investment volumes as a
reason for lower-than-expected first-quarter GDP growth. Net
capital outflows from Russia slowed to $9.9 billion in the
second quarter, from $21.3 billion in the first quarter and $34
billion in 2010, according to preliminary central bank  data .  “Despite high  oil prices , capital outflows continued,
which speaks to the unstable investment climate and investor
caution about Russia,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank in Moscow, said yesterday by phone. “To boost
economic growth rates, Russia needs above all to make the
economy more attractive for investment.”  To lure investment, Medvedev has pledged to sell stakes in
state companies such as OAO Rosneft, the country’s largest oil
producer, to reduce the state’s sway over the economy.  Output should pick up in the second half on growth in the
agricultural sector, Lissovolik said. So far, this year’s wheat
harvest is 11 percent higher than a year ago, while yields are
35 percent better, the  Agriculture Ministry  said yesterday.
Russia endured its worst drought in half a century last year.  “The third quarter may be significantly better because of
agriculture,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Moscow-
based Otkritie Capital, said by phone before the release. “A
good harvest may drive the economy to 4.5 percent growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 