-- 
Russia Stocks Snap Seven-Day Losing Streak As Crude Gains on U.S. Data

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-08-11T16:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/russia-stocks-head-for-longest-losing-streak-since-99-on-recession-fears.html
Russian stocks snapped a seven-day
losing streak as the price of oil, the country’s biggest
revenue-earner, advanced after jobless claims in the U.S.
unexpectedly declined.  The Micex Index gained 0.5 percent to 1,438.91 by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow. OAO Gazprom, the country’s natural-gas
export monopoly, gained 4.3 percent, while OAO Tatneft, an oil
producer, gained 3 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index
rose 0.5 percent to 1,544.83.  Claims for unemployment insurance payments in the U.S. last
week fell to a four-month low, the Labor Department said today,
tempering concern the world’s biggest economy is slowing amid a
worsening European debt crisis. Crude oil advanced 0.8 percent
to $83.53 a barrel after an earlier decline of as much as 2.2
percent.  “The market will remain volatile, leaning more in the
direction of further declines,”  Ovanes Oganisian , a strategist
at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone today.  Standard
& Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5 “set a
very negative tone,” he said.  Russian economic growth slowed for a second quarter in the
April-June period to 3.4 percent from a year earlier, missing
the median 4 percent estimate by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The economy may expand 4.2 percent this year, less
than Nomura Holdings Inc.’s previous estimate of 4.4 percent,
the bank said today.  Uncertainty  “Downside risks to world growth have become more
pronounced,”  Clemens Grafe , Goldman’s Sachs Group Inc.’s chief
economist in Moscow, said in a report e-mailed yesterday. There
is a “high degree of uncertainty in the global oil market,” he
wrote.  Russia  is the world’s biggest energy exporter.  Urals, Russia’s oil export blend, was at $106.41 a barrel
today, down from the year’s high of $122.88, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Russia’s growth may slow to an annual 2.5
percent if oil drops to $80 a barrel, Goldman estimated.  Oil at $80 a barrel would make markets “nervous about
systemic risk,”  Kingsmill Bond , Moscow-based strategist at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report.  The economy is struggling to return to pre-crisis growth
rates when gross domestic product expanded 7 percent a year on
average from 2000 to 2008, before contracting by 7.8 percent in
2009.  Russia “isn’t immune from negative oil price shocks which
we think are likely to trigger capital flight and higher
borrowing costs for Russian companies and the state,” Tatiana Orlova, an economist at Nomura in  London , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  