-- 
RWE Said to Work With Deutsche Bank on $3.6 Billion Share Sale to Cut Debt

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-08-11T15:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/rwe-said-to-work-with-deutsche-bank-on-3-6-billion-share-sale-to-cut-debt.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, will work with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  on a planned 2.5
billion-euro ($3.6 billion) share sale to cut debt, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Stock market performance may need to improve before the
company goes ahead with the sale, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
utility, based in the western German city of Essen, said Aug. 9
its preference to sell the shares in 2011 “is not a must.”  Germany’s decision in June to exit nuclear power and close
eight reactors immediately has slashed earnings at the country’s
four largest utilities. RWE, saddled with debt after buying a
Dutch rival in 2009, responded this week by announcing the share
sale and expanding asset sales and cost-cuts. Stocks have fallen
in the past month as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the fallout from
Standard & Poor’s downgrade of U.S. debt roils markets.  Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman for RWE, declined to comment
on which bank the company will work with on the share sale.
Libby Young, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman in London, also
wouldn’t comment.  The stock sale depends on the market and will include the
sale of treasury shares,  Juergen Grossmann , the company’s chief
executive officer, said on an Aug. 9 conference call, according
to a Bloomberg transcript of the event. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has
dropped 12 percent in the past month.  RWE Holding  RWE held 5 percent of its 562.4 million shares at the end
of 2010, the company said in February. That holding would be
worth 730 million euros based on yesterday’s closing price of
25.945 euros a share.  The utility has fallen 47 percent in Frankfurt trading this
year, more than the 16 percent decline for the German benchmark
 DAX Index (DAX)  of which it’s a member, and the 38 percent retreat for
larger German competitor EON AG.  RWE already mandated Deutsche Bank for the sale of a 74.9
percent stake in its Amprion German power-grid unit to a group
of insurance companies and pension funds announced July 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 