-- 
Sabre Resubmits Motion to Dismiss US Airways Antitrust Suit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-12T00:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/sabre-resubmits-motion-to-dismiss-us-airways-antitrust-suit-1-.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., embroiled in a
dispute with airlines over fare and flight data distributed to
travel agents, reinstated its request to dismiss an antitrust
lawsuit brought by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   The complaint fails to identify any illegal anticompetitive
acts, Sabre said in a filing today in federal court in
 Manhattan . It called the suit, filed in April, “ US Airways ’
attempt to renegotiate the three-year contract” under which
Sabre distributes the airline’s fares and schedules to travel
agents.  Sabre, based in Southlake,  Texas , on June 30 asked a
Manhattan judge to dismiss the case. Sabre later withdrew the
request as part of an agreement between the parties, which
called for Sabre to resubmit it today. US Airways is due to
respond to the motion tomorrow.  US Airways’ antitrust suit against Sabre, the largest so-
called global distribution system based in the U.S., followed a
complaint filed by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines in Texas state
court in January as the carriers seek more control over
dissemination and sale of their products.  More than 35 percent of US Airways’ annual revenue is
booked through Sabre or Sabre-affiliated travel agents, the
Tempe, Arizona-based airline said in April. Sabre collects and
shares flight data, and owns the travel website  Travelocity.com .  In its suit, US Airways claimed that Sabre “engaged in a
pattern of exclusionary conduct to shut out competition, protect
its monopoly pricing power and maintain its technologically
obsolete business model.”  US Airways rose 16 cents, or 3 percent, to $5.48 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp.,
11-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 