-- 
HSBC U.S. Win Sends Madoff ‘Hot Potato’ Back to Irish, Luxembourg Courts

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-08-11T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/hsbc-u-s-win-sends-madoff-hot-potato-back-to-european-courts.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s U.S. court
victory against  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating con man
 Bernard Madoff ’s management firm, may be a boost for investors
who filed lawsuits against HSBC and UBS AG in  Europe .  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York on July 28 threw
out Picard’s suit seeking almost $9 billion, ruling the trustee
can’t bring common-law claims against the bank.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, faces more than 50 complaints
in Ireland for allegedly failing in its duties as custodian for
Thema International Fund Plc, a European Union-regulated fund
that had $1.1 billion in assets two weeks before Madoff was
arrested. Investors who lost millions of dollars through Access
International Advisors LLC’s LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection
fund filed more than 100 lawsuits against UBS in Luxembourg.  “The hot potato has now been handed back to Luxembourg and
Ireland,” said Edouard Fremault, a senior analyst at Deminor
International, which advises more than 2,500 investors with
losses in Madoff-linked funds in Europe.  Custodians are responsible for oversight of funds and
manage deposits and payments to investors. Investors suing UBS
and HSBC say the banks should have uncovered Madoff’s fraud.  Custodian Banks  “What interests us mainly is the negligence of UBS and
HSBC in their function as custodian banks of European funds,”
said Fremault.  Picard last week lost a case against UniCredit Bank Austria
AG, a unit of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank. Rakoff in an
Aug. 6 order added the unit to his July 28 decision that the
trustee has no standing to bring common-law claims against
UniCredit and HSBC.  “The decision of the New York court demonstrates the
importance of investors being able to take action for themselves
against custodians rather than having to rely on third parties,
whether it be liquidators or funds, to recover their money,”
said Paul Kennedy, a lawyer at Dillon Eustace, who represents 50
Thema and Kalix Fund Ltd. investors suing HSBC in Ireland.  Picard in December filed a revised complaint in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court against London-based HSBC, accusing it of
aiding Madoff’s fraud. The complaint seeks to recover $2 billion
in transfers out of Madoff’s business. It also asserted common-
law claims seeking at least $6.6 billion from HSBC and about $2
billion from a group of 36 other defendants, including Milan-
based UniCredit, according to Rakoff’s ruling.  Bankruptcy Claims  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said the trustee
“has not yet decided whether it will appeal Judge Rakoff’s”
order and is “reviewing the district court decision as well as
preparing to move forward in the  bankruptcy court  on the
remaining” claims of more than $2 billion.  HSBC and Zurich-based UBS declined to comment on the
European lawsuits.  Picard is now more limited in the actions he can take, said
Pierre Reuter, a lawyer acting in about 100 lawsuits by
investors against UBS and HSBC in Luxembourg.  “It reinforces the importance of cases brought by
investors in Europe,” Reuter said in an interview.  Rakoff took the case out of bankruptcy court and considered
whether Picard could bring common-law claims, such as aiding and
abetting Madoff’s fraud. The judge said all common-law claims
must be dismissed, with the remainder of the case returned to
the bankruptcy court.  ‘Real Risk’  Rakoff’s decision “is a very important development,
especially for European investors,” said Fremault. “The real
risk now for HSBC and also UBS lies again in Luxembourg and
Ireland.”  Luxembourg is the second-largest mutual fund market after
the U.S., with about 3,749 registered funds holding 2.18
trillion euros ($3.14 trillion) in assets as of June. Luxembourg
ranks first in Europe before  France  and Ireland.  A commercial court in Luxembourg in a March 2010 ruling
concerning 10 test cases said investors can’t bring individual
lawsuits for damages and liquidators alone can recover capital
assets. The decision is under appeal by investors in LuxAlpha
which invested 95 percent of its assets with Madoff, and had
$1.4 billion in net assets a month before the former Nasdaq
Stock Market chairman’s December 2008 arrest.  Any ruling may affect claims by investors of Luxembourg
Investment Fund and Herald (Lux) US Absolute Return, which were
also dissolved after Madoff’s Ponzi scheme was uncovered. The
three Luxembourg-based funds’ liquidators have sued the funds’
custodian banks and auditors.  Picard ‘Setback’  Rakoff’s decision “is a setback for Picard, but it won’t
likely change anything to our strategy,” said Carlo Reding, one
of two Luxembourg liquidators for the Herald (Lux) fund. “From
the beginning we stayed on the Luxembourg route and we have been
in discussions with Picard and will continue to do so.”  Thema and Kalix investors have complaints pending against
HSBC in Ireland. HSBC in June agreed to pay $62.5 million to
settle a group lawsuit filed by Thema investors in  New York . The
settlement is subject to court approval in the U.S. An Irish
court is reviewing a claim by Thema that the U.S. settlement
shouldn’t be enforced in the country.  A few days after the Rakoff decision, UBS asked Judge
 Colleen McMahon  to dismiss the trustee’s case seeking more than
2 billion based on common-law claims.  “There’s a very good likelihood” the U.S. judge in the
UBS case “would make a very similar ruling to what Judge Rakoff
did,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll
& McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky .  “There’s a fairly high likelihood that once he’s ruled
that way, I don’t think the other District Court judge would
rule against him,” said Bowles in a telephone interview.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 and was sentenced to 150
years in prison for using money from new clients to pay earlier
investors.  The main U.S. case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  