-- 
Schnitzer Sells Two Office Buildings in Seattle for Total of $480 Million

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-08-11T17:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/schnitzer-sells-two-office-buildings-in-seattle-for-total-of-480-million.html
Schnitzer West LLC, a Seattle-based
real estate developer, sold two office buildings in the city for
$480 million. The buyer was J.P. Morgan Asset Management,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The deal, completed yesterday, was the biggest office
transaction on the West Coast this year. The properties, at 1918
Eighth Ave. and 818 Stewart St., are located on the same block
at the north end of downtown  Seattle , within the triangle formed
by Westlake Avenue, Stewart Street and Denny Way.  The 1918 Eighth Ave. building, with 36 stories and 668,000
square feet (62,000 square meters), sold for $350.5 million, or
$525 per square foot, Mike Nelson, senior investment director
and partner at Schnitzer, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The 818 Stewart building, at 14 stories and 232,000
square feet, went for $129.5 million, or $558 per foot, he said.  Schnitzer executives declined to name the buyer. The person
with knowledge of the deal asked not to be identified because
the information is private. Kristen Chambers, a spokeswoman for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , declined to comment on the sale. J.P.
Morgan Asset Management, a unit of JPMorgan Chase, has about
$1.3 trillion under management.  The transaction was reported yesterday by the Real Estate
Alert newsletter.  The sale is a sign of demand for top-tier, income-producing
commercial real estate with  interest rates  at near-record lows.
Office vacancies have been falling and rents rising in such
cities as Seattle, which have relatively strong employment and
favorable demographics.  ‘Flight to Quality’  “There’s a flight to quality going on,” Dan Ivanoff,
managing investment partner at closely held Schnitzer West, said
in a telephone interview. “The world right now isn’t sure what
to invest in.”  Eighty entities registered to bid on the office towers in
the sale, brokered by  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) , Ivanoff said.  “That was three times what we had” when two other
properties were sold last year, Ivanoff said. “There is a huge
amount of all-cash buyers out there.”  Schnitzer West in August 2010 sold Advanta Office Commons
in Bellevue,  Washington , and the following month sold two office
towers and the parking garage at The Bravern luxury complex,
also in Bellevue, according to the company’s website.  J.P. Morgan Asset Management, on behalf of institutional
investors, bought Advanta for $240 million along with a Seattle
apartment complex for $66 million, according to a  statement  from
Schnitzer at the time.  Amazon.com’s Lease  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  leased most of 1918 Eighth Ave. in March,
removing one of the last big blocks of empty  office space  in
downtown Seattle. Schnitzer West built the tower in 2009. The
818 Stewart St. building was finished in 2008.  Before yesterday’s deal, the largest office transaction on
the West Coast this year was the June sale of Parsons Corp.
campus in  Pasadena ,  California , for $325 million, according to
property research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc. The buyers
were Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing and Dallas-based
Lincoln Property Co., according to a July 1 Morgan Stanley
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  