-- 
Sensex Drops as Earnings Miss Forecasts, Citigroup Lowers Index Estimate

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-11T12:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/sensex-declines-amid-earnings-growth-concern-citigroup-profit-forecast.html
India’s benchmark stock index fell
for a seventh time in eight days as earnings of some of biggest
companies missed forecasts, and as Citigroup Inc. lowered its
estimate for the benchmark index.  Tata Power Co., the nation’s largest non-state electricity
utility, sank 4.4 percent after its first-quarter profit missed
estimates.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of almost half the
cars sold in India, fell 2.5 percent.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the
biggest truck maker and owner of Jaguar Land Rover, pared a
rally of as much as 3.2 percent after earnings fell short of
estimates.  ’’ Risk aversion  is back,’’ Nilesh Shah, Managing Director
of Envision Capital Ltd., said in an interview to Bloomberg UTV.
’’The concerns were always there, they have resurfaced. On a
day-to-day basis, market get driven by what global investors
want to do in the short term.’’  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
71.11, or 0.4 percent, to 17,059.40, at close in Mumbai. The
gauge swung between gains and losses at least 12 times. The S&P
CNX Nifty Index slid 0.4 percent to 5,138.3. Its August futures
settled at 5,128. The BSE 200 Index decreased 0.4 percent.  Citigroup cut its December target for the Sensex to 19,700
from 21,500, citing a “weak market environment,” lower
earnings and “heightened uncertainty.” The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index dropped 0.9 percent today after the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell to the lowest level since September amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading.  ‘Further Pressures’  “There could be some further pressures ahead” on
earnings, Aditya Narain and Jitender Tokas, analysts at
Citigroup, wrote in a report dated today. Still, “if you remain
worried with the developed world, India isn’t a bad place to
be” due to lower than average valuations, and easing concerns
over inflation and monetary tightening.  Earnings for the three months ended June reported by 11 out
of 24 Sensex companies, or 46 percent, have lagged behind
analyst estimates, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with 33 percent that missed forecasts in the previous quarter.  Tata Power plunged 4.4 percent to 1,123 rupees, its sixth
day of decline. The company said yesterday first-quarter net
income increased 34 percent to 4.18 billion rupees. That missed
the median analyst estimate of 5.29 billion rupees.  Maruti Suzuki fell 2.3 percent to 1,247.65 rupees. Bharti
Airtel, the country’s biggest wireless operator, fell 2.4
percent to 397.1 rupees.  Jaguar Sales  Tata Motors pared gains to close 0.6 percent higher at 849
rupees after reporting first-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as sales of its passenger cars in  India  fell
and Jaguar deliveries declined.  Net income rose to 20 billion rupees ($441 million) in the
three months ended June 30, from 19.9 billion rupees a year
earlier, according to a statement from the Mumbai-based
automaker today. This lagged behind the median of 21.6 billion
rupees of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex has declined 17 percent this year on concern
borrowing costs will erode earnings. The gauge trades at 14.1
times estimated profit, the lowest level since May 2009, and
down from 21.5 times last March.  “India as a long-term destination continues to be
attractive and with a bad sentiment in the backgroup, it becomes
even more investment worthy,” Envision’s Shah said.  Citigroup cut its estimate for profit growth at Sensex
companies in the year ending March 31, 2012, to 21.5 percent
from 24 percent, the analysts wrote in an Aug. 1 report.  Food Costs  India’s food inflation accelerated to a three-month high,
maintaining pressure on the central bank to increase  interest
rates  amid the risk of a global downturn. An index measuring
wholesale prices of farm products including rice, wheat and
lentils advanced 9.9 percent in the week ended July 30, the
trade ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the
most since the week ended April 23.  The inflation rate is ’’far above the threshold level’’ and
policy makers need to slow economic growth to curb price gains,
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Aug 4.  Foreign investors were net sellers of Indian equities in
January, February and May as higher borrowing costs weighed on
company earnings and the government curbed its decision making
amid corruption scandals.  They sold a net 19.6 billion rupees on Aug. 9, paring their
investment in stocks this year to 45.3 billion rupees, according
to data on the  website  of the market regulator.  -- Editor: Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  