-- 
Siberia Container Line Speeds Flow of Car Parts to Europe: Freight Markets

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-12T11:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/siberia-container-line-speeds-flow-of-car-parts-to-europe-freight-markets.html
Russia’s biggest privately owned
train company is tapping the world’s longest rail network to
move high-value auto parts and electronics from  East Asia  to
Europe, slashing 30 days from ship-borne delivery times.  Globaltrans Investment Plc (GLTR) , part of Moscow-based transport
group N-Trans and listed in  London  since 2008, is running four
container trains a day from Vostochny port on the Sea of  Japan 
to move goods for Japanese, Chinese and Korean customers
including  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest carmaker.  N-Trans, which runs the VSC container terminal in Vostochny
through its Global Ports Investments Plc unit, aims to steal
time-sensitive, high-value shipments away from maritime routes
using the 6,000-mile trans-Siberian railway. Journey times of
about 11 days compare with a month for sea transfers from  Korea 
and Japan to Hamburg and as many as 40 days to St. Petersburg,
where congested infrastructure can stretch times further.  “The volumes you can carry by train are obviously much
lower than on the smallest  container ships , and one of the
drivers for the trans-Siberian venture is as a solution to the
congestion in  St. Petersburg  and the Russian ports,” said Marc Pauchet, an analyst at Maritime Strategies International Ltd.  Fledgling Service  Globaltrans rose 7.7 percent, the most in six weeks, in
London today and was priced 3.3 percent higher at $14.15 as of
11:30 a.m. local time. The stock has advanced 7.2 percent since
first trading in the U.K. on May 1, 2008, valuing the company at
$2.17 billion even after a 14 percent slump on Aug. 8 as global
markets fell on concern about the euro and U.S. debt ratings.
The business almost doubled profit before minority interests to
$226 million last year on sales of $1.38 billion.  Globaltrans’s seven time-zone trans-Siberian service
remains a fledgling one, utilizing just 450 box wagons, compared
with the company’s 30,000 gondola cars used for bulk transport
and 21,000 oil tanks.  Customers include Hyundai, for which the company ships
parts to a Russian factory that opened last September and is
increasing output of the Accent model to 200,000 cars a year.  “It will provide a good service for certain kinds of
cargo, but in terms of the volumes it’s just not there yet,”
said Fred Doll, managing director of the Forrest Row, England-
based Doll Shipping Consultancy and a former director at
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Foodstuffs, Steel  Still, growth rates for container volumes at  Russia ’s ports
suggest potential for a step change, according to Nikita Mishin,
the joint owner and co-founder of N-Trans, who said in an
interview that the box market is booming and the trans-Siberian
route underutilized.  Russia last year had a throughput of 4.1 million 20-foot
equivalent units, or TEUs, as standard containers are known,
according to Drewry Maritime Advisors, with volumes forecast to
increase to 13.1 million by 2020. The market expanded at 3.9
times the pace of the Russian economy in the decade to 2010.  While St. Petersburg, Russia’s biggest port, ranked 62nd in
the world in 2010 with 1.9 million TEUs, that equaled growth of
44 percent, according to Drewry, outstripping expansion at the
world’s top 10 harbors. Among  Europe ’s top three, volumes grew
14 percent in Rotterdam and Hamburg and 16 percent in Antwerp.  Inward container flows to Russia are dominated by  consumer
goods , foodstuffs and spare parts, N-Trans says, with outbound
traffic including exports from OAO Severstal, the country’s
second-biggest steelmaker, which is using containers after a
two-year Globaltrans campaign to win the business.  Shunting Yards  Box volumes have recovered from the recession, surpassing
peak 2008 levels by the first quarter of last year. Still,
Russia’s road and rail infrastructure -- the country has a
limited freeway network and its 53,000-miles of track still uses
shunting yards -- requires upgrading if containerization is to
penetrate far beyond the ports, according to N-trans.  Volume growth is starting from a low base, Drewry figures
show. Container throughout in Russia stands at about 29 TEUs per
1,000 people, compared with 132 in the U.S. and 168 in the
European Union. Even at forecast growth rates the ration will
remain below 100 at the end of the decade, the projections say.  Inland Site  Global Ports opened its first inland site, Yanino, in 2009,
50 miles from St. Petersburg, helping to bypass congestion in
Russia’s second-biggest city which MSI’s Pauchet says can be
“atrocious” as inadequate road links combine with insufficient
storage space in a “vicious circle” of backed up containers.  Yanino can handle 200,000 TEUs a year and covers 51
hectares, with the same space again available for expansion.  The VSC or  Vostochnaya Stevedoring Co.  terminal at
Vostochny port in the city of Nakhodka has direct access to the
trans-Siberian railway, with 85 percent of cargo using the site
moved by train. The terminal, 25 percent owned by Dubai-based  DP
World Ltd. (DPW) , the third-largest port operator, is the biggest in
Russia’s Far East, with an annual capacity of 550,000 TEUs.  One of the primary attractions of the overland route is as
a mechanism for returning empty containers from Europe to East
Asia, said Pauchet, who previously worked at Hyundai and DHL
Global Forwarding. Because of the balance of trade, companies
can’t fill all east-bound boxes, and sending them by rail may be
preferable to loading ships full of non-revenue-earning cargo.  Kia Custom  Global Ports, Russia’s No. 1 container-terminal operator by
throughput with a 30 percent market share in the first four
months of 2011, also counts Korea’s Kia Motors Corp. among its
customers, and there may be scope for further parts flows to
switch to rail, Mishin said.  The ports unit competes with Moscow-listed Fesco Transport
Group, known as Far East Shipping Co. and based in Vladivostok,
70 miles from Vostochny, OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Seaport or
NCSP, which is based in Novorossiysk on the  Black Sea  and trades
in London, and  National Container Co.  or NCC, the operator of
St. Petersburg’s biggest container terminal.  Global Ports, which also handles more than one-quarter of
fuel exports from Russia, raised $534 million in an initial
public offering of global depositary receipts in London on June
24 and was 1.7 percent higher today for a market value of $2.39
billion. That compares with $1.66 billion for NCSP, which was
down 3.7 percent after reporting seven-month cargo volumes fell
1.6 percent even as container traffic rose 51 percent.  The sale was the third in as many years by N-Trans owners
Mishin, Konstantin Nikolaev and Andrey Filatov after Globaltrans
and infrastructure unit OAO  Mostotrest (MSTT) , which floated in 2010.  Globaltrans is interested in acquiring stakes in state-
owned OAO Russian Railways divisions OAO TransContainer and OAO
Freight One, VTB Capital said in a note last month.  Following the unit disposals Russian Railways may consider
a share sale from 2012 to raise funds for work including better
port access, it said last year, when valuing itself at “several
times” authorized capital of 1.5 trillion rubles ($48 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  