-- 
Societe Generale Shares Fall as Default Swaps Rise to a Record

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-08-11T10:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/societe-generale-shares-rise-as-ceo-denies-market-rumors-1-.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s
second-largest bank, fell in Paris trading a day after Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  denied “rumors” and asked the
nation’s market watchdog to probe the company’s stock moves.  Societe Generale dropped 91 cents, or 4.1 percent, to 21.27
euros at 11:54 a.m., after plunging 15 percent yesterday. The
shares surged as much as 8.9 percent earlier today, and pared
that gain as the cost to insure the Paris-based company’s debt
against default climbed to record.  Oudea defended Societe Generale against speculation that a
deterioration in France’s creditworthiness would damage the
company’s stability. He called the rumors “absolute rubbish”
and said in an interview yesterday with CNBC television that the
situation “is really under control in  France  and in good
hands.” The nation’s top credit ratings were affirmed by all
three major rating firms amid speculation  Greece ’s debt crisis
would spread to the region’s second-largest economy.  “Looks like speculators were willing to find a scapegoat
to short,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at
Market Securities in London. “After the company’s poor second-
quarter results, Societe Generale somehow looked like the ideal
candidate.”  The company said Aug. 3 that it may miss its 2012 earnings
target after second-quarter profit fell 31 percent because of a
writedown on Greek government debt. Yesterday it said in a
statement that its performance in July and early August shows it
will be able to post “solid” results in the future.  Default Swaps  Speculation about the widening sovereign debt crisis pushed
the cost of insuring France’s government debt against default up
about 54 basis points this month to 176.3 basis points, prices
from data provider CMA show. Credit-default swaps on Societe
Generale’s senior debt climbed 31 basis points to a record 368
basis points, according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “In France there’s absolutely no indication whatsoever
that anyone would not want to honor their commitments,” said
Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
in  London . Yesterday’s decline was fueled by concern about
France’s credit rating and rumors that are “deeply unfounded,”
he said.  ‘Good Functioning’  France’s AMF said yesterday it’s watching to ensure “good
functioning” of markets with an eye toward financial shares in
particular.  “Like in each period of turbulence, the AMF is vigilant,”
the regulator said in a statement.  A spokeswoman for the AMF said the agency had no comment on
Societe Generale’s call for a probe. She couldn’t be named in
line with the regulator’s internal policy.  Societe Generale said it has low exposure to peripheral
European sovereign debt and has fulfilled “almost all” of its
financing plan for 2011.  The  European Central Bank  bought Spanish and Italian bonds
yesterday, according to four people with knowledge of the
transactions. The amount of securities acquired by the central
bank was smaller than in the previous two days, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the trades are
confidential.  German Spread  The extra yield investors demand to buy 10-year French debt
rather than German bunds jumped to about 90 basis points, even
though both carry AAA grades from the major rating companies.
That spread is almost triple the 2010 average of 33, and
compares with 17 in the second half of the previous decade.  Francesco Meucci, a spokesman for Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a telephone interview that France’s Aaa grade
is “stable,” echoing his counterparts at  Standard & Poor’s  and
Fitch Ratings.  French bonds are the most costly AAA government securities
to insure as investors raise bets that top-rated euro-region
nations may be next in the firing line after the U.S. was
downgraded one notch to AA+ by S&P on Aug. 5.  Yesterday’s slide in French banking shares “seems to be
prompted by concerns about the U.S. downgrade and the idea that
France could be next, but that’s something Standard & Poor’s has
denied,” said  John Raymond , a banking analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in London. “I don’t see any reason for what happened,” he
said. “It seems to be a fear effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  