-- 
Societe Generale Seen to Be Targeted by Investors Over Short-Term Funding

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-08-11T16:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/societe-generale-said-to-be-targeted-by-investors-over-short-term-funding.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, which yesterday
plunged 15 percent, is among banks being targeted by investors
because of its perceived dependence on short-term funding,
according to analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The primary culprit for the share price decline is
funding concerns for European banks in general and French banks
in particular,” analysts including Stefan Stalmann said in note
to clients today. “The mix of euro doubts and rating fears in
recent days and weeks may have dented the confidence of funding
counterparties, which has then fed back into equity markets.”  Banks’ overnight borrowings from the  European Central Bank 
jumped to the highest in three months today, a sign some lenders
may have need for emergency cash. The gap between the three-
month euro interbank offered rate and the overnight indexed swap
rate widened to the most since April 2009, a sign that European
banks are becoming increasingly reluctant to lend to each other
for longer than overnight.  Societe Generale,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Spain’s Bankia SA,
 Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  as well as
 Germany ’s  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  are among banks with the lowest net
stable funding ratios and are most reliant on short-term sources
of wholesale funding, RBS said. Societe Generale said yesterday
it had fulfilled “almost all” of its funding plan for 2011.  ‘Non-Trivial Risk’  Stable funds are those that banks can expect to have for at
least a year even in stressed market conditions, such as term
deposits and long-standing consumer deposits. The latest round
of Basel rules, scheduled to become binding at the start of
2018, will set a minimum amount of stable funds that banks will
have to use to finance different types of lending.  “It’s quite likely, in our view, that funding will not
become a serious issue for the large French banks, that
anxieties subside and that the shares rebound,” the RBS
analysts said. “But there is a non-trivial risk that confidence
deteriorates further.”  French banks may also have 4 billion euros ($5.7 billion)
to 5 billion euros less funding available than a “couple” of
months ago after U.S. prime money funds declined since the end
of May, RBS said. French banks may be able to use alternative
sources of dollar funding, reduce their dollar-denominated
trading assets, tap into their liquidity reserves or raise funds
in euros and swap them into dollars, the analysts said.  Speculation Denied  France ’s top credit ratings were affirmed yesterday by all
three major rating firms amid concern the country’s
creditworthiness was in doubt, and Societe Generale issued a
denial of “all market rumors” as its stock slumped.  Societe Generale said yesterday its performance in July and
early August shows it will be able to post “solid” results in
the future. Emmanuelle Renaudat, a spokeswoman for the Paris-
based lender, said today that the company had no further comment
beyond yesterday’s statement.  The stock closed up 3.7 percent in Paris trading at 23
euros. The cost of insuring the bank’s senior bonds rose 5 basis
points to 342 basis points, according to data provider CMA,
owned by CME Group Inc. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index reversed earlier losses and climbed 3.4 percent.  Investors are overestimating the risk of a cash shortage at
Societe Generale, Citigroup Inc. global head of credit strategy
Matt King said in a research note.  ‘Looks Overdone’  “The sell-off in French banks and Societe Generale in
particular looks overdone,” London-based King wrote in a
research note today. Credit-default swaps for France’s second-
largest bank are wider in comparison to contracts on its home
country “than any other major bank in Europe.”  Societe Generale has a liquidity buffer of 105 billion
euros, compared with short-term debt of about 92 billion euros,
according to Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. in  London .  “The resilience of the French banks against a freeze in
the short-term funding market is very high,” Hoffmann-Becking
said in a note to clients yesterday. “Since 2007, the banks in
general and the French banks in particular have been busy making
themselves more resilient against a freeze in the liquidity
markets.”  While bank funding “remains a concern” for investors, it
is mostly a short-term issue and far from the 2008 peak, Nomura
Holdings Inc. analysts including  Jon Peace  said in a note to
clients today.  “Funding remains an ongoing concern for equity investors,
and will continue to have a negative impact on margins, but
stresses are so far still moderate and are far from systematic
for large banks,” Peace said. “A default of  Spain  or Italy
would, however, change the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  