-- 
Somalian Militants Al-Shabaab May Have Replaced Its Leader, Stratfor Says

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T11:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/somalian-militants-al-shabaab-may-have-replaced-its-leader-stratfor-says.html
Al-Shabaab, the Somali militants
that pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda, may have appointed a new
leader following its withdrawal from the capital, Mogadishu,
 Strategic Forecasting Inc.  said.  Ibrahim Haji Mead replaced Ahmad Abdi Godane as head of the
rebel group, the Austin, Texas-based intelligence group said in
an e-mailed note today, citing unidentified Somali media. The
promotion of Mead, who is also known as Ibrahim al-Afghani after
fighting in Afghanistan and Kashmir, hasn’t been confirmed,
Stratfor said, citing a person it didn’t identify.  Al-Shabaab pulled its fighters out of Mogadishu on Aug. 6
following a series of military defeats inflicted by Somali
government forces with the aid of African Union peacekeepers.
The militant group has waged a four-year campaign to remove
Sheikh Sharif’s Western-backed administration and controls most
of southern and central Somalia.  The withdrawal, seen by some members of al-Shabaab as a
defeat, may have been blamed on Godane, whose leadership has
been questioned previously, Stratfor said. Godane, also known as
Abu Zubayr, has a transnational jihadist ideology and is opposed
by factions within the rebel group who have a nationalist
agenda, it said.  “Elements within the group, especially those with more
nationalist ideologies, have grown increasingly critical since
September 2010, when a failed offensive on Mogadishu left an
estimated hundreds of militants dead,” it said.  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 