-- 
South America Said to Consider Creating $20 Billion Regional Crisis Fund

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-08-11T15:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/south-america-said-to-consider-creating-20-billion-regional-crisis-fund.html
South American finance officials are
considering creating a $10 billion to $20 billion emergency fund
to assist nations that experience capital flight should the
global economic crisis deepen, two government officials involved
in the talks said.  The proposed fund, a regional alternative to the
 International Monetary Fund , will be discussed by central bank
presidents and finance ministers from the 12-member Union of
South America Nations at a meeting tomorrow in Buenos Aires,
said the officials, who serve in separate governments and who
declined to be named because talks are ongoing.  The fund would be modeled on the Bogota-based Fondo
Latinoamericano de Reservas, they said. Known as FLAR, the $4
billion fund pools foreign currency reserves from five Andean
nation plus Costa Rica and Uruguay to help member nations that
run into balance of payment problems during times of crisis.  Regional finance ministers met Aug. 5 in Lima at the urging
of Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  to discuss ways to
protect their economies and the value of their record $700
billion in foreign currency reserves from a deteriorating U.S.
and European economic outlook.  Among the options debated at that meeting, which was
attended by Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  and his
counterparts from Argentina and Colombia, was a strengthening of
the  FLAR  by boosting its membership and raising new capital,
Peruvian Finance Minister Luis Miguel Castilla told reporters.  Talks Ongoing  That proposal was put forward by Colombia and Peru, and has
the tentative support of several countries including  Chile  and
 Brazil , one of the officials said. The other official said
Brazil hasn’t decided whether to endorse the plan or the
competing proposal for a new plan. Both will be debated at
tomorrow’s meeting in Buenos Aires, the negotiators said.  Calls and e-mails sent to  Finance Ministry  spokespeople in
Argentina, Chile, Peru and Venezuela were not immediately
returned. Brazil’s Finance Ministry declined to comment and an
official at  Colombia ’s Finance Ministry who asked not to be
named due to internal policy said he didn’t have any knowledge
of discussions over a new fund.  Local Currencies  The Unasur bloc will discuss measures to use local
currencies instead of the  U.S. dollar  in the $120 billion trade
within the region and coordination of central bank policies on
reserves, said Argentina’s Deputy Economy Minister Roberto Feletti in comments posted on the government’s  website .  “We’ll try to coordinate the reserves that our central
banks have so that they can count on a rapid contingency credit
line to strengthen their ability to respond to speculative
attacks,” Feletti said.  Brazil, which pledged $10 billion of its reserves to the
IMF in 2009, would be the biggest contributor to any new lending
vehicle to assist smaller countries in the region that are more
vulnerable to a drying up of world trade and credit, said the
negotiators.  Regional central banks began searching for ways to
diversify assets away from the dollar, in which the bulk of
reserves are held, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008. That move has intensified in recent weeks
as concerns mount that the  U.S. economy  could re-enter
recession.  “For several years we as a government have been telling
Latin America to bring home its reserves,” Venezuelan President
Hugo Chavez said in a televised comments a day after the  Lima 
meeting.  Bigger Reserves  Reserve levels in South America’s five biggest economies
climbed 29 percent over the past year, to $501 billion, as
investors spurred by near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Europe  looked for higher-yielding assets in emerging
markets. To stem the inflows that are putting pressure on the
region’s currencies, policy makers from Brazil, Chile and
Colombia have stepped up dollar purchases in the spot market.
Most of the greenbacks are reinvested in U.S. Treasuries.  Finance officials from Unasur will also discuss in Buenos
Aires boosting support for two other regional banks: the
Corporacion Andina de Fomento, a Caracas-based development bank,
and the Banco del Sur, which aims to boost infrastructure
integration in  South America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  