-- 
South Africa to Start Pilot Program for National Health Insurance in April

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-11T12:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/south-africa-to-start-pilot-program-for-national-health-insurance-in-april.html
South Africa ’s government will begin
implementing a compulsory medical insurance plan in April,
starting with a pilot program in 10 districts that will be
rolled out across the country over 14 years.  “National health insurance will not happen overnight,”
Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi told reporters in the capital,
 Pretoria , today.  South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress  agreed to
the plan in September last year, estimating it would cost 128
billion rand ($17.5 billion) in its first year in 2012, rising
to 267 billion rand by 2020. The government says it will focus
on improving health-care facilities in the coming years to
extend better services to all citizens.  “The first five years will be a process of building and
preparation,” Motsoaledi said. “The quality of care in public
health institutions is often totally unacceptable and radical
measures are needed to put matters in order.”  Privately-insured citizens of  Africa ’s biggest economy on
average have access to medical benefits worth six times more
than those who rely on the state, according to the ANC. The
health ministry estimates 84 percent of the population of 50.6
million rely on state facilities.  ‘More Sustainable’  “National health insurance is not intended to destroy the
private sector,” Motsoaledi said. “It will actually make it
more sustainable by making it levy reasonable fees.”  The pilot program will be funded through a government
grant, with further details on expenditure expected in the
budget in February next year, he said. The plan will cover
services ranging from primary health care to specialist
treatment and exclude cosmetic surgery and non-essential
medicines, he said.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in Pretoria
today the plan would be financed through a number of options:
state funding; compulsory contributions for all workers earning
above a specific level, which hasn’t been determined yet; co-
payments from patients; and private investment. The ANC’s cost
estimates were “indicative,” he said.  The National Treasury said in its budget in February it may
fund the health plan through a phased-in  payroll tax , an
increase in the 14 percent value-added tax rate or an income tax
surcharge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  