-- 
South Africa Recalls Rugby World Cup Winners to Rebound Against Australia

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-11T12:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/south-africa-recalls-rugby-world-cup-winners-to-rebound-against-australia.html
South Africa picked the core of its
Rugby World Cup-winning team for the Aug. 13 Tri-Nations Test
against  Australia  in Durban as it seeks to rebound from back-to-
back losses on the road.  After taking a second-string squad to Australia and  New
Zealand , the Springboks included 11 players from their 2007
World Cup final win in the starting lineup for the match at
King’s Park. Scrum-half Fourie du Preez and flanker Heinrich
Brussow were chosen for their first Test appearances since South
Africa’s 2009 tour of  Europe .  “We still have a number of leading players unavailable
through injury but this is the strongest squad we have been able
to choose from since 2009,” coach Peter de Villiers said on the
team’s  website . “It’s great to have Fourie and Heinrich back as
they were two of the leading players in world rugby when they
last played.”  The Springboks were beaten 39-20 by the Wallabies and lost
40-7 to the All Blacks last month.  South Africa  left 21
frontline players at home for the away games, citing injuries
and the need to rehabilitate them ahead of its world
championship defense starting Sept. 11 in New Zealand.  South Africa, which is last in the standings with no
points, hosts the next two Tri-Nations matches in Durban and
Port Elizabeth. The Springboks open their World Cup defense
against Wales in Wellington.  Australia, which last won the southern hemisphere’s annual
championship in 2001, trails the top-ranked All Blacks by four
points following its 30-14 loss in Auckland five days ago.  Two Changes  The Wallabies earlier made two changes to the team that
began that match. Back-rower Scott Higginbotham will make his
starting debut at No. 8 in place of Ben McCalman, while Nathan Sharpe comes in for  Rob Simmons  at lock.  Coach Robbie Deans said his players couldn’t afford another
slow start against a Springboks team featuring several players
coming off a break.  “We didn’t handle the opening onslaught in Auckland and
that set us on the back foot,” Deans said. “The South Africans
won’t have missed that. More of the same will be coming. It is
important we adapt better and get ourselves into the contest
from the start.”  SOUTH AFRICA: Tendai Mtawarira, John Smit (captain), Jannie
du Plessis, Bakkies Botha, Victor Matfield, Heinrich Brussow,
Danie Rossouw, Pierre Spies, Fouri du Preez, Butch James,  Bryan
Habana , Jean de Villiers, Jacque Fourie, JP Petersen, Frans
Steyn.  Replacements: Bismarck de Plessis, Gurthro Steenkamp,
Gerhard Mostert, Jean Deysel, Francois Hougaard, Morne Steyn,
Gio Aplon.  AUSTRALIA: Kurtley Beale, James O’Connor, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Pat McCabe, Digby Ioane,  Quade Cooper , Will Genia, Scott
Higginbotham, David Pocock, Rocky Elsom (captain), James
Horwill,  Nathan Sharpe , Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, Sekope
Kepu.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Salesi Ma’afu, Sitaleki
Timani, Ben McCalman, Radike Samo,  Luke Burgess , Anthony
Fainga’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  