-- 
South Africa Manufacturing Growth Slows to 0.9% in June as Economy Falters

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-11T12:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-slows-to-0-9-in-june-as-economy-falters.html
South African annual manufacturing
growth slowed to 0.9 percent in June, indicating a recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy is faltering.  Factory output eased from a revised 1 percent in May,
Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an expansion of 0.4 percent. Output rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent in the month.  The slower growth may ease pressure on the  Reserve Bank  to
increase its benchmark interest rate after leaving it unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur  consumer
spending , even as prices climbed. European governments have cut
spending to ease a debt crisis this year, while the rand has
gained 29 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009,
curbing demand for South African exports. Manufacturing accounts
for 15 percent of gross domestic product.  “It’s a very, very low number,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said in an phone interview.
“There is even more weakness to come,” with production likely
to be curbed by a wave of  strike action  that swept the country
last month, he said.  The Purchasing Managers Index, an indicator of factory
output, dropped to a two-year low of 44.2 in July. A reading
below 50 indicates a contraction in manufacturing production.  Excess Capacity  “Most of the recovery has been on the spending side,”
Vukani Mamba, head of the central bank’s financial analysis and
public finance unit, told lawmakers in  Cape Town  yesterday.
“The South African economy still has excess production
capacity.”  Economic growth accelerated to 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in a year, from a revised 4.5 percent
in the final three months of last year, the government
statistics agency said in a May 31 report. Growth probably
slowed in the second quarter as a result of the debt crisis in
Europe,  Daniel Mminele , a deputy central bank governor, said on
Aug. 5.  The rand weakened 0.5 percent to 7.3091 against the dollar
by 2:13 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  