-- 
South Africa’s Gordhan Says World Likely to Avoid a Double-Dip Recession

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-11T14:54:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/south-africa-ready-to-take-action-to-ease-market-turmoil-cabinet-says.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the global economy will probably avoid a
double-dip recession, and that  Africa ’s biggest economy is
better positioned than most to weather the recent bout of global
financial turmoil.  “Our own view at the moment is that its 60-40 against the
double-dip,” Gordhan told reporters in the capital,  Pretoria ,
today. “There are other people who are saying it’s now 50-50,
depending on the decisiveness with which the rest of the world
begins to tackle its problems. Let’s wait and see.”  The global growth outlook has been clouded by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, the downgrading of  U.S. debt  by  Standard & Poor’s  and a
rout in global equity markets that has erased $7.9 trillion in
equity values since July 26.  South Africa  fell into its first
recession in 17 years in the final quarter of 2008, with the
economy returning to growth in the third quarter of 2009.  “Political brinkmanship and political dithering and a lack
of decisiveness in some parts of the world have created
uncertainty about whether we will have enough measures taken to
ensure the right level of growth,” Gordhan said. “We have
begun to understand what some of these developments mean for the
South African economy,” and are monitoring the situation
carefully and will respond as necessary, he said.  Deficit Down  Gordhan expects South Africa’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product to reach about 34 percent this year, and that
its maximum level won’t exceed 40 percent.  “We have been very careful about how we’ve borrowed
money,” he said. “We want to make sure we can bounce back if
worse conditions actually emerge and have the capacity to do so.
We want to bring the deficits down” over the next three years,
as outlined in the budget.  The Feb. 24 budget provided for a budget deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP in the fiscal year through March 2012, unchanged
from the previous year and for the gap to narrow to 4.8 percent
and 3.8 percent over the following two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  