-- 
Spain Urges Common Fiscal Policy to Help Europe Fight Crisis

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-11T14:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/spain-urges-common-fiscal-policy-to-help-fight-crisis-correct-.html
European leaders should move toward
economic and fiscal union to shore up the euro area against
further financial market turmoil, said Spanish government
spokesman Jose Blanco.  “What is missing, after having given  Europe  a common
currency, is a common economic and fiscal policy, to provide
global responses to challenges,” Blanco, who is also the
development minister, said in a radio interview with Onda Cero
in  Madrid  today. “All proposals which go in that direction are
positive.”  Emergency meetings called by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and the
difficulties encountered by the U.S. show this to be a global
crisis requiring a worldwide response and not simply a Spanish
matter, he said.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds fell to 272 basis
points as of 3:28 p.m. in Madrid from 284 basis points
yesterday. The  European Central Bank  had to step in to buy
Spanish debt on Aug. 8 after spreads rose to a euro-era record
of 418 basis points Aug. 5 as investors doubted Spain was able
to tackle the euro-area’s third-largest deficit.  The turbulence in the financial markets is a “summer
storm” and people shouldn’t be obsessed by it because it’s a
short-term process, Spain’s Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said on Cadena Ser radio.  Deficit Steps  Spain is better-placed than Italy or  France  because it has
already set in motion steps to tackle the deficit and
restructure its banking industry, he said.  “European leaders reacted, but later than the Spanish
government,” Blanco said. “ Spain  has an advantage because it
started reforms over a year ago that others are doing now.”  Spanish Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has called two exceptional cabinet meetings on Aug. 19
and Aug. 26 to take measures to ensure the country will meet its
deficit target this year and boost growth.  The government plans to encourage temporary contracts to
help the labor market and modify the taxation calendar for large
companies to increase tax receipts by 2.5 billion euros ($3.6
billion) in 2011. An extra 2.4 billion euros of cuts will come
from reductions to regions’ pharmaceutical spending.  Those measures should be announced on Aug. 19, Spanish
Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said in an interview with Radio
Nacional de Espana today. On Aug. 26, the government is likely
to extend by six months a 400-euro monthly benefit for
unemployed people who accept to participate in a training
program, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  