-- 
French Bonds Rise on AAA Rating, Spanish Debt Gains, German Bunds Decline

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T16:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/spanish-government-bonds-advance-on-ecb-buying-speculation-higher-stocks.html
French bonds rose the most relative
to their German counterparts since before the euro was
introduced in 1999 as ratings companies affirmed the nation’s
AAA rating and President  Nicolas Sarkozy  arranged to meet with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel .  The yield on French 10-year bonds fell to the lowest since
November after  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, which has paced a slide by
the nation’s bank shares, said it would post “solid” results.
Spanish 10-year bonds gained for a fifth day, the longest run of
increases since May, and Italian 10-year yields slipped below 5
percent amid speculation the  European Central Bank  will keep
buying the debt as it seeks to stabilize markets. German bonds
dropped as stocks rebounded from an intraday decline.  “France has been very much the blacklisted member of the
AAA community in recent weeks, and I think people are saying
there might be some value,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income
strategist at WestLB AG in London. “Rating agencies have, for
now, affirmed the AAA rating, despite all the rumors.”  The yield on 10-year French bonds fell two basis points to
3.05 percent as of 4:48 p.m. in London, after falling as low as
3.003 percent. The 3.25 percent securities maturing in October
2021 rose 0.19, or 1.9 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,423) face
amount, to 101.71.  Gains in French bonds reduced the spread investors demand
to hold the securities instead of benchmark bunds by 15 basis
points to 0.73 percentage point.  Societe Generale  German bonds surged yesterday as Societe Generale led a
plunge by European bank stocks amid speculation that  France ’s
creditworthiness was in doubt.  Societe Generale denied “all market rumors,” saying its
performance in July and early August shows it will be able to
post “solid” results in the future, according to a statement
after the market closed yesterday. The stock rose 3.7 percent
today after plunging 15 percent yesterday.  The leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies will discuss
economic governance of the 17-nation euro region in Paris on
Aug. 16, according to separate statements issued today by
Sarkozy’s and Merkel’s offices.  Italian and Spanish bonds rose this week as the ECB started
buying the debt to stabilize financial markets and prevent the
crisis from spreading to bigger economies after  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  were forced to seek financial aid.  The ECB bought small quantities of Spanish and Italian debt
today, according to three people with knowledge of the trades. A
spokesman for the central bank declined to comment.  Capping Yields  The ECB “will try to cap bond yields, because that’s what
is needed,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-
rate strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The most
important thing is that they don’t let yields rise significantly
again. If they do achieve a yield cap, it would make them more
attractive,” he said, referring to Spanish and Italian bonds.  The Spanish 10-year yield decreased two basis points to
5.01 percent. It’s having the longest streak of declines since
falling in each of the seven days through May 5. The drop pushed
the extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the
securities instead of 10-year bunds down by 15 basis points to
269 basis points.  The Italian 10-year yield was five basis points lower at
5.05 percent, after dipping to 4.992 percent. The spread with
bunds fell 18 basis points to 273 basis points.  The yield on the German two-year note increased nine basis
points to 0.66 percent, while the 10-year bund yield was 13
basis points higher at 2.32 percent.  ‘Broad-Based Consolidation’  “We are seeing a broad-based consolidation of the very
sharp moves of the past couple of days,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The
picture is a bit less flight-to-safety.”  Commerzbank cut its year-end bund yield forecast to 2.9
percent from 3.4 percent last week, he said.  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest clearing house, reduced
the extra deposit it demands from clients to trade Irish
 government bonds  to 65 percent from 80 percent after yields fell
relative to a AAA benchmark.  The revised fees will be reflected in a margin call
tomorrow, LCH said in a statement on its website. The amount
will also be adjusted for the price of the bond, it said.  German government bonds handed investors 5.4 percent this
year, compared with 7.3 percent for  U.S. Treasuries , according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 5.2
percent, while Italian debt is little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  