-- 
Standard Bank, Africa’s Biggest Lender, May Buy a Nigerian Retail Bank

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-11T15:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/standard-bank-africa-s-biggest-lender-beats-estimates-with-profit-gain.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s
biggest lender, may consider buying a retail bank in  Nigeria  to
boost growth on the continent.  “In Nigeria, we’re in corporate and investment banking but
we’re sub-scale in retail,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Sim Tshabalala said in an interview in Johannesburg today. “We
could grow organically but if we got a decent acquisition that
would accelerate our reaching critical mass.”  Standard Bank is reversing its strategy of expanding in
emerging markets, such as Russia and  Argentina , to focus on its
operations in Africa. Of the countries on the continent where it
doesn’t operate, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Cameroon and Senegal are
among the most “attractive,” the bank said.  First-half earnings excluding one-time items in 17 African
countries outside  South Africa  dropped 17 percent to 423 million
rand ($58 million), Standard Bank said in a statement today.
Profit by that measure, known as headline earnings, rose 11
percent to 6.64 billion rand when including South Africa,
Russia, Turkey,  South America  and the U.K.  “I am positively surprised with core growth,” said
Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $36 billion
at Coronation Fund Managers in Cape Town.  Standard Bank rose 4.4 percent to 94.50 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, paring this year’s loss to 12 percent.
That made the stock the worst performer on the six-company
FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index, which fell 7.5 percent this year.  The lender sold its stake in Russia’s Troika Dialog for
$372 million earlier this year and agreed on Aug. 5 to sell some
of its Argentine assets to its partner, Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  