-- 
Starbucks’ Indian Supplier May Acquire Instant Coffee Maker

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-08-12T04:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/starbucks-indian-supplier-may-buy-european-instant-coffee-maker.html
Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) ,  Asia ’s largest
publicly traded grower of the bean, plans to spend more than
five billion rupees ($110 million) to acquire an instant coffee
maker in  Europe  in a bid to boost profit margins.  The company is planning to increase its instant coffee
production by 75 percent to 14,000 metric tons in the next four
years in part by acquiring a plant in Europe, Managing Director
Hameed Huq said. Tata Coffee, which supplies beans to  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, is also
boosting production of the arabica variety, he said.  Tata Coffee, owned by  India ’s biggest conglomerate, is
expanding in areas that will help it boost profit margin,  which
narrowed in the three months ended June, and reduce its
dependence on bean prices. The company also expects to unveil a
larger supply and production contract with Starbucks by
September, Huq said.  “We have to differentiate, otherwise we will get killed,”
Huq said in an interview in his office in Bangalore yesterday.
“The whole idea is to take Tata Coffee from being just a
plantation company.”  Tata Coffee has risen 51 percent this year outperforming
the BSE500 index, which fell 15 percent in the period. The
coffee maker gained as much as 3.2 percent to 759.25 rupees and
changed hands at 754.1 rupees as of 9:23 a.m.  The company’s net income rose 9 percent to 132.5 million
rupees from a year earlier in the quarter ended in June. Profit
margin narrowed to 4 percent in the period from 5.3 percent in
the preceding quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Instant Coffee  Instant coffee as a percentage of overall coffee sales
accounted for 38 percent of sales last year, according to
researcher Companiesandmarkets.com. This year Starbucks started
selling Via instant-coffee packets in  China .  Tata Coffee, controlled by  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) , in
January announced plans with Starbucks to open stores. Tata and
Starbucks are now planning a separate company to manage the
retail chain, Huq said.  The company expects 45 percent of its coffee production to
be the arabica variety, which has less caffeine content, by
2015, up from 30 percent, according to Huq. The balance will be
the robusta variety used to make instant coffee.  “The strategy is to insulate the company from cyclicity,”
Huq said. Tata Global Beverages, part of the group led by  Ratan
Tata , owns 57 percent of Tata Coffee, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Arabica Prices  The company expects arabica coffee prices to decline to
$2.3 a pound in the planting season starting October, Huq said.
The price for December delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
rose 2.4 percent to $2.44 a pound yesterday.  Coffee production in India, Asia’s third-biggest grower,
may rise 6.7 percent to a record next year aided by good rains,
according to the state-owned Coffee Board.  Output for the crop year starting Oct. 1 may rise to
322,250 tons from 302,000 tons a year ago, the state-owned
Coffee Board said in July. Arabica production may gain 11
percent to 104,525 tons, while robusta output may advance 4.8
percent to 217,725 tons next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  