-- 
Stifel, Insider Trading, BofA, Swiss Tax Deal: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-11T11:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/stifel-insider-trading-bofa-swiss-tax-deal-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  sued broker  Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. for fraud,
claiming it misled five Wisconsin school districts about the
risks of complex investments that wiped out $200 million.  Stifel and David Noack, a former executive, masked the
risks in persuading the schools to buy notes tied to synthetic
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, a type of derivative
linked to corporate bonds, the SEC said yesterday in a complaint
brought against the two in U.S. District Court in Milwaukee.  While the schools lost their entire investment, Stifel and
Noack, 48, received “significant fees,” the agency said in a
statement. The districts used $37.3 million of their own cash
and borrowed $162.7 million to invest in the securities in 2006,
trying to produce earnings to help pay retiree health costs. The
SEC said the firm and Noack misled officials about the risks of
products typically sold to hedge funds, banks and insurers.  “Stifel and Noack abused their longstanding relationships
of trust with the school districts by fraudulently peddling
these inappropriate products to them,” Elaine Greenberg, head
of the SEC’s unit that handles municipal bond cases, said in the
statement. “They were clearly aware that the school districts
could ill afford to bear the risk of catastrophic loss if these
investments failed.”  Jeffrey Kalinowski, a Stifel lawyer, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls seeking comment on the SEC’s claims,
nor did Ron Kane, an attorney for Noack. A call to a telephone
number listed in Noack’s name in Hartland, Wisconsin, went
unanswered. Sarah Anderson, a Stifel spokeswoman, also didn’t
immediately respond to messages asking for comment.  The SEC’s suit follows legal action by the school districts
and a government initiative to crack down on municipal
securities fraud. The agency has also brought other cases tied
to CDOs, including suing Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year.  Stifel and Noack persuaded the school districts to invest
in notes linked to the performance of synthetic CDOs made up of
credit-default swaps tied to corporate bonds. Such swap
agreements pay off when bonds default, providing a kind of
insurance on the assets.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  Compliance Action  Former Marvell Technology Employee Charged in Insider Probe  Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  employee Stanley Ng
was charged with conspiracy by federal prosecutors as part of a
nationwide probe of insider trading, according to court papers
filed in Manhattan federal court.  Ng was arrested for his alleged role in an insider trading
ring tied to so-called expert networking firms. Ng provided
material non-public information to Winifred Jiau, a former
consultant with expert-networking firm Primary Global Research
LLC, according to a criminal information filed Aug. 5 and made
public yesterday.  Ng appeared yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Bernard
Zimmerman in San Jose,  California , according to a person
familiar with the case. He was released on $50,000 bond secured
by his home and is scheduled to appear in federal court in
Manhattan Aug. 26, said the person, who was not authorized to
speak publicly about the case and so declined to be identified.  Jiau was convicted earlier this year of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud for passing earnings and other
information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and Marvell to hedge fund
managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
according to court records.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  BofA Mortgage-Bond Deal Opposed by Delaware Attorney General  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s $8.5 billion settlement with
mortgage-bond investors drew more state opposition, as Delaware
joined New York in challenging the agreement.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  said Aug. 9 he opposes
the agreement and asked to intervene in the case to protect
investors and preserve the state’s ability to pursue legal
claims.  The settlement, which requires court approval, calls for
Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from
investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  last week asked
the New York state judge overseeing the case to reject the
settlement, saying it was unfair to investors.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. is the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the settlement.
According to Biden, the bank, which reached the agreement on
behalf of investors may have violated the Delaware securities
act and the state’s deceptive trade practices act.  “We are confident that we have fulfilled in all respects
our responsibilities as trustee,” Kevin Heine, a Bank of New
York spokesman, said in a statement. “We believe the proposed
settlement is reasonable and in the best interests of the
trusts.”  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  SEC Reaches Agreement on Asset Freeze in Money Manager Suit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reached an
agreement freezing assets connected to an investment manager
suspected of swindling clients including college basketball
coaches out of more than $50 million.  The manager, J. David Salinas, killed himself last month
while federal agents investigated him and his companies for
running a Ponzi scheme, allegedly selling investors bonds that
didn’t exist. The SEC filed a fraud lawsuit Aug. 1 against
Salinas’s estate, his companies including Select Asset
Management and J. David Group, and Brian A. Bjork, chief
investment officer of Select Asset.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison on Aug. 1 ordered a
temporary hold on the assets of the Salinas estate, his
companies and Bjork. The defendants agreed to accept the asset
freeze while the lawsuit is pending, according to filings in
federal court in Houston.  Bjork agreed to the preliminary asset freeze in exchange
for the right to “keep assets valued at up to $10,000 to cover
reasonable and ordinary household and living expenses,” Timothy
McCole, an SEC attorney, said in a court filing. Bjork agreed to
submit monthly bank records to Steven Harr, the court-appointed
receiver in the case.  Bjork agreed to an order by Ellison yesterday prohibiting
him from engaging in fraud or violating securities laws. He
agreed to this “without admitting or denying the allegations
contained in the complaint in this case,” Ellison said.  “Bjork and Salinas promised investors safe, fixed-income
by investing in highly rated corporate and other bonds with
annual yields up to 9 percent,” the SEC said. “In reality, the
J. David Group corporate bond offering was bogus.”  Matt Hennessy, Bjork’s lawyer, said yesterday in a phone
interview that his client wasn’t part of any fraud and is
cooperating with the investigation into what happened to
investors’ money. Salinas left a note before his death claiming
sole responsibility for his actions and absolving Bjork and
others, Hennessy said.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, said the agency had no
comment beyond its court filings.  The case is SEC v. Bjork, 11-cv-02830, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Banks’ Online-Payment Program Probed by EU Antitrust Regulators  The European Union’s antitrust regulator is investigating a
bank group whose members include  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Deutsche
Bank AG after a German company said it was shut out of talks to
set up an online-payment standard.  The European Payments Council must submit details to EU
watchdogs “on the cooperation of banks and payment institutions
for designing rules and standards for e-payment services,” the
EPC, which encompasses lenders and money-transfer services such
as  Western Union Co. (WU) ,  said  on its website last month.  The  European Central Bank  and the European Commission have
called for banks to accelerate adoption of common standards to
ease payments made in euros. While regulators said this may
boost trade between the 17 euro area nations as growth stumbles,
antitrust officials have raised concerns over the fairness of
parts of the process, which is led by the Brussels-based EPC.  A complaint from Payment Network AG, a Gauting, Germany-
based online-payment provider, triggered the probe into
standard-setting, according to Payment Network’s lawyer Ivo du
Mont of Kapellmann & Partner. The company’s website lists
customers including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Dutch airline KLM.  The commission declined to comment on the investigation.  “There is no foreclosure” or attempt to shut out Payment
Network, Gerard Hartsink, the EPC’s chairman, said in a phone
interview. The EPC decided late last year to invite comments
from other payment providers “and the door was open to
anyone,” including Payment Network, Hartsink said. He declined
to give details of the EPC’s discussions with the company.  The EPC is waiting for antitrust regulators to give their
view on the online-payment standard before it formally seeks
public comments on the plans, Hartsink said.  Swiss,  Germany  Agree to Settlement in Tax-Evasion Dispute  Switzerland  and Germany completed an accord to end a
dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Germans holding cross-border
accounts with Swiss private banks.  As part of the settlement, Swiss banks will pay 2 billion
Swiss francs ($2.8 billion) to the German government to cover
the failure by their clients to disclose undeclared money in the
past, the Swiss Finance Ministry said yesterday in a  statement .
That amount will later be reimbursed to the banks from taxes
paid by their customers, the ministry said.  The tax treaty comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009
to meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a
tax haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . Relations between Germany and Switzerland soured
early last year when German authorities began an investigation
into tax evasion based on purchased CDs of stolen bank data.  “The times of illicit accounts in Switzerland are now over
for good,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial-policy spokesman
in parliament for Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bloc, said in a
statement. “The agreement will lead to more tax fairness and
strengthen the income basis of federal, state and municipal
governments.”  While the agreement protects bank clients’ privacy, it also
ensures the “implementation of legitimate tax claims,” the
Swiss Finance Ministry said.  The settlement may trigger outflows by Europeans who
question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles. Switzerland’s commitment to tax compliance is
putting pressure on the country’s banks as western European
clients repatriate their wealth, Boston Consulting Group said in
a May 31 report.  “The agreement draws a line under the German-Swiss
discussions, but it may well affect assets under management held
offshore,” said Michael Rohr, a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Silvia Quandt. “There will be a move toward onshore.”  Going forward, Swiss banks will levy a 26.375 percent
withholding tax on interest, dividends and capital gains earned
by Germans with offshore accounts, yesterday’s statement said.
Revenue generated will go to the German treasury while client
identities remain secret.  “The tax agreement does not come without a price tag for
the banks,” the  Swiss Bankers Association  said in a statement.
“The implementation of the measures will cost the banks in
Switzerland a mid-three-digit million Swiss franc amount.”  For more, click here.  U.K. Supermarket Fines Cut to $80 Million in Dairy Probe  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda chain were
among a group of U.K. retailers and dairy producers whose civil
fines in a price-fixing probe were lowered to a total of 49.5
million pounds ($80 million).  The reductions, from penalties of 70 million pounds issued
in April 2010, were granted after the companies sought “early
resolution” of the investigation of dairy product prices and
cooperated, Britain’s Office of Fair Trading said yesterday in a
statement.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s fine of 10.4 million pounds was unchanged
and the company has said it will challenge the antitrust
watchdog.  The fines in the case, which started eight years ago, send
a “strong signal” that the regulator will impose significant
penalties “when it uncovers anti-competitive behavior aimed at
increasing the prices paid by consumers,” OFT Chief Executive
Officer  John Fingleton  said in the statement.  The supermarkets “indirectly” shared price plans for milk
or cheese products through the dairy processors in 2002 and
2003, the OFT said. Asda, Sainsbury and processors including
 Dairy Crest Group Plc (DCG)  and  Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc (RWD)  admitted
liability.  The fines totaled 116 million pounds when they were first
issued in 2007. They were lowered to 70 million pounds last year
after the OFT dropped some allegations because of insufficient
evidence. Sainsbury was fined 11 million pounds and Asda 9.4
million pounds. Dairy Crest was ordered to pay 7.1 million
pounds and Wiseman 3.2 million pounds.  Tesco, based in Cheshunt,  England , said the alleged
violations followed lobbying by British dairy farmers for higher
milk prices. In a statement yesterday, the company denied
colluding with its competitors and said the fines are “without
substance.”  Also named by the OFT were Lactalis McLelland, since
acquired by Groupe Lactalis; the Cheese Co.; and Safeway, the
supermarket chain acquired by William Morrison Supermarkets Plc
in 2004. Arla Foods won full immunity from fines for alerting
the OFT to possible violations.  Courts  Apple Accused in Suit of E-Book Price Fixing With Publishers  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in connection with last year’s introduction of
the iPad, colluded with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins Publishers
unit and four other publishers to fix prices of electronic
books, according to a lawsuit.  Apple, threatened by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle e-book reader
and its potential to distribute other digital media, agreed with
the publishers on or before January 2010 to announce a so-called
agency model to “force the e-book sales model to be entirely
restructured,” according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Oakland, California.  The traditional “brick-and-mortar” publishers agreed to
the price-fixing because they were threatened by Amazon’s “pro-
consumer” e-book titles priced at $9.99, according to the suit.  A representative of Apple didn’t immediately return phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment after regular business
hours. Tina Andreadis, a HarperCollins spokeswoman, also didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours.  The other publishers named as defendants in the suit are
Hachette Livre SA’s Hachette Book Group unit, U.K.-based
MacMillan Publishers Ltd.,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group and CBS
Corp.’s Simon & Schuster.  The case is Petru v. Apple Inc., 11-03892, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 