-- 
Swire’s Profit Falls as Cathay Earnings Decline Outstrips Rental Growth

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-11T09:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/swire-s-profit-falls-as-cathay-earnings-decline-outstrips-rental-growth.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the  Hong Kong 
commercial landlord and owner of the city’s biggest airline,
said first-half underlying profit fell 48 percent as higher
rental income failed to compensate for a decline in the
contribution from  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   Profit excluding revaluations declined to HK$4.6 billion
($590 million), or HK$3.06 a share, from HK$8.91 billion, or
HK$5.92 a share, a year earlier, Swire said in a stock exchange
statement today. That beat the median HK$4.4 billion estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Cathay, 42 percent-owned by Swire, yesterday said profit
before non-recurring items fell 44 percent on higher fuel costs.
That was partly offset by earnings from office and retail
rentals in Hong Kong, where companies are expanding.  “We’re expecting across-the-board rental growth,”  Cusson Leung , Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
before the earnings. “The decline in Cathay was within our
expectation.”  Swire’s shares have declined 26 percent this year, compared
with the 15 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which
includes Swire. The stock dropped 1.2 percent to HK$94.95 at the
4 p.m. local time in Hong Kong, after the earnings.  Property Revaluations  Underlying profit excluding one-off gains fell to HK$4.38 
billion from HK$4.92 billion a year earlier, it said.   Including property revaluations and deferred tax, net
income jumped to HK$24 billion, or HK$15.92 a share, from a
restated HK$14.6 billion, or HK$9.72 a share, a year earlier,
according to the statement. Sales rose to HK$17.1 billion from
HK$12.8 billion.  Swire Properties Ltd., which owns 17.8 million square feet
of investment properties in Hong Kong, today said profit rose to
HK$19 billion from HK$7.8 billion a year earlier.  Gross rental income from offices rose to HK$2.22 billion
from HK$2.12 billion while that for shopping malls increased to
HK$1.81 billion from HK$1.64 billion, according to the company.  The property unit, the biggest landlord and developer in
 eastern Hong Kong Island , built and operates complexes such as
Tai Koo Shing residential district and the Pacific Place
commercial complexes in the Admiralty district. Tenants include
 Deloitte & Touche LLP .  Festival Walk  Swire last month agreed to sell the Festival Walk shopping
center for HK$18.8 billion to a unit of  Singapore ’s Temasek
Holdings Pte in the company’s biggest property transaction.
Retail rents in Hong Kong rose 46 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, according to property broker CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc.  Proceeds from the sale will put the company “in a strong
position to continue its major investment programs,” the
company said. Swire Pacific last year scrapped a plan to spin
off its property unit, citing market conditions.  “Obviously with the sale of our Festival Walk the need to
list our property is now less compelling,” Chairman Christopher Pratt said in a briefing broadcasted on the company’s website
today. “We have no immediate plans to list the unit.”  Swire’s properties in  China  include the Sanlitun Village
retail complex in Beijing, the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite
House in the capital’s Chaoyang district and the Beaumonde
Retail Podium in the southern city of  Guangzhou . It is building
five projects with a total gross floor area of 12.9 million
square feet.  Swire, which also bottles Coca-Cola in China and operates
offshore vessels, will pay an interim dividend of HK$1.15 per
‘A’ share, compared with HK$1 last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  