-- 
Marvell, FrontPoint, BofA, Apple, Blackstone in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-11T10:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/swiss-german-tax-evasion-bofa-apple-merck-in-court-news.html
Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant Stanley Ng was charged with conspiracy by U.S.
prosecutors as part of a nationwide probe of insider trading
involving so-called expert networking firms.  Ng, 42, provided material non-public information to
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC, according to a criminal complaint
filed Aug. 5 and made public yesterday in federal court in  New
York .  Ng was arrested at his home and appeared yesterday before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Bernard Zimmerman in San Jose,  California ,
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New
York. Ng was released on a $50,000 bond secured by his home in
Cupertino, California, and is scheduled to appear Aug. 26 in
court in  Manhattan . He faces as long as five years in prison if
convicted.  Jiau, 43, was convicted in June of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud for passing earnings and other
information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and Marvell to hedge fund
managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  Barai and Freedman have pleaded guilty and are cooperating
with prosecutors.  Prosecutors claimed that Ng and Sonny Nguyen, 39, then an
employee in Nvidia Corp.’s finance department, were recruited
into an “investment club” with Jiau, where they agreed to give
her inside information about their companies. Nguyen has pleaded
guilty.  Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
according to court records.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron, SEC Reach Accord in Principle  Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge fund manager Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
agreed in principle to settle a lawsuit, according to court
papers.  Skowron, who also charged by federal prosecutors as part of
a nationwide insider-trading crackdown, last week agreed to
waive his right to be indicted, the government said in a court
filing. Defendants regularly take that step when agreeing to
plead guilty.  Skowron surrendered in April to Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents in New York to face charges of conspiracy,
securities fraud and obstruction. Prosecutors accused him of
obtaining information from an insider about hepatitis C drug
trials enabled Greenwich, Connecticut-based FrontPoint to avoid
more than $30 million in losses.  The SEC separately accused Skowron of insider trading in a
lawsuit filed the same day of his surrender.  The defendant and the staff of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement have agreed in principle to the terms of a
settlement that the division will recommend that the commission
accept and that would “fully resolve the SEC’s claims against
defendant,” lawyers for the SEC and Skowron said in a court
filing dated yesterday.  The government claims Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
former adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  who has pleaded
guilty in the case.  Skowron, the co-portfolio manager of FrontPoint’s health-
care funds, was placed on leave in November after Benhamou was
arrested. The funds were closed.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs.
Benhamou, 10-cv-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.)  Swiss,  Germany  Agree to Settlement in Tax-Evasion Dispute  Switzerland  and Germany completed an accord to end a
dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Germans holding cross-border
accounts with Swiss private banks.  As part of the settlement, Swiss banks will pay 2 billion
Swiss francs ($2.8 billion) to the German government to cover
the failure by their clients to disclose undeclared money in the
past, the Swiss Finance Ministry said yesterday in a  statement .
That amount will later be reimbursed to the banks from taxes
paid by their customers, the ministry said.  The tax treaty comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009
to meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a
tax haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . Relations between Germany and Switzerland soured
early last year when German authorities began an investigation
into tax evasion based on purchased CDs of stolen bank data.  “The times of illicit accounts in Switzerland are now over
for good,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial-policy spokesman
in parliament for Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bloc, said in a
statement. “The agreement will lead to more tax fairness and
strengthen the income basis of federal, state and municipal
governments.”  While the agreement protects bank clients’ privacy, it also
ensures the “implementation of legitimate tax claims,” the
Swiss Finance Ministry said.  The settlement may trigger outflows by Europeans who
question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles. Switzerland’s commitment to tax compliance is
putting pressure on the country’s banks as western European
clients repatriate their wealth, Boston Consulting Group said in
a May 31 report.  Going forward, Swiss banks will levy a 26.375 percent
withholding tax on interest, dividends and capital gains earned
by Germans with offshore accounts, yesterday’s statement said.
Revenue generated will go to the German treasury while client
identities remain secret.  For more, click here.  Bank of America Wins $5.2 Million Judgment Against Builder  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  won a $5.2 million judgment against
Irish developer Garrett Kelleher and his Shelbourne Development
Group Inc. for defaulting on a loan for the planned 150-floor
 Chicago  Spire condominium tower.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve in Chicago ruled in favor
of the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender, awarding damages
plus daily interest of about $153 through Aug. 5, the date of
the judgment. St. Eve also awarded the bank about $117,343 in
credit-card payments and $26 a day in interest.  “There is no genuine dispute as to the material facts that
Shelbourne defaulted on its obligations under the loan agreement
and credit card agreement and that Kelleher personally
guaranteed payments of any and all debts,” St. Eve wrote.  Bank of America sued Shelbourne and Kelleher, in his role
as chairman, in 2009 claiming the builder failed to show that it
had obtained an irrevocable commitment for a construction loan
from a lender or lending syndicate, leading the bank to declare
a default.  Shelbourne officials didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the judgment.  The case is Bank of America NA v. Shelbourne Development
Group Inc. 09-cv-4963, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Blackstone, Emdeon Sued by Investor Over $3 Billion Buyout  A unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , seeking to acquire  Emdeon
Inc. (EM)  in a $3 billion buyout, was sued by a shareholder of the
software maker claiming the offer undervalues the company.  John Kowalczyk, an Emdeon investor, sued the Nashville,
Tennessee-based company and Blackstone, arguing that the
proposed transaction shortchanges shareholders, in a lawsuit
filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. Kowalczyk seeks to
represent outside shareholders as a group.  “The timing of the proposed transaction has been
engineered to take advantage of a recent decline in the trading
price of Emdeon’s shares,” and will result in shareholders
being cashed out “below the company’s true value.”  Amanda Woodhead, a spokeswoman for Emdeon, and Peter Rose,
a Blackstone spokesman, didn’t return phone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  The case is Kowalczyk v. Black, CA6773, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  New York Law School Sued for Inflating Job, Pay Statistics  New York Law School  was sued by former students who accused
the school of inflating statistics on graduates’ jobs and pay.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in New York, and a second suit
filed in Michigan against  Thomas M. Cooley Law School , claim the
schools knowingly inflated employment and salary statistics to
recruit and retain students. The complaints were filed by three
New York law graduates and four Cooley graduates seeking to
represent all current and former students at both schools.  “We believe the practice of inflating employment
statistics and salary information is endemic among law
schools,” David Anziska, an attorney for the students with New
York-based Kurzon Strauss LLP, said yesterday in a statement.
“We hope these suits bring systematic change in the way legal
education is marketed by making transparency and accuracy the
rule, not the exception.”  Cooley sued Kurzon Strauss and four anonymous bloggers in
separate complaints last month claiming they defamed the school
through Web postings. Cooley, based in Lansing, Michigan,
accused the law firm of false statements on websites to
“incite” readers and “troll” for plaintiffs for a purported
class-action lawsuit.  Cooley said in a July 14 statement that its job placement
rates are reported annually to the  American Bar Association  and
the National Association for Law Placement nine months after
graduations based on the results of surveys and are consistent
with all 201 ABA accredited law schools.  Yesterday’s complaints, which seek unspecified damages,
claim that law schools, including New York Law and Cooley,
misrepresent graduates’ employment prospects by misclassifying
graduates who have only secured part-time or temporary jobs as
“fully” employed, according to Kurzon’s statement.  James Thelen, Cooley’s associate dean for legal affairs and
general counsel, wasn’t immediately available for comment on the
complaint. A spokesperson at New York Law School wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  The cases are Gomez-Jimenez v. New York Law School,
Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York;
MacDonald Jr. v. Thomas M. Cooley Law School, 11-00831, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Michigan.  SEC Sues Stifel for Fraud Over Wisconsin Schools’ CDO Losses  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  sued broker 
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. for fraud for selling five Wisconsin
school districts $200 million of notes tied to collateralized
debt obligations.  Stifel and David Noack, a former executive, masked the
risks as it persuaded the Wisconsin schools to make the
investments, which later plunged in value and were bought
largely with borrowed money, the SEC said.  The Wisconsin schools made the investments in 2006 in a
program sold by Stifel to help fund future retiree benefits. The
SEC alleges that the firm misled officials about the risks,
saying it would take “15 Enrons” for the investments to fail.  “Stifel and Noack abused their longstanding relationships
of trust with the school districts by fraudulently peddling
these inappropriate products to them,” Elaine Greenberg, head
of the SEC’s municipal enforcement division, said in a
 statement . “They were clearly aware that the school districts
could ill afford to bear the risk of catastrophic loss if these
investments failed.”  Jeff Kalinowski, an attorney for Stifel, and Ron Kane, an
attorney for Noack, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the SEC suit. Sarah Anderson, a spokeswoman for
Stifel, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  U.K. Police Arrest 12th Person in  News Corp. (NWSA)  Hacking Probe  British police investigating the extent of phone hacking at
 News Corp. (NWS) ’s defunct News of the World tabloid arrested a 61-
year-old man in  London .  The man -- the 12th person detained in the case -- was
arrested by appointment on suspicion of unlawful interception of
communications, Metropolitan Police said in a statement
yesterday. Sky News reported the man is former News of the World
assistant editor Greg Miskiw.  Public outcry over the hacking scandal, including claims
journalists accessed the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl,
led News Corp. to close the News of the World and end its 7.8
billion pound ($12.6 billion) bid to buy the 61 percent of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t already own.  At least nine of the 12 people arrested in probes of phone
hacking and possible bribes to police have ties to the News of
the World, including former editor Rebekah Brooks, who resigned
on July 15 as chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit
News International.  Andy Coulson , another former editor of the
tabloid, was arrested in July, six months after resigning in
January as Prime Minister David Cameron’s press chief.  Nick Davies, a reporter for the Guardian newspaper, in July
2009 gave a parliamentary committee a document, signed by
Miskiw, that he said was a contract between the paper and “Paul
Williams.” Davies said that was an alias of  Glenn Mulcaire , the
private investigator jailed in 2007 along with royal reporter
 Clive Goodman  for hacking mobile phones.  A number for Miskiw couldn’t be immediately located in
London or in Delray Beach, Florida, where he registered a
business with the state Secretary of State.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his son James told
U.K. lawmakers last month they didn’t know about the hacking and
blamed it on people they trusted to run the paper.  The criminal probe is running parallel to dozens of civil
lawsuits against News Corp.’s U.K. unit filed by politicians,
celebrities and athletes. A group of so-called test cases is
scheduled to go to trial in January.  Apple Accused in Suit of E-Book Price-Fixing With Publishers  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in connection with last year’s introduction of
the iPad, colluded with News Corp.’s HarperCollins Publishers
unit and four other publishers to fix prices of electronic
books, according to a lawsuit.  Apple, threatened by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle e-book reader
and its potential to distribute other digital media, agreed with
the publishers on or before January 2010 to announce a so-called
agency model to “force the e-book sales model to be entirely
restructured,” according to the complaint filed Aug. 9 in
federal court in Oakland, California.  The traditional “brick-and-mortar” publishers agreed to
the price-fixing because they were threatened by Amazon’s “pro-
consumer” e-book titles priced at $9.99, according to the suit.  “Fortunately for the publishers, they had a co-conspirator
as terrified as they were over Amazon’s popularity and pricing
structure, and that was Apple,” Steve Berman, an attorney
representing consumers in the case, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We intend to prove that Apple needed a way to neutralize
Amazon’s Kindle before its popularity could challenge the
upcoming introduction of the iPad, a device Apple intended to
compete as an e-reader,” Berman said in the statement. Berman
seeks to represent all e-book consumers in the complaint.  A representative of Apple didn’t return phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment Aug. 9. Tina Andreadis, a HarperCollins
spokeswoman, also didn’t return a call seeking comment Aug. 9.  The other publishers named as defendants in the suit are
Hachette Livre SA’s Hachette Book Group unit, U.K.-based
MacMillan Publishers Ltd.,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group and CBS
Corp.’s Simon & Schuster.  The case is Petru v. Apple Inc., 11-03892, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  BayernLB Sues Hypo Alpe-Adria Worker Trust  Bayerische Landesbank, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender, sued a former shareholder of Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank
International AG seeking damages related to the 2007 takeover of
the Austrian lender.  BayernLB bought a majority stake in Hypo Alpe for 1.63
billion euros ($2.3 billion) to get access to Balkan markets. It
is now suing the trust that sold it a 3 percent stake that was
held on behalf of Hypo Alpe employees.  “BayernLB has repeatedly said it would evaluate damage
claims against parties, including the sellers, related to its
acquisition of Hypo Alpe-Adria shares,” the Munich-based lender
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Those evaluations are
now completed regarding the Hypo Alpe Adria Employee Trust and
there was no reason to wait with filing a lawsuit against
them.”  Other former shareholders that sold shares to BayernLB are
the Austrian province of Carinthia, insurer Grazer
Wechselseitige Versicherung AG and a fund managed by investor
Tilo Berlin.  Klaus Gernot Jernej and Bernd Peck, the two Hypo Alpe
employees who have led the trust since last year according to
Austria’s company register, didn’t answer calls during normal
office hours in Klagenfurt, where the Austrian bank is based.
The trust was previously run by former Hypo Alpe chiefs Wolfgang
Kulterer and Berlin. Kulterer was cleared earlier this year on
charges he misused bank funds.  BayernLB raised its stake to 67 percent before Hypo Alpe
was nationalized in 2009. The German lender reported a 2009 loss
due in part to 3.3 billion euros of writedowns on its Hypo Alpe
investment.  BayernLB didn’t give the legal reasons for its damage claim
against the trust. Austrian magazine Format said the bank is
arguing the trust failed to disclose that part of Hypo Alpe’s
capital didn’t qualify for regulatory purposes.  Hypo Alpe said in its annual report it may also sue former
managers over the same issue. Format also said BayernLB is suing
for a reversal of the purchase deal.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuit/Pretrial  Compania Internacional Financiera Denies Claims in SEC Suit  Compania Internacional Financiera SA denied claims by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the firm profited
from insider trading in  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares.  The SEC, in a lawsuit filed July 15 in Manhattan federal
court, said Compania Internacional Financiera and two other
firms -- Coudree Capital Gestion SA and Chartwell Asset
Management Services -- made millions of dollars by buying Arch
Chemical shares in the days before a July 11 announcement that
Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza Group Ltd. planned to buy the
specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.  Compania Internacional Financiera and Coudree Capital
Gestion, in a response filed yesterday, admitted they bought
shares of Arch Chemical in the days leading up to the
announcement, and began selling the shares on or about that day,
making about $7.3 million in trading profits.  The companies “deny that their purchases of the securities
of Arch Chemicals Inc. were ‘suspicious,’” their lawyers said
in the filing.  Chartwell, a Geneva-based investment adviser, also denied
violating the law in a court filing Aug. 9.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission vs.
Compania Internacional Financiera SA, 11-cv-04904, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  Merck Must Defend Securities-Fraud Claims Over Vioxx  Merck & Co. must defend a lawsuit claiming it violated
securities laws by downplaying the cardiovascular risks of its
Vioxx painkiller before the company pulled the drug from the
market in 2004, a judge ruled.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, withdrew Vioxx
after a study showed it doubled the risk of heart attacks and
strokes. Investors adequately stated a case that Merck
misrepresented the drug’s safety profile, said U.S. District
Judge Stanley Chesler in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Investors also can pursue claims that Merck misled them
about a 2000 study, known as Vigor, which reported that the
medicine caused five times more heart attacks than another
painkiller, naproxen, Chesler ruled. Merck said one explanation
was that naproxen protected the heart.  The judge ruled that investors “plausibly suggest that
Merck had no reasonable basis for its public characterization of
the Vigor results as ‘likely’ due to naproxen’s cardioprotective
quality,” according to Chesler’s Aug. 8 decision.  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, faces
potential legal costs of at least $7.7 billion related to Vioxx,
including $4.85 billion to settle thousands of lawsuits claiming
injuries. It also set aside $1.9 billion for legal costs. Last
October, Merck said it set aside $950 million to resolve a
criminal probe.  “Merck continues to believe that this lawsuit is without
merit, and will continue to defend itself vigorously against
these claims,” Ronald Rogers, a spokesman for the company, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  The case is Merck & Co., Securities, Derivative & ‘ERISA’
Litigation, MDL-1658, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Merck Vioxx Lawyers Get More Fees After Filing Objections  Some plaintiff lawyers involved in Merck & Co.’s $4.85
billion Vioxx settlement were given more in fees by a judge
after they objected to their original awards, court papers show.  U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans, who is
overseeing the remaining litigation over Merck’s withdrawn
painkiller, awarded Aug. 9 at least $3 million to attorneys who
had complained that colleagues were hogging the lion’s share of
more than $315 million in fees spawned by the accord.  “Although this allocation process seems tedious and time-
consuming, the court finds the process was necessary to achieve
a reasoned and appropriate result,” Fallon said in his 132-page
ruling.  Merck won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits that went to trial in
both state and federal courts before agreeing in November 2007
to settle almost 50,000 claims of users who blamed the drug for
heart attacks and strokes. Lawyers who worked on a consolidation
of Vioxx cases were entitled to split $315.3 million in fees for
their work on those suits.  Vioxx suits filed in federal courts across the U.S. were
consolidated before Fallon for pre-trial evidence gathering and
so-called “bellwether trials,” which were designed to help
resolve issues in the cases.  A court-appointed committee of Vioxx lawyers made fee
recommendations and that generated objections from 18 law firms,
Fallon said. All but four of the objecting firms later agreed to
a special master’s recommendation on how the fees should be
split, the judge noted in his decision.  The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  