-- 
U.K. House Prices Fall to 19-Month Low as Loan Restrictions Deter Buyers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-k-house-prices-slip-0-1-to-19-month-low-acadametrics-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell to the lowest
level in more than 1 1/2 years last month as banks’ requests for
larger deposits deterred first-time buyers, Acadametrics Ltd.
and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  fell 0.1
percent from June to 217,300 pounds ($351,700), the lowest since
December 2009, the groups estimated in an e-mailed report in
London today. Prices dropped 2.6 percent from a year earlier.  The housing market may struggle to gain momentum as banks
restrict lending and inflation outpaces growth in wages. The
escalation of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating, which have sparked a global selloff
in financial markets this month, also threatens activity,
Acadametrics Chairman Peter Williams said.  “There is little to suggest the market will change greatly
in the next few months,” Williams said in the report. “Recent
events continue to erode both confidence and the prospects for
growth in house prices or indeed for the wider economy.”  Out of the 10 regions in  England  and Wales tracked by
Acadametrics, all apart from London posted price declines in the
past three months compared with a year earlier. Prices in
northwest England led the drop, with a fall of 5 percent, while
London posted a 0.4 percent gain.  While Acadametrics and LSL estimate that transactions in
July rose 5 percent to 60,000 from June, that is still only
about 58 percent of the long-term average, they said.  The  Bank of England  kept its key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent last week to boost the faltering recovery.  “The costs of mortgages have recently fallen and loans
have become more readily available, with a strong suggestion
that the core problem at present in the housing market is a lack
of demand,” Williams said. “Were the economic news to improve
and were the rate of price falls to continue to slow over the
next few months, activity could pick up.”  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
an estimate for the most recent month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  