-- 
U.K. Government May Pay Insurers $325 Million for Riots

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-11T13:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-k-insurers-to-claim-riot-damage-payouts-from-police-correct-.html
The British  government  will
compensate insurers for claims relating to this week’s rioting
across English cities, which may cost more than 200 million
pounds ($325 million).  Insurers will be able to receive payouts from the police
under the Riot Damage Act of 1886, Steve Field, a spokesman for
Prime Minister David Cameron, told reporters in London today.
The government will then compensate the police, he said. People
who aren’t insured can also make a claim.  “Apart from business interruption policies, it seems
insurers will be able to recover most if not all of the costs,”
said Barrie Cornes, a London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon &
Co. “The overall impact for the non-life insurance will not be
that great.”  Youths burned cars, homes and commercial property and
looted shops in  London , Birmingham and Manchester this week in
the worst rioting since the 1980s, prompting 1,500 arrests and a
strengthening of police presence across the country. The cost of
the damage will be more than 200 million pounds, the  Association
of British Insurers  said today, the third time the organization
has raised its forecast.  The government will also extend the timeframe during which
a claim must be lodged to 42 days from the usual 14 days. The
ABI “welcomed” the decision and “promised to use its
expertise to help the government and police authorities
implement the scheme,” the trade group said.  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS) ,  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  and
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  are the U.K.’s five biggest
commercial property insurers, according to the ABI.  Typically policies cover fire and damage to property
irrespective of how it was caused, according to Bill Gloyn, a
real-estate insurance broker at Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group
Plc. Smaller business may not be covered for looting as insurers
typically ask them to pay extra for theft insurance, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 