-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Tom Watson Says Documents on Phone Hacking Are ‘Dynamite’

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-12T13:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-k-lawmaker-tom-watson-says-documents-on-phone-hacking-are-dynamite-.html
Tom Watson , the U.K. lawmaker who
has pursued an investigation of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News of the
World newspaper for two years, said documents on hacking
submitted to Parliament’s Culture Committee were “dynamite.”  Murdoch’s son James was among those who had until yesterday
to supply written answers to questions from the committee
following testimony by the Murdochs last month about phone
hacking at the now-defunct tabloid.  After that session, former News of the World editor  Colin Myler  and the paper’s lawyer Tom Crone issued a statement saying
James Murdoch had been “mistaken” in aspects of it. Jonathan
Chapman, a former lawyer for the newspaper’s publisher, News
Corp.’s News International, complained of “serious
inaccuracies” about his own role. All were asked to supply
written evidence to the committee by yesterday.  “Reading documents related to hacking that I’m not allowed
to reveal,” Watson said yesterday in a Twitter Inc. message
that was confirmed by Bloomberg News. “They’re dynamite
though.”  Watson didn’t provide further details on the nature of the
documents.  Referring to journalists who may ask to see the documents,
Watson added: “And no point in journos asking for them.
Parliament’s rules prohibit me from doing so until my committee
considers them next Tuesday. We can decide to publish then. I’m
voting yes!”  Harbottle & Lewis  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, a  law firm  that has worked for the
tabloid, has asked for privilege to be waived so that it too
could respond. The firm also had until yesterday to turn written
evidence.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based  News
Corp. (NWSA) , declined to comment on the tweet.  News Corp. fell 19 cents to $16 at 9:34 a.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Before today, it had retreated 10
percent since July 4, when the  Guardian newspaper  in the U.K.
said that News of the World reporters had hacked into the
telephone of a murdered teenager in 2002 and altered voice
mails.  The scandal that followed led to the arrests of at least 12
people, the resignations of two News Corp. executives, the
shutdown of the 168-year-old tabloid and the termination of New
Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid to buy the 61
percent of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc it doesn’t own.  “I’ve run this company for more than 50 years,” Murdoch,
who is chairman and chief executive officer of News Corp., said
on a conference call about quarterly earnings this week. “The
kind of behavior that occurred in that newsroom has no place at
News Corporation. We are all committed to doing the right thing.
We have taken decisive actions to hold people accountable.”  James Murdoch  is deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., which also owns film studios and the Wall Street Journal.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  