-- 
U.K. May Block Twitter, Blackberry Messaging Services in Future Riots

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T20:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-k-may-block-twitter-blackberry-messaging-services-in-future-riots.html
David Cameron , the U.K. prime
minister, said the government is considering whether it should
block social-networking websites and messaging services during
violent unrest after the country’s worst riots since the 1980s.  The government is working with police, the intelligence
services and companies to look at “whether it would be right to
stop people communicating via these websites and services when
we know they are plotting violence, disorder and criminality,”
Cameron said today in parliament. He mentioned  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry Messenger service as one of the tools
that were used by rioters.  Police have said they are investigating the use of social-
networking services such as those operated by Twitter Inc.,
Facebook Inc. and BlackBerry Messenger. Three people were
arrested by police in Southampton,  England , on suspicion of
using social media and messaging to encourage rioting.  “If you try to stop people communicating, you create more
of a problem,” said  Jim Killock , executive director of the  Open
Rights Group,  an organization promoting freedom of expression on
the Internet. “People are angry because their freedoms are
threatened.”  RIM “welcomes the opportunity for consultation” with the
British government and other technology companies, according to
an e-mailed statement. RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, also
said it continues to respect both U.K. privacy laws and the
Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which allows police to
gather encrypted information that might otherwise be private as
part of an investigation. Twitter spokespeople couldn’t
immediately be reached.  Temptations  Tactics such as blocking social networks invite comparisons
with toppled Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , said  Daniel
Hamilton , director of Big Brother Watch, a civil liberties group
that argues for privacy and the reduction of government
monitoring. The U.K. government must “avoid the temptation to
engage in populist authoritarianism,” in response to the riots.  All social media will be reviewed, Cameron’s spokesman
Steve Field told reporters. The government is still
investigating how useful and practical blocking the websites and
services would be and hasn’t reached any conclusion, he said.  More than 1,300 people have been arrested in the U.K. since
the disorder began on Aug. 6, with 888 of those in London.  “Free flow of information can be used for good, but it can
also be used for ill,” Cameron said today. “When people are
using social media for violence, we need to stop them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  