-- 
U.S. May Call for Syria’s Assad to Step Down Amid Violence, Official Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-12T05:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-may-call-for-syria-s-assad-to-step-down-amid-violence-official-says.html
The Obama administration may call on
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step down soon, a U.S.
official said as the State Department alleged the Syrian 
government has detained more than 30,000 people, some in cages.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she wants to
see more pressure on Assad to step down from  Europe , India and
 China , including the sanctioning of Syria’s oil and gas
industry, speaking in an interview with CBS News yesterday.  While the U.S. is concerned about the possibility of civil
war in Syria, it is more focused on the prospect of sectarian
violence promoted by the Assad government and the chance that
the Syrian situation will spark instability in the wider  Middle
East , said the official, who asked not to be identified because
the administration is still discussing the issue and considering
the timing of a possible announcement about Assad.  A call for Assad to quit would be the strongest U.S.
condemnation of his crackdown on dissenters who began an
uprising five months ago.  The demonstrations are the biggest challenge to Assad’s
rule since he inherited power from his father 11 years ago.
Human-rights activists who have compiled the names of the dead
say Assad’s forces have killed more than 2,400 protesters and
detained thousands since mid-March.  Prisoners in Cages  The Syrian government has detained more than 30,000 people,
with some in cages, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland said yesterday.  “The violence continues at extremely horrific levels” in
 Syria , Nuland told reporters at a briefing in  Washington .  Asked whether Assad should step down, Nuland said, “Syria
would be a better place without Assad. This is a decision for
the Syrian people.”  The U.S. will “continue to ratchet up the pressure” on
Assad, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with President Barack Obama to  Michigan  yesterday.
Carney repeated his Aug. 10 statement that Syria would be
“better off” without Assad, stopping short of calling for his
removal.  ‘Critical’ Period  Momentum may be building for bolder steps to stop Assad
after Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain recalled their
ambassadors from Damascus this week and  Turkey  said its neighbor
is entering a “critical” period.  Their appeal to both sides for an end to the violence came
as European nations renewed a push for a UN resolution against
the bloodshed and the U.S. imposed new financial sanctions on
Syrian banks and telecommunications. Pushing back, Syria’s UN
ambassador, Bashar Ja’afari, drew parallels between Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s response to U.K. riots and Syria’s
approach to armed “gangs.”  While further action is needed, getting the Security
Council “on board” in light of Russia-led opposition may prove
difficult, said George A. Lopez, a peace studies professor at
University of Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute who was on a UN panel
of experts monitoring compliance with sanctions. “Only massive
and tight arms embargo, oil sanctions and further financial
freezes can work now,” he said.  Russia  has indicated it isn’t convinced that a UN
resolution is needed to stop the repression of protesters.  Obama Telephone Call  Obama spoke by telephone yesterday with Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan about the situation in Syria. The
two agreed on “the need for an immediate halt of all violence
and bloodshed” and “to closely monitor the actions that the
Syrian government is taking” in response to anti-government
protests, according to a White House statement.  “To the U.S., getting Assad out now would maybe save lives
and avoid bigger regional pressures later,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “However, even if he
steps aside, that won’t take care of the problem because it’s
not just the person, it’s the system itself.”  Assad this week responded to growing criticism about the
crackdown by admitting “some mistakes” were made by his
security forces in the “initial stages” of unrest. Diplomats
representing  Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  -- a bloc in the UN
Security Council reluctant to punish Assad -- said in an e-
mailed statement that they met in Damascus with the Syrian
leader, who told them “efforts were under way to prevent” the
mistakes from recurring.  At least 39 people have been killed in the past two days in
Deir al-Zour in the eastern part of the country, the central
province of Homs and northern governorate of Idlib and in Daraa
in the south, said Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria.  Abdul-Karim Rihawi of the Syrian Human Rights League was
arrested at a café in central Damascus yesterday, Qurabi said.  Over 300 people have been killed by Syrian security forces
and the army since July 31, the eve of the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan, according to Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 