-- 
U.S. Banks Are Spared Stresses of 2008 Amid Market Rout

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-11T15:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-banks-are-spared-customer-retreat-of-2008-amid-equity-market-plunge.html
The largest U.S. banks, down 19
percent this month, aren’t seeing the same retreat by
counterparties and clients that helped drive some firms to the
brink of collapse in 2008.  The nation’s banks are maintaining trading with major
counterparties and haven’t seen widespread, large withdrawals by
clients, according to people with direct knowledge of dealings
at four firms, who asked to remain anonymous because customer
interactions are private. The five largest Wall Street firms had
$1.49 trillion of liquidity resources -- cash or assets that can
be sold quickly -- which is enough to weather the “market
dislocations,” CreditSights Inc. wrote in a report yesterday.  Lenders including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
have plummeted this month as the European sovereign debt crisis
and a potential double-dip recession in the U.S. sent the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down 13 percent through yesterday.
The retrenchment hasn’t caused funding markets to freeze as in
2008, when the government injected $700 billion into the largest
lenders to stave off collapse.  “We have a financial system that has more equity, more
capital, lower levels of leverage, stronger liquidity,” said
Randy Snook, executive vice president at the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, a banking trade group. “The
overall economic environment and economic growth questions are
the largest issues that the marketplace is facing right now.
Compare that with 2008, the marketplace was dealing with the
functioning and the resiliency of the financial system.”  U.S. and Europe  European banks haven’t fared as well as U.S. lenders. Among
the world’s biggest banks, nine of the 10 perceived as the most
likely to default are European, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The spread between the three-month dollar London interbank
offered rate and overnight indexed swap, a gauge of banks’
reluctance to lend to each other, rose to 19.16 basis points
yesterday. It reached 366 basis points in October 2008.  Rates in repo markets, where firms obtain short-term
financing, have fallen more than 70 percent since August 2, the
day President  Barack Obama  signed a measure to raise the debt
ceiling. U.S. banks have seen “no evidence” of investors
requiring more collateral for a given loan, or raising the so-
called haircut, SIFMA managing director Rob Toomey said
yesterday.  “If I thought this was a calamity, I would go back to New
York,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
told CNBC from a tour of his bank’s California branches.
“People are careful, but they’re still doing business with
their clients. A lot of the markets are fine, the repo markets,
the mortgage markets, some of the credit markets are still
open.”  BofA, Citigroup  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
climbed 5.3 percent to $7.13 at 11:14 a.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, trimming its decline to 27 percent
in August and 47 percent so far this year. Citigroup rose 2.8
percent, while Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  each
increased more than 3.5 percent.  The increases among the banks didn’t eclipse yesterday’s
declines. All of the four lenders are down more than 15 percent
this month.  “People are responding to a huge amount of uncertainty
around the economic outlook,” said Richard Staite, an analyst
at Atlantic Equities LP. “It is expected that investors would
look to sell the banks as being one of the most impacted sectors
from that.”  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America added 26 basis
points to 304 basis points yesterday in New York, according to
data provider CMA. Contracts on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  increased 2.7
basis points to 117, the data show. Contracts on New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Citigroup climbed to 195 basis points and 194
basis points, respectively.  Bank Capital  U.S. banks’ Tier 1 common capital ratios, a measure of
financial strength, have almost doubled since 2008 to an average
10 percent at the end of June, analysts at Goldman Sachs led by
 Richard Ramsden  said in a report this week. Liquid assets make
up 35 percent of holdings at Bank of America, JPMorgan and
Citigroup, compared with 27 percent in 2007, according to the
report.  “The teams that are managing liquidity at these firms have
seen the abyss and have peered down into it recently,” said
David Knutson, a credit analyst at Legal & General Investment
Management. “Those memories are fresh in these management
teams’ minds and I think that’s why the risk is low.”  Concerns about banks’ capital and liquidity are less
pronounced than in 2008, Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  Revenue Recovery  “The problem is, when are we going to see any kind of
revenue improvement?” Peabody said. “Given the flatness of the
yield curve, margin assumptions are going to be cut again, and
given the uncertainties in the economy, loan demand assumptions
and the capital markets assumptions are going to be pared back.
So, you’ve pushed out any kind of revenue recovery until the
first quarter of next year.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which borrowed more than $100 billion from
the  Federal Reserve  in September 2008 after hedge-fund clients
pulled funds from the firm’s prime brokerage unit, hasn’t seen
similar prime-brokerage withdrawals this month, Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst Brad Hintz said in a note yesterday. Lenders
haven’t reduced credit lines to the firm, Hintz wrote.  “Since concerns about a potential U.S. government default
began to build in July, no bank or counterparty has turned down
the Morgan Stanley name,” Hintz wrote.  The spread between the three-month euro interbank offered
rate and overnight indexed swap rose yesterday to 69.7 basis
points, the highest since April 2009.  Stress Tests  European Union regulators failed eight of 91 banks in
stress-test results announced last month, requiring the lenders
to raise 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion) in capital. While the
examinations considered a 25 percent writedown on Greek
 government bonds , they didn’t include the possibility of a
sovereign default, a scenario that’s now the focus of investors.  Societe Generale (GLE)  climbed 2.9 percent to 22.75 euros today
after falling as much as 23 percent yesterday in Paris. Credit-
default swaps on the bank rose 65 basis points to a record 337
basis points yesterday. Societe Generale “categorically denies
all market rumors,” Emmanuelle Renaudat, a spokeswoman for the
French bank, said yesterday in an interview. She declined to be
more specific.  European Lenders  European bank shares lost 5.3 percent yesterday, for the
biggest decline among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index and the steepest drop since May 2009.  Continued declines may erase the current U.S. stability.
Clients are likely to pull business from banks if shares drop
below 50 percent of tangible book value, which would indicate
concerns about solvency, Peabody said. Bank of America is at 54
percent of tangible book value, while Citigroup and Morgan
Stanley are at 58 percent and 62 percent, respectively.  “If this moves from concern to fear, then all bets change
quickly,” Knutson said. “For anyone who lived through the
2008-2009 period, it’s not at that level yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  