-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Aug. 9 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-11T13:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-aug-9-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   Summary:  Exceptional drought continues its hold on the southern
states of Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico and neighboring states.
Recent extreme high temperatures have combined with below
average precipitation over the last few weeks to create drought
impacts in the Corn Belt states of  Iowa , Illinois and Indiana.  Northeast and Mid-Atlantic:  An area of abnormally dry
conditions is expanded in the states of Vermont and New
Hampshire.  Over the last 30 days, rainfall totals of one to
five inches below average have been reported across much of the
northern tier of these states.  Streamflow data is averaging
around 20% of normal in some area creeks and rivers for this
time of year.  Southeast: Abnormally dry conditions now exist in the mountains
of western  North Carolina  and eastern Tennessee, abnormally dry
conditions.  This area has not received as much rainfall as
normal for this time of year, particularly over the last 30
days, and streamflow data in the area are also beginning to show
signs of less surface water flowing through the mountain creeks
and rivers.  In the Charlotte area, as much as six inches of
rain feel this week, but primarily on the already drought-free
area.  Elsewhere in North Carolina, some improvement is
warranted in the north central part of the state, with a change
from D1 to D0 status.  Hydrological impacts persist, however,
and that is indicated as the primary impact.  A swath of heavy rain through east central  South Carolina  is
cause for a one-category improvement from Columbia to
Charleston.  Local totals were one to two inches or more above
normal for the week.  An area of extremely heavy precipitation
centered in northeastern  Georgia  was also beneficial.  Scattered
thunderstorm activity in  Florida  was considered, but no changes
were made on the peninsula.  The impacts of previous extreme
drought in the Florida panhandle have subsided, and D3, or
Extreme Drought, conditions are removed.  South:  Texas  continues to suffer from unprecedented drought.
Climate data show that the Lone Star State is in its driest ten-
month period ever on record, in over a century of data.  This is
unprecedented territory, as the precipitation deficits mount,
and triple digit temperatures continue to increase water demand.
Significant, ongoing impacts related to agriculture, water
supply and natural vegetation conditions have been reported.
Widespread Exceptional Drought (D4) is maintained in large part
across the region.  The western edge of the D4 area in the Oklahoma and Texas
Panhandles continued to erode thanks to monsoon rainfall amounts
of nearly an inch in some areas. Boise City, OK, received 0.95
inch in the last seven days, compared to an October 1 - July 31
total of 3.78 inches. Elsewhere, D3 was expanded eastward across
the remainder of southeastern  Oklahoma , over the Red River and
into western Arkansas due to a combination of short-term dryness
with excessive heat, residual effects of moderate drought from
the preceding year, and local impact reports. The Oklahoma
Biological Survey reported that streams in southeastern Oklahoma
were going dry, threatening up to three endangered mussel
species.  Elsewhere, a large area of six to eight inches of rainfall
across northeastern  Mississippi  and northwestern  Alabama  removed
dry conditions and no drought is depicted on this week’s map.
In northwestern  Louisiana , drought impacts and precipitation
deficits are accumulating, resulting in an increase in the D4
area.  Much of the Exceptional Drought is due to shortages of
two to three feet of rainfall over the last 18 months.  At the
opposite corner of the state, rain was a welcome sight and gave
reason for one-category improvement from Baton Rouge and New
Orleans, LA to Biloxi, MS.  Central and Midwest: Drought impacts have developed quickly in
the Corn Belt states of  South Dakota , Iowa,  Illinois  and
Indiana.  Multiple days of 100+ degree temperatures have
combined with below average precipitation over the last few
weeks to stress the corn plants, particularly in areas with
sandier soils or areas with delayed planting due to a wet
spring.  This “flash drought” is depicted as D1, moderate
drought, in southeastern South Dakota, and from southeast Iowa
to central Indiana.  The soybean regions have not reported
similar conditions thus far.  A storm track across northeastern Kansas and into southwestern
Missouri produced locally three to eight inches above average
precipitation for the current Drought Monitor period.  One-
category improvements are made in several counties,
approximately from  Manhattan  to Lawrence, KS, and also over part
of the Ozarks between Kansas City and Springfield, MO.  West: Very few changes were made in the western region of the
 United States .  Widespread rainfall south and southeast of
Denver, CO, have improved the drought conditions and a one-
category improvement is made in Jefferson, Park, El Paso, and
Lincoln counties and the surrounding area.  Drought impacts to
producers in this area are not as severe as were reported in
July.  In the San Luis Valley in south central  Colorado ,
exceptional drought impacts continue despite recent
precipitation over the last few weeks, and this area remains in
D4 status.  Hawaii , Alaska and Puerto Rico: The Big Island is suffering from
lack of rainfall in the agricultural areas of north, west and
central regions.  D2 was expanded to include a larger area of
north central Hawaii, and moderate drought conditions now
encompass most of the western half of the island.  The abnormally dry areas in Alaska held steady this week.
Despite widespread reports of precipitation across the state,
they did not alleviate the current D0 regions and were below
normal for the period. Many stations are maintaining rainfall
deficits of up to three inches below average for the last month.  In Puerto Rico, residents continue to be bombarded by above
average precipitation this summer, and no drought conditions are
depicted on the map.  For the last 30 days, rainfall totals of
more than eight inches above normal are common across the
island.  Looking Ahead: The first few days of the next U.S. Drought
Monitor period will bring scattered showers throughout the
monsoon region, centered on  New Mexico .  A swath of this
scattered convective activity may be found from north to south,
just east of the Rocky Mountains, but may not alleviate the
severe to exceptional drought conditions in the Great Plains
states.  A strong system will move the middle part of the
country, centered on Arkansas.  Texas will continue to be “high
and dry”, with little drought relief in sight over the next
week.  The extended outlook over the next six to ten days calls for
continued above normal temperatures across throughout the
central U.S., from  Arizona  to Mississippi and north to the Great
Lakes.  This area has already been affected by extremely high
maximum temperatures, and the heat trend will continue.  Cooler
than normal temperatures are expected across Alaska, the Pacific
coast and along the Atlantic coast from  Virginia  to northern
Florida.  Below normal precipitation pattern will persist as
well throughout much of the most severe drought areas, and above
normal precipitation projected over the northern High Plains
states and far Pacific Northwest and Northeast.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  