-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Declines to Lowest Since May in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-11T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-consumer-confidence-declines-to-lowest-since-may-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last
week to the lowest level since mid-May as American high earners,
homeowners and those working full time turned more pessimistic.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.1 in the
period to Aug. 7, down from minus 47.6 the prior week and the
second-lowest level in a year. The measure was less than five
points away from the record low of minus 54 reached in November
2008, during the depths of the last recession.  The biggest one-week plunge in stocks since 2008 followed
by the downgrade of the country’s top credit rating may even be
unnerving those who are fully employed and earning more than
$100,000 a year. Rising concern among such households, which
have the wherewithal to spend, poses a risk to a recovery that
Federal Reserve policy makers said this week was already
advancing “considerably slower” than projected.  “The recognition by consumers that they will bear the
disproportionate burden of costs due to the downgrade, in
addition to stock market volatility and another weak employment
report, sufficiently increased consumer discomfort,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. The comfort gauge is poised to keep falling in coming
weeks, he said.  Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly fell last week to
a four-month low, signaling the recent slowdown in payroll gains
is due to a lack of hiring rather than more firings, another
report showed today. Applications for unemployment insurance
payments decreased 7,000 in the week ended Aug. 6 to 395,000,
the fewest since early April, the Labor Department said in
Washington.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose after benchmark gauges sank yesterday to 11-
month lows. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.6 percent
to 1,138.19 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell,
sending the yield on the 10-year note up to 2.20 percent from
2.11 percent late yesterday.  Sentiment among Americans employed full-time fell to minus
43.6 last week, the lowest point since the recession ended in
June 2009. The gauge for people making more than $100,000
declined to minus 21, the weakest since November 2009. The
decreases indicate Americans with the means to shop may be
hesitant to open their wallets.  Consumer spending  dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years as savings climbed, Commerce Department figures
showed last week. The  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in
the second quarter after almost stalling at the start of the
year, another report from the agency showed.  Fed Action  The  Federal Reserve ’s Open Market Committee said in a
statement this week that it may keep the benchmark  interest rate 
close to zero through mid-2013 to try to bolster the recovery.  The comfort index is “a short step away from minus 50, the
level historically associated with the deepest depths of
recession,” said  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg.  Two of the comfort measure’s three subcomponents declined
last week. The gauge of personal finances dropped to its lowest
level since the start of July, while the buying climate index
decreased to a more than two-month low. Stubbornly high fuel
prices may explain the deterioration.  After reaching a three-month low of $3.54 a gallon in late
June, the average price of regular gasoline climbed throughout
July and averaged $3.69 last week.  Views of Economy  The gauge of Americans’ views of the economy, which is the
difference between those with positive versus negative opinions,
was minus 85.2 after minus 86.5 the previous week. Some 52
percent of respondents said the economy is in poor shape, the
largest share in 16 months.  The S&P 500’s 7.2 percent slump last week was the biggest
since November 2008, which may explain why sentiment decreased
among those with the highest incomes. Weekly changes in the
overall comfort gauge have moved in the same direction as the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  about 80 percent of the time since
the measure’s inception in 1985, according to Langer.  Today’s comfort report also showed sentiment among
Democrats dropped to the lowest level since March 2010, a
possible concern for President  Barack Obama  as he seeks re-
election next year. Confidence among Republicans fell to a 12-
week low.  The turmoil in financial markets may be hurting  General
Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest U.S. automaker. GM this week said its
forecast for 2011 U.S. sales may be in jeopardy.  Confidence ‘Fragile’  “Consumer confidence is pretty fragile right now,”  Don
Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, said in a
presentation. “With the recent volatility in the stock market,
we know that’s a concern we really have to watch closely.”  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 45.0 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the recession
ended, the report showed.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 U.S.
residents age 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked
for their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate. Results are combined with data from the previous three
weeks, and the percentage of negative responses is subtracted
from the share of positive views on each question, with the
results then averaged.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  Field work for the index is done by Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  