-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: CME Increases Gold Contract Margins

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-11T12:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-cme-increases-gold-contract-margins.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  CME Increases Gold Margins as Investors Drive Record Rally  CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market, raised
the margins on gold contracts by 22 percent after prices surged
to a record on increased haven demand amid a deepening rout in
global equities.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  BlackRock Is Buying ‘Compellingly Cheap’ Miners on Price Outlook  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, is
buying mining stocks this week amid a global rout in shares of
raw materials producers sparked by concern slowing economic
growth will sap demand for commodities.  Brazil’s Cane Crop May Be Below 515 Million Tons, Armajaro Says  The sugar cane crop in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s
largest producing region, may fall below 515 million metric tons
in the 2011-12 season, according to Armajaro Trading Ltd.  Billionaire Abramovich’s Son Seeks Russian Oil Deals With Zoltav  Arkadiy Abramovich, the son of Russian billionaire  Roman
Abramovich , is seeking to snap up oil and gas assets in Russia
and the former Soviet Union, potentially making a purchase early
next year.  Abu Dhabi  Said to Start Ruwais Refinery Maintenance in January  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. plans to do maintenance work on
gasoline-producing units at its Ruwais refinery in the first
quarter, two people with direct knowledge of the schedule said.  India July Coal Imports Increase 8%, Interocean Group Data Shows  Indian companies led by Adani Enterprises Ltd., Bhatia
International Ltd. and JSW Energy Ltd. increased coal imports by
8 percent in July from a month earlier, according to data from
Interocean Group of Companies.  PetroVietnam Gas to Borrow Up to $700 Million for LNG Terminal  PetroVietnam Gas Corp. is in talks to raise up to $700
million in foreign loans for a $1 billion liquefied natural gas
terminal in what would be the fifth overseas borrowing by a
Vietnamese company since the near- collapse of the country’s
largest shipbuilder in December.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises as Stronger Yuan Spurs Buying by Top Consumer  China   Copper rose in  New York  as gains by the yuan spurred buying
from China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  MINING:  Noble Second-Quarter Net Jumps 63% as Trading Volumes Rise (1)  Noble Group Ltd., the Hong Kong-based supplier of energy,
food and mining commodities, reported a 63 percent jump in
second-quarter profit, boosted by bigger trading volumes.  Aquarius Platinum Jumps as Underlying Profit Beats Estimates (1)  Aquarius Platinum Ltd., the worst performer on the FTSE 350
Mining Index in the last six months, rose the most in a year in
London trading after underlying earnings beat analyst estimates.  Gold Fields Profit Increases 15% on Metal’s Climb to Record (1)  Gold Fields Ltd., the fourth-largest producer of the
precious metal, posted a 15 percent increase in second-quarter
profit as concerns that global economic growth will slow boosted
prices.  AngloGold Mponeng Mine Earth Tremor Kills Worker, Union Says  A worker was killed in an earth tremor at AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd.’s Mponeng mine in  South Africa , National Union of
Mineworkers spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said in a mobile phone
message today.  China Guangdong May Make New Offer for Kalahari, Patersons Says  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. may bid again for
Kalahari Minerals Plc, triggering an acquisition of uranium
explorer Extract Resources Ltd., after withdrawing an offer in
May, Patersons Securities Ltd. said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Fall From Record as CME Raises Margins 22 Percent  Gold declined from a record after CME Group Inc. boosted
margins on futures contracts, prompting some investors to sell
the metal after a three-day rally.  U.S. Mint Gold Coin Sales Rise to 48,500 Ounces So Far in August  The U.S. Mint’s American Eagle gold coin sales are 48,500
ounces so far in August, according to figures on the Mint’s
website.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Climbs as Malaysian Stockpiles Drop on Record Exports  Palm oil gained the most in four weeks after stockpiles in
Malaysia, the second-largest producer, dropped for the first
time in six months in July when exports advanced to an all-time
high and output declined.  Corn, Soybeans Gain on Speculation USDA May Cut Output Forecast  Corn and soybeans rose in  Chicago  on speculation the U.S.
government will cut estimates for the nation’s harvest this year
as hot weather curbs yields.  Coffee Climbs as European Inventories May Drop; Sugar Advances  Coffee climbed to a three-week high in London on
speculation stockpiles at European ports will start to fall.
Sugar advanced.  Rubber Gains a Second Day as Stronger Yuan Improves Appeal  Rubber advanced for a second day, reversing an earlier
decline, as a stronger yuan boosted optimism that demand will
grow in China, the largest buyer, countering concerns about the
European debt crisis.  Thai Sugar Exports May Increase to Record, Cane Board Forecasts  Sugar exports from  Thailand , the second-biggest shipper,
may climb to an all-time high for a second year in 2012, helping
offset lower supplies from rival  Brazil , according to the Office
of the Cane & Sugar Board.  SHIPPING:  BW Maritime Says Refusing Unprofitable Supertanker Charters  BW Maritime, which has a fleet of ships including 15
supertankers, is declining some bookings for the oil carriers
while charter rates don’t cover the “operational risk of moving
them,” Singapore based chief executive officer Andreas Sohmen-
Pao said by e-mail today.  No North Sea Grane Crude Oil Cargoes to Be Shipped in September  Exports of North Sea Grane crude for September will drop to
zero compared with seven shipments for August, loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News show.  North Sea Aasgard Crude Daily Loadings to Climb 16% Next Month  Daily loadings of North Sea Aasgard crude will increase 16
percent in September, according to a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Reduced Tanker Earnings to Spur Vessel Mothballing, Arctic Says  More owners of supertankers will move to mothball their
vessels because earnings from the ships are too low, Arctic
Securities ASA said.  Russian Freight Rates for Grains May Fall Before New Harvests  The cost of shipping wheat from  Russia  to Turkey, Egypt and
Israel on smaller “coaster” vessels may drop as much as 23
percent by the middle of next month as new crops from North
America increase competition, said Nikolay Solovyev, general
director of Nika Maritime Co.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Strengthens Beyond 6.4 Per Dollar for First Time Since 1993  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for the first
time in 17 years, supported by the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to
keep  interest rates  at a record low and signs China will use
currency gains to help rein in inflation.  Yuan Bulls Awakened by Trade Surplus, QE3 Hint: China Credit  Investor expectations for yuan gains jumped the most since
a dollar peg ended last year after China’s trade surplus hit a
30-month high and the Federal Reserve raised the prospect it
will pump more dollars into the financial system.  China Raises Yuan Reference Rate 0.27%, Most Since November  China’s central bank raised its reference rate for the yuan
by 0.27 percent to 6.3991 per dollar, the biggest advance since
November.  Central Bankers Race to Protect Growth in 72 Hours of Crisis (1)  Central bankers are racing to shield their economies from
fiscal tightening and lopsided currency swings that threaten a
new global recession.  Recession Threatens on Household Spending’s Consecutive Declines  Recession signals in the world’s largest economy are
flashing red again.  Europe  Crisis Won’t Lead to Repeat of Lehman, Magnus Says (1)  Europe’s mounting debt crisis is unlikely to lead a
widespread collapse of banks, according to  George Magnus , senior
economic adviser to  UBS Investment Bank  in  London .  Fed Said to Track  Basel  Capital Rules for Biggest U.S. Banks  Federal Reserve officials are drawing up rules for the
largest U.S. banks that won’t be more stringent than global
capital standards agreed to in Basel,  Switzerland , according to
a person familiar with the discussions.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Equity Futures Pare Gains as Treasuries Fall, Franc Tumbles  U.S. equity-index futures pared gains, European stocks
erased an earlier advance and metals rallied as Treasuries fell
for the first time in four days. The Swiss franc tumbled.  Standard Chartered Recommends Buying Brent Oil Below $100 (1)  Standard Chartered Plc recommended investors buy Brent
crude oil futures below $100 a barrel as it sees “firm
fundamental support for prices.”  Rice Is Next  Japan  Food Risk From Fukushima Nuclear Meltdown (1)  Japan’s rice harvest is a time of festivities celebrated
even by the emperor as farmers reap the rewards of four months
of labor in a 2,000-year-old tradition. Not this year, with
radiation seeping into the soil.  Cameron Says Government Won’t Allow ‘Culture of Fear’ on Streets  Prime Minister David Cameron said that his government will
not allow “a culture of fear” to reign on Britain’s streets
after the worst rioting since the 1980s.  Tremonti to Explain Austerity Plan as Unions Threaten Strike  Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti will present a new
austerity plan that has prompted threats of strikes from unions
as he seeks to eliminate the  budget deficit  and secure continued
European Central Bank support for the country’s bonds.  SPORTS:  Spurs-Everton Soccer Game Postponed Because of London Riots  Tottenham’s home soccer match against Everton this weekend
will be postponed because of rioting in London, the Premier
League said.  Eto’o to Get Record $485,000 a Week Pay Deal in Russia: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  