-- 
U.S. Draws 1-1 With Mexico in Jurgen Klinsmann’s 1st Game as Soccer Coach

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-11T04:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-draws-1-1-with-mexico-in-jurgen-klinsmann-s-1st-game-as-soccer-coach.html
Jurgen Klinsmann’s first game as
coach of the U.S. men’s national soccer team ended in a 1-1 draw
with archrival  Mexico .  Oribe Peralta opened the scoring for Mexico in the 17th
minute and Robbie Rogers got the first goal of the Klinsmann era
in the 73rd minute in last night’s exhibition game at Lincoln
Financial Field in Philadelphia.  “I really had a lot of fun with the coaching staff and the
players,” Klinsmann, a former  World Cup  winner as a player with
Germany, said in a televised interview with ESPN. “It’s a
really nice feeling.”  Klinsmann’s starting lineup contained six changes from the
team that began a 4-2 defeat to Mexico in the Gold Cup final on
June 26. Last night’s result, the 12th draw between the teams,
ended a run of three defeats to Mexico, which leads the head-to-
head series 32-15.  Mexico took the lead when Andres Guardado took the ball
from a short corner kick and fired in a low cross that Peralta
volleyed past U.S. goalkeeper  Tim Howard .  Rogers tied it with his first touch after coming on as a
substitute. Brek Shea collected a pass from Juan Agudelo in the
penalty area and centered for Rogers to tap in for his second
international goal.  Seconds later, Jose Torres shot wide from the edge of the
penalty area with only Mexico goalkeeper Guillermo Ochoa to
beat. Rogers then drove the ball over the crossbar with 10
minutes to play and Shea forced a finger-tip save from Ochoa a
minute later.  “We could have closed that game down in the final 10
minutes,” Klinsmann said.  Replaced Bradley  Former Bayern Munich coach Klinsmann, 47, was appointed the
35th coach of the U.S. team on July 29, one day after Bob Bradley was fired. Klinsmann coached  Germany  to a third-place
finish at the 2006 World Cup after the team had slid to 19th in
the world rankings. A Southern  California  resident, Klinsmann
has lived in the U.S. for 13 years and has said he considers his
family “more American than German.”  Klinsmann played as a striker for teams including Bayern,
 Inter Milan  and Tottenham Hotspur. He scored 47 goals in 107
appearances for the German national team and was a member of the
squads that won the 1990 World Cup and 1996 European
Championship.  The U.S. next plays  Costa Rica  on Sept. 2 at the Home Depot
Center in Carson, California, before traveling to Brussels to
face Belgium four days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  