-- 
U.S. Second Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-08-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/u-s-second-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND  FEDERAL RESERVE 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS
April-June 2011  During the second quarter, the U.S. dollar’s nominal trade-
weighted exchange value depreciated 2.0 percent as measured by
the Federal Reserve Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
depreciated 2.4 percent against the euro and 3.2 percent against
the Japanese yen, but largely stabilized compared with the
steady trend of depreciation witnessed in the first quarter. The
U.S. monetary authorities did not intervene in the foreign
exchange markets during the quarter.  The dollar’s depreciation occurred amid increased foreign
exchange market volatility, although market participants
characterized trading conditions as orderly. Several factors
contributed to this volatility, including a series of weaker-
than-expected U.S. economic data, shifts in relative monetary
policy expectations, and ongoing concerns about the sovereign
debt problems facing some countries in the euro area.  DOLLAR FLUCTUATES ON WEAKER DOMESTIC AND GLOBAL ECONOMIC SIGNALS
The dollar depreciated broadly early in the second quarter amid
continued weakness in domestic economic data and expectations
for a slower pace of monetary policy normalization relative to
other countries. In particular, continued weakness in the labor
market and still-anchored longer term inflation expectations
supported market analysts’ view that the  Federal Open Market
Committee  (FOMC) would likely maintain its accommodative
monetary policy stance for a longer period. Market participants
interpreted the April FOMC statement and Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke’s comments at the press conference that
followed as being consistent with this view.  Changes in interest rate differentials during the quarter
coincided with movements in the euro-dollar and dollar-yen
currency pairs. The dollar depreciated 2.4 percent against the
euro as the spread of the two-year German government bond yield
over U.S. Treasury securities widened approximately 18 basis
points. Over the same period, the dollar depreciated 3.2 percent
against the Japanese yen as the spread of the two-year U.S.
Treasury yield over Japanese  government bonds  narrowed 33 basis
points.  Although market observers thought it likely that the FOMC would
maintain its accommodative stance for a longer period,
expectations increased that other foreign central banks would
raise  interest rates  at a relatively faster pace. Indeed, the
 European Central Bank  (ECB) at its April meeting raised its
policy rate 25 basis points, and market-based indicators
suggested expectations for further interest rate increases at
subsequent meetings. Other foreign central banks, such as Banco
Central do Brasil, the Reserve Bank of  India , and the  Central
Bank  of  Russia , also continued to raise interest rates during
the quarter, while the People’s Bank of China increased reserve
requirements.  After reaching a record low in late April, the U.S. dollar
trade-weighted index increased as concerns about a slower pace
of recovery for the global economy emerged and expectations for
further near-term interest rate increases by the ECB diminished.
Indeed, a number of global economic data releases, including
global manufacturing and export data and economic sentiment
surveys, were weaker than expected. Additionally, contributions
by emerging market Asian countries to global growth were
expected to moderate, as policy actions aimed at managing rising
inflation concerns were expected to dampen growth prospects.
These factors contributed to a decline in commodity prices,
including a 15-percent decline in front-month West Texas
Intermediate crude oil during the first week of May, weighing on
many commodity-linked currencies. During May, the  U.S. dollar 
appreciated roughly 2.5 percent against the Canadian dollar,
Australian dollar, and Norwegian krone. Concurrent with the
decline in commodity prices, expectations for future ECB policy
rate increases began to diminish in May, contributing to the
euro’s depreciation against the dollar.  RENEWED CONCERNS ABOUT FISCAL CRISIS IN EURO-AREA PERIPHERY
COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTE TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET VOLATILITY  During the quarter, the euro was modestly stronger and generally
traded in a narrow range against the U.S. dollar, but it
depreciated nearly 7 percent against the Swiss franc. Much of
the weakness in the euro was attributed to the reemergence of
fiscal concerns in euro-area periphery countries, which prompted
the countries’ sovereign debt spreads to widen and implied
volatility in the euro-U.S. dollar currency pair to rise.  In particular, market participants expressed concern about the
uncertainty surrounding disbursement of additional tranches of
aid to  Greece  from the  International Monetary Fund  and European
Union that hinged upon parliamentary approval of further
austerity measures. Additionally, market participants focused on
official-sector discussions about the need for private sector
involvement to help alleviate Greece’s debt burden. During the
quarter, two-year spreads of Greek, Portuguese, and Irish
sovereign debt to German equivalents widened 1,115 basis points,
459 basis points, and 383 basis points, respectively. Two-year
spreads of Italian and Spanish debt to German equivalents also
began to widen, increasing 77 basis points and 46 basis points,
respectively.  Rating actions on Greece and other euro-area periphery countries,
as well as news that Moody’s had placed some French banks on
review for a possible downgrade, contributed to further market
volatility. The possibility that some French banks would be
downgraded because of their exposure to Greek debt brought about
modest signs of tension in eurodollar funding markets later in
the quarter. Specifically, the spreads between three-month
forward rate agreements and overnight indexed swaps increased
about 13 basis points during the second half of June.  One-month implied volatility in the euro-dollar currency pair
increased as much as 4 percentage points between early April and
late June as attention increasingly centered on fiscal issues in
the euro-area periphery. Additionally, one-month 25-delta risk
reversals on the euro-dollar currency pair declined to levels
last observed in June 2010, reflecting increased demand for
protection from further euro depreciation against the dollar.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS  The U.S. monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of June 30, 2011, the value of
the U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-
currency-denominated assets totaled $26.91 billion, comprised of
euro and yen holdings. The Federal Reserve’s System Open Market
Account holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled
$26.93 billion, also comprised of euro and yen holdings.  Temporary Reciprocal Currency Arrangements
(Dollar Liquidity Swap Lines)
On June 29, the Federal Reserve announced an extension of its
existing dollar liquidity swap lines with the  Bank of Canada 
(BoC), the  Bank of England  (BoE), the ECB, and the Swiss
National Bank (SNB) through August 1, 2012. As of June 30, there
were no outstanding draws. The Federal Reserve had reestablished
in May 2010 temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements
with a number of foreign central banks in response to the
reemergence of strains in offshore U.S. dollar short-term
funding markets. These swap arrangements were reestablished with
the BoC, the BoE, the ECB, the BoJ, and the SNB through August 1,
2011. The BoE, the ECB, the BoJ, and the SNB have unlimited swap
lines, while the BoC has a $30 billion swap line.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings
The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market-related
rates of return and have a high degree of liquidity and credit
quality. To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are
split evenly between the System Open Market Account and the
Exchange Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S.
monetary authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on
an outright basis in German, French, and Japanese government
securities. Under euro-denominated repurchase agreements, the
U.S. monetary authorities accept sovereign debt backed by the
full faith and credit of the following governments: Belgium,
 France ,  Germany ,  Italy , the Netherlands, and  Spain . Foreign
currency reserves are also invested at the Bank for
International Settlements and in facilities at other official
institutions. As of June 30, direct holdings of foreign
government securities totaled $25.4 billion, split evenly
between the Federal Reserve System Open Market Account and the
U.S. Treasury Exchange Stabilization Fund. Foreign government
securities held under repurchase agreements totaled $5.4 billion
at the end of the quarter and were also split evenly between the
two authorities.  The swap arrangement with the Bank of  Japan  (BoJ) was extended
at its policy meeting after the quarter ended, on July 12.  This report, presented by Brian Sack, Executive Vice President,
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New York  and Manager of the System Open
Market Account, describes the foreign exchange operations of the
U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve System
for the period from April through June 2011. Jeffrey Kong was
primarily responsible for preparation of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  