-- 
Huawei Plans U.K. Smartphone Debut in Battle With Android Handset Makers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-12T13:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/huawei-plans-u-k-handset-debut-to-take-on-android-phone-makers.html
Huawei Technologies Co. plans to
sell its first own-branded mobile phone in the U.K., taking on
manufacturers using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software in one of
Europe’s most competitive handset markets.  Having initially focused on making handsets for carriers,
China’s largest phone-equipment supplier will introduce the
Blaze device as early as next month. Huawei is targeting a
market share of 4 percent to 5 percent within 12 months, said
 Mark Mitchinson , the company’s U.K. executive vice president.  “We’re trying to establish the brand, almost from
scratch,” Mitchinson, who previously worked for Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said in an interview in London.
Huawei will compete with “anyone involved in Android.”  Huawei’s push into the U.K., following its first mobile
network deal in the country in May, marks the company’s biggest
step into devices in western  Europe . Sales outside of China
accounted for 65 percent of Shenzhen, China-based Huawei’s
revenue last year. Sales abroad grew three times faster than in
its home market.  Huawei, benefitting from the rising popularity of Android,
will compete with other manufacturers who use the software.  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Sony Ericsson  Mobile Communications AB, the
two smallest major brands in the U.K., both use the system, the
best-selling smartphone platform in the second quarter after a
fourfold increase in global sales, Gartner said yesterday.  Investing ‘Heavily’  “We are seeing other players that unfortunately will
continue to be challenged and Sony Ericsson is one of those,”
said Roberta Cozza, a U.K.-based analyst at Gartner Inc. Huawei
has about 1 percent share of the U.K. device market and that may
rise to 3 percent in a year, she estimates.  Huawei will need to invest “very heavily” to compete with
 HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest phone maker, which also
initially suffered from lack of brand awareness, she said. “The
problem they have is the brand. It’s a limitation for them.”  The Blaze handset will likely compete with lower-priced
smartphones that sell for as little as 100 pounds ($162), Cozza
said. Huawei also plans to sell a tablet computer called the
MediaPad and another handset, Vision, in the U.K., where more
than one in four adults already has a smartphone, which can play
video clips and download corporate e-mail.  Huawei will seek the support of operators including
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Telefonica SA’s O2 and Everything
Everywhere, the U.K. joint venture between France Telecom SA and
Deutsche Telkom AG, Mitchinson said.  Huawei aims to boost its handset sales to $20 billion in
five years, from $6 billion this year, the company said in
April. Huawei reported revenue of about $29 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  