-- 
Huntington Seeks 9% Shipyard Profit by Cutting Production Flaws

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/huntington-seeks-9-shipyard-profit-by-cutting-production-flaws.html
At Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc.’s 665-acre shipyard in Pascagoula,  Mississippi ,
shipbuilding unit president Irwin Edenzon says picking up a
scrap of paper in the parking lot may prevent delays in building
a $2.9 billion amphibious assault ship.  “If a paper finds itself on a ship, it finds its way into
the bilge, and a welder drops fire into that bilge” the result
may be “fire on the ship,” he said.  Fighting even unlikely sources of trouble may be critical
to Huntington, the U.S. Navy’s largest builder of surface-
warfare vessels. The company has been penalized by the Navy for
poor quality and is now attempting a turnaround. It’s promising
investors it will boost overall profit margins to 9 percent by
2015 from 5.5 percent now. The company was spun off from
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in April.  “The basis for investing in Huntington Ingalls remains
tied to improving margin performance in the Gulf shipyards,”
said  Douglas Harned , a New York-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. To meet its goal of 9 percent margins by 2015,
profit at the Gulf Coast yards must expand to 5 percent from the
current 2 percent, Harned said. He rates the stock as
“outperform.”  The  Newport News , Virginia-based company with 2010 sales of
$6.7 billion will announce its quarterly results today, and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect profit of 82 cents a share
on sales of $1.66 billion.  Huntington declined $1.71, or 5.8 percent, to $28.01
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 33 percent since the company was spun off
in April.  Improving Quality  The company’s yards at Pascagoula and at Avondale,
 Louisiana , both on the  Gulf of Mexico , between them build the
Navy’s DDG-51 guided missile destroyers, LPD-17 amphibious
transport dock ships, the new LHA-6 amphibious assault ship and
U.S. Coast Guard cutters. The company’s Newport News, Virginia
yard, builds nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines.  As part of the spinoff, Northrop and Huntington have said
they plan to shut the Avondale yard by 2013, potentially cutting
about 5,000 jobs. Still, Huntington’s Chief Executive Officer
Mike Petters said he may keep the yard open if he can find
alternative uses for it.  Edenzon and Petters said the company is improving quality,
on-time delivery and is better equipped to cope with hurricanes,
which are common on the  Gulf Coast . The goal, they said, is to
avoid cost overruns and delays, which in the past have led to
$431 million in charges on its books when they were a division
of Northrop.  History of Repairs  Three of the five LPD-17 amphibious transport ships that
Northrop’s ship unit built for the Navy since 2000 have returned
for repairs. The Pentagon found poor quality welding and that
contaminated lubrication oil damaged the ships’ engines.  Petters said that, until three years ago, the Gulf Coast
yards were building a series of first-in-class ships, including
the LPD-17 and the LHA-6. “We are moving out of that era and
into serial production,” he said.  Huntington is performing 100 percent inspections in some
areas, and has picked four aspects of shipbuilding -- hull,
electrical, paint and pipes -- to ensure meet the Navy’s quality
on the first attempt.  “The main thing we are looking to drive is elimination of
rework,” Petters said. “If we do that, it has a greater effect
on the schedule of the ship” than anything else. “It’s really
expensive to do something pier-side that was supposed to be done
in the stacking hall” where sections of the ship are assembled,
he said.  Stacking Halls  By 2015, Huntington is aiming to finish as much as 90
percent of the new ships in stacking halls, where sections lie
on their side allowing workers easy access, Edenzon said. The
balance of the work is done on the pier where, for example, more
difficult overhead welding may be required. Currently the
company is finishing about 75 percent of the work before
floating the ship, Edenzon said.  The company also has scaled back outsourcing of “complex
steel structures,” Edenzon said.  The difficulty of turning around yards that have faced
chronic quality problems has been compounded by coping with a
workforce of new hires after the 2005  Hurricane Katrina  chased
away experienced workers.  Even some new workers have been lured away by jobs in
offshore oil drilling and casino construction in nearby Biloxi -
- 20 miles west of Pascagoula -- said  Byron Callan , a defense
analyst at Capital Alpha Partners in  Washington .  Hurricane Katrina  Edenzon said the workforce has stabilized now and is “much
better than three years ago,” with 3.5 percent attrition this
year compared with double-digit rates following Katrina. The
company operates a mentoring program that pairs experienced
foremen with younger recruits, he said.  When Katrina hit the Pascagoula yard, water rose 21 feet
above  sea level , damaging electrical substations that were at
about 16 feet, said Kevin Amis, vice president of operations.
Since then, the company has raised all 12 power units to about
24 feet and made them portable so they can be moved to higher
ground in emergencies, he said.  Huntington removed so much junk from its yard that it had
25 more acres of work space than before the storm.  Evacuation procedures also have been improved, Amis said.
As the 2005 hurricane approached, it took the company five days
to move people and material off the shipyard. “Now when a storm
is coming, within 18 hours we can complete evacuation,” moving
material to a parking lot six miles north, he said.  External Challenges  Even with the internal changes, Petters’s greatest
challenge may be external, said Jesse Rick Perez, a former Navy
researcher who studied shipbuilding for the  Naval Sea Systems
Command .  To expand its profit margin, Huntington may need to “cut
back  labor force  and use more technology and better tooling” at
its Gulf yards, said Perez, now the Washington director for
 Guam ’s governor, Eddie Calvo. The company may face political
pressure if it seeks to cut jobs in the state, especially from
Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus, a former Mississippi governor,
Perez said.  Pressures on the Navy’s shipbuilding budget because of U.S.
deficits also may set back Huntington’s plans. Programs may be
stretched out or canceled, Perez said. The Pentagon already is
mulling reducing the aircraft carrier fleet of 11 ships.  ‘Far-reaching Impact’  Cuts to the carrier fleet would have “a far-reaching
impact beyond  Virginia ,” where they are built, “as we spend
from $2.5 billion to $3 billion on materials from suppliers in
more than 40 states,” Petters said.  Huntington is building the first of the Gerald R. Ford-
class nuclear-powered carriers, the most expensive warship ever
built at a cost about $11.5 billion, including research and
development.  The Navy has said the company may exceed its initial cost-
plus contract of $5.2 billion by about $562 million, or 10.8
percent, because of “construction inefficiencies.” The Navy’s
plans call for three Ford-class carriers to replace the 10
earlier Nimitz-class carriers.  Investors are looking for a road map for how Huntington
achieves its goal of generating 9 percent profit margins,
Sanford C. Bernstein’s Harned said.  The turning point will come in 2013 when Huntington
completes work on two amphibious transport ships and one assault
ship being built in its Gulf yards, Petters said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  