-- 
Huntington Reports $40 Million Profit After Loss Last Year

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-08-11T20:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/huntington-reports-40-million-profit-after-last-year-s-loss.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.,
the U.S. Navy’s largest builder of surface warships, said it
made a profit in the second quarter after a loss in the same
period last year.  Net income was $40 million, or 80 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $11 million for the same period last year, the
 Newport News , Virginia-based company said today. Sales declined
2.9 percent to $1.56 billion. Huntington was spun off from
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in April and reported pro forma results
for 2010.  The average of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
profit of 82 cents a share on sales of $1.66 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Petters has promised investors
that Huntington would boost profit margins to 9 percent by 2015
from the current 5.5 percent. The company is focusing on
improving quality, cutting costs, delivering ships on time to
the U.S. Navy and shutting down its Avondale, Louisiana, yard.  Huntington didn’t offer an estimate of full-year earnings
and sales. That “lack of visibility makes it difficult for
investors to see progress against clear milestones,”  Douglas Harned , an analyst at New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote
in a note to clients.  Huntington declined 18 cents to $27.83 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 33 percent
since the company was spun off in April.  Profit Margin  Overall company profit margin was 5.8 percent compared with
a loss in the same period last year, Huntington said.  Sales at the company’s Ingalls unit fell less than 1
percent to $708 million on lower sales of DDG-51 destroyers, the
company said. The unit’s revenue for the same period last year
was lowered by $115 million arising from costs to close the
Avondale yard, Huntington said.  The  Ingalls unit , which operates the shipyards at
Pascagoula,  Mississippi , and Avondale, made a profit of $19
million in the recent quarter compared with a $94 million loss
last year.  Revenue at the  Newport News unit , which builds nuclear-
powered aircraft carriers and submarines, fell 4.5 percent to
$872 million because of lower volume of maintenance and overhaul
work on the USS  Theodore Roosevelt  and construction work on the
new Gerald R. Ford class aircraft carrier, the company said.  Profit at Newport News fell 6 percent to $79 million,
Huntington said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  