-- 
Simsek to Keep Turkey’s Budget Tight in Slowdown Leaving Stimulus to Basci

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-11T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/turkey-to-keep-budget-tight-leave-stimulus-to-bank-simsek-says.html
Turkish Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said he will keep  government spending  tight even as
the economy slows and the central bank cut  interest rates  
last week to stimulate growth.  “We would rather have a looser monetary policy, while
maintaining fiscal discipline,” Simsek, the former Merrill
Lynch & Co. economist who joined Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government in 2007, said in an interview in his Ankara
office. “We want to keep Turkey’s public sector debt-to-GDP
ratio on a downward trend and we want to keep budget deficit-to-
GDP on a downward trend. That’s a commitment that we made and
are delivering on.”  The policy outlined by Simsek, 44, has helped Turkey lower
its debt burden as developed economies took on fresh borrowing
in the past three years to recapitalise banks and pull economies
out of recession. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci, who has
warned further rate reductions may be needed, says prudent
budgets are key to  Turkey ’s appeal to investors.  Simsek says Turkey’s budget posted the biggest surplus
in 40 years in the first half of the year. Tax revenue grew as
gross domestic product expanded 11 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the fastest pace among the Group of 20
major economies. Slowing growth in the second half is likely to
require some extra spending, Simsek said.  “We are likely to provide additional funding for
infrastructure investment, but still stay well within our fiscal
framework,” Simsek said. “We are not projecting a surplus for
this year, there will be a deficit, but it is likely to be
smaller than what we had originally projected.”  Budget Deficit  Simsek grew up the youngest of nine children in Batman, in
the southeast. He won a scholarship to study finance at Exeter
University in the U.K., and worked for UBS AG before joining
Merrill in 2000.  The government plans for a budget deficit this year of 33.5
billion liras ($19 billion), or about 2.8 percent of GDP, down
from 4 percent in 2010. Debt will fall to 40.6 percent of GDP at
the end of this year from 42.3 percent in 2010, according to the
plan, which is based on a forecast of 4.5 percent growth, a very
“conservative” prediction, Simsek said.  Basci said on Aug. 8 that maintaining fiscal discipline
helps distinguish Turkey’s $740 billion economy in a world where
budget deficits have widened.  That’s going to be difficult, because “fiscal policy
always looks great at the end of booms,” said  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management.  Surprise Rate Cut  “The government is going to find that tax receipts can
vary in both directions, while the expenditure side doesn’t,”
Shaoul, who manages the $725 million Marketfield Fund, said in a
telephone interview. The Turkish fiscal position “is going to
deteriorate markedly.”  The central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark one-week
repo lending rate by half a percentage point to a record low of
5.75 percent on Aug. 4. The bank said the move was designed “to
reduce the risk of a domestic recession” caused by sovereign
debt problems in  Europe , Turkey’s biggest export market.  The lira has fallen about 13 percent against the dollar
this year, the most among emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.
Europe’s debt crisis helped drive the benchmark  ISE National 100
index (XU100)  of shares almost 17 percent lower this month.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , in which  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA owns a 24.9 percent stake, has fallen 19 percent
this month even after the lender’s second-quarter profit beat
estimates.  ‘Fundamental Shift’  The government is making a “fundamental shift” in policy
in a bid to narrow the current-account deficit, in part by
reducing the dependence on imported raw materials, encouraging
the production of more value-added goods, and investing in
research and education, Simsek said. The gap widened to $72.5
billion in the 12 months through June, or about 10 percent of
economic output, according to figures announced yesterday.  The gap will improve rapidly in the second half of the
year, Basci said yesterday, forecasting a total deficit of about
$27 billion in the six months to December, partly a result of a
weaker lira and slowing economic activity.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkish credit Ba2, the
risk assessor’s second-highest non-investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB.  “As of today we don’t see the need for stimulus, only the
need for continued investments in Turkey’s long-term future,”
said Simsek, a Kurd who was chosen as a lawmaker from Batman in
June 12 elections. “What we want to do is provide support for
sectors that have a large  trade gap .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 