-- 
Turkish Yields Drop to 6-Month Low After Central Bank Comments

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-11T10:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/turkish-bond-yields-decline-for-second-day-lira-appreciates.html
Turkish yields slid to the lowest in
more than six months after Central bank Governor Erdem Basci
said there was risk of deflation globally, increasing
speculation that the bank may cut rates again this month.  Benchmark two-year bond yields fell 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, to 8.0 percent at 1:20 p.m. in Istanbul,
the lowest intraday level since Feb. 3, according to the RBS
Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index. The lira strengthened 0.4 percent
to 1.7702 per dollar.  Europe ’s debt crisis and the threat of slowing growth in
the U.S. mean “the downside risks ahead for the global economy
are not inflationary, they are deflationary,” Basci said in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions today.  Yields have fallen 65 basis points since Turkey’s central
bank cut the benchmark one-week repo lending rate 50 basis
points to a record 5.75 percent at an emergency meeting last
week, citing economic risks from the debt crisis in Europe. The
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee is due to hold a regular
monthly meeting on rates on Aug. 23.  “Basci sees the risk of deflation,” Selim Gulkan, at
trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said by
telephone. ’’This shows the central bank may ease monetary
policy further.’’  Inflation to Slow  Annual inflation will slow in the coming months, while core
measures will continue to increase slowly, the central bank said
on Aug. 4, the day after the statistics agency said the
inflation rate rose to 6.3 percent in July from 6.2 percent in
June.  “Early action can mitigate, if not eliminate impacts of
slowdown, recession or a bigger contraction on both  price
stability , growth, employment as well as financial stability
objectives,” Basci said. He didn’t specify whether the central
bank would cut rates at its Aug. 23 meeting.  The central bank has also taken measures to tackle the
current-account deficit, which expanded to $7.5 billion in June
from $3.5 billion in the same month of 2010. The data, published
on the bank’s website today, matched analyst estimates. The
deficit’s “trend is going to improve” in the fourth quarter,
Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in a televised interview
with CNBC-e television today.  The lira has dropped by more than 12 percent against the
dollar so far this year as concern about the current account
deficit intensified. The weakening of  Turkey ’s currency will
trigger a narrowing of the deficit, which will end the year at
about 9 percent of gross-domestic product, Basci said Aug. 8.
The gap will shrink to $5 billion in July, he said today in e-
mailed response to questions.  ‘Gradual Improvement’  “This will be the last high monthly deficit,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based chief economist for the region at  Morgan
Stanley & Co ., in an e-mail. “I expect a gradual improvement in
the current account on the back of seasonal factors, slower
growth and also lower  oil prices .”  Basci forecast a gap of about $27.5 billion in the second
half of this year, close to the year-earlier figure. It was
about $45 billion in the first half, he said, more than double
the equivalent period of 2010.  “There is a serious slow-down in both the global economy
and the Turkish economy, and the current-account deficit should
fall automatically,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti
Securities, said by telephone. “We may see a positive trend for
the Turkish lira.”  The lira is likely to appreciate to 1.60 by the end of this
year, according to the median estimate of 21 banks in a
Bloomberg survey. The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index, a
technical indicator, versus the lira was 70.5 today, indicating
the lira was oversold and is poised to strengthen.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of shares rose 2.4 percent to
51,496.64, the biggest increase since May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  