-- 
Vacationing Cameron Rushed Home to Regain Control as Riots Struck London

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T18:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/vacationing-cameron-rushed-home-to-regain-control-as-riots-struck-london.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
London Mayor  Boris Johnson , caught on foreign vacations as the
worst rioting since the 1980s hit the British capital, were
forced to rush home to reassert order and fend off criticism.  Outbreaks of looting and arson started on Aug. 6 in the
north London suburb of Tottenham and spread across the city the
following night. It wasn’t until a third evening of disorder
began that Cameron broke off his holiday in Italy to return to
his Downing Street office. Johnson was in  Canada  when the
rioters struck.  “Being away, particularly being away in Tuscany, when
things are kicking off at home doesn’t look great, and you have
to come back,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at
Nottingham University, said in an interview. “The really
important thing is what you do when you get back.”  Cameron convened a meeting of the government’s emergency
response committee at his  Downing Street office , recalled
Parliament and more than doubled the number of police on
London’s streets. The tactic worked as officers fanned out
across the capital, preventing a fourth night of arson and
looting.  Summer Recess  Home Secretary Theresa May returned to the U.K. a few hours
before Cameron. Other Cabinet ministers, including Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , were also out of the country.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  was the senior minister in
London last week, and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  was
scheduled to take over this week, as politicians took advantage
of Parliament’s summer recess and the school holidays to spend
time with their children.  Cameron and Osborne had already broken into their vacation
time last week as the euro-area debt crisis worsened and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded  U.S. debt . Cameron spoke to  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel
from Italy on Aug. 5, while Osborne kept in contact with fellow
finance ministers and International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde from  California .  When August comes around, British government departments
slim down their operations. A duty minister in each remains in
London to deal with any urgent developments.  ‘Never on Holiday’  “You are never on holiday when you are doing these jobs,”
the economic secretary to the Treasury, Justine Greening, told
BBC television last week, as she held the reins at Osborne’s
finance ministry. “The prime minister and the chancellor are
fully in control and aware of exactly what is happening.”  She was speaking after the Daily Mirror newspaper accused
Cameron and Osborne of having  “Gone AWOL”  as billions of
pounds were wiped off the value of pension funds and workers
lost their jobs.  John Prescott, the deputy prime minister in Tony Blair’s
Labour government, was also critical of the lack of co-
ordination in ministers’ vacation plans.  “People think August is a quiet time. It isn’t,” Prescott
told BBC television on Aug. 7.  Johnson, a member of Cameron’s Conservative Party who is
seeking re-election as  mayor  next year, described how he saw
pictures of the rioting as he waited in the departure lounge of
Calgary Airport for a plane home.  “I waited to catch a plane, and as the images of a blazing
 London  filled the screen I felt a series of emotions,” the
mayor said in a statement Aug. 8. “I felt a sickening sense of
incredulity that this could really be happening in our city. I
felt a blinding anger at the callousness and selfishness of the
rioters.”  Heckled in Clapham  On his return,  Johnson was heckled  as he went to visit
people attempting to clean up after looting in the southwest
London district of Clapham Junction. He struggled to make
himself heard above the noise as he tried to apologize for the
damage.  As the catcalls increased, the home secretary, who’d gone
to the area with him, could be seen moving out of the view of
television cameras. The mayor later posed for photographs
smiling as he wielded a broom.  “Boris has been damaged, not just by being on holiday but
by his behavior when he got back,” Cowley said. The mayor will
be facing his predecessor, Labour’s  Ken Livingstone , in the
election next May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  