-- 
Validus Sues Transatlantic Seeking to Force Merger Talks With Reinsurer

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T19:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/validus-sues-transatlantic-seeking-to-force-merger-talks-with-reinsurer.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  sued
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. in a  Delaware  court seeking an order
to force the company to consider its buyout offer over a deal
with Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG.  Transatlantic directors are “arbitrarily” refusing to
enter into discussions with Validus even though its offer has a
greater market value than Allied’s, lawyers for Validus said
yesterday in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  The New York-based reinsurer, which has also received an
offer from Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , failed to
conduct a good-faith investigation of Validus’s proposal, the
Bermuda-based company said.  “The Validus merger offer is non-coercive, represents a
premium to the proposed Allied World takeover, is fair to
Transatlantic’s stockholders and poses no threat to
Transatlantic’s corporate policy,” according to the complaint.  Transatlantic agreed in June to sell itself to Allied,
based in Zug,  Switzerland , in a deal valued at $2.8 billion
based on Allied’s closing price yesterday. Validus’s unsolicited
cash-and-stock offer, now also valued at $2.8 billion, came in
July.  Transatlantic said this week it would ask Berkshire’s
National Indemnity Co. to improve its $3.25 billion unsolicited
bid. The Allied and Validus deals were valued at about
$3.2 billion and $3.5 billion when the bids were announced.  $52-a-Share Offer  The Berkshire unit submitted its offer Aug. 5 to buy
Transatlantic for $52 a share. The bid is the first publicly
disclosed unsolicited offer by Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
since Bloomberg began tracking takeover data more than a decade
ago.  Steve Frankel, a spokesman for Transatlantic, declined to
comment immediately on the Validus complaint.  In its complaint, Validus said Transatlantic directors
breached their fiduciary duties by refusing to enter into
discussions with it, adopting a poison pill and amending company
bylaws in an effort to manipulate shareholder meetings.  Validus disputed Transatlantic assertions that the merger
agreement requires Validus to enter into a confidentiality
agreement with a two-year standstill provision before
discussions can take place.  “Validus remains ready and willing to enter into a
confidentiality agreement without a standstill,” lawyers for
the company said in the complaint. Validus said it refuses to
sign a standstill agreement that would preclude it from taking
the offer directly to Transatlantic shareholders.  Transatlantic sued Validus last month in federal court in
Delaware over claims it was attempting to mislead shareholders
into tendering their shares in violation of securities laws.
That case is pending.  The case is Validus Holdings Ltd. v.  Transatlantic Holdings
Inc. (TRH) , CA6776, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 