-- 
Verizon of Delaware Wins Court Order to Control Picketers

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-08-11T17:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/verizon-of-delaware-wins-order-barring-picketers-from-disrupting-business.html
Verizon of  Delaware  persuaded a
judge to issue a preliminary injunction to prohibit striking
union workers from disrupting business.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. agreed with
the unit of New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  that
employees on picket lines in  Newark , Dover and elsewhere
shouldn’t be allowed to slow operations, block truck traffic,
and commit acts of vandalism such as jamming vehicle locks with
super glue, according to a court papers made public today.  Strine restrained the strikers from “engaging in physical
violence or vandalism of any nature,” limited protesters to
“no more than six picketers at any entrance” and said they
“shall not block ingress or egress” or movement of Verizon
vehicles.  About 45,000 members of regional  Communications Workers of
America  locals went on strike Aug. 7 after contract talks over
work rules and health-care contributions faltered.  Verizon “has suffered serious disruption and curtailment
of its business” from the strikers’ acts, the company said in a
lawsuit filed this week in Wilmington.  “We fully expect that union members will respect and
follow the law. Our unions do not condone violence in any
form,” and “the issues at stake in this strike are critical,”
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the
Communications Workers office in  Washington  said in a statement.  “We want a fair contract that enables Verizon workers to
keep their middle class standard of living,” union officials
said.  Verizon rose 84 cents to $34.50 at 1:33 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Verizon of Delaware Inc. v. Communications
Workers of America, CA6766, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  