-- 
Wal-Mart Is Said to Explore Bid for Carrefour’s Brazilian Retail Business

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-08-12T07:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/wal-mart-is-said-to-explore-bid-for-carrefour-s-brazilian-retail-business.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is exploring a bid for  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s
Brazilian stores to help bolster its scale in  Latin America ,
said several people with knowledge of the process.  The plans are at an early stage and Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart may decide against an offer, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the process is private. Wal-Mart
has let Carrefour know of its interest, though the two sides
aren’t in formal talks, said one of the people.  Wal-Mart has long coveted Carrefour’s Brazilian assets and
discussed buying them two years ago, according to one person.
Interest ramped up in recent weeks after Carrefour abandoned a
proposed plan to combine its business with Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, the person said. The unit may
be worth 7 billion euros ($9.9 billion) said Niamh McSherry, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  “It wouldn’t surprise me if Wal-Mart were looking at the
business,” said McSherry. However, “price is key and I think
it would be difficult at present for Carrefour to crystallize a
price shareholders would be happy with.”  Wal-Mart’s interest may extend to all of Carrefour’s
business in Latin America, which includes stores in Colombia and
 Argentina , said two of the people. The company is working with
advisers to examine the assets and how they might fit into their
own business, one person said. One of the advisers is UBS AG,
and Wal-Mart has also hired law firm Machado, Meyer, Sendacz &
Opice Advogados, said people familiar with the matter.  Strategic Market  Wal-Mart rose $1.32, or 2.7 percent, to $49.73 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Carrefour climbed 34
cents, or 1.9 percent, to 18.28 euros at 9:04 a.m. in Paris
trading, extending yesterday’s 3.1 percent advance.  Kevin Gardner , a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors and speculation. Levallois-Perret,
France-based Carrefour considers Brazil “a strategic market,”
said a spokeswoman for Carrefour, who declined to be identified.  “Markets like Brazil are a key growth driver in
Carrefour’s strategy,” said the spokeswoman. “We have been
there since 1975 and our plan is to continue growing there.”  Carrefour, which has cut profit estimates repeatedly since
November, had sought expansion in Brazil and China as store
revamps and price cuts in  France  failed to revive domestic
growth.  Some Carrefour investors are pushing for management to
explore a sale after the retailer’s market value shrank by 9.5
billion euros this year, two of the people said.  Wal-Mart’s Largest  Groupe Arnault, controlled by French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , and investors Blue Capital and  Colony Capital LLC 
together own about 14 percent of the retailer.  A purchase of all the Latin American assets, which could
fetch about 10 billion euros by McSherry’s estimate, would be
the largest in Wal-Mart’s history and help Chief Executive
Officer Mike Duke tap growth in developing nations after a two-
year slump in U.S. sales.  Carrefour wrote down the value of the Brazil business by
550 million euros, leading to new management in the Latin
American operations and the proposed combination with Pao de
Acucar. That collapsed in July after Brazil’s national
development bank rejected a plan to help fund the deal.  Carrefour, led by CEO Lars Olofsson, has dropped 33 percent
this year in Paris trading, hurt by  Brazil  and a struggle to
revive the French business, its largest.  International Operations  Olofsson said in June that he is weighing how to strengthen
Carrefour in emerging markets. The retailer, second only to Wal-
Mart, got about 12.5 billion euros in sales from Brazil last
year including value-added tax, or more than 10 percent of the
total. Carrefour had more than 500 stores in Brazil at the end
of 2010.  Wal-Mart gets about one-quarter of its revenue from its
international operations and the rest from the U.S., where sales
at stores open at least a year have sunk for eight straight
quarters. Wal-Mart’s biggest push overseas so far was the $10.8
billion acquisition of the U.K.’s Asda Group Plc in 1999.  Wal-Mart is scheduled to report second-quarter results next
week. In the previous period, the retailer reported that total
sales topped $100 billion, bolstered by its expansion in
emerging markets including Brazil and  China . The retailer didn’t
break out specific figures for those countries.  Wal-Mart pledged in May to invest 1.2 billion reais ($740
million) and open 80 new stores in Brazil this year. The
retailer also planned to hire about 7,000 people in the country,
Latin America’s largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  