-- 
Wisconsin Has ‘Had It’ With Recalls: Walker

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-11T20:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/walker-says-wisconsin-voters-have-had-it-after-record-recall-elections.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker 
predicted today that it will be “a long time” before his state
faces a recurrence of the recall elections that divided voters
and led to the ouster of two Republican state senators.  Walker, a 43-year-old Republican who may himself face a
recall effort next year, said in an interview with Bloomberg
News from his Milwaukee office that he expects someone to make
an attempt to remove him, adding, “whether it’s successful, I
don’t know.”  Two days after an unprecedented six recall elections that
attracted tens of millions of dollars in advertising, mostly
from outside the state, Walker said he expects the political
mood in Wisconsin to calm down slowly, starting in the next few
months. The public, he said, doesn’t want another round of
campaign turmoil.  “After these recalls, my guess is it’ll be a long time --
again, regardless of party -- before at least a large number of
people pursue recalls, because they’ve just had it,” Walker
said. “They’ve had it with the ads.”  The return of political peace in  Wisconsin  is a matter of
conjecture. Wisconsin’s Democratic chairman, Mike Tate, said
yesterday he would like to see a recall of Walker soon, to
sidetrack the first-term governor’s “extreme divisive agenda.”
Democrats needed to remove three Republicans to gain control of
the Senate and blunt Walker’s initiatives.  58 Percent Turnout  Voter turnout reached 58 percent in the district of Senator
Alberta Darling, who survived the ouster attempt. Pro- and anti-
recall groups spent an estimated $40 million on the campaigns,
according to the nonpartisan  Wisconsin Democracy Campaign .  The recall effort was ignited in March when Walker used
Republican legislative majorities to restrict collective
bargaining for most public employees.  Walker talked of bipartisan cooperation today, saying it’s
time to “move forward” and concentrate on improving the
state’s economy and job climate. He said he sees no need to
prepare for further budget cuts even with the slowdown of the
economy.  Looking back on the recalls and the collective-bargaining
curbs that provoked them, Walker said that if he had anything to
do over again, he would have “spent more time” explaining the
need for the changes to the public.  ‘Words Ring Hollow’  Walker said he approaches problems as a small-business
owner would. “Here’s a problem. Here’s a solution. Now go out
and do it,” Walker said. “I’ve got a clear agenda and I try to
get it done.”  That approach, said Democratic Assemblyman Peter Barca,
calls into question Walker’s pleas for bipartisanship.  “We’ve heard that rhetoric before, and unfortunately the
actions don’t match the rhetoric,” Barca, the Assembly’s
minority leader, said in a telephone interview.  “We welcome the goal, but we’ve seen no evidence that
they’re interested in doing this,” Barca added. “His words
ring hollow.”  Walker said he didn’t overreach when pushing the
collective-bargaining changes. They were a necessary part of his
effort to cut costs and balance the budget without raising
taxes, he said.  Two recall elections against Democratic Senators Jim Holperin and Robert Wirch are scheduled Aug. 16. The outcome
won’t change control of the Senate, where Republicans hold a 17-
to-16 advantage.  Toward year-end, Walker predicted, “things will quiet
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  