-- 
Warhol’s $100 Soup Earned Dealer $15 Million, Returns to L.A.

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/warhol-s-100-soup-earned-canny-dealer-15-million-returns-to-los-angeles.html
Almost 50 years ago the
quintessential  New York  artist, Andy Warhol, had his first one-
man show in  Los Angeles , thanks to the prescience of a West
Coast art dealer named Irving Blum.  Blum also had the uncanny foresight to snap up “Campbell’s
Soup Cans,” 32 small canvases for $1,000. He would eventually
sell the group for $15 million.  The paintings have returned to Los Angeles and are on
display at Museum of Contemporary Art through Sept. 19, their
first appearance in L.A. since they made their debut at the
city’s  Ferus Gallery  in July 1962.  The exhibition is a tribute to the gallery, which operated
from 1957 to 1966, and to Blum, one of its directors. He
championed  Roy Lichtenstein  and Frank Stella early in their
careers and gave  Ed Ruscha  his first  solo show .  Blum, now 80, was a former  Knoll Inc. (KNL)  furniture salesman
who bought a piece of the struggling gallery from artist Edward
Kienholz and persuaded Warhol to mount his first one-man show
there in 1962.  “It’s astonishing that he had the insight and courage to
give Andy his first solo exhibition,” said Jeffrey Deitch, a
former gallery owner who now serves as the museum’s director.
“At the time it was incredibly radical. Most people refused to
even accept that this was art.”  Blum persuaded the New York-based Warhol to have the 1962
show in Los Angeles by saying that “movie stars come to the
gallery.”  ‘They Didn’t Buy Paintings’  In reality, the few Hollywood actors and directors who
collected art were European expatriates who favored French
paintings, Blum said in a 1977  oral history  he gave to the
Archives of American Art. One exception was actor  Dennis Hopper ,
who bought a Warhol soup can in the early 1960s and knew the
Ferus Gallery crowd.  “The American movie people didn’t buy anything,” Blum
said in the oral history. “They bought big motorcars and beach
houses. They didn’t buy paintings.” Blum couldn’t be reached
for an interview.  Blum sold six of the 20-by-16-inch Warhol canvases for $100
each. Realizing the work was more significant if the pieces were
kept together, he later bought back the ones he sold.  He then negotiated a price from Warhol for all of the
paintings, paying him $100 a month for ten months.  “The price sounds shockingly low, but that was the price
of contemporary art in those days,” Deitch said in a telephone
interview. “There was just a small band of collectors at that
time.”  Blum sold the paintings to New York’s Museum of  Modern Art 
for $15 million in 1996, in a deal that was considered partly a
donation even though it was one of the highest prices paid for
contemporary art at the time.  Vegetable Soup  Last year a 6-foot-high painting from the period, “Big
Campbell’s Soup Can With Can Opener (Vegetable),”  sold  at
Christie’s International for $23.8 million.  From 1988 to 2010, Warhol artworks overall trailed both the
 Standard & Poor’s 500  and an index of 50 contemporary artists,
delivering a 255 percent return versus 395 percent for stocks
and 455 percent for the contemporary artists, according to
Artnet Worldwide.  Amy King, a vice president at Artnet, attributed that to
the fact that Warhol produced so many works, many of them of
lower value.  Warhol’s other Soup Cans from the Ferus Gallery period have
beaten the market and his peers recently, delivering a 2,560
percent return since 1996, Artnet data show.  The Soup Cans will be on display at MOCA’s Grand Avenue
location downtown. Nearby hang pieces from contemporary artists,
including  Jeff Koons  and  Richard Prince , all of whom owe a debt
to Warhol, Deitch said.  “ Andy Warhol  defined  Pop Art ,” Deitch said. “Irving was
very astute in seeing that the economics of being a dealer was
based on retaining great works for your own collection.”  “Andy Warhol Campbell’s Soup Cans,” will be on display at
Moca’s Grand Avenue location downtown through Sept. 19.
Information:  http://www.moca.org/museum/moca_grandave.php   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 