-- 
Sunset Boulevard Billboard-Fee Fight Shows U.S. Cities Reach High for Cash

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-11T12:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/west-hollywood-seeks-cash-from-sunset-boulevard-billboards-on-tax-squeeze.html
West Hollywood  is earning $10,500
every four weeks from billboard operators, five months after
voters rejected a broader tax on the signs.  Rather than put a 7 percent levy on all billboard revenue,
which residents shot down in a March referendum, the city is
requiring monthly payments in return for permitting new signs.
Billboards can be leased to advertisers for as much as $100,000
a month along West Hollywood’s renowned Sunset Strip, according
to  Joan English , the city’s assistant manager.  “Cities need revenue these days,” English said in a
telephone interview. “We said to ourselves, let’s figure out a
way to make it work.”  Municipalities looking to raise taxes on the  $6.1 billion-
a-year  outdoor advertising industry have faced lawsuits from
operators challenging the legality of the plans.  Toronto , which introduced a billboard levy last year that
generates about $10 million annually, is in court fighting
outdoor operators who claim the city doesn’t have the right to
tax the signs, according to Ted Van Vliet, the manager of the
Canadian city’s billboard program.  Madison,  Wisconsin , is considering a $1.1 million
settlement for back taxes and fees owed to a billboard operator
that successfully sued to prevent an increase in its property
assessment, according to City Attorney Michael May.  Constitutionality Questioned  Singling out billboards for disparate tax treatment in the
U.S. raises constitutional issues, according to Ken Klein, an
executive vice president for government affairs at the
Washington-based  Outdoor Advertising Association of America,  an
industry trade group.  “A special tax levied on any one industry engaging in
First Amendment activities is unconstitutional,” he said in an
e-mail.  In West Hollywood, an enclave of 38,000 people about eight
miles (13 kilometers) from  downtown Los Angeles , the billboard-
tax initiative was sponsored by Michael McNeilly, founder of
 SkyTag Inc. , a Beverly Hills-based maker of large vinyl signs
called supergraphics. In addition to imposing a 7 percent tax on
advertising revenue derived from signs, the measure would have
allowed more widespread use of supergraphics, which are
typically stretched across the sides of buildings.  McNeilly said he modeled the initiative after a 7 percent
billboard tax Philadelphia imposed in 2005 and that West
Hollywood was entitled to its “fair share” of sign revenue
collected by the outdoor-advertising companies. Billboard
operators unsuccessfully challenged the Philadelphia tax in
court.  Industry Fights Back  Opposition in West Hollywood came from an industry-funded
group that called itself “Concerned Neighbors Against Illegal
Billboards,” a reference to the supergraphics. The group spent
almost $200,000 opposing the tax, according to  city records . The
money was raised from four billboard operators: CBS Outdoor,
 Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO) , Van Wagner Communications
LLC and  Lamar Advertising Co. (LAMR)   Voters rejected the measure by almost 4-to-1, a fact
McNeilly attributed to mailings and other community outreach
efforts made by the billboard companies.  “They wanted to bury it,” McNeilly said of the tax in a
telephone interview. “If it would have happened in the sign
capital of the West Coast, every other city council would have
adopted it.”  Los Angeles Stadium  West Hollywood  officials , who opposed the ballot measure in
part due to legal questions, are instead negotiating development
agreements with billboard operators. Such deals are typically
used when real estate developers request permission to construct
new structures, according to English, the assistant city
manager.  The City Council approved two new billboards along the
Strip on Sunset Boulevard last month and will consider the
replacement of two existing billboards with larger signs at its
Aug. 15 meeting. The owners will pay the city $10,500 a month
for the right to build them.  Outdoor advertising may also be a financing tool in  Los
Angeles , where developer Anschutz Entertainment Group Inc. is
hoping to pay for a $1.4 billion football stadium complex in
part with $5.3 million generated annually from 41 billboards
circling the city’s convention center, according to an analysis
of the plan Los Angeles officials released July 25.  A tax on other signs in Los Angeles was suggested to the
City Council by Gerry Miller, the city’s chief legislative
analyst, on Aug. 10.  “For various First Amendment-related reasons revenue
sharing on private property is problematic,” Miller told
council members. “We can revenue-share on public property.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri inLos Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  