-- 
Wilmar Second-Quarter Profit Increases 14% as Sales Reach Five-Year High

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-08-12T03:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/wilmar-international-reports-second-quarter-net-income-of-393-1-million.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s biggest palm-oil processor, reported a 14 percent
increase in second-quarter profit as sales rose to the highest
in at least five years.  Net income climbed to $393.1 million, or 6.1 cents a share,
from $344.5 million, 5.4 cents, a year earlier, the Singapore-
based company said today in a statement. The median estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of $420
million.  Wilmar is benefiting from the 20 percent drop in a crude
palm-oil prices in the first half as well as the easing of price
caps on cooking oil in  China , where it has about a 50 percent
share of the market for processed cooking oils. Yesterday,
 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the second-largest palm oil-planter,
said second-quarter profit almost tripled.  “Despite a more difficult operating environment in the
second quarter, margins improved,” Wilmar said. While revenue
climbed, the volume of palm and laurics sales fell because of
“demand rationing at higher  price levels , coupled with
uncertainties in the global economic environment.”  Wilmar gained 2.4 percent to S$5.23 a share at 11:11 a.m.
in  Singapore , paring this year’s decline to 7.5 percent. That
compares with the 11 percent drop on the benchmark Straits Times
Index this year.  Revenue climbed 56 percent to $10.6 billion, the highest in
at least 20 quarters.  Improved Margins  UOB Kay Hian brokerage said today it has its “hold”
rating on Wilmar under review as the company delivered on an
expected improvement in margins in China.  Separately, Wilmar also said today that Chief Financial
Officer Heng Hang Song Francis will resign without giving
further details.  China imposed curbs on prices since September last year as
part of measures to curb inflation, which raced to 6.4 percent
in June, the fastest pace since 2008. The central bank has
raised  interest rates  five times since October to stem the
gains. The price-controls worsened losses among soybean
crushers. Wilmar said Aug. 2 it will raise cooking oil prices by
5 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that stabilizing prices
remains the top priority, after food costs soared 14 percent in
June. Pork, a Chinese staple, rose 57 percent.  Merchandising and processing, Wilmar’s biggest earner,
reported a 61 percent advance in second-quarter pretax profit,
while the contribution from plantations and palm-oil mills rose
31 percent as margins expanded. The sugar milling unit had a
pretax loss of $7.1 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  