-- 
Two Weather Systems May Grow Into Atlantic Storms, U.S. Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-12T00:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/two-weather-systems-may-grow-into-atlantic-storms-u-s-says.html
Two areas of disturbed weather off
the coast of  Africa  have a 40 percent chance of growing into
tropical systems within the next two days, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  Environmental conditions are good for both of the systems
to become Atlantic storms, according to a  weather outlook  issued
before 8 p.m. New York time. One disturbance is 850 miles (1,370
kilometers) west of the southern Cape Verde Islands and the
other is 225 miles south of that point.  The systems may signal that the  Atlantic hurricane season 
is about to enter its most active phase. Typically, from about
Aug. 20 to Oct. 20, large storms develop in an area from the
Cape Verde Islands to the Leeward Islands known as the “main
development region.”  “It’s getting to be that time of year,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground Inc . in  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan . “The third week in August is when the activity tends
to skyrocket.”  Storms that form in the area are often the largest and most
powerful of the Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June
1 through Nov. 30.  Environmental conditions that enhance storm development
include warm Atlantic waters. The seas in the main development
region are now the third-warmest on record, said Masters, who
served on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
hurricane reconnaissance aircraft in the 1980s.  No Dust  In addition, there isn’t a great deal of African dust in
the atmosphere. The dust can rob a storm of its power and keep
it from developing, he said.  “I certainly don’t see that many negatives for these
two,” Masters said. “They might interfere with each other,
where one develops at the expense of the other.”  In addition to the two systems off Africa, an area of
disturbed weather about halfway between the North Carolina coast
and  Bermuda  has a 10 percent chance of developing, according to
the hurricane center.  That system won’t grow and will be swept out to sea,
Masters said.  The hurricane center is also  tracking  a disturbance in the
eastern Pacific near  El Salvador  that has a 10 percent chance of
development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  