-- 
Woods Shoots His Worst Opening Round Ever in Major Golf Tournament at PGA

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-11T19:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/woods-shoots-his-worst-opening-round-ever-in-major-golf-tournament-at-pga.html
Through the opening hour of the U.S.
 PGA Championship ,  Tiger Woods  was in a familiar position: tied
for the lead.  He ended his day at  Atlanta Athletic Club  in an unfamiliar
spot. His 7-over-par 77 was his worst opening-round score in 62
major tournament appearances.  Steve Stricker  leads the
tournament by two shots at 7-under.  Woods, playing in his second event after a four-month
layoff due to knee and Achilles tendon injuries, had just six
pars in a  round  where his tee shots found the fairway five of 14
times.  Following a birdie on the his opening hole, the par-4 10th,
Woods made birdies on the 12th and 14th holes to reach 3-under
par and tie for the early lead. His day began to unravel on the
260-yard, par-3 15th hole, where he hit a shot into a pond in
front of the green, leading to a double bogey.  “It was a 4-iron and I was going to hit to the front edge
or maybe just short of the green,” Woods said in a news
conference. “That’s frustrating, because my shots don’t shape
like they used to. I just hit it, aimed too far right, and it
didn’t move.”  He followed that with a bogey on the next hole and another
double bogey on the 507-yard, par-4 18th. He added four more
bogeys over his closing nine holes, including his third double-
bogey of the day on the par-4 sixth.  After spending the past year working with new coach  Sean
Foley , Woods said he felt his swing changes were taking effect.  “I thought I was playing well enough that I can just go
out there and play and let it go and just play by feel and see
the shot, hit the shot,” he said. “I’m not at that point yet.
Obviously it’s tough. It cost me the whole round.”  Making Cut  Woods, who has four PGA Championship wins among his 14
major tournament titles, put himself in danger of missing the
36-hole cut for the first time in the event and just the fourth
time in a major. The last time Woods failed to advance to
weekend play in a major was at the 2010 British Open, when he
shot 74 in the second round.  He must finish among the top 70 players, including ties, to
make the cut. If not, it will likely be the last time Woods
plays on the U.S.  PGA Tour  this season. He’s ranked 129th in the
season-long  FedEx Cup  points standings, and the top 125 players
advance to the first playoff event, the Barclays, next month in
Plainfield,  New Jersey .  Due to family commitments, Woods has said he won’t play in
next week’s PGA Tour event in Greensboro,  North Carolina .  Before Woods left for the practice range today after his
round, he was asked what part of his game he was going to work
on.  “It’s going to be a lot,” Woods said. “It’s a laundry
list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  