-- 
Woods Among Golfers to Struggle at PGA Championship’s Long Par-3 15th Hole

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-11T17:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/woods-among-golfers-to-struggle-at-pga-championship-s-long-par-3-15th-hole.html
Tiger Woods  didn’t enjoy the same
success on the par-3 15th hole at the  Atlanta Athletic Club 
today during the PGA Championship as  David Toms  did a decade
ago.  Woods, a four-time winner of the golf season’s last major,
was tied for the lead at 3-under par when he double-bogeyed the
 260-yard hole , hitting his tee shot into a pond fronting the
right of the green. It was a far different result than Toms’s
hole-in-one in 2001.  Woods followed with a bogey on No. 16 as he spiraled down
the leaderboard. He finished his round 7-over par, 14 shots
behind leader  Steve Stricker , who birdied the 15th. It was
Woods’s worst opening score in 14  PGA Championship  appearances.  In early first-round play, 10 players made at least a
double-bogey on the 15th hole, while 20 made a bogey. Ryo Ishikawa of  Japan  made a triple-bogey. There were four birdies
and 32 pars, making it the second-toughest hole on the course
behind the 507-yard, par-4 18th.  Australia ’s  Adam Scott , the winner of last week’s
Bridgestone Invitational, was one of the four players able to
birdie.  “I found it quite easy,” Scott, 31, joked with reporters.
“I don’t know what all the fuss was about. No, it’s not a lot
of fun. You’ve just got to hit a great shot just to get it near
the green. It’s an intimidating hole for sure.”  Luck vs Skill  Coming into the tournament, many players complained that
the length of the 15th hole eliminated skill and rewarded luck.
 Luke Donald , the No. 1 player in golf’s Official World Ranking,
said he prefers shorter par-3s such as the 109-yard seventh hole
at  Pebble Beach  or the 155-yard 12th at Augusta National.  “I’m never a big fan of long par-3s,” Donald said in a
press conference on Aug. 9. “I think some of the world’s
greatest par-3s are very short. There’s not too many really long
par-3s that are very memorable that I can think of.”  The hole was 243 yards in 2001, when Toms won the
tournament. He said he would have difficulty replicating his
hole-in-one 5-wood shot this year and not just because he no
longer carries a 5-wood in his golf bag. This year, Toms said,
he would need to hit a longer 3-wood.  “I can’t imagine what it would be like if the wind turned
around and all of a sudden my caddie said, ‘You need to hit
driver,’” Toms said in a press conference yesterday. “I would
be kind of embarrassed.”  Toms parred the hole today while shooting a 2-over 72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  