-- 
Billionaire Batista’s MMX Sees No Sign of Credit Crisis in Search for Loan

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-11T20:57:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/mmx-aims-to-secure-1-8-billion-financing-before-year-end-cfo-says.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
 iron-ore  producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike
Batista , will seek $1.8 billion in loans for its Serra Azul
project as soon as late September.  MMX aims to start a so-called road show in 45 to 90 days,
Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Escalhao said in an interview.
MMX, which is working with  advisers  Banco Itau BBA SA and West
LB do Brasil SA, will have the financing completed before year-
end and expects to pay interest of 200 to 300 basis points above
the London interbank offered rate, he said.  “We don’t have any indication yet that this is a credit or
liquidity crisis,” MMX Chief Executive Officer Roger Downey
said about the recent downturn in global financial markets. He
and Escalhao spoke yesterday in an interview at the company’s
headquarters overlooking the Flamengo beach in  Rio de Janeiro .  MMX plans to spend at least 7.3 billion reais ($4.5
billion) to more than quadruple iron-ore output capacity to 46
million metric tons by 2016 and tap rising demand for minerals
in  China  and other emerging nations. Shares for the company have
plunged 38 percent since the start of 2011 amid a global equity
rout.  Price fluctuations in international markets is unlikely to
derail the company’s financing plans, Escalhao said, adding that
he expects to get the loans from between six and 12 banks.  Funding Sources  When a company has iron-ore projects geared toward exports
with supply agreements and committed shareholders, “you will
seek certain sources of financing where pricing doesn’t
constantly change,” Escalhao said. “Before the end of the
year, we need this funding in place for when we start
construction.”  The 4 billion-real Serra Azul project in the southeastern
Brazilian state of  Minas Gerais  includes the construction of a
new processing plant, a railway terminal and a conveyor belt to
transport ore from the mine to the terminal. The iron ore will
be exported through MMX’s Sudeste port in Rio state that the
company expects to be ready by the end of 2012 with an initial
capacity to ship as much as 50 million metric tons a year.  MMX will get a “boost” in revenues of as much as $100 a
ton of iron ore once the company starts operating its own port,
Downey said, adding that MMX will export all of its output after
2013. Exports accounted for about 37 percent of MMX’s total
sales in the second quarter.  “Buying on the local market and selling as exports is a
good business,” Downey said.  MMX this week posted a second-quarter profit of 90.9
million reais  as iron-ore production rose 17 percent to 2.16
million tons and prices for the steelmaking raw material
climbed. The miner, which doesn’t disclose annual output
targets, expects to receive the environmental license for Serra
Azul before the end of the year, Downey said.  MMX rose 59 centavos, or 9.2 percent, to 7 reais in  Sao
Paulo , its biggest gain since Oct. 29, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  