-- 
Hypo Real Estate Reports Profit on Trading, Lower Loan Loss

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T08:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/hypo-real-estate-reports-profit-on-trading-lower-loan-loss-1-.html
Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the
German government-owned lender bailed out during the financial
crisis, reported its third consecutive quarterly profit as loan
losses declined.  Second-quarter pretax profit of 53 million euros ($76
million) compared with a loss of 395 million euros a year
earlier, the Munich-based lender said in a  statement  today.  Hypo Real Estate became fully owned by the government’s
Soffin bank-rescue fund after the lender received 10 billion
euros of capital and as much as 142 billion euros in credit
lines and debt guarantees from the state and financial
institutions to save it from collapse in 2008. The bank, whose
implosion was  Germany ’s biggest bank failure since World War II,
won European Union approval for the bailout last month.  Hypo Real Estate’s net trading income of 12 million euros
compared with a loss of 173 million euros a year earlier. It
also recouped 11 million euros set aside for loan losses, after
provisions of 194 million euros in the second quarter of 2010.  As part of a restructuring, Hypo’s pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank “core bank” arm will shrink its balance sheet
by 85 percent by the end of 2011 compared with three years
earlier in return for final EU authorization for state aid.
Pretax profit at the ppb core unit was 68 million euros in the
quarter, compared with a loss of 175 million euros last year,
the company said.  “With four consecutive profitable quarters, pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank is right on track,” Chief Executive Officer
Manuela Better, which pbb yesterday said has been  reappointed 
for another five years, said in the statement. “Having
successfully concluded the EU state aid proceedings, we will now
be able to fully focus on the market and on our clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  