-- 
Hot Red Mystery Car Is Kia Optima, $27,000 After Major Facelift

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/mystery-car-is-kia-s-optima-27-000-after-major-facelift-jason-h-harper.html
With a 200-mile, one-day round trip
ahead of me, I was in the mood for a fast, luxurious ride. I
looked at my schedule to see which car I was testing that day.  A Kia.  When I arrived at my underground garage, my mood brightened
considerably.  Painted “spicy red,” the Optima is like the geeky girl in
high school whom nobody talked to, and who shows up at the 10-
year reunion in sexy Louboutin heels.  My, Ms. Optima, you’ve changed. Would you like to dance?  The 2011 model’s redesign is so thorough and absolute that
it would put a contestant in a makeover reality TV show to
shame. If you ever see a still-running 2001 Optima on the
street, you’ll find it impossible to trace any connection from
that banal, shoddy cart to today’s sharp and stylish offering.  As I pulled away, one of the garage attendants looked
bemused. “That’s a Kia? I thought it was European.”  That gave me an idea. I stopped off at my apartment and
picked up a roll of painters masking tape. I taped over the
front and rear badges, the Kia-branded hub caps and any place on
the interior that displayed the name.  Then I went to pick up two colleagues whom I was driving
for a tour of the  Monticello Motor Club  in the Catskills, two
hours away.  Korean Cousin  Starting at just under $20,000 for the base LX model, the
midsize sedan is mechanically related to its Hyundai cousin, the
Sonata. But the exteriors differ completely. While both South
Korean companies have successfully developed a distinct design
language -- no easy feat -- the Kia’s cues are younger and
fresher.  The Optima has a blacked-out grill and a low-hanging front
fascia that feels modern. The side profile has a sharp crease
running under the windows, managing to look both svelte and
speedy. Nothing about it says economy.  That mostly goes for the interior. Doors close with
unexpected heft. Seats are upright for an authoritative driving
position and the large oval glass in the rear allows a clear
view of the road behind you.  Seats are trimmed with leather and the top of the dash is
soft, touchable plastic. Windows, temperature controls and seats
are all automatic. Bluetooth is standard.  A $2,000 technology package added an optional Infinity
audio system with oversized door-mounted speakers. It looked
premium and sounded good too, with lots of buzzy bass.  Hand Heater  A touch-screen navigation system came with the upgrade, and
the integrated iPod controller worked far better than any other
I’ve tested. An additional $2,250 premium package scored a big
sunroof with an automatic screen, heated and cooled front seats
and heated rear seats. Even a heated steering wheel.  I pulled up to an apartment building to pick up my first
driving companion and began an informal poll, asking the bored-
looking doorman if he could identify the make. He walked around
slowly. “Looks better than an Acura,” he said. “Infiniti?”  Another curious resident grabbing a smoke had no clue
either, but said it looked “classy.”  My friend arrived and asked, “Why is this Kia all taped
up?” He’s a bit of a car expert, so he didn’t really count.  We headed crosstown and picked up our next passenger, who
isn’t so knowledgeable. And so began a car game which lasted a
good half hour before he became irritated and pulled up a piece
of tape. “I knew the Koreans were making nice rides, but I’d
think about buying this thing,” he said. “It rides well.”  Smooth Bumps  True enough. The last Kia I drove left me with concerns
about the wobbly suspension, but the Optima slid smoothly over
bumps while still feeling generally connected to the asphalt.
The steering is tight enough to give you a sense of road without
being distracting.  The engine is a 2.4-liter, direct-injected, four-cylinder
with 200 horsepower. A 274-hp, 2.0-liter turbo is also
available, as is a hybrid version. Gas mileage is good, getting
24 around town and 35 on the highway.  Too bad the six-speed automatic transmission was a tad too
slow on downshifts: Step hard on the accelerator to pass another
car and there’s a hiccup before it slides down a gear. And while
the brakes generally suffice, I found them sluggish during
emergency-style stops. Not as hard-halting as I would prefer,
especially from a fairly light vehicle.  Nonetheless, the Kia shot us along the freeway and over
two-lane roads in comfort and good speed. It was only when we
arrived at the private racetrack that I felt a twinge. This was
a swank place, akin to an upscale golf club. Ferraris and
Porsches are the cars most often passing through these gates.  The kid manning the security gate leaned out. His eyes
popped and he asked, earnestly, “Is that the new Optima?”  “Seriously?” I asked.  “My buddy is thinking about buying one,” he said. “Do
you like it?”  I thought for a second. “You know, I suppose I do.”  The 2011 Kia Optima EX at a Glance  Engine: 2.4-liter four-cylinder with 200 horsepower and 186
pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 24 city; 34 highway.  Price as tested: $27,440.  Best features: Looks good, many conveniences.  Worst features: Slushy brakes; sleepy transmission.  Target buyer: The economy driver who wants a dollop of
style.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 