-- 
Yuan’s Biggest Leap in Three Years May Herald Stimulus for Global Recovery

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-12T09:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/yuan-s-biggest-leap-in-three-years-may-herald-stimulus-for-global-recovery.html
The yuan’s strongest gain in more
than three years may herald a new stimulus for a flagging global
recovery as Chinese importers get more firepower to buy up goods
from slowing economies in the U.S. and  Europe .  The currency climbed 0.8 percent this week, more than any
weekly increase since December 2007, breaking through 6.4 per
dollar for the first time in 17 years. Today’s closing price in
Shanghai was 6.3895. Yuan forwards had the biggest weekly
gain since February 2009.  Chinese officials are allowing the currency to appreciate
as slowing growth and gyrations in global currencies and stock
markets threaten to spark a new recession. Besides countering
inflation and accelerating China’s shift to domestic-driven
growth, a stronger yuan may also signal a willingness to help
shore up slumping confidence in the global economy.  “They may want to be seen as stepping up to the plate as
the second-largest economy,” said  David Cohen , an economist at
Action Economics in Singapore who formerly worked for the U.S.
Federal Reserve. “Inflation is also a little higher than they
would want.”  During the global financial crisis, Premier Wen Jiabao’s
government halted the yuan’s gains for almost two years, keeping
the currency pegged to the dollar until June 2010. It has
strengthened more than 6 percent since then. Reasons for
allowing gains now include elevated inflation and a surge in the
trade surplus in July.  Global Response  Barclays Capital analyst Chang Jian estimates that the
currency will rise 5 percent to 7 percent over a year. That
would help to boost demand that is already surging, with imports
climbing 27 percent to a record $973 billion in the first seven
months of 2011, according to trade data released this week.  On Aug. 9,  China ’s State Council urged global cooperation
to counter turmoil in financial markets and endorsed a Group of
20 pledge to take “all necessary initiatives in a coordinated
way” to support financial stability and growth. While developed
nations are struggling, the Chinese economy may expand more than
9 percent this year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  This week’s accelerated gains may partly be a “show of
confidence” and “an effort to not appear overly worried about
short-term financial market developments,” said  Sacha Tihanyi ,
a Hong Kong-based currency strategist at Scotia Capital, the
investment banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia.  Biggest Jump  The yuan rose 0.37 percent to close at 6.3945 in  Shanghai 
yesterday, its biggest jump in nine months, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.3895, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of the National Development
and Reform Commission, said that the currency will appreciate
“gradually,” state radio reported yesterday evening.  A  front-page commentary  in the China Securities Journal
today said that the government may rely more on strengthening
the yuan to ease inflation pressures, with the central bank
cautious on raising  interest rates  because of the risk of
attracting capital inflows.  The currency remains undervalued by 3 percent to 23 percent,
depending on methodology,  International Monetary Fund  economists
said in a report released last month.  Key Driver  Inflation that reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in
July is driving the gains, said  Arjuna Mahendran , who is the
Asian head of investment strategy at  HSBC Private Bank  in
 Singapore  and helps manage about $499 billion. A side-effect is
the boost to consumption as imports become cheaper for Chinese
consumers, he said.  The IMF said last month that a stronger yuan would help to
make the Chinese economy more stable by aiding a rebalancing of
growth toward domestic demand and away from exports and
investment. One aim is to limit the risk of any slump in Chinese
growth that would reverberate through the global economy.  Wage increases and a stronger social safety net are also
elements of a drive to boost consumption, laid out in a five-
year plan running through 2015.  At Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Hong Kong , economist  Michael Buchanan  said yesterday that China may allow yuan gains of about
6 percent a year to counter inflation, boost domestic demand and
limit the accumulation of foreign-exchange reserves.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore energy explorer, said
that a stronger yuan cuts costs for imported equipment and
materials and also the company’s repayments of dollar-
denominated debt. Currency gains also trim the value of gas and
oil sales, said Jiang Yongzhi, a Beijing-based spokesman.  U.S. Monetary Easing  Chinese officials are concerned that more quantitative
easing by the U.S. is looming and will add to inflation
pressures.  The National Development and Reform Commission said this
week that such measures are “highly likely” after U.S.
lawmakers agreed to raise the debt ceiling in the world’s
biggest economy, avoiding a default. This may push up commodity
costs and “cause more hot money to flow into  developing
countries  including China,” making it harder to control prices,
the agency said.  Signs of waning demand including slumping overseas orders
for Japanese machinery, reported by the Cabinet Office in  Tokyo 
yesterday.  Japan  may cut its growth forecast for the year ending
March to 0.5 percent from 1.5 percent, Kyodo News and the Nikkei
said yesterday.  Economic ‘Headwinds’  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  has signaled that weakness
in the economy may extend through mid-2013 by pledging to keep
interest rates at a record low, while the  Bank of England  said
this week that economic “headwinds” are intensifying.  The debt burdens of developed nations are limiting efforts
to spur growth and investors are concerned that some European
nations are at risk of default. The  European Central Bank  has
restarted a bond-purchase program and extended it to include the
debt of Italy and  Spain .  This week’s gains by the yuan indicate that the Chinese
government “is not yet convinced that there is going to be a
double-dip or a new recession,” said Ding Shuang, a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, who formerly worked at
the People’s Bank of China and the International Monetary Fund.  --Zheng Lifei in Beijing and Sophie Leung in Hong Kong. With
assistance from Paul Panckhurst, Aibing Guo and Fion Li in Hong
Kong, and Weiyi Lim in Singapore.  Editors: Paul Panckhurst,
Patrick Henry.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  