-- 
Zurich Shares Gain Most in Two Years as Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-08-11T07:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/zurich-financial-second-quarter-1-33-billion-profit-beating-estimates.html
Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  shares
rose the most in two years after  Switzerland ’s biggest insurer
reported second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates and
said it would keep its dividend policy unchanged.  Net income rose 88 percent to $1.33 billion, the Zurich-
based insurer said in a  statement  today, exceeding the $1.04
billion average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Financial Officer Dieter Wemmer expects cash flows to
remain “very good” this year, even as the stronger Swiss
currency increases costs. Zurich Financial, which is cutting
holdings of Italian sovereign bonds to reduce risk, will leave
its dividend policy unchanged, he said. The insurer raised its
2010 dividend to an 11-year high of 17 Swiss francs ($23.17).  “Zurich will outperform today because of better-than-
expected results,” said  Maarten Altena , an Amsterdam-based
analyst with ING Bank. “Zurich is one of the least-exposed
insurers to peripheral sovereign debt,” he said, adding that he
expects it to continue paying an “attractive dividend even if
the stronger franc forces a slight reduction.”  The company’s shares rose as much as 8.9 percent, the most
since March 2009, in Zurich trading and were up 7.4 percent at
155.6 francs as of 9:48 a.m. That made the stock the best
performer on the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index, which gained 1.8 percent.  “The cash flows for the half year were very good and for
the second half we are not expecting any changes,” Wemmer, who
will depart at the end of the year, said during a conference
call.  New China Gain  Second-quarter profit jumped after Zurich Financial, led by
Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn, booked a gain of $441
million from the sale of 5 percent of New China Life Insurance
Co. The company’s business operating profit rose 25 percent in
the quarter to $1.28 billion.  Zurich Financial started reducing its $14.4 billion
exposure to the sovereign debt of “peripheral” European Union
countries at the end of June. Those “derisking actions”
include selling $2 billion of Italian  government bonds .  The insurer reported catastrophes claims of $200 million in
the quarter as storms in Missouri and  Alabama  resulted in losses
at U.S. rivals Travelers Cos. and Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. First-quarter losses exceeded $500 million, Zurich
Financial said.  The insurer’s property and casualty unit, the biggest
contributor to earnings, reported a 9.9 percent increase in
second-quarter operating profit to $831 million.  Improved Ratio  The unit’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio,
improved to 95.3 percent from 97.9 percent a year earlier. A
ratio above 100 percent means a loss from underwriting.  “Our second-quarter business operating profit reveals
excellent underwriting performance from general insurance, where
we continue to see further improvement in the underlying loss
ratio,” Senn said in the statement.  Operating profit at the life- and health-insurance division
dropped 0.5 percent to $367 million, Zurich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  