-- 
Zynga Restates Sales on Accounting Change

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-11T20:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/zynga-restates-sales-on-accounting-change.html
Zynga Inc., the online game
developer that is planning an initial public offering, restated
first-quarter results after finding a “material weakness”
related to financial reporting.  As a result of the restatement, total sales increased by
$7.5 million in the three months that ended March 31 to $243
million, while deferred revenue decreased by the same amount,
San Francisco-based Zynga said today in a regulatory filing. The
provision for taxes increased by $2.5 million, Zynga said.  Net income was $16.8 million after the restatement,
compared with $11.8 million before. Zynga, which collects
revenue when users of its games buy credits, defers revenue from
unused credits, and counts revenue from used credits as
realized, said Nitsan Hargil, director of research at GreenCrest
Capital Management LLC in  New York . The amount of realized
revenue affects the company’s taxes, he said.  “At some point down the line, the IRS would have awakened
and said, ‘Hey, you guys are deferring too much of your taxes
into the future,’” Hargil said.  The changes related to how Zynga accounts for the average
playing time for paying users, the company said. Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading Zynga’s IPO.  Groupon Inc., the online-coupon provider that’s also
planning an IPO, amended its IPO filing yesterday to remove an
accounting practice that had been scrutinized by U.S.
regulators. The Chicago-based company abandoned figures it had
reported for adjusted consolidated segment operating income, a
metric that had prompted an examination by the SEC, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Zynga said in today’s filing it arranged a $1 billion
revolving credit agreement with certain lenders, without naming
them. The company was in talks with Goldman Sachs in June for a
credit line of more than a $1 billion to help make acquisitions,
a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 