-- H&R Block Seen Inviting Buyout by Removing Bank: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-19T14:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/h-r-block-seen-inviting-buyout-by-removing-bank-real-m-a.html
Removing the bank embedded in  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)  would turn the biggest U.S. tax preparer into a
potential takeover target.  H&R Block, which has completed more than 600 million tax
returns since 1955, said last week that it hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to evaluate options for its six-year-old banking unit
amid new Federal Reserve rules requiring savings and loans to
hoard more capital. Jettisoning the bank would simplify the
business and may boost the odds of a deal,  shareholders  Yacktman
Asset Management LP and Kempner Capital Management Inc. said.  The company is mulling alternatives after a decade-long
 malaise  in its share price. At $17.29, H&R Block trades at a
price first reached in 2001 and 43 percent below the record high
from 2004. H&R Block’s price-earnings ratio using this year’s
estimates is less than 93 percent of U.S. consumer discretionary
services companies, and analysts foresee the end to a four-year
decline in sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While
Schwartz Investment Counsel Inc. said its  cash flow  generation
may lure private-equity buyers, Foxhall Capital Management Inc.
said mortgage lenders may see value in combining with H&R Block.  “This company has all the characteristics of a potential
takeover target,” Sandy Mehta, Hong Kong-based chief executive
officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd., which owns H&R
Block shares, said in a telephone interview. Eliminating the
bank removes an obstacle that may deter buyers who don’t want
the increased regulation such a business brings, he added. “If
you get rid of that, that’s one less hurdle.”  ‘Too Soon’  Gene King , a spokesman for H&R Block, declined to comment
on whether the company is a takeover target.  “Proposed new banking regulations are inconsistent with
our strategic plans, operational needs and growth objectives,”
King wrote in an e-mail. “Therefore, we have begun to explore
alternatives to ownership of H&R Block Bank for delivering
financial services and related products to our clients. That
process has just begun so it’s too soon to speculate on the
timing or ultimate outcome of this strategic review.”  H&R Block, founded in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , by brothers
Henry and Richard Bloch, got its start in the 1950s by preparing
income-tax returns for individuals. It handled 16 percent of all
returns in 2011, according to U.S. Internal Revenue Service data
cited in a report by Los Angeles-based industry researcher
IBISWorld. In 2006, the company formed H&R Block Bank to offer
loans,  savings accounts  and other products.  Falling Sales  Sales at H&R Block have fallen four straight years, while
net income slumped for three, as it fights for tax-return market
share versus  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s do-it-yourself TurboTax service.
Earnings have also been hurt by the end of refund-anticipation
loans, offered to customers as an advance payment of their
expected  tax refund , amid regulatory pressure and complaints
from consumer groups that  interest rates  were too high.  “For the last few years, revenue growth has generally come
in below expectations,”  Mike Turner , a Washington-based analyst
at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC, said in a phone
interview. “They haven’t been able to raise prices much in the
last few years.”  The company has been forced to set aside money, reducing
net income, in anticipation of losses on loans offered by its
shuttered Option One Mortgage Corp. unit. Also, the Securities
and Exchange Commission ordered the tax preparer this year to
pay more than $28 million to resolve claims it sold investors
subprime mortgage-backed securities without disclosing risks.  H&R Block  shares  peaked at $30.36 in 2004 and have fallen
from a 2008 high of $26.50. The decline has left H&R Block
trading at 10.7 times analysts’ average projection for the
company’s earnings this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Only Phoenix-based Apollo Group Inc., the largest U.S. for-
profit college chain, has a lower ratio among U.S. consumer
discretionary services companies valued at more than $2 billion.  Today, H&R Block shares lost 0.4 percent to $17.23 at 10:15
a.m.  New York  time.  Takeover Target  Given the low valuation and analysts’  projection  for
 revenue  to increase 4.5 percent this fiscal year, which ends in
April, H&R Block may turn into a takeover target, Value
Investment Principal’s Mehta said. The company’s growth
prospects are also bright because of its expansion into overseas
markets such as  India , he said.  Exiting the bank business would help streamline H&R Block,
making it more attractive to potential acquirers, said Shawn Gault, a money manager at Galveston, Texas-based Kempner Capital
Management, which oversees about $400 million including H&R
Block shares.  “Any time you make a company simpler and eliminate
regulations, especially in a banking unit, it could increase the
odds” of a deal, Gault said in a phone interview. “It’s a very
simple company to understand at that point. It’s simple to
understand anyway, so I wouldn’t rule it out.”  Earnings ‘Hiccup’  H&R Block shares dropped 5.4 percent on Oct. 10 after the
company said it was considering alternatives for the bank unit.
While getting rid of H&R Block Bank may cause a “near-term
hiccup” in earnings, the company would also be able to relieve
itself of regulatory obligations and could end up saving money,
Compass Point’s Turner said.  “They’re not going to have to deal with any Federal
Reserve review or any banking review on an annual basis, which
probably does provide some cost savings and reduces any kind of
potential overhang,” Turner said.  Removing the regulatory requirements that come with bank
ownership would make H&R Block a “more attractive takeover
target” for private-equity firms that don’t want to deal with
such scrutiny, said Tim Schwartz, a  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-
based  money manager  at Schwartz Investment Counsel, which
oversees more than $1 billion including H&R Block shares.  Cash Generation  Private-equity buyers could be drawn by “the steadiness of
the business, the high free cash generation,” Schwartz said in
a phone interview. “That would be a logical choice. That’s who
I think is going to take a look.”  H&R Block generated $298.7 million in  free cash flow  in the
last 12 months, almost double the median $158.2 million among
similar-sized peers in the U.S. consumer discretionary services
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
had $1 billion in total debt and $939.9 million in cash as of
July 31, the data show.  Financial institutions including mortgage lenders may be
tempted by H&R Block and its almost 11,000 retail locations
across the country, said Paul Dietrich, CEO and co-chief
investment officer of Middleburg, Virginia-based Foxhall Capital
Management, which oversees more than $100 million including H&R
Block shares.  “This would be an attractive place for people because they
have a distribution system that’s already in place,” Dietrich
said in a phone interview.  Disappointing Offer  While Schwartz estimates H&R Block could fetch between $20
and $25 a share in a takeover, Value Investment Principal’s
Mehta said the company could attract bids of $30, a 74 percent
premium. That might undervalue the company and may not be the
best option for shareholders, Mehta said.  “I actually would hope that it doesn’t get taken over in
the near term,” Mehta said. “I would like it to be taken over
two or three years from now when the stock is already at $25 and
then somebody puts a bid on the table, rather than somebody try
to steal it too cheaply.”  Still, H&R Block might be forced to sell at a low valuation
if concerns about its business persist, Foxhall’s Dietrich said.  A divestiture of the bank business “is going to make it a
takeover target,” Dietrich said. “That’s probably not what H&R
Block wants” and “they’re not going to get quite the price
that I think the H&R Block board thinks that it’s worth.”  Whittling H&R Block’s business down to tax preparation
helps make the company more attractive as a takeover candidate,
said  Donald Yacktman , president and co-chief investment officer
at Austin, Texas-based Yacktman Asset Management, which oversees
about $20 billion including H&R Block shares.  Getting rid of banking  “makes it nice and clean,” he
said in a phone interview. “Then it becomes a function of
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  