-- ‘Rebecca’ Musical Producers Sue Former Oppenheimer Broker
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/-rebecca-producers-sue-backer-mark-hotton-in-n-y-state-court.html
The producers of  “Rebecca: The
Musical”  sued a  Long Island , New York, man charged with
inventing bogus investors who were purportedly prepared to save
the Broadway musical.  The lawsuit was filed today by Ben Sprecher and Louise
Forlenza in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan . They seek
more than $100 million from Mark Christopher Hotton and his
wife, Sherri, who the producers claim sabotaged their roughly
$12 million musical with an elaborate fraud.  Mark Hotton, a 46-year-old former Oppenheimer & Co. broker,
was arrested Oct. 15 at his West Islip home and charged with
 wire fraud . U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said Hotton
made up the promise of a $4.5 million investment and a possible
$1.1 million loan to get tens of thousands of dollars in
purported expenses and fees from the producers.  At least one unknown individual is also a defendant, a man
or woman who sent anonymous e-mails to an unidentified investor
prepared to invest at the 11th hour. One of the e-mails said the
“walls are about to cave in on Mr. Sprecher and the Rebecca
Broadway production,” causing the “angel” to back out,
according to the complaint.  “Plaintiffs are working tirelessly to save the show, but
if it cannot be saved, then defendants are responsible for its
destruction, along with at least hundreds of millions of dollars
in lost profit damages,” the producers said in the complaint.  Hotton’s Lawyer  Gerald Shargel , a lawyer representing Mark Hotton, declined
to comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview. Although
Sherri Hotton wasn’t charged in the “Rebecca” case, the
producers claimed in their suit that she helped her husband as
he created fake documents and investors.  Previews were to start at the Broadhurst Theatre Oct. 30.
With the indefinite postponement of “Rebecca,”a new play by
Nora Ephron starring  Tom Hanks  will begin previews at the
Broadhurst in March.  Hotton filed for  bankruptcy protection  in February 2011.
Creditors include a neighboring family, the Pitches, who claim
they were swindled out of their life savings of more than $5
million, according to court papers.  “There’s a long line of creditors,” Timothy Dennin, a
lawyer who represents the Pitches, said in an interview. “It
appears that there’s not going to be any significant recovery
for anyone.”  Bankruptcy Filing  Dennin said Hotton filed for protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Central Islip  two days before the Pitches’ arbitration
was to begin against Oppenheimer and Hotton. Hotton left
Oppenheimer in February 2009, according to his disciplinary
record from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Hotton created shell companies to defraud victims of more
than $15 million, the  Justice Department  said in court papers.  The partnership to produce “Rebecca” was formed in March
2011, according to the complaint. The producers initially
announced an April 2012 Broadway opening, but in late January
said in a press release that they were postponing because they
couldn’t raise all the money.  At about the same time, according to the producers’
complaint, Forlenza was introduced to Hotton by a man named
Jeffrey Troncone, whom she met through a client of her
accounting business.  Troncone put Forlenza and Sprecher in touch with legitimate
investors, including one who put $250,000 into the show,
according to the complaint. Troncone couldn’t be reached for
comment on the lawsuit.  Previous Musical  Hotton told Forlenza that he had arranged for funding of a
successful West End musical, which the complaint doesn’t name.
In late January or early February, Hotton met with Sprecher and
Forlenza at their West 52nd Street office, where he was retained
to raise money, according to the complaint. They had already
secured at least $7 million, and any fees for him were to come
from their share of profits, they said.  Weeks later, Hotton produced subscription documents signed
with four names representing $4.5 million -- three in  England 
and one in  Australia , according to the complaint. Two of them,
Paul Abrams and Julian Spencer, would later be named in the
musical’s press releases. None existed, according to the
complaint.  Shortly before the July 31 deadline when the money was due,
Hotton told the producers that Abrams contracted malaria,
according to the complaint. On Aug. 5, Hotton said Abrams had
died.  Within days, Hotton invented another character, a “Mr.
Wexler,” who purportedly represented the Abrams estate. Wexler
exchanged e-mails with Sprecher, according to the complaint.  Playbill Offer  In one e-mail to Wexler, Sprecher offered to put a
dedication in the Playbill for the musical in Mr. Abrams’
memory, according to the complaint.  The last-minute angel had read press reports about the
show’s woes. He went as far as putting $2.25 million in escrow,
according to the suit. Privacy was of “utmost importance” to
the investor, who pulled out after receiving three anonymous e-
mails warning about the show.  Sherri Hotton, 43, couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment on the suit. She was arrested with her husband last week
on charges of  money laundering  and wire fraud in connection with
a separate case and is in federal custody, said  Robert Nardoza ,
a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in  Brooklyn . Sherri
Hotton was denied court-appointed counsel and is seeking an
attorney, Nardoza said. Shargel said he is not representing her.  Ron Russo , a lawyer for Sprecher, said earlier this week
that his client was cheated by an expert.  “There were hundreds of captains of industry who were
duped by  Bernie Madoff ,” Russo said in an interview. “This guy
was as good as they come.”  The case is Rebecca Broadway Limited Partnership v. Hotton,
653659/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:  Philip Boroff in New York
at   pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 