-- Mack Starts Fund-of-Funds With Investor for Magic Johnson
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/mack-starts-fund-of-funds-with-investor-for-magic-johnson.html
John Mack , the former head of Morgan
Stanley, is going into business with a 77-year-old tax lawyer
who oversees more than $15 billion in investment assets for
clients such as ex-basketball star  Magic Johnson  and the
founding family of Estee Lauder Cos.  Joel Ehrenkranz, who co-founded a tax and estate legal
practice with his brother Sanford in 1966, joined forces with
Mack to start fund-of-funds manager E&M Advisors LLC, according
to a  registration  filing last month with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. E&M expects to raise $500 million this
quarter to invest in outside  hedge funds  and private-equity
deals, the firm said in the filing.  Mack, a onetime bond salesman and trader, could help E&M
Advisors attract assets from corporate executives and private-
banking contacts cultivated during the course of his 35-year
career at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said Brad Hintz, a bank and brokerage
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Since leaving as Morgan
Stanley’s chairman at the end of last year, Mack has become an
adviser to companies including buyout firm KKR & Co., where he
signed on in March.  “John’s Rolodex would be mammoth,” said Hintz, who worked
for Morgan Stanley from 1986 to 1996 as a managing director and
treasurer. “The classic model of Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley was you had the relationship with the company and the
executive.”  Daniel Schloendorn, a partner at the  law firm  Willkie Farr
& Gallagher LLP who represents Ehrenkranz, said his client
declined to comment. Mack said in a brief interview that he had
simply lent his name to the venture.  “We have no plans,” Mack said. “I’ve just known Joel for
a long time.”  Brief Stint  Mack, who developed a reputation over the years for cutting
costs, not only ran Morgan Stanley and  Credit Suisse First
Boston  at separate points, but also did a brief stint in 2005 as
the chairman of what was once the world’s largest hedge fund. In
June of that year, he joined  Arthur Samberg ’s Pequot Capital
Management Inc., based in Westport, Connecticut-based, before
going back to Morgan Stanley at the end of the month as chairman
and chief executive officer.  After exiting the New York-based bank last December, the
Wall Street veteran set up John Mack Advisors LLC, according to
Delaware state records. E&M Advisors was incorporated two months
later, with John Mack Advisors and Ehrenkranz’s E&E Capital
Advisors LLC both holding 50 percent stakes, according to the
September filing.  E&M Advisors said in the regulatory filing that its first
fund-of-funds will allocate assets to third-party money managers
who “utilize a broad range of investment strategies,” and may
also make direct investments in operating companies as well as
co-investments with private-equity funds.  Fund Fees  When allocating money to hedge funds, Mack and Ehrenkranz
plan to charge their investors an annual management fee equaling
1.5 percent of net asset value, while taking a fee equaling as
much as 2.5 percent of the cost of each private-equity deal. The
fund of funds will also charge performance-based fees equaling 5
percent to 25 percent of profits, depending on investment type,
according to the  SEC filing .  John Ehrenkranz, Joel’s 47-year-old son, worked as a
managing director at Morgan Stanley Capital Partners, the
brokerage’s merchant-banking division, from 1996 until 2004,
when he joined his father’s investment-management business,
according to regulatory filings. The elder Ehrenkranz is active
in the same  New York  philanthropic circles as Mack, serving as a
trustee at the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Museum of
 Modern Art , the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the  New York
University School of Law .  Lauder Family  Joel and his brother Sanford, 73, started a tax and estate
planning legal practice 46 years ago that catered to high-net-
worth individuals, such as the Lauder family, SEC  filings show .
According to court documents, Joel was an executor for the
estate of Alan Tishman, the real estate developer who “helped
transform New York’s skyline,” according to the New York Times.  The law firm began managing money for its clients,
initially by having them invest in commercial real estate
partnerships and then in hedge funds, said a person familiar
with the firm who requested anonymity because of confidentiality
agreements. In a 2004 civil trial tied to his former role as the
president of Walt Disney Co.,  Michael Ovitz  testified that Joel
Ehrenkranz was one of his two principal money managers and had
also been one of his main tax advisers from 1990 to 1995,
according to court transcripts.  Early Entrant  Ehrenkranz’s fund of funds “was one of the earliest ones
that was ever started, well before a number of the big guys like
Merrill Lynch and BlackRock” got into the business, said Julian
Rundle, the chief investment officer of Dorset Management LLC, a
New York-based firm that creates customized portfolios of hedge
funds for clients.  In 2000, an Ehrenkranz money-management unit called E&E
Advisors LP registered with the SEC to provide investment
advisory services for high-net-worth individuals, including
clients of the family law firm. Ehrenkranz legal clients can pay
their retainers to the law firm by having the money deducted
from accounts tied to their investments in E&E Advisors funds,
according to regulatory filings.  E&E Advisors has about $11.4 billion in assets under
management, including $10.8 billion in separate accounts and
$583 million in funds of funds, according to regulatory  filings .
A second Ehrenkranz investment advisory unit called E Capital
Management LP had about $3.7 billion invested in its funds of
funds at the end of January.  A spokeswoman for Magic Johnson, the former point guard for
the  National Basketball Association ’s  Los Angeles Lakers  who is
enshrined in the Hall of fame, confirmed that he is an investor
in one of Ehrenkranz’s funds. The family office of  Donald
Marron , the former chairman of the New York brokerage Paine
Webber Group Inc., has about $52 million invested with the E&E
Advisors through an entity called Chestnut Partners LP, filings
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  