-- ADM Courts Australia’s GrainCorp to Feed Demand in Asia
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-10-19T20:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/adm-buys-stake-in-australia-s-graincorp-seeks-further-talks.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s biggest corn processor, is seeking talks with  GrainCorp
Ltd. (GNC)  about a potential takeover after boosting its stake in the
grain handler.  “ADM has approached GrainCorp with the aim of arriving at
an agreement under which GrainCorp’s board of directors would
recommend to its shareholders a cash acquisition by ADM,” the
Decatur, Illinois-based company said today in a statement. It
has increased its stake in GrainCorp to 14.9 percent from 4.9
percent previously.  Eastern Australia’s largest grain handler would review any
proposal from ADM to maximize value for shareholders, it said in
a separate statement. GrainCorp, which has a market value of A$2
billion ($2.07 billion), halted trading in Sydney today.  The purchase underscores a push by companies including
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Hong Kong-based commodity trading
company Noble Group Ltd. to target agricultural assets, betting
on rising demand from Asia as living standards rise and diets
improve. GrainCorp is the only major publicly traded crop
handler still in Australian hands since the world’s second-
biggest wheat exporter stripped AWB Ltd. of its grain export
monopoly in 2006.  “Anyone that wants a significant presence in Australia
would have to look at it,” Belinda Moore, a Brisbane-based
analyst at RBS Morgans Ltd., said by phone. “We expect a number
of parties could be interested in GrainCorp and a bidding war
may emerge,” Moore said earlier today in an e-mail.  Two Trades  Two trades of 22.81 million shares each in GrainCorp
crossed at 7:05 a.m. Sydney time today at A$11.75 a share, 33
percent higher than yesterday’s closing price, Australian stock
exchange data shows. A takeover bid at that price would value
GrainCorp at A$2.7 billion.  ADM  declined  1.9 percent to $28.52 at the close in New
York. GrainCorp fell 2.1 percent in Sydney yesterday to A$8.85.
Its shares have gained 14 percent this year.  Trading of GrainCorp’s shares were halted until Oct. 23 or
until a statement is made.  “Our investment in GrainCorp is part of our ongoing
portfolio management and is consistent with our strategy of
growing our agricultural-services and oilseeds businesses by
investing in key supply regions outside the United States,” ADM
Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz said in her company’s
statement.  Possible Bidders  David Weintraub, an ADM spokesman, declined to provide
further comment regarding the deal when reached by phone today.  A takeover of GrainCorp, which operates seven of the eight
ports that ship grain in bulk from Australia’s east coast, was
“inevitable,” Citigroup Inc. said in March. The company may
lure a bid of A$2.2 billion, RBS Morgans said at the time.  “Any of the Asian trading companies could perhaps have an
interest,” Moore said, naming Wilmar International Ltd., the
world’s biggest palm oil processor, Singaporean raw-materials
trader  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , White Plains, New York-based
 Bunge Ltd. (BG) , Noble and Japan’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)   “Rural assets in Australia have been of interest to quite
a variance of people,”  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw
Stockbroking Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “You’ve had
interest out of the Arab states, out of  India , you’ve had
interest out of  China  and out of North America at different
stages.”  Implied Premium  GrainCorp is trading at a  multiple  of 8.12 times to
earnings, the lowest among 11 comparable companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. RBS Morgans’ Moore, valuing the
company at A$9.77 a share, said the usual takeover premium of 20
percent to 30 percent implied a takeover price of A$11.73 to
A$12.70 a share.  Canada ’s  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  in 2010 bought AWB, Australia’s former
monopoly wheat trader, for A$1.8 billion, while Wilmar bought
Australia’s biggest sugar company, Sucrogen Ltd., for A$1.75
billion the same year.  Wilmar (WIL)  in February also took a 10 percent
stake in  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF) , the nation’s largest baker.
Glencore in March offered C$6.1 billion ($6.14 billion) for
 Viterra Inc. (VT) ’s grain assets in Canada and Australia. The
takeover is expected to be completed by Nov. 15, Viterra said
last month.  1916 Roots  There have been $44 billion of takeovers this year in
Australia, the biggest exporter of iron ore, coal and alumina,
and the second-biggest shipper of wheat. That compares with deal
volume of $100 billion last year.  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, handles as much as 60 percent of eastern  Australia ’s
grain crop and has about 20 million metric tons of storage at
more than 280 inland grain-handling sites, according to the
company.  Its revenue has surged since Australia’s 2006 decision to
strip AWB of its export monopoly after an inquiry found it was
among firms that made illegal payments to win contracts from the
former Iraq regime of Saddam Hussein under the United Nations’
oil-for-food program.  With GrainCorp owning the silos where farmers dump their
harvests, railroad cars that carry loads to east-coast ports,
and the elevators used to load ships, the deregulation gave the
company a “virtual, natural monopoly” on the eastern seaboard,
according to Justin Crosby, a policy director at the Sydney-
based  NSW Farmers’ Association , which represents 10,000 members,
half of them grain growers.  GrainCorp’s profit  will rise  26 percent to A$217 million in
the year to March 31, according to the average of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  