-- Tagus Said to Seek to Ensure Brisa Buyout Isn’t Required
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-19T16:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/tagus-said-to-seek-to-avoid-buying-remaining-brisa-stock.html
Tagus Holdings Sarl is said to be
working to ensure it won’t have to buy  Brisa-Auto Estradas de
Portugal SA ’s remaining stock before halting trading in the
toll-road operator, two people involved in the process said.  Tagus, which holds 92 percent of Brisa’s voting rights, has
held talks with Portuguese securities regulator CMVM on terms
for dropping the Lisbon listing. The investor is taking the
position that Portuguese market rules permit the move without
requiring a buyout of other shareholders, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to
speak about the process while it’s under review.  Brisa, Portugal’s biggest highway-management company, was
purchased in August for 2.76 euros a share in a transaction
valuing it at 1.66 billion euros ($2.16 billion). Tagus, a
venture of  Jose de Mello SGPS SA , a holding company for one of
 Portugal ’s richest families, and London-based transport investor
Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP, applied to the CMVM on Sept.
4 to remove Brisa’s public-company status.  The investors together owned about 50 percent of Brisa,
which is based in the Lisbon suburb of Sao Domingos de Rana,
before setting up Tagus to make the acquisition offer in March.  Law’s Terms  Portugal’s securities law  allows  the delisting of a company
when a shareholder’s voting rights exceed 90 percent following a
takeover bid, without specifying anything about minority
shareholders.  Margarida Guimaraes, a representative at Unimagem
Comunicacao & Imagem, Tagus’s public relations firm, declined to
comment today. Roli Agrawal, investor relations chief at Arcus,
didn’t respond to repeated phone messages seeking comment that
were left with an assistant yesterday and today at the company’s
office in  London . An official at the CMVM in Lisbon, who said in
an e-mail on Oct. 16 that the Tagus request is still under
review, declined to comment further today.  Brisa has dropped 32 percent since the takeover was
completed on Aug. 9. The stock  fell  3.1 percent to 1.85 euros at
the close in Lisbon.  In the absence of a buyout when public trading is halted,
smaller investors are likely to have to wait for Brisa’s
eventual return to the market to sell their shares, Francisco
Goarmon, a trader at Probolsa in Lisbon, said in a phone
interview on Oct. 9.  Investors’ View  “The law does not protect minority shareholders, and that
means the CMVM only has one choice: to reject Tagus’s request
because the goal of the CMVM is to protect all investors,”
Octavio Viana, president of the Oporto-based Association of
Investors and Technical Analysts, a group representing about 10
minority Brisa shareholders, said by phone yesterday.  Tagus has made clear that it wants to follow the market
rules, the two people involved in the process said.  “By not offering to buy the remaining shares, Tagus won’t
have to spend more money on Brisa,” Pedro Oliveira, a trader at
Go Bulling in Lisbon, said by phone today. “A buyout would
probably cost Tagus more than the price at which the shares are
currently trading.”  Shareholders that still own stakes in Brisa include
 Espirito Santo Portugal Accoes (ESPTACC)  and Alves Ribeiro-Medias Empresas
Portugal, two equity funds that invest exclusively in domestic
stocks. Espirito Santo raised its stake in Brisa in September
while  Alves Ribeiro (ARMEMPO)  held onto its 20,000 shares in the toll-road
operator, according to data posted earlier this month on the
CMVM’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  