-- Thai Swaps Set for Steepest Weekly Drop in a Year After Rate Cut
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-19T02:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/thai-swaps-set-for-steepest-weekly-drop-in-a-year-after-rate-cut.html
Thailand’s  interest-rate swaps 
headed for the biggest weekly drop in more than a year and
government bonds rallied after the central bank unexpectedly cut
borrowing costs to spur economic growth.  The fixed cost to lock in one-year rates reached the lowest
level since July while the yield on five-year debt slid this
week by the most since December. The Bank of Thailand lowered
its  one-day bond repurchase rate  by a quarter of a percentage
point to 2.75 percent on Oct. 17, four days after Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said no easing was needed. The decision
was predicted by three of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
while the rest forecast no change.  “The rate cut was a real surprise especially after the
governor’s remarks and therefore, the market had to adjust,”
said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “I don’t think they will cut
again at the next meeting, but it’s possible some investors are
positioning for the possibility of further cuts.”  The one-year swap rate slumped 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, from a week ago to 2.73 percent as of 8:18
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the biggest decline since the five-day period ended Sept.
23, 2011. The rate, which is at the lowest level since July 23,
was little changed today.  The yield on the 3.25 percent debt due June 2017 dropped 15
basis points this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 2,
to 3.10 percent.  ‘Substantial Uncertainty’  The Bank of  Thailand  said on the day of the rate decision
that the global economic outlook remained weak and the
“substantial degree of uncertainty” could hamper exports.
Overseas sales, which account for about two-thirds of the
Southeast Asian nation’s economy, decreased 2.7 percent in
September after a slide of 7 percent in August, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
government data due Oct. 24.  The baht weakened 0.2 percent today and this week to 30.70
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was unchanged today and from a week ago at 4.27
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  