-- AIG’s Benmosche Says Treasury May Sell Rest of Stake in 2012
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-19T20:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/aig-chief-benmosche-says-treasury-may-sell-its-stake-this-year.html
The U.S. Treasury Department may
sell the rest of its holdings in insurer  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  before 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
said. Shares fell the most since June.  “We think the Treasury will sell the remaining stake some
time this year,” Benmosche said today at an event in Madrid.
“Their lockup ends in November and the window opens up.”  The U.S. cut its  stake  in AIG to 16 percent from 77 percent
in four share sales this year, most recently in September, after
acquiring 92 percent in a bailout during the financial crisis.
While the government has  recouped  the original cost of rescuing
AIG, the success of bailing out financial firms and automakers
has become an issue in the U.S. presidential campaign.  Selling more shares could help the U.S. reduce the cost of
the bailouts for taxpayers. AIG  dropped  4.1 percent to close at
$35.70 in  New York  and remains above Treasury’s break-even cost
of about $28.73. The shares have gained 54 percent this year.  “Our hope is they’re gone,” Benmosche said today. “If
they’re gone, that’s fine, and if they’re not gone, that’s
fine.”  Matt Anderson , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.
The lockup after the September share sale expires Nov. 9, and
AIG is scheduled to report third-quarter results on Nov. 1.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  sparred over the auto industry portion of the bailouts
during their Oct. 16 debate. The U.S. still owns stakes in
General Motors Co. and auto lender Ally Financial Inc.  Funds Recovered  The U.S. recovered its full $182.3 billion commitment to
New York-based AIG with a profit after Treasury’s stock sale in
September. The profit includes results from the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York portion of the rescue, which included a  credit
line  and the purchase of mortgage-linked securities.  AIG sold units in  Asia  to rivals MetLife Inc. and
Prudential Financial Inc. to help repay the bailout, scaling
back in the region. The company is working to improve results at
its Chartis property-casualty unit by shunning lower-priced
business, as Benmosche seeks to attract private investors.  Benmosche, who is fighting cancer, said he would like to
keep working for the insurer until 2014.  “My energy levels are great, I feel pretty good about this
job, I’m loving this job,” he said today. “I’ve told the board
I would like to stay on to 2014 if they want and my health holds
up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  