-- Airbnb Said to Be Raising Money From Peter Thiel
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-19T23:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/airbnb-said-to-be-raising-money-from-peter-thiel.html
Airbnb Inc. , operator of a website
that lets people rent out rooms and residences, is raising about
$150 million in new funding that values the company at about
$2.5 billion, said people familiar with the matter.  The funding is being led by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  investor  Peter Thiel , and the deal has yet to close as negotiations are
ongoing, said the people, who declined to be named because the
talks are private. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier
today that the company is likely to raise $150 million from
Thiel and other investors.  Airbnb, a four-year-old startup in  San Francisco , has
gained popularity by connecting travelers with apartment and
homeowners across the world, providing an alternative to hotels.
The company raised $112 million at a valuation of about $1.3
billion in July 2011, in a financing round led by Andreessen
Horowitz. Since then, the number of cities where Airbnb has
listings has almost doubled to 30,743.  At $2.5 billion, Airbnb would be worth more than  HomeAway
Inc. (AWAY) , the vacation rental website that sold shares to the public
last year. HomeAway, founded three years before Airbnb, makes
money by charging users an annual fee to list on its site.
Airbnb generates revenue by taking a cut of every transaction.  Kim Rubey , a spokeswoman at Airbnb, declined to comment.
Thiel didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Thiel, 45, was the first outside backer of Facebook,
investing $500,000 in 2004. The PayPal Inc. co-founder then
started venture capital firm Founders Fund and has invested in
startups including data and security software maker Palantir
Technologies Inc. and Yammer Inc., which was acquired in July by
Microsoft Corp. He made more than $1 billion from the sale of
most of his shares in Facebook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  