-- Halliburton Says BP’s Deal With Spill Victims Is Unfair
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-19T01:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/halliburton-says-bp-s-deal-with-spill-victims-is-unfair.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  said  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
proposed settlement with victims of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico 
spill unfairly creates a “collusive alliance” against the oil
field services company in a scheduled multibillion-dollar trial.  “The settlement agreements will improperly align the
interests of BP and the settling plaintiffs in any subsequent
trial on liability in this court,” Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s
lead lawyer, said in a 138-page filing yesterday that the
company is seeking permission from a judge to submit in federal
court in New Orleans.  BP’s deal creates an incentive for the plaintiffs who
settled to change their strategy to minimize any determination
of BP’s share of liability and argue for greater compensation
from the other defendants, including Halliburton, Godwin said.  That “will prevent a true arms length adversarial trial,”
he said.  More than 500 lawsuits by coastal property owners, tourism
and fishing interests seeking damages from BP and other
companies involved in the worst offshore spill in U.S. history
are consolidated in  New Orleans  for pretrial processing. More
than 4.1 million barrels of crude spilled from BP’s well after
the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which was
owned by  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , and received cementing services from a
Halliburton unit.  Victims’ Lawyers  BP and a committee of lawyers representing the victims
reached a partial settlement in March that would commit London-
based BP to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to resolve most
economic-damages claims. That deal is awaiting approval by U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who oversees the consolidated spill
litigation.  “Halliburton’s filing amounts to the company grasping at
straws,”  Steve Herman , liaison counsel for the plaintiffs
steering committee, said today in an e-mail. “The court has
already ruled that they have no standing to object to the
settlement. The PSC will present the same case in January 2013
that it would have put on last February; there’s plenty of blame
to go around for this tragedy.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, said “the suggestion that the
BP-PSC settlement, and the assignment of BP’s claims against
Halliburton to the plaintiff class, was the product of collusion
is preposterous.”  “Claims are regularly assigned as part of civil
settlements, and the assignment of BP’s claims against
Halliburton to the plaintiff class confers real value to the
class,” Dean said today in an e-mailed statement. “The
assignment is just one of the terms of the settlement that was
negotiated as part of a months-long, arms-length process that
involved participation by the magistrate judge.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  