-- Alzheimer’s Drugs Seek Prevention as Cures Fail: Health
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/alzheimer-s-drugs-seek-prevention-as-cures-fail-health.html
Three studies set to explore the use
of experimental drugs that may become the first to change the
course of  Alzheimer’s  disease aren’t looking to cure the
illness. Their goal is to prevent it altogether.  The independent trials will begin in 2013 and run for three
to five years, testing as many as five drugs in almost 1,500
volunteers who haven’t shown any of Alzheimer’s mind-altering
symptoms, yet carry a strong genetic risk for the disease or
display early physical evidence in the brain. A decision on the
final study drug is expected in December.  The newest strategy abandons a drive that failed to stop
Alzheimer’s once memories recede. Instead, as with heart
disease, scientists are exploring if the mind-robbing ailment
can be prevented or at least delayed using drugs that act
roughly like  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s Lipitor and other  statins . The idea,
driven by new information that tracks the disease’s progression
back through time, is to act years before symptoms occur to rid
the brain of proteins that can later destroy nerve cells.  “We now can see changes 10 to 15 years before symptoms
develop,” said  Neil Buckholtz , director of the division of
neuroscience at the National Institute on Aging in Bethesda,
 Maryland . “If you can stop them, you have a chance of slowing
down or possibly even stopping progression.”  A breakthrough can’t come soon enough. The number of
Alzheimer’s cases globally is expected to double within 20 years
as the world’s population ages, to as many as
65.7 million people in 2030 and 115 million by 2050, the Geneva-
based  World Health Organization   said in April .  Study Failures  At the same time, studies completed as recently as the last
three months involving drugs made by Pfizer and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s two biggest makers of health products, and
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  showed virtually no progress in slowing or
stopping the disease in patients in the later stages of the
disease.  Lilly said on Oct. 8 that its drug, solanezumab, provided
no benefit to advanced victims in a trial. The research did
suggest the medicine may help in a small way in those with early
symptoms. J&J and Pfizer reported on Sept. 11 that while their
drug, bapineuzumab, showed signs of reducing physical damage, it
didn’t affect symptoms.  The next step, Buckholtz said, is to determine if pushing
the use of drugs like these back in time, when the disease is
just beginning to form, will make a difference.  “Really what’s happened is over the past 10 years,
investigators have tried to go earlier and earlier in the
disease process,” Buckholtz said.  Imaging Agents  Enabling researchers to get an ever earlier look at the
progression of Alzheimer’s has been the development of new
imaging agents, such as Pittsburgh Compound B or PiB, that
highlights the activity of beta amyloid, the hallmark protein
that makes up the brain’s tell-tale tangles.  Researchers studying those with a genetic propensity for
early Alzheimer’s, which can take hold by age 40, have also
tracked changes in brain size and cerebrospinal fluid that can
occur as early as 25 years before symptoms develop.  That work has allowed scientists to think of Alzheimer’s as
a kind of  chain reaction , much like that leading up to  heart
disease , said  Randall Bateman , a neurologist at the Washington
University in  St. Louis  who is leading one of the three studies.  “The questions are how long do you treat, when do you
start, and how do you measure effectiveness,” Bateman said in a
telephone interview. “It took thousands of patients over many
years to show statins have a benefit in heart disease. We’re
going as early in Alzheimer’s as we practically can.”  While the three studies won’t help those with the disease
now, they may be able affect the lives of generations to come,
the researchers said.  Lilly’s Drug  Researchers in two of the trials have already determined
they’ll use Lilly’s solanezumab and two products made by  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  that are in earlier stages of testing.  One of these trials is led by Bateman and the other by Eric
Reiman of the  Banner Alzheimer’s Institute  in Phoenix. These
studies will test about 460 people, all of whom have rare
genetic mutations that almost certainly will trigger the disease
early in their lives.  Bateman’s team will, over at least three years, test as
many as three drugs in 160 people with parents who fell victim
to the disease early.  Reiman’s group will study a group of families in  Colombia 
who often suffer severe  memory loss  by their early 40s. The
five-year $100 million study has interim tests that may indicate
whether the drug is having an effect within two years.  Harvard Study  The third trial, dubbed A4, will be conducted by a team led
by  Reisa Sperling  at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston . It will
test a drug on about 1,000 older people over three years whose
brains show the beginning of physical signs of Alzheimer’s
characteristic beta amyloid protein deposits, and who haven’t
yet displayed the disease’s symptoms.  A4 is the most representative of the general population,
and researchers plan to decide in December which drug they will
test, Sperling, a neurologist, said in a telephone interview.
She declined to say which medicines are being considered.  “It’s challenging to make a decision,” she said. “We’re
looking for a combination of evidence of biologic activity and a
hint of clinical efficacy. That’s much more difficult because
the drugs right now are all being tested in dementia, so it’s
hard to know how to extrapolate the findings back 10 years.”  The researchers also want to make sure the drugs are safe,
because the study group is composed of clinically normal older
adults, Sperling said.  The trials are exploratory, said Maria Carrillo, the vice
president of medical and scientific relations at  the Alzheimer’s
Association , a Chicago-based advocacy organization. Any drug
that’s at least being studied in a Phase 2 trial targeting
amyloid is fair game, she said.  “The question is, if we can really effect and impact that
in a significant way,”  Washington University ’s Bateman said.
“It would be a fantastic breakthrough for these family members,
and having that demonstration we can treat and prevent the
disease will embolden the field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 