-- Amazon Building Signals U.S. Office Revival: Mortgages
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-10-19T17:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/amazon-building-signals-u-s-office-revival-mortgages.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which agreed to buy
its  Seattle  headquarters for $1.16 billion, plans to start
construction next year on the first of three new buildings that
would add another 3 million square feet (278,700 square meters)
as technology companies expand and invest in real estate.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s blueprint for a new 175-acre campus in
Cupertino,  California , features a futuristic ring-shaped main
building of about 2.8 million square feet designed by British
architect  Norman Foster ’s firm.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  will start on an
expansion to its Menlo Park, California, headquarters that would
add a single-story building designed by  Frank Gehry  with about
430,000 square feet, or enough for about 2,800 engineers.  Expansion by  technology companies  is helping drive a
nascent rebound in U.S. office development from the lowest in
more than five decades as default rates on construction
mortgages decline from a 2010 peak. Tech companies are expanding
workforces and many also want to centralize employees in custom
offices with amenities existing buildings don’t always offer.  “There is a surprising amount of construction, given the
amount of space available in the market,” said Jon Southard,
managing director of CBRE Econometric Advisors, a Boston-based
unit of commercial broker CBRE Group Inc. “Even the gradual
improvement in demand we see going forward means construction is
going to increase from here rather than decrease.”  Construction Starts  Construction starts for U.S. offices are rising from 2010,
when they totaled 57 million square feet, the lowest since at
least 1960, according to McGraw-Hill Construction, which began
keeping national data that year.  Office starts rose to 60 million square feet last year.
They’ll probably dip to 59 million square feet this year as
government stimulus programs wind down, and climb to 64 million
square feet in 2013, said Robert Murray, vice president of
economic affairs for the Bedford, Massachusetts-based
construction-forecasting unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  “The market is moving up from the bottom but it is moving
up in a very hesitant, gradual manner,” Murray said. “If the
economy and  employment  show sustained growth, then certainly the
stage will be set for increasing office construction next year
and several years after that.”  Construction loans for office buildings rose to an
estimated $16.1 billion in the third quarter from $14 billion a
year earlier, as the default rate decreased during the past two
years, said  Sam Chandan , founder and chief economist of Chandan
Economics in  New York .  Credit Freeze  The loans were among the worst-performing mortgages
following the credit freeze in 2008. Default rates jumped from
less than 1 percent of banks’ outstanding loan balances in 2007
when commercial property values peaked, to a high of 15.2
percent in 2010’s third quarter, according to Chandan Economics.  The rate has since fallen to 11.1 percent in the three
months ended June 30, according to the New York-based real
estate research firm. Second-quarter defaults were the lowest
since the same period in 2009 when they reached 10.6 percent.  U.S. banks have $173.9 billion in construction and
development loans, excluding single-family and small residential
mortgages, according to the firm’s analysis of data from banks
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. That’s down from a peak
of $438.6 billion in the third quarter of 2008.  “When lending dries up, construction loan balances will
fall much faster than permanent commercial real estate loan
balances because of their shorter terms and because lenders have
written them off more aggressively,” Chandan said.  Cyclical Construction  During the past three years, office construction came
mainly from three sources: government buildings, data centers
and private projects, including corporate headquarters, said
Murray of McGraw-Hill Construction.  Tech construction has been cyclical, and just as the firms
led the office market during the late 1990s, the bursting of the
dot-com bubble contributed to a period of declining office
development in 2001 to 2003. The companies are now helping lead
office construction out of the doldrums.  Facebook, the operator of the world’s largest social
network, needs the space after more than tripling its workforce
since 2009 to 3,976 employees.  Google (GOOG) , the world’s biggest Internet search company, has
been buying up land and renovating office buildings next to its
main campus and furnishing them in anticipation of future hires.  The company, which has grown its staff to 53,546 as of
Sept. 30 from 19,835 employees at the end of 2009, recently
received permits from the city of  Mountain View , California,
where it’s based, to build a swimming pool for workers.  Expansion Costs  Google fell 8 percent yesterday after reporting third-
quarter profit and sales that missed analysts’ estimates,
signaling costs associated with new expansion are chipping away
at profitability. The stock was down 2.7 percent at 1:04 p.m.
New York time. That trimmed this year’s gain to 4.7 percent.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, filed revised
plans in May for its so-called Campus 2, located mostly on the
former Hewlett-Packard Co. head office in Cupertino. The plan
involves demolishing about 2.65 million square feet of existing
office and research and development buildings.  Companies in hiring mode are moving ahead with new office
buildings even as national office vacancy rates remain
relatively high. The U.S. office vacancy rate fell to 17.1
percent in the third quarter, from 17.4 percent a year earlier
and 17.2 percent in the second quarter, according to Reis Inc.  Vacancies Curtailed  Lack of new supply has helped curtail vacancies amid slow
economic growth. Just 2.84 million square feet of new  office
space  was added in the third quarter, “the equivalent of only a
handful of medium-size office buildings,” Reis, a  New York- 
based real estate research firm, said Oct. 2.  Employers may be reluctant to expand hiring amid the global
economic slowdown and the so-called fiscal cliff, the $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
automatically at the end of 2012 unless Congress acts.  Office completions this year will rise to an estimated 9.92
million square feet from 9.23 million square feet in 2011, which
was an 18-year low, according to CBRE Econometric Advisors. The
firm measures finished space instead of starts. Last year saw
the least amount of new office space being built since 7.86
million square feet in 1994, the year that Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  founded Amazon, now the biggest Web retailer.
The subsequent Internet boom helped propel U.S. office
completions to 100 million square feet in 1999.  Next year, office-property completions are projected to
increase to almost 15 million square feet, according to CBRE
Econometric Advisors. That’s about one-tenth of the record 171.7
million square feet of office space finished in 1986, according
to the firm.  Minneapolis Headquarters  The Minneapolis-St. Paul area leads the U.S. for most
office construction as a percentage of the existing market,
followed by Houston and Boston, according to a Sept. 21 report
by Michael Bilerman, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  The metropolitan Minneapolis area has one of the greatest
concentrations of Fortune 500 company headquarters of any area
in the U.S., with about 20 such companies based in the area,
according to the Minneapolis St. Paul Regional Economic
Development Partnership, a nonprofit group that promotes job
growth and investment in the 13-county region.  “We’re seeing the front end of a wave of new office and
industrial here as the economy gets better,” said Michael
Langley, president and CEO of the group, known as Greater MSP.
“We felt the recession like every region did but we were never
at the bottom. We’re not a one-sector region.”  The Minneapolis area has a broad base of employers in
industries such as food, healthcare, energy and insurance,
Langley said.  Target Grows  Minneapolis-based retailer  Target Corp. (TGT)  is adding about
650,000 square feet to its so-called northern campus in Brooklyn
Park,  Minnesota , as part of a multi-year expansion that could
add as much as 1.7 million square feet. The expansion was put on
hold during the credit crisis in 2008.  Office construction starts in the U.S. peaked in 1985 at
350 million square feet, according to McGraw-Hill Construction.  Building of offices during the first half of the 1980s was
boosted by the accelerated depreciation contained in 1981 tax
legislation and the influx of women into the workforce during
the 1970s, said Murray.  Although the accelerated depreciation provisions ended in
1986, “the overhang of office space that was created during the
first half of the 1980s led to a very weak period for office
construction that lasted from the late 1980s through the first
half of the 1990s,” Murray said.  Seattle Growth  Seattle ranks seventh nationally for new office
construction as a percentage of the existing market, according
to the report from Bilerman, the Citigroup analyst.  Amazon is moving to complete its first land purchase by
year’s end, plans that won’t be affected by its buying the 1.8-
million-square-feet headquarters it now leases, said Al Clise,
chairman of the development company that’s selling Amazon three
contiguous blocks next to its Seattle campus. Amazon plans to
build three towers with 3 million square feet, or about 7
percent of Seattle’s existing office market.  “Amazon is doing all their due diligence and all their
work with the city and that is going full steam ahead,” said
Clise.  Ty Rogers, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment.  Vulcan Real Estate, the property arm of billionaire  Paul Allen ’s investment company that is selling Amazon’s 11-building
campus, plans to recycle proceeds into new development, said Ada Healey, vice president at Vulcan.  “If you purely looked at the statistics, you really
shouldn’t expect any construction in the market, yet there are
examples like Amazon and you can dig into other markets too,”
said Southard of CBRE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  