-- AMR Criticized by Hedge Funds Over Talks With Creditors
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/amr-criticized-by-hedge-funds-over-talks-with-creditors.html
Appaloosa Management LP and Marathon
Asset Management LP said  American Airlines (AAMRQ)  isn’t being
“sufficiently transparent” as the carrier holds talks with a
creditor group about its bankruptcy restructuring.  AMR Corp., American’s parent, is providing confidential
information to the group and negotiating with it about a
reorganization “to the exclusion of” nonunion unsecured
creditors, the hedge funds said in an Oct. 18 letter to AMR
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton .  “Allowing a limited group of creditors to influence the
debtors’ restructuring process without input from a broader
representation of creditors is not only inappropriate, but also
risks the loss of value of the debtors’ estates for all of their
constituents as a whole,” Appaloosa and Marathon said in the
letter, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  American, which filed for bankruptcy in Manhattan last
year, is negotiating with a creditor group that the company says
may provide financing for its reorganization. The Fort Worth,
Texas-based carrier won permission last month from a federal
bankruptcy judge to pay the fees of the group’s advisers as
talks proceed. The group includes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Claren
Road Asset Management and Pentwater Capital Management,
according to court papers.  Gerard Uzzi, an attorney for the group, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment on the Oct. 18 letter, which was
earlier reported by the Wall Street Journal.  “Our objective thorough strategic review of all
alternatives is appropriately focused solely on creating maximum
value for all stakeholders,” AMR spokesman  Michael Trevino  said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Critical Mass’  Appaloosa and Marathon said the creditor group’s unsecured
debt holdings in the bankruptcy case don’t constitute “the
critical mass” needed to move the restructuring in a “positive
direction.”  The hedge funds said that based on their understanding,
talks between the creditor group and American have focused on a
discounted rights offering that some group members would like to
backstop “apparently regardless of whether additional equity
financing is advisable or whether a merger or other alternative
would provide more value.”  American has agreed to share financial information with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the Tempe, Arizona-based carrier that backs
a merger of the two airlines. American is scheduled to ask U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane at an Oct. 30 court hearing to extend
to Jan. 28 its exclusive right to file a plan. American said it
needs more time as it considers strategic alternatives.  The structure of AMR’s reorganization “can only be
achieved through a transparent process that engages all major
stakeholders, not just parties that have agreed to support an
alternative that may be preferred by” the company’s management,
Appaloosa and Marathon said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  