-- APAC Resources Favors Gold Companies as Iron Ore Wane
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-10-19T05:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/apac-resources-favors-gold-companies-as-iron-ore-wane-correct-.html
(Corrects to say APAC is the biggest shareholder in the
sixth paragraph.)  APAC Resources Ltd. (1104) , a Hong Kong-
based resources investment company, has raised its weighting of
gold and other precious metals companies, as prospects are
diminished for bulk commodities such as  iron ore .  “We’re probably now longer in precious metals as a rule,
with one or two oil and gas companies,” Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Ferguson said in a phone interview on Oct. 17. “I’m a
believer in precious metals. Gold, silver, especially platinum
and palladium.”  Excluding strategic investments, he said APAC has about 25
percent of its portfolio invested in precious metals companies,
up from about 10 percent a year earlier. He said the company is
looking at potential gold and coal investments in Indonesia.  Silver has jumped 18 percent and gold has gained 11.4
percent so far this year, making them the best performing metals
in the S&P GSCI Commodity Index. In comparison, iron ore has
dropped 16.6 percent this year, falling last month to a three-
year low on concern over slowing growth in  China’s economy .  “Quantitative easing is happening in the U.S. and  Europe .
Printing presses are printing more dollars, inflating their
debt, and undermining the value of the currency, said Ferguson.
‘‘Traditionally, gold has been a very good store for wealth.’’  Spending Deferred  APAC Resources is the biggest shareholder of  Mount Gibson
Iron Ltd. (MGX) , an iron ore producer in  Australia , according
Annabelle Wong, APAC’s assistant manager of corporate
development. The mining company said yesterday it’s deferring or
canceling as much as A$150 million ($155.5 million) in capital
expenditure for 2013 and cutting 270 jobs in response to falling
iron ore prices.  ‘‘While iron ore might not be as exciting or as sexy a
sector as it once was, it’s still very profitable,” Ferguson
said. The company might have sold its Mount Gibson shares if it
held a smaller stake, “but it’s a strategic investment and we
work closely with management,” he said.  Iron ore prices should stabilize around $100 to $120 a ton,
roughly the level of  China ’s cost of production, he said. “My
longer term view is I’m still quite optimistic about iron ore.”  APAC Resources shares have declined 24 percent this year.
The stock gained 2.5 percent to 25 cents at the close in Hong
Kong yesterday.  The company reported last month a  loss  of HK$527.5 million
($68 million) for the year ended June 30, compared with a net
profit of HK$1.46 billion a year earlier. That includes a
HK$296.4 million loss on its resource investment portfolio, in
which it invests in resources companies globally. Its strategic
portfolio, in which it holds stakes in Mount Gibson and  Metals X
Ltd. (MLX) , recorded a 65 percent decline in profit to HK$240 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  