-- Apple, Hynix, Kolon, Ferrero, AT&T: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/apple-hynix-kolon-ferrero-at-t-intellectual-property-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a U.K. court appeal
ruling over whether Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy tablet
infringed the design of the iPad as a judge criticized divergent
rulings in the global intellectual property fight between the
two companies.  A three-judge panel in London upheld an earlier decision by
a U.K. court that said several of Samsung’s Galaxy tablets
weren’t “cool” enough to be confused with the iPad. The ruling
described as “extreme” a German judgment from July granting
Apple a Europe-wide injunction preventing Samsung from selling
one model.  The ruling is the latest in a long line of disputes in
courts across the globe as rivals including  HTC Corp. (2498) , Apple and
Samsung fight for dominance in the smartphone and tablet
computer markets. The cases in the U.S., Germany, the
Netherlands and Spain often lead to conflicting rulings as
judges apply diverging national laws.  “If courts around  Europe  simply say they do not agree with
each other and give inconsistent decisions, Europe will be the
poorer,” Judge Robin Jacob said in the written ruling.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that it continues
“to believe that Apple was not the first to design a tablet
with a rectangular shape and rounded corners.”  The company said that “should Apple continue to make
excessive legal claims in other countries based on such generic
designs, innovation in the industry could be harmed and consumer
choice unduly limited.”  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  Apple must also publish notices in U.K. newspapers with
details of the U.K. ruling, Judge David Kitchin said yesterday.  Jacob said a publicity order was necessary to avoid
consumer confusion because of the news coverage of the “not as
cool” judgment in the U.K. and the contrasting German court’s
decision.  A link to the notice must appear on Apple’s website for one
month and the company must publish it in the Financial Times and
Daily Mail newspapers.  SK Hynix Seeks New Trial in Rambus Patent-Infringement Suit  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  is seeking a new trial in the memory-chip
technology patent-infringement case that  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  won in
 California  six years ago.  SK Hynix yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Ronald M.
Whyte in San Jose, California, to consider new evidence that it
says invalidates some of Rambus’s patents at issue in the case,
according to a court filing. SK Hynix also requested a new
trial.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld Whyte’s previous denial of SK Hynix’s bid to
throw out the 2006 verdict finding that the company infringed
Rambus patents. It vacated a $397 million jury award against
Ichon, South Korea-based SK Hynix, citing Rambus’s destruction
of documents that might have been used as evidence in the case.  Whyte last month ordered both companies to file proposals
on how much Rambus should be paid in royalty rates. As a
sanction for Rambus’s document destruction, the judge said he
wouldn’t allow a Rambus royalty that is “in excess of a
reasonable and non-discriminatory” amount, according to court
documents.  Linda Ashmore , a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Rambus, had no immediate comment on SK Hynix’s court
filing.  Rambus’s cases against SK Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. SK Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus destroyed records that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v.  Rambus Inc.,
00-cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  DuPont’s Kevlar Trade Secrets Stolen by Kolon, U.S. Charges  Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  and five of its executives were
charged with stealing trade secrets from  DuPont Co. (DD)  related to
the manufacture of Kevlar, an anti-ballistic fiber used in
police and military gear.  Kolon, based in Gyeonggi, South Korea, and the five
officials were indicted in federal court in Richmond, Virginia.
All were charged with one count of conspiracy to convert trade
secrets, four counts of theft of trade secrets and one count of
obstruction of justice. The indictment, which was filed Aug. 21
and unsealed yesterday, includes a forfeiture claim seeking at
least $225 million in alleged criminal proceeds from the
company.  This “should indicate that industrial espionage is not a
business strategy and will not be tolerated by the United States
Department of Justice,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said at a
press conference announcing the charges.  A federal jury in Richmond in September 2011 awarded DuPont
about $920 million in damages after finding that Kolon and its
U.S. unit wrongfully obtained DuPont’s proprietary information
about Kevlar by hiring some of the company’s former engineers
and marketers. Kolon sells the Heracron line of so-called para-
aramid fibers as a competitor to Kevlar.  Last month, a federal appeals court in Richmond considering
the company’s challenge to the jury verdict put on hold a
judge’s order that barred Kolon from selling para-aramid
products for 20 years.  Prosecutors also allege that Kolon stole trade secrets
related to a similar product made by  Teijin Ltd. (3401) , based in
 Osaka , Japan.  “Kolon sought to obtain trade secrets related to Kevlar
and Twaron by hiring and attempting to hire former and current
employees of DuPont, DuPont-Toray, and Teijin Twaron USA as
‘consultants,’ and by asking these ‘consultants’ to reveal
information that was confidential and proprietary,” according
to the indictment.  Jeff Randall, a Washington-based attorney who represents
Kolon, said his client denies doing anything illegal and will
fight the charges.  Much of the product information the government claims are
trade secrets had been made publicly available by DuPont in
patent applications and technical journals, Randall said in a
telephone interview.  “Kolon is entitled to reasonably rely on the consultants’
representations that they were engaged in legitimate consulting
activities and were only providing information that DuPont had
already publicly made available, and that they were not
disclosing any proprietary information,” said Randall, a
partner at Paul Hastings LLP.  The case is U.S. v. Kolon Industries, 12-cr-137, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  Trademark  Ferrero Tells Burrito Chain to Take ‘Nutella’ Off Menu, Signs  Ferrero Spa, the maker of Nutella and TicTac candies, has
sent a cease-and-desist letter to a chain of burrito
restaurants, the Boston Herald  reported .  Alba, Italy-based Ferrero objects to the Nutella milkshake
offered by Boston-based  Boloco , according to the newspaper.  John Pepper, Boloco’s chief executive, told the Herald that
dropping the word “Nutella” will cost “thousands of dollars
in menu reprints and new menu boards.”  He said his restaurant will also lose sales as the Nutella
frozen drink was a “top seller of all our shakes and smoothies
by some margin,” the Herald reported.  St. Regis Loses Singapore Battle Over ‘Park Regis’ Trademark  The St. Regis hotel in Singapore has lost a battle to keep
a down-market hotel from registering “Park Regis” as a
trademark, Agence France Presse  reported .  The luxury-brand St. Regis had claimed that customers would
be confused by the similarity of the names, according to AFP.  Singapore’s High Court ruled that customers would be
unlikely to confuse the name and that the St. Regis brand would
not be damaged by registration of “Park Regis,” the news
service reported.  Rooms at the St. Regis cost as much as 3,000 Singapore
dollars ($2,460) per night, while the StayWell Hospitality Group
Ltd.’s Park Regis rooms got for as little as 179 Singapore
dollars, AFP reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AT&T Joins Verizon in Sending Piracy Alerts to Customers  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
are among Internet-service providers that will take a more
active role in fighting online piracy under a program due to
start within the next two months.  The service providers, which also include  Time Warner Cable (TWC) 
and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , will send as many as six
electronic alerts to customers whose accounts show signs of
being used to download or distribute illegal music, movies or
television shows over peer-to-peer networks.  Customers who receive repeated alerts may have their
Internet speed temporarily reduced or be required to review
educational materials about copyright. The measures don’t
include terminating a customer’s account, said Jill Lesser,
executive director of the Center for Copyright Information, a
Washington-based group that’s coordinating the effort.  “If this is successful it really reduces the need to have
government involvement in these issues,” Lesser said in an
interview. “These voluntary efforts allow us to be far more
nimble and customer-focused than broad legislation.”  The voluntary system follows the demise of Hollywood-backed
online piracy legislation in Congress earlier this year.
Lawmakers shelved the anti-piracy bills in the House and Senate
in January after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia led an Internet
protest that eroded political support for the measures.  The bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the
Protect IP Act in the Senate, were backed by the Motion Picture
Association of America and Recording Industry Association of
America.  Under the copyright alert system, which has been in
development for more than a year, the MPAA and RIAA will,
working with MarkMonitor Inc., look for illegal content sharing
on peer-to-peer networks and identify Internet-protocol
addresses engaged in the activity, according to Lesser. The
addresses will be turned over to the service providers, which
will link the addresses to the customer accounts in question and
begin sending the copyright alerts, she said.  Customers will be allowed to seek review if they believe
the alerts were sent in error, according to a news release on
the program. There is a $35 fee for requesting a review, which
can be waived by an independent review body, according to a fact
 sheet  on the program.  Verizon will outline its alert process to customers in the
next week or so, Richard Young, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail, referring further questions to the Center for Copyright
Information. Comcast supports the effort and “will roll it out
in the near future,” Charlie Douglas, a Comcast spokesman, said
in an e-mail, declining to offer specifics.  Dawn Benton of AT&T, Justin Venech of Time Warner and  Jim
Maiella  of Cablevision didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  Gallaudet Says Gay Marriage Opponents Infringe School Copyright  Gallaudet University, a school for the deaf in Washington,
claims its copyrights are infringed by a television ad produced
by a Maryland group opposed to same-sex marriage, the Associated
Press reported in an article published in the Washington Post.  The ad features a video of the school’s chief diversity
officer who was suspended for signing a petition to hold a
referendum on the state’s gay marriage law in November,
according to the AP.  Kathleen Murphy, the college’s director of communications
and public relations, said the school has asked its legal
counsel to request that the Maryland Marriage Alliance quit
using the ad, the AP reported.  A spokeswoman for the organization says it won’t remove the
video and that it hasn’t received a formal complaint from the
school, the AP reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 