-- ArcelorMittal Seen Reducing Need for Share Sale With Canada Plan
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-19T17:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/arcelormittal-seen-reducing-need-for-share-sale-with-canada-plan.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , whose credit rating
was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  in August, would reduce the
need for a stock offering to pay debt should it sell part of its
Canadian iron ore unit, said Credit Suisse Group AG.  ArcelorMittal is considering selling about 30 percent of
the unit, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be named because the deliberations are private. The
Luxembourg-based steelmaker had its debt rating downgraded to
junk Aug. 2 by S&P, which cited uncertainty about its debt
reduction plan.  Moody’s Investors Service, which lowered its outlook to
negative the same day, said it wouldn’t reduce the rating to
junk if ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, stayed on
schedule to repay about $5 billion  of debt  by year-end.  “Assuming ArcelorMittal can achieve $2 billion from a
stake sale this would go some way to cutting into the $5 billion
of debt reduction required by Moody’s to maintain investment
grade,” Credit Suisse said in a note to investors today. “The
removal of the risk of a major $5 billion rights issue would be
seen as a positive.”  ArcelorMittal is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Royal Bank of  Canada , according to the person. Officials for
ArcelorMittal, Goldman Sachs and Royal Bank of Canada declined
to comment.  The steelmaker is selling assets, moving production to more
cost-efficient sites and idling some plants to lower its
borrowing. The company said July 25 it was selling a 48 percent
stake in Paul Wurth Group to SMS GmbH for 300 million euros
($391 million) and in May agreed to sell Skyline Steel LLC to
 Nucor Corp. (NUE)  for about $605 million.  Debt Level  ArcelorMittal is seeking to reduce its debt as
deteriorating global growth erodes demand. Steelmakers are
reporting lower earnings as the European crisis deepens and
commodity prices weaken amid slowing Chinese economic growth.
The company’s net debt was $22 billion at the end of the second
quarter.  “Given the challenged state of the global  steel industry ,
it should come as no real surprise that ArcelorMittal would
consider selling all or a portion of key mining assets in order
to raise capital and strengthen the balance sheet,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. said. “We do believe ArcelorMittal is likely keeping
all strategic options on the table as it attempts to push
through the current challenging steel cycle.”  ArcelorMittal Mines Canada, which the company gained
through its 2006 purchase of Dofasco, produced about 15 million
tons of  iron ore  last year, and is being expanded to produce 24
million tons a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  