-- Areva Said to Enter Talks With Astorg on Canberra Unit Sale
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-10-19T13:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/areva-said-to-enter-talks-with-astorg-on-measurement-unit-sale.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest
nuclear reactor maker, is set to start exclusive talks to sell
its radiation-measurement unit Canberra to Astorg Partners SAS
for more than 300 million euros ($391 million), two people with
knowledge of the plans said.  The French buyout fund beat  Mirion Technologies Inc. (MION) , owned
by American Capital Ltd., with an offer that was a few million
euros higher, one of the people said, declining to be identified
because the talks are not public yet. Antitrust issues may also
have made a sale to Mirion more difficult, the person said.  Astorg, based in Paris, may commit to not fire workers at
Canberra’s French operations for two years, the person said.  The sale of Canberra would allow Paris-based Areva to
further exceed a plan to sell at least 1.2 billion euros of non-
strategic assets by the end of 2013 to shore up a  balance sheet 
that’s been impaired by the acquisition of uranium mines in
 Africa , losses at a nuclear reactor under construction in
 Finland , and slowing demand for nuclear fuel and services
following last year’s accident at an atomic plant in  Japan .  Patricia Marie, an Areva spokeswoman, declined to comment.
A spokesman for Astorg said Thierry Timsit and Xavier Moreno,
founders of the fund, had no comment.  Standard & Poor’s cut Areva’s long-term  credit rating  by
two levels to BBB- last December because of “expected weak
credit metrics” and free  cash flow  for 2012.  Since then, Areva has  sold  more than 1.2 billion euros of
assets, including stakes in uranium and gold mines, as well as a
holding in French nickel company  Eramet SA. (ERA)  It has also raised
its targets for 2012 earnings and cash flow.  Canberra, which makes radiation detectors and monitoring
systems and software, employs more than 1,000 people and has 12
production and engineering facilities in countries such as the
U.S., the U.K., France and Canada, according to its  website .  Areva share were up 0.2 percent to 14.16 euros at 3:47 p.m.
Paris time, taking this year’s decline to 26 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  