-- Arsenal to Bid $24 Million for Lopez in January: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-19T05:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/arsenal-to-bid-24-million-for-lopez-in-january-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Bid  Arsenal will make a 15 million-pound ($24 million) offer
for Atletico Madrid striker Adrian Lopez when the transfer
window reopens in January, the  Daily Mail reported .  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger will send a scout to watch
Lopez play against Real Sociedad in two days, the Mail added.  Llorente Lure  Juventus will try to beat Arsenal to the signature of
Athletic Bilbao’s Fernando Llorente by offering to make the
striker its highest-paid player, the  same newspaper reported .  The Italian champion is putting together a long-term deal
worth 145,000 pounds a week to tempt Llorente, 27, to Turin, the
newspaper added.  No Carroll Recall  Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has no plans to recall
Andy Carroll in January even though he’s only got one fit
striker available after Fabio Borini was ruled out for three
months because of a foot injury, the  Sun reported .  Although the Reds have the option to bring Carroll back
from his season-long loan at West Ham, Rodgers said recalling
him isn’t something he’s considering, the Sun added.  Funds Available  Rodgers said he will be given funds by Liverpool owner
Fenway Sports Group to sign players in January and already has a
list of attacking targets, the  Guardian reported .  “Everyone sees we need to add to the goal threat of the
team,” the Guardian cited Rodgers as saying. “The scouting
team are out there now compiling lists and looking at targets
that we can hopefully bring in if they are affordable and
available.”  Advanced Warning  Manchester United’s new 25 million-pound medical center
will enable the club to fast-track players back to fitness and
identify potential injuries as many as six months before they
occur, the  Daily Mirror reported .  United hopes to open the facility, which will be equipped
with CT and MRI scanners as part of a five-year agreement with
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , on Nov. 5, the newspaper said.  The Red Devils lost a division-high 1,681 days to injury
last season compared with 186 for Premier League champion
Manchester City, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  