-- Harvard to Build, Renovate 11 Sites in Boston Expansion
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-10-19T13:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/harvard-to-build-renovate-11-sites-in-boston-expansion.html
Harvard University plans to build or
renovate 11 buildings over the next 10 years as part of its
expansion into the Allston neighborhood of Boston, across the
Charles River from the main campus.  Harvard, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , filed documents
for nine of the projects to Boston city planning officials
yesterday, including a new basketball arena and a renovation of
the century-old football stadium that Harvard announced last
week. Construction plans for a residential and retail complex
and a science center are being reviewed separately.  Harvard had ambitious Allston expansion plans, conceived
under former President Lawrence Summers, that were derailed by
the economic crisis that began in 2008. President Drew Faust
suspended work on the $1.1 billion Allston science center in
2009, and the university  said in June site preparation would
resume in 2013.  “Allston presents the university with the opportunity to
develop a unique innovation hub,” Harvard Provost Alan Garber
said in a statement on the university’s  website . “In Allston,
we will build on our research expertise and entrepreneurial
spirit.”  Harvard’s plans for the business school campus include
replacing Burden Hall, renovating Baker Hall and a housing
complex, and building a faculty and administrative office
building.  Hotel Center  The documents also detailed Harvard’s intention, first
announced in 2011, to build a hotel and conference center in
Allston close to the science center. The university would
probably begin working on the hotel in the second half of the
10-year period covered by the plan, the filing said.  Harvard envisions the center as comprising from 150 to 250
hotel rooms along with meeting space of 50,000 to 100,000 square
feet for a total project of approximately 250,000 square feet.
The center may be run by Harvard, or developed and managed by a
third-party vendor, the documents said.  Such a vendor “might take advantage of the proximity to
the Harvard campus in Allston to attract both Harvard and non-
Harvard events,” the filing said.  The expansion will be funded “through a variety of
sources, such as university funds and philanthropy,” Harvard
said in the statement. The school is expected to start a
fundraising campaign next year with a goal of about $6 billion,
the Harvard Crimson student newspaper reported in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  