-- Asian Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain in a Month on U.S.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-10-19T23:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/asian-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-month-on-u-s-.html
Asian  stocks  advanced, with the
regional benchmark index posting its biggest weekly gain in a
month, after reports on U.S. retail sales, housing starts and
manufacturing beat estimates and  China’s economy  showed signs of
stabilization.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., climbed 8.5 percent in Hong Kong.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the world’s biggest
lender by market value, rose 2.8 percent as China’s retail sales
and exports accelerated in September. Softbank Corp. jumped 7.3
percent in  Tokyo  after Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone
company agreed to buy 70 percent of Sprint Nextel Corp. for
$20.1 billion.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 2.3 percent to 123.55
this week, the most since the period ended Sept. 14. Through
yesterday The gauge had climbed 13 percent from this year’s low
on June 4, as stimulus measures in Europe, the U.S., Japan and
China boosted  market sentiment  amid a global economic slowdown
and Europe’s debt crisis.  “We see good signs of stabilization and we can probably
say the  U.S. economy  is not going backwards,” said Tim Leung, a
portfolio manager who helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG
Investment Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The market is enjoying a moment
of relatively less hostile news from Europe.”  Weaker Yen  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rallied 5.5 percent this
week, the biggest weekly advance since December, as yen weakened
against the  U.S. dollar , which could help boost earnings of
Japanese exporters.  South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.6 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.9 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index increased 2 percent, while China’s Shanghai Composite
Index rose 1.1 percent.  The Asian benchmark traded at 13.1 times estimated earnings
on average,  compared with  13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Exporters advanced as reports showed industrial production
and retail sales gained more than expected in the U.S. last
month, adding to signs of a recovery of the world’s biggest
economy is taking hold.  ‘Reasonable Rebound’  “It does feel like there’s some momentum there in the
economy,” said Matt Riordan, a portfolio manager who helps
manage about $6.5 billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment
Management Pty. “We’ve got a reasonable rebound. But the
problem is whether we will start seeing a recovery, particularly
out of China.”  Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. as its largest market,
climbed 8.5 percent to HK$12.96 in Hong Kong.  James Hardie
Industries SE (JHX) , a building materials supplier that gets about 67
percent of sales from the U.S., rose 5.5 percent to A$9.40 in
Sydney. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker by
market value, increased 7 percent to 3,140 yen in Tokyo.  China’s economic growth has started to stabilize, Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said in remarks published on Oct. 17 by the official
Xinhua News agency. The government is confident of achieving
annual targets and the economy will continue to show “positive
changes,” Wen said, according to Xinhua. The country’s gross
domestic product growth slowed to 7.4 percent in the third
quarter, while exports, retail sales and industrial production
started to show signs of pickup.  Chinese lenders and developers advanced. ICBC, the nation’s
biggest bank, gained 2.8 percent to HK$5.10 in Hong Kong.
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd rose 2.2 percent to HK$3.29.
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the nation’s biggest real
estate company traded in Hong Kong, climbed 4.6 percent to
HK$20.25.  Spanish Rating  Companies that do business in Europe advanced after Moody’s
Investor Service retained  Spain ’s investment-grade credit rating,
saying the  European Central Bank ’s willingness to buy the
nation’s debt reduced the risk of losing  market access . Spain
avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and
Greece in falling below investment grade.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender by market value,
rose 3.2 percent to HK$76.55 in Hong Kong. Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd., the owner of retail chains, utilities and ports that
counts Europe as its largest market, added 1.5 percent to
HK$76.40.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s top camera maker that gets
about 31 percent of sales from Europe, jumped 7.8 percent to
2,649 yen in Tokyo.  “Spain got its rating maintained, damping risk on yield
gains for now,” said Takeru Ogihara, chief strategist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
lender by market value. “That will buy time for officials to
tackle the situation.”  Woodside, Softbank  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest oil
producer, advanced 5.2 percent to A$35.98 in Sydney after
boosting its output forecast.  Softbank Corp. jumped 7.3 percent to 2,569 yen in Tokyo
after agreeing to acquire 70 percent of Sprint Nextel Corp. for
$20.1 billion to expand into the U.S. mobile-phone market.  NEC Corp. surged 9.6 percent to 137 yen in Tokyo after
Japan’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment raised its
estimate for first-half operating profit to 47 times the
previous forecast.  Among stocks that fell, Ten Network Holdings Ltd., the
Australian broadcaster run by  Lachlan Murdoch , plunged 24
percent to 28 Australian cents, the lowest level on record. The
company posted its first full-year loss in three years and Champ
Private Equity said it’s ending plans to buy Ten Network’s Eye
Corp. billboard unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  