-- Astral Plunges After BCE Bid Rejected by Regulators
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-19T20:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/astral-plunges-after-bce-bid-rejected-by-regulators.html
  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  fell the most in
more than two decades after  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s failure to win approval
for its C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) takeover raised concern it
will make the regulatory landscape for other bids less clear.  Jean-Pierre Blais, head of the Canadian Radio-television
Telecommunications Commission, rejected the purchase of the
Quebec specialty channel provider yesterday, calling it a bad
deal for Canadians that would have placed too much market power
in BCE’s hands.  The rejection may open doors to other bidders though it
will also make those companies wary of potential complications,
said Jeff Fan, an analyst at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto.  “Astral is still likely in play but the rules are now
unclear as to who can acquire it,” said Fan, who rates BCE the
equivalent of a hold.  “The regulatory uncertainty around
vertical integration would be a challenge to achieve a clean
transaction.”  The ruling is a victory for BCE’s rivals, particularly
Montreal-based  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) , which would have faced intensified
competition for its Videotron cable service and TVA television
network.  The decision leaves the door open for other potential
suitors such as  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Shaw
Communications Inc. (SJR/B) , a Calgary-based cable-television operator,
said Glen Campbell, an analyst with  Bank of America  Merrill
Lynch in Toronto. The CRTC ruling may lead to Astral being sold
in pieces to meet regulatory concerns, he said.  New Stance  “As these companies consider Astral, they must now take
into account the CRTC’s tough new stance on concentration,”
Campbell said. “Post-Astral, M&A transactions are likely to be
riskier and more complex.”  Astral fell 15 percent to C$39.51 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, its
biggest decline since at least 1988. Trading volume was over 12
million shares, or more than 18 times the three-month average.
BCE,  Canada ’s biggest telecommunications company, fell 1.4
percent to C$42.86. Both companies are based in  Montreal .  Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless company, also operates
cable and landline businesses, owns the CityTV and SportsNet
channels, Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays and co-owns
with BCE pro sports conglomerate Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd.  Welcomes Decision  Rogers said yesterday in a statement it welcomed the CRTC’s
decision, calling it “a good day for consumers.” Rogers
spokeswoman Patricia Trott said it was too soon to speculate on
whether the company would be interested in Astral.  Shaw offers cable, Internet and landline service and the
founding Shaw family holds majority voting control of  Corus
Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B) , a media company that produces kids
programming and owns 37  radio stations . Shaw spokesman Chethan
Lakshman said the company has no comment.  The Ottawa-based regulator said the deal raised concerns
about competition, ownership concentration in television and
radio, vertical integration and the exercise of market power.  “We could not have ensured a robust Canadian broadcasting
system without imposing extensive and intrusive safeguards,
which would have been to the detriment of the entire industry,”
Blais said.  Won’t Stand  Astral hasn’t commented beyond saying it’s reviewing the
decision and considering its alternatives.  “Consumers lost and investors lost in this decision,” BCE
Chief Executive Officer George Cope said in an interview today
on BNN television, owned by BCE. “We met all the CRTC’s
rules.”  Cope said it’s premature to discuss whether BCE must pay
Astral a breakup fee of up to C$150 million since the deal
collapsed for regulatory reasons. BCE has asked the federal
cabinet to intervene in the decision.  The decision won’t affect BCE’s dividend guidance for 2012,
Cope said. The company said Aug. 8 it expects to pay an annual
dividend of C$2.27.  While Cope pushes for a reversal, Astral may be a fresh
target for other bidders because an appeal to cabinet stands
little chance of success.  “We see this as a long shot,” said Scotia’s Fan. “It
would seem unlikely that the government would seek to reverse
his first decision,” Fan said, referring to the CRTC’s Blais.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government has no
“legal ability” to overturn the decision and the CRTC is an
“arms-length” agency, Paul Calandra, an assistant for Heritage
Minister  James Moore , said today in parliament.  Cogeco Bid  A joint bid by  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , another Montreal-based
cable operator, and Corus for Astral is also unlikely, says Fan.
Cogeco agreed in July to buy Atlantic Broadband for $1.36
billion to expand in the U.S. and Corus’s relationship with Shaw
poses a regulatory hurdle, he said.  “Cogeco just made its bet in the U.S. with Atlantic
Broadband,” he said. “And like Rogers, with Corus being
considered under the Shaw umbrella, it may not be able to pursue
this, as it will likely be considered another vertical
transaction by Shaw.”  Cogeco slipped 1.4 percent to C$36.34 in Toronto. Shaw
dipped 0.4 percent to C$20.59. Corus fell 2.8 percent to
C$22.33. Rogers was little changed at C$41.07.  The BCE-Astral rejection may be affecting other planned
acquisitions awaiting regulatory approval.  Industry Canada  is
reviewing  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of Calgary-based
oil and gas producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  under the nation’s foreign-
takeover law.  Nexen slipped 1 percent to C$25.15, the most since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  