-- Astro Bets on TV Technology for Growth Post Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-10-19T09:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/astro-bets-on-tv-technology-for-growth-post-share-sale.html
Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , the
country’s largest pay-TV operator, will use part of the proceeds
from a $1.5 billion share sale to woo more users to high-
definition content in a bid to restore earnings growth.  “It’s a costly affair but it underpins a growth story,”
Chief Executive Officer Rohana Rozhan, 49, said in an interview
in Kuala Lumpur yesterday, referring to the investment in
upgrading technology. “The new platform allows us to service
the affluent, young customers better.”  Astro, the last major initial public offering in Kuala
Lumpur in 2012, closed unchanged in its debut today, the weakest
first-day performance among five Malaysian companies that each
raised at least 700 million ringgit ($230 million) this year.
The broadcaster, controlled by billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan,
and its shareholders sold stock at 3 ringgit apiece, top of the
marketed range, valuing the company at 15.6 billion ringgit.  “There wasn’t much meat left on the table for investors,”
said Choo Swee Kee, who oversees about 700 million ringgit of
assets as chief investment officer of TA Investment Management
Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , including Astro shares. “It looks like
the IPO was fairly priced. Investors shouldn’t always expect
that when you buy IPOs you’re sure to make money.”  At the IPO price, Astro is valued at 25 times its fiscal
2012 earnings, compared with a 14 times current price to
earnings at Isleworth, England-based  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  and 13 times for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish
Network Corp., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IHH, Felda, IGB  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , the world’s third-
biggest oil palm planter, jumped 16 percent at the close of its
first trading day in June.  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  surged 10 percent
on its debut, IGB Real Estate Investment Trust gained 11
percent, while Gas  Malaysia  Bhd. rose 10 percent.  Astro will  retain 1.42 billion ringgit  from the sale of new
shares. It plans to use the money to reduce debt and help
migrate all its customers to a more advanced set-top box by
early 2014 that will let them use higher revenue-generating
services, Rohana said.  About half of Astro’s subscribers have already moved to the
enhanced platform that gives them the option to watch certain
content in high-definition format and record selected programs,
she said. Customers opting for these services are charged an
extra fee, Rohana said.  Increasing Costs  Still, upgrading the set-top boxes will increase costs for
the company, according to Ong Boon Leong, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. in Kuala Lumpur.  “While more high definition take-ups will help to drive
the sale of more expensive programs and hence, raise average
revenue per user, upgrading of set-top boxes will raise
amortization expenses,” Ong wrote in a Oct. 17 note to clients.
“This will put pressure on Astro’s earnings over the medium
term, potentially leading to earnings contraction.”  The pay-TV operator’s  profit  declined 24 percent in the 12
months ended Jan. 31 to 624 million ringgit and sales expanded
at  a slower pace , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
 operating profit margin  declined to 25.5 percent from 29 percent
in the year-earlier period, the data show.  Astro,  which started as a satellite broadcaster in the
Southeast Asian nation in 1996, is returning to the market after
it was taken private in 2010. The re-listed company excludes the
group’s overseas operations.  High Definition  The Malaysia-born Ananda Krishnan, the country’s second-
richest man according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , also
has interests in real estate, telecommunications and oil and
gas, and helped develop the 88-floor Petronas Towers in Kuala
Lumpur -- the world’s tallest building until 2004.  The company, whose 3.2 million residential subscribers have
optional access to 156 TV channels, including 22 in high-
definition, plans to expand its program line-up and extend its
reach beyond households to individuals by streaming its content
via mobile devices, Astro said in its prospectus.  “Going forward, Astro intends to raise average revenue per
user with its high-definition content, which costs subscribers
an additional 20 ringgit per month on top of existing standard-
definition subscription,” wrote UOB-Kay Hian’s Ong.  Astro is counting on Malaysia’s young population which
tends to chase new technology as well as rising incomes to spur
conversion to high-definition television channels and
consumption of high-value products, Rohana said.  “Malaysia has a very young demographic,” she said. “The
youngsters are increasingly affluent, increasingly wealthy and
urban, the take-up of technology is high. All these statistics
point to growth.”  Expanding Economy  The Southeast Asian nation’s labor force is projected to
grow by 19 percent to 22 million by 2020, compared with 2010,
Merrill Lynch projected in an April 27 note. Malaysia’s  median
age  will be 28.4 in 2020, Merrill Lynch forecasts.  Malaysia’s economy may expand faster than previously
expected this year and next on resilient domestic demand and
investment, the government-linked Malaysian Institute of
Economic Research said yesterday.  The research institute raised the nation’s gross domestic
product forecast for 2012 to 4.9 percent from 4.2 percent.
 Southeast Asia ’s third-largest  economy  may expand 5.4 percent
next year, more than the 4.7 percent pace it previously
projected in July, it said.  ‘Out of Whack’  “Valuations are getting more and more out of whack with
reality,” said  Alan Richardson , a Singapore-based  fund manager 
who helps oversee $82 billion for Samsung Asset Management Co.,
referring to Astro and speaking before today’s debut. “Previous
IPOs have done quite well, so there are expectations that this
will continue.”  Richardson, who bought Felda and IHH Healthcare IPO shares,
said he chose not to subscribe to Astro as the stock offers
limited appreciation potential.  “The returns on the business are likely to decline over
the next three years as it invests IPO proceeds on high
definition,” said Richardson. “It’s going to need a lot of
capital, which dilutes earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  