-- Tata Consultancy Profit Beats Estimates on Outsourcing Demand
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-10-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/tata-consultancy-net-beats-estimates-as-outsourcing-demand-rises.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software services exporter, reported second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after customers
outsourced more information-technology work.  Net income  rose 44 percent to 35.1 billion rupees ($652
million) in the three months ended September, from 24.4 billion
rupees a year earlier, Tata Consultancy said in an Oct. 19
statement. The median of 36 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was a profit of 33.8 billion rupees.  Tata Consultancy joins larger rival  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in
signaling businesses are spending more on outsourcing to cut
costs amid economic uncertainty as the Mumbai-based company won
orders from Scandinavian Airlines System and  Turkey ’s Ziraat
Bank during the quarter. Deals were getting closed and there was
a good pickup of discretionary spending by customers, spurring a
positive outlook for the company, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said on Oct. 19.  “TCS is leading industry growth,” said Ankita Somani, an
analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai who  rates  the stock
accumulate. “Offshoring is happening more from  Europe  -- more
companies have become willing to outsource core processes to cut
costs.”  ‘Deal Signings’  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to clients including Citigroup Inc. and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , added 41  customers  during the quarter taking the
total to 1,041. The company derived 52.8 percent of its second-
quarter revenue from companies in North America, 17.1 percent
from the U.K., and 9.5 percent from continental Europe, it said.  Tata Consultancy fell 1.4 percent to 1,289.70 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai on Oct. 19. The stock has gained 11
percent  this year , while  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest
software company, has dropped 14 percent.  “There have been at least 11 new deal signings and these
deals have come across industries and across markets,”
Chandrasekaran told reporters Oct. 19. “If you look at our
engagements that we have executed and also in pipeline our
investments in digital whether it is social media, big data,
mobility, analytics and cloud are gaining tremendous traction.”  Researcher Gartner Inc. has raised its growth forecast for
global information technology spending as companies boost
expenditure on cloud computing and consulting.  Departures Drop  Tata Consultancy added a net 10,531  employees  during the
quarter, for a total of 254,076, according to the statement.
Workers left Tata Consultancy at a rate of 11.4 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30, down from 13.7 percent for the same
period last year, and the lowest level of departures in 10
quarters, it said.  To curb employee churn amid rising competition from Infosys
and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , which also hires
workers in India, Tata Consultancy said in  April (APR)  that it
increased salaries in the country by 8 percent this year.  Revenue rose 34 percent to 156 billion rupees, from 116
billion rupees a year earlier. That matched the 156 billion
rupees median of 44 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys on Oct. 12 cut its sales-growth forecast and said
higher wages and currency fluctuations will hurt  profitability .
The Bangalore-based company lowered its forecast for this fiscal
year’s revenue to 395.8 billion rupees from a July estimate of
403.6 billion rupees.  Accenture, the world’s second-largest technology consulting
company incorporated in Dublin, last month forecast full-year
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates amid a gain in
outsourcing bookings.  “As the global operating environment continues to evolve,
there is little doubt that technology is playing a more pivotal
role to shape the future of every industry than ever before,”
Chandrasekaran said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  