-- Aussie Set for Weekly Gain on Signs of Improving Economy
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-19T05:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/aussie-set-for-weekly-gain-on-signs-of-improving-economy.html
Australia ’s dollar headed for its
biggest weekly gain in more than a month as signs of improvement
in the global economy supported demand for riskier investments.  The so-called Aussie traded 0.4 percent from its strongest
in three weeks before data today forecast to show U.S. sales of
existing homes hovered near a two-year high. Figures yesterday
showed gains in China’s industrial production, retail sales and
fixed-asset investment. The appeal of the Australian and New
Zealand currencies was also supported after Pacific Investment
Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
it has boosted holdings in the South Pacific nations’ assets.  “Recent data have been easing pessimism over growth in the
U.S. and  China , supporting the Aussie,” said Kumiko Gervaise,
an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo .
“There is a risk that the Australian dollar has gained too much
in a short period of time.”  Australia’s currency was little changed at $1.0365 as of
4:20 p.m. in Sydney from the close yesterday, when it reached
$1.0412, the highest since Sept. 28. It has appreciated 1.3
percent this week. The Aussie bought 82.25 yen from 82.17. It
touched 82.52 yesterday, the strongest since Sept. 19.  The Australian dollar’s 10-day relative strength index
versus its Japanese counterpart was at 64.6, nearing the 70
level that some traders see as an indication that an asset may
retreat after rising too quickly. The equivalent gauge against
the greenback held at 58.4.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, fetched 82 U.S.
cents, 0.2 percent higher than yesterday’s close.  U.S. Housing  U.S. purchases of previously owned houses slid 1.7 percent
to a 4.74 million annual rate in September, after they increased
to the most since May 2010 in the previous month, according to
the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The National Association of Realtors will release the figures
today. A separate report due Oct. 24 is expected to show a 2.7
percent gain in new home sales in September.  Chinese data released yesterday showed industrial
production increased 9.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, retail sales advanced 14.2 percent and fixed-asset
investment excluding rural households rose 20.5 percent in the
first three quarters. China’s  gross domestic product  expanded
7.4 percent during the third quarter from a year earlier.  The nation is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  Australian 10-year bond  yields  dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.19 percent. The rates yesterday
touched 3.24 percent, the most since Sept. 24. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of regional shares dropped 0.3 percent today,
paring this week’s gain to 2.2 percent.  Pimco Buying  Decisions in larger developed economies to keep policy
rates close to zero and engage in currency market intervention
have helped push the Australian and New Zealand dollars higher,
according to  Scott Mather , head of global  portfolio management 
at Pimco, which oversees $1.8 trillion in assets. The  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s holdings in the region are at
the highest levels “in a very long time,” he said at a
briefing in Auckland.  “Rates will continue to fall in this region, in Australia
and New Zealand,” Mather said in a conference call. “It’s
partially the reflection of weak global growth and partially in
response to an abnormal amount of currency strength relative to
what history would tell you we should have.”  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has the highest benchmark
rate among major developed economies, even after reducing it by
1.5 percentage points over the past year to 3.25 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s key rate is a record-low 2.5
percent. Higher yields, safe-haven flows and buoyant global
commodities demand have helped push the South Pacific currencies
above their 20-year averages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  