-- Baker Hughes Falls as Fracking Prices Drop: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-10-19T20:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/baker-hughes-falls-as-fracking-prices-drop-dallas-mover.html
Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield-services provider, declined the most in
more than six months after quarterly profit plunged 60 percent
on reduced North American demand for hydraulic fracturing.  Baker Hughes, based in Houston,  fell  4.9 percent to $44.75
at the close in New York, the most since March 21.  Third-quarter net income dropped to $279 million, or 63
cents a share, from $706 million, or $1.61, a year earlier,
Baker Hughes said today in a statement. Excluding charges
related to developing software and closing a manufacturing
plant, the company missed by 10 cents the  average  of 30
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Margins fell sequentially in every region,” J.  David Anderson , a New York-based analyst at JP Morgan & Co., wrote in
a note today. While investors “could have stomached” poor
 North America  results, they’ll be more unhappy with what
happened outside the U.S. and  Canada , according to the note.  Operating profit margin in North America fell to 11 percent
from 22 percent a year earlier. The combined rig counts in
 Brazil , Colombia and Norway dropped 17 percent compared to the
second quarter, the company said.  “These are all meaningful markets for Baker Hughes,”
Chief Executive Officer Martin Craighead told analysts and
investors today on a conference call. He said he was
“disappointed” with the company’s international results in the
third quarter.  Profits Drop  Baker Hughes helps companies drill and complete oil and
natural gas wells and access the fuels by fracking, which blasts
water mixed with sand and chemicals underground to free trapped
hydrocarbons from shale formations. The company is the world’s
second-largest provider of fracking services.  Four of the biggest service companies, including
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , will see their collective
third-quarter operating profit drop by more than $1 billion in
North America compared to a year earlier, according to estimates
from Houston-based Tudor Pickering Holt & Co.  Prices charged for fracking services throughout the
industry are expected to drop 14 percent this year and another 8
percent next year, according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC,
a Houston-based oil and gas adviser.  Schlumberger and Halliburton are the world’s first and
second-largest oilfield-services providers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  