-- Bankrupt San Bernardino Withholds $5 Million From Calpers
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-10-19T18:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/bankrupt-san-bernardino-withholds-5-million-from-calpers.html
Bankrupt San Bernardino, California,
owes the California Public Employees’ Retirement System $5.3
million, of which $1.2 million is delinquent, a spokesman for
the largest U.S. public pension fund said.  San Bernardino has failed to make required pension payments
to the $245.8 billion pension fund since filing for Chapter 9
protection Aug. 1, a Calpers spokesman,  Brad Pacheco , said by e-
mail.  Calpers is the largest creditor in bankruptcy cases filed
by Stockton and San Bernardino since the end of June, with a
total of $290.8 million at stake. The two cities are the largest
U.S. municipalities to file for bankruptcy. Stockton has
continued to make payments to Calpers.  “These payments are required to be made under California
law,” Pacheco said. “If we can’t resolve the missed payments
with the city, Calpers will assert its rights and remedies
available under the law.”  Stockton and San Bernardino represent 0.7 percent of
employer contributions to  Calpers , according to actuarial
 statements .  San Bernardino skipped a $1 million payment on pension
obligation bonds issued in 2005, according to a Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board filing Oct. 16.  The city of 209,000 about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of
Los Angeles has been struggling to make payroll for employees
and has been forced to withhold payments to some creditors,
interim City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller said at a City Council
meeting Sept. 17.  City Hall was closed today and Travis-Miller couldn’t be
reached for comment. Mayor Patrick Morris didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the city’s missed
payments.  The bankruptcy case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of  California  (Riverside).  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net  and Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at +1-
   mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  