-- Barclays Said to Cut Europe Equity Jobs Amid Cost Cutting
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-19T12:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/barclays-said-to-cut-europe-equity-jobs-in-cost-reduction-plan.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is cutting just under
10 percent of staff in its equities division in Europe, Middle
East and Africa as part of a plan to reduce costs amid a slump
in trading volumes, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The London-based bank started about two weeks ago to inform
staff at the unit, which employs more than 500, that jobs will
be cut, and the first departures began this week, according to
two people familiar with the situation who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  “We can confirm that we have begun a consultation process
within our EMEA equities franchise,” Barclays spokesman Marc Hazelton said in an e-mail. “We continue to hire selectively
across those parts of the business that are growing.”  Barclays is undertaking the biggest revamp of the European
equities business since expanding the unit following the
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American
activities. Securities firms from Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  to
Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. are shrinking equity businesses
in Europe as trading volumes fall and profitability decreases.  The cuts at Barclays will affect equity salespeople and
traders, as well as support staff, one person said.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , who
succeeded  Robert Diamond  in August after the bank paid a record
fine for rigging the London interbank offered rate, is reviewing
which parts of the company may be sold or shrunk as the bank
seeks to boost profit and overhaul its culture.  Rich Ricci  this month combined part of the bank’s fixed-
income and equities operations in his first reorganization since
taking sole control of investment banking in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 