-- Beirut Car-Bomb Kills Eight, Including Security Chief
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-19T18:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/beirut-car-bomb-kills-injures-several-official-agency-reports.html
A top Lebanese security official who
was investigating Syrian plans to carry out attacks in the
country was killed in an explosion in  Beirut  that left at least
eight people dead, the official National News Agency said.  Wissam al-Hassan, who headed the information branch of the
Internal Security Forces, was driving in a car with a bodyguard
in the vicinity of the blast scene, LBC television said.  Al-Hassan was investigating explosions blamed on Syria by
the anti-Syrian March 14 coalition, including the killing of
former premier Rafik Hariri. He was instrumental in the probe
that led to the August arrest of former Information Minister
Michel Samaha, an ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who
has been charged with plotting to assassinate religious and
political figures. More than 20 bombs found with Samaha were
prepared by Syrian security, NNA said at the time.  “The death of Wissam al-Hassan is revenge by Syria and
 Iran  for his audacity in embarrassing them,” said Salman Shaikh, the director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha Center
in Qatar. “There’s no doubt that these are cards that the
Syrian regime has, and they are beginning to use them.”  Tensions have been rising in Lebanon between supporters and
opponents of Assad, and clashes between them have provoked
concern that the civil war in Syria may spill over into the
neighboring country.  Christian District  Al-Hassan was killed by a booby-trapped car that exploded
in a narrow street off Sassine Square in the mainly Christian
Ashrafiyyeh district. The national agency said it was not far
from an office of the Phalange Party, which is part of the anti-
Syrian March 14 coalition.  It was the deadliest bombing in Lebanon in at least four
years. In the aftermath, firefighters put out blazes in damaged
buildings, local television footage showed, as rescuers carried
away victims and people came looking for loved ones. A man with
a bloodied top was seen walking over the rubble while another
man watched the carnage with blood streaming down his face.  Leading politicians including  Saad Hariri , son of the
murdered ex-premier, and Druze leader Walid Jumblatt were quick
to accuse Syria of carrying out today’s killing. Jumblatt told
Future TV that Assad’s government was taking revenge for the
failure of the Samaha plot. Hariri told the same channel that he
blamed Assad.  Syrian ’Print’  “This is one of a series of attacks targeting March 14
activists,” Lebanese Forces chief Samir Geagea, whose party is
a member of the March 14 coalition, told reporters at the scene.
Lawmaker Nadeem Gemayel, whose father President-elect Bashir Gemayel was killed in an explosion at the Phalange office in
1982, told LBC that the attack carried the “print” of Syrian
involvement.  Residents of several Sunni Muslim areas have closed roads
with burning tires to protest al-Hassan’s death, the NNA said.  Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  said the government is on alert
and plans to pursue the perpetrators, according to an emailed
statement sent by his office. Mikati also declared tomorrow a
day of mourning, Al Jazeera television said.  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi denounced the
explosion, calling it a “cowardly, terrorist act,” according
to state-run Sana news agency.  Bomb Crater  Hospitals issued appeals for urgent blood donations and
Health Minister Ali Hasan Khalil, who went to the scene, urged
hospitals to receive blast victims. State Prosecutor Hatem Madi
told LBC that the bomb had left a crater more than a meter
(yard) deep.  Sami Nader, professor of international relations at
Beirut’s St. Joseph University, said today’s blast “followed
the same strategy that Michel Samaha was in charge of
implementing.”  “ Syria ’s plan is to export its crisis in a way to tell the
international community that they have been the guardians of
security and stability and if the regime goes the region will
collapse into chaos,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  