-- Berlusconi Denies Having Sex With Underage Woman at Trial
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-19T10:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/berlusconi-denies-having-sex-with-underage-woman-at-trial.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who resigned last year amid charges of abuse of
power and engaging a minor in prostitution, told a Milan court
he never had sex with the woman at the center of the charges.  “I never had intimate relations of any kind” with Karima
El Mahroug, Berlusconi said today in prepared testimony. “I
never put pressure on members of the Milan police force. I
limited myself to a request for information.”  Berlusconi, 76, is being tried for his ties to El Mahroug
and his contacts with police officers who detained the woman in
2010 and subsequently let her go. Berlusconi had previously
denied ever paying for sex. El Mahroug, a Moroccan who danced
in nightclubs under the stage name Ruby Heart Stealer, says she
attended at least one party at Berlusconi’s mansion near Milan
in February 2010, when she was 17.  “I was sure she was 24, like she said,” Berlusconi said
today, in front of a panel of three judges. “Everyone was
absolutely convinced that Ruby was of age.”  El Mahroug has denied having sex with the former premier,
while acknowledging that he gave her money. She said in an
interview with television station SkyTG24 last year that
Berlusconi had given her 7,000 euros ($9,135) to help her
through a difficult situation. Berlusconi told journalists last
year that he gave her 57,000 euros to help her set up a business
and avoid prostituting herself.  Call to Police  Berlusconi has also said he was deceived about El Mahroug’s
identity, a misunderstanding that he says prompted his move to
contact police about her detention in an unrelated case.
Berlusconi referred to El Mahroug as a relative of former
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  when he phoned the police on
her behalf, former Interior Minister Roberto Maroni told
parliament in 2010.  El Mahroug is not related to Mubarak, and has denied being
a prostitute. Nicole Minetti, the Berlusconi protégé who
collected El Mahroug from police on her release, told the former
premier about the woman’s true identity, he said today. Minetti,
27, is a councillor in the regional government for Berlusconi’s
party.  Minetti “told me she was a minor and Moroccan, and the
news left me speechless,” Berlusconi told the judges in his
statement. “She constructed a second identity, perhaps to cover
up her miserable condition.”  Berlusconi,  Italy ’s most successful politician during the
last two decades, is seeking to clear his name as the People of
Liberty party he founded faces a crisis of leadership. The so-
called PDL, slipping in popularity polls since Berlusconi’s
resignation in November, has been beset by unrelated corruption
scandals tied its members in the regions of Lazio and Lombardy.  Berlusconi was accompanied today by his lawyers  Niccolo
Ghedini  and Piero Longo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 