-- Bertelsmann Ends Gruner & Jahr Talks, Fuels RTL Speculation
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-10-19T14:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/bertelsmann-ends-talks-over-buyout-of-publisher-gruner-jahr.html
Bertelsmann SE,  Europe ’s biggest
media company, ended talks with the Jahr family for a complete
takeover of publishing house Gruner & Jahr AG, fueling
speculation over a buyout of broadcasting unit  RTL Group SA. (RTL)   The shareholder structure of Gruner & Jahr, which is 25.1
percent owned by the Jahr family, will remain unchanged,
Bertelsmann said in a statement today. After “intensive and
constructive talks,” both sides agreed that “the challenges
ahead for G&J can best be mastered together,” Jahr Holding GmbH
Managing Director Winfried Steeger said in the statement.  RTL, which is 92.3 percent controlled by the Guetersloh,
Germany-based company, rose as much as 3.8 percent in Brussels
to the highest level since April 3.  Bertelsmann  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Rabe may work on a buyout offer for minority
shareholders as a revised Luxembourg takeover law this month
removed the legal risks for a deal.  “Bertelsmann not buying the remaining stake in Gruner &
Jahr means that Rabe has more cash available,” said Kris Kippers, an analyst at Petercam SA in Brussels. “RTL’s rising
share price could imply that the market is speculating again
that Bertelsmann may take full control of RTL.”  RTL added 3 percent to 77.50 euros at 4:44 p.m. in
Brussels, valuing the stake that Bertelsmann doesn’t already own
at 833 million euros ($1.1 billion).  Options Open  “We are keeping all options open regarding our stake in
RTL,” Christian Steinhof, a spokesman for Bertelsmann, said
today.  Rabe, who took over in January, said Bertelsmann needs to
raise debt and equity for “major” acquisitions to reduce its
dependence on Europe, expand digital businesses and boost
growth.  Gruner & Jahr, whose publications include weekly magazine
Stern and the Financial Times Deutschland, is struggling to
maintain profitability for consumer magazines in  Germany  and
other European countries as the region’s debt crisis weighs on
companies’ spending and advertisements migrate to the Internet.  With first-half revenue little changed at 1.1 billion
euros, Gruner & Jahr’s operating profit fell 31 percent to 85
million euros from a year earlier, Bertelsmann said last month.  Random House  Consumer publishers are usually valued at about seven times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
according to  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at  Panmure Gordon &
Co. (PMR)  in  London . That multiple would give Gruner & Jahr a value of
about 1.74 billion euros, based on based 2011 earnings.  A 100 percent stake in Gruner & Jahr would facilitate
cooperation between the publisher, RTL and Random House, Rabe
said in an interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on
Sept. 13.  Luxembourg’s revised takeover rules this month clarified
the procedures for determining the price at which owners of more
than 95 percent of a publicly traded company can force remaining
shareholders to sell their stock.  A buyout of minority investors would give Bertelsmann
complete control over RTL’s 1 billion euros in annual cash flow
to finance growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  