-- Black Shift on Maryland Gay Marriage Pits Clergy Against NAACP
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/black-shift-on-maryland-gay-marriage-pits-clergy-against-naacp.html
Jonathan Wilson, who works at a
Baltimore wax museum that celebrates black America’s rise from
slavery, is warming to the idea that same-sex marriage is a
civil right.  A black evangelical Christian, Wilson, 58, initially saw
gay marriage as at odds with his religion. In the months since
its legalization won support from President  Barack Obama , the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and
some ministers, he’s started to view limits on the unions as a
lingering inequality. He said he may vote to support gay
marriage when it’s on Maryland’s Nov. 6 ballot.  “Initially, I’m looking at it saying, ‘Why?’” said
Wilson, who lives in a Baltimore suburb. “If I gave you my
religious belief, I’d be adamantly opposed. But you can’t look
at it from that perspective.”  Black voters have traditionally opposed gay marriage.
Wilson illustrates a shift unfolding among blacks in Maryland,
whose support for the measure has been increasing in polls.
Maryland, along with  Maine  and Washington, will include similar
measures on the November ballot and could become the first
states in the U.S. to approve same-sex marriage at the ballot
box.  Black opinion in  Maryland  shifted after Obama this year
publicly backed same-sex marriage and the NAACP announced its
support. A Pew Research Center national poll yesterday on 
Hispanics found that 52 percent said they supported gay 
marriage, a shift from 2006 when 56 percent opposed it.  Marriage Law  While states are free to approve same-sex marriage, a 1996
federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act, bars the U.S.
government from recognizing gay marriage. Yesterday, a federal
appeals court in  New York  ruled unconstitutional the part of the
law defining marriage as being only between a man and a woman.
The issue may be decided by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Same-sex marriage is legal in  Iowa , New York,
 Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,  Vermont ,  New Hampshire  and the
 District of Columbia . Those measures were approved as a result
of legislation and court rulings. Voters have opposed same-sex
marriage in every state where it has appeared on the ballot.  In Maryland, backers of gay marriage are making a direct
appeal to blacks, who make up a quarter of the state’s voters,
using television ads that feature ministers and a civil-rights
leader explaining their support. The dynamics differ in
Washington and Maine, where blacks account for a smaller share
of the population.  TV Ads  In the Maryland ads, Delman Coates and Donte Hickman,
Baptist pastors, emphasize that the measure won’t force
religious groups to recognize unions contrary to their belief.  Julian Bond, a leader of the civil-rights movement in the
early 1960s and the former chairman of the NAACP, appears in
another.  “I know a little something about fighting for what’s right
and just,” he says in the ad.  The Maryland ballot initiative is pitting minister against
minister.  The group leading the fight against same-sex marriage, the
Maryland Marriage Alliance, is headed by Derek McCoy, a pastor,
and has drawn support from churches.  The black vote is a “critical linchpin to the election,”
said Jamal Bryant, an opponent who leads an 8,000-member
congregation in Baltimore.  Traditional Values  Bryant said he sees gay marriage as a threat to traditional
values and has spoken out against it to churchgoers.  “It disrupts the fabric of the culture,” he said. “It
goes against our biblical understanding of what marriage
represents in our society -- especially in the African-American
community, where homes have already been fractured.”  Polls show increasing black support in Maryland, though
differ on which side the majority supports.  A Gonzales Research poll conducted in mid-September found
44 percent of black voters in favor of same-sex marriage, up
from 33 percent in January. A late September poll for the
Baltimore Sun newspaper showed a larger shift: More than half of
black likely voters were in favor, up from less than a third in
March.  Still, more than a third were leaning one way or another or
were still undecided, said Steve Raabe, the president of
OpinionWorks, the Annapolis-based firm that conducted the Sun
poll.  “There’s been that shift and there are more of them in
play,” he said. “That’s very important to a campaign.”  Majority Support  A  Washington  Post poll released yesterday found that 42
percent of black voters in Maryland support the measure and 53
percent oppose it. The poll found a majority of likely voters
favored the measure, 52 percent to 43 percent.  Nationally, polls show increasing support for same-sex
marriage since it rose to the political fore less than a decade
ago, after the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that
restricting marriage to heterosexuals violated gay couples’
rights.  In Maryland, an attempt to authorize gay marriages failed
in the legislature in 2011, in part because of opposition among
black churches. It passed this year after lawmakers added
protections for religious organizations.  Sheridan Todd Yeary, the senior pastor of Douglas Memorial
Community Church in Baltimore, said the safeguards for churches
sealed his support. He said he has yet to decide whether he
would perform such marriages.  ‘Equal Protection’  “We can embrace equal protection for every citizen of the
 United States  and it doesn’t force anyone to violate their
faith,” he said. “Even though I may not agree on questions of
lifestyle, at the end of the day, everybody may not agree with
me. Everybody should be able to participate in that larger body
politic.”  Maryland Delegate Emmett Burns, a Baltimore County Democrat
who opposes gay marriage, said Bond and other civil rights
leaders are out of step with the black community.  “These quasi-leaders who claim they are speaking for us --
they aren’t speaking for us,” he said. “The African-American
community is solid on this.”  On a recent Sunday, parishioners expressed divided opinions
as they came out of the Southern Baptist Church in east
Baltimore, where Hickman, who appears in an ad supporting same-
sex marriage, preaches.  Willis Squire, 68, a retiree from Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
said he differs with his preacher.  “I don’t believe in that,” he said. “God said marriage
is between a man and a woman.”  Duane Roberts, a 50 year-old truck driver, and his wife
Jackie, 46, a nurse, said they planned to vote in favor.  “Every individual has the right to do as they believe as
long as it doesn’t hurt anybody else,” said Jackie Roberts.  Down the road at the National Great Blacks In Wax Museum,
Wilson, the deputy director, said he’s still not quite sure
which way he’ll vote, though he’s leaning in favor.  “People are beginning to understand that you need to make
a separation between what you believe and what the law says,”
he said. “This whole nation was founded on tolerance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  