-- Bovespa Falls Most in Three Weeks as Metals Drop Saps Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-10-19T20:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/bovespa-falls-most-in-three-weeks-as-metals-drop-saps-vale.html
The Bovespa index dropped the most
in three weeks as concern about  China ’s economic recovery and
 Europe ’s debt crisis pushed metals lower, dimming the outlook
for Brazilian raw-material producers.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer and whose
top export market is China, contributed the most to the index’s
decline as metals slid. Clothing retailer Cia. Hering sank the
most in almost four months after reporting third-quarter net
income that missed analysts’ estimates.  The Bovespa lost 1.4 percent to 58,922.04 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , its biggest one-day drop since Sept. 28.
The index declined 0.4 percent for the week. Fifty stocks sank
on the gauge today while 17 rose. The real was little changed at
2.0276 per dollar. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price
Commodity Index tumbled 2.2 percent.  “For companies that depend more on exports, things are
still complicated as problems in Europe persist and China
struggles to show a substantial improvement in terms of economic
activity,” Marcello Paixao, a portfolio manager at Principia
Asset Management, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  China’s foreign direct investment fell 6.8 percent in
September from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said
today in Beijing. It was the 10th decline in 11 months. China is
 Brazil ’s biggest trading partner.  Vale lost 1.7 percent to 35.53 reais. Gerdau SA,  Latin
America ’s biggest steel producer, slipped 4.4 percent to 18
reais, the steepest one-day drop since May.  Hering slumped 5 percent to 44.11 reais. Stocks declined in
Europe after French President  Francois Hollande  said additional
assistance for  Spain  wasn’t discussed by European leaders
meeting at a summit in Brussels.  Rate Outlook  While the external outlook weakens Brazilian equities,
signs that the central bank will keep the target lending rate
known as the Selic near a record low for a long time may help to
support stocks, Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at equity
consulting firm Empiricus Research in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  “Looks like inflation will remain within a range that the
central bank sees as acceptable, which supports our view that
the Selic rate will remain near the current level for quite a
while,” Amstalden said.  A measure of prices that is 60 percent weighted in
wholesale was lower than economists expected. The IGP-M index
rose 0.15 percent from Sept. 21 to Oct. 10, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation reported today. The median forecast of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.34 percent increase.  Consumer Inflation  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index 
increased 0.65 percent in the month through mid-October after a
prior 0.48 percent gain, the national statistics agency said.
The reading exceeded the median forecast of 0.59 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has climbed 12 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
economic concern and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted stock demand. The index trades at 15.2 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which compares
with the ratio of 11.6 times for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 6.11 billion reais ($3.01 billion) in
stocks in Sao Paulo today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a daily average of 7.33 billion
reais this year through Oct. 17, according to data compiled by
the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  