-- Brazil Takes Control of Banco BVA for Violating Norms
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-10-19T16:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/brazil-s-central-bank-takes-over-management-of-banco-bva-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank took control
of  Banco BVA SA (BVA) , the seventh lender seized or bailed out by
regulators since 2010, after finding violations of industry
standards and deteriorating finances.  The central bank is taking “all possible measures to
investigate,” the authority said today in a  statement , adding
that it had to act against BVA because of “the deterioration of
its economic and financial situation and the violations of norms
that discipline the institution’s activity.”  BVA, a Rio de Janeiro-based lender that specializes in
loans to mid-size companies, accounts for 0.17 percent of assets
and 0.24 percent of deposits in Brazil’s financial system,
according to the statement. The central bank said last month it
would liquidate Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA, prompting the biggest
Latin American bond default in more than 10 years and
intensifying concern that more mid-size banks were at risk.  BVA declined to comment on the seizure, according to a
spokesman who asked not to be named in accordance with bank
policies.  The central bank named Eduardo Felix Bianchini the new
manager of BVA, which has seven branches in  Sao Paulo , Rio de
Janeiro and Minas Gerais states.  “There are two solutions for the bank now: its liquidation
or to find a new owner,” Luis Miguel Santacreu, an analyst at
Brazilian rating company Austin Rating in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “The bank didn’t have sufficient capital
levels.”  Rating Downgrade  Austin downgraded BVA in September to BB, meaning the bank
“is vulnerable to the general and sector economic conditions,”
according to the rating definition. Santacreu said the downgrade
was because of a lack of information after BVA stopped reporting
its earnings. The bank’s  last  financial statement was for the
second half of 2011.  Regulators said they liquidated Cruzeiro do Sul and Banco
Prosper SA, a bank Cruzeiro do Sul agreed to buy in December,
after attempts to find a buyer for that lender failed. Cruzeiro
do Sul was seized on June 4 and turned over to the deposit-
insurance fund, known as the FGC, after regulators found
violations of banking rules.  The central bank’s director for supervision, Anthero Meirelles, said on Oct. 2 that small and medium-sized banks were
financially solid, and that cases like Cruzeiro do Sul were
isolated incidents. Central bank stress tests showed that
Brazil’s banking system would withstand sudden macroeconomic
shocks.  ‘Little Surprise’  “After the Banco Cruzeiro debacle, it will be of little
surprise to read that additional small and medium-size banks are
falling by the way-side,”  Richard Segal , director of the
emerging-markets team at Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a note
to clients today.  In August, BVA planned to sell 300 million reais ($148
million) in new preferred shares, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the situation who asked not to be identified
because discussions weren’t public. The bank declined to comment
at the time.  BVA has dollar-denominated bonds due in 2014 and asset-
backed receivables funds, known as FIDCs. The shareholders of
its  FIDC Multisetorial BVA Master II (FIDC471)  will vote on Oct. 29
whether to liquidate the fund after Austin downgraded it,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. It had 107.4 million
reais in assets as of September, according to data from the
Brazil securities regulator’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  