-- BVA Bondholders to Get $493 Million as Brazil Intervenes
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-10-20T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/bva-bondholders-to-get-493-million-as-brazil-intervenes.html
Brazil’s privately owned  deposit-
insurance fund  will pay 1 billion reais ($493 million) to some
of Banco BVA SA’s local bondholders after the central bank took
control of the company.  The intervention triggered an investor-protection mechanism
that allows the early redemption of the so-called DPGEs, bonds
sold by the bank that carry a guarantee from Fundo Garantidor de
Creditos, Celso Antunes da Costa, the fund’s executive director,
said yesterday in a telephone interview in Sao Paulo. Payments
will begin on Oct. 24, he said.  BVA, a Rio de Janeiro-based lender that specializes in
loans to midsize companies, became the seventh bank in Brazil
seized or bailed out since 2010 after regulators found
violations of industry standards and deteriorating finances.  FGC has 31 billion reais in assets after paying 2 billion
reais to holders of DPGEs sold by Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA, a
Sao Paulo-based lender liquidated by regulators last month, da
Costa said. The fund was created in 1995 and is financed by the
biggest lenders in  Brazil .  BVA has about 7.4 billion reais in debt, according to the
central bank website, including $45 million in international
bonds due 2014. The lender accounts for 0.17 percent of assets
and 0.24 percent of deposits in Brazil’s financial system,
according to the statement.  BVA holds stakes in asset-backed receivables funds, known
as FIDCs. Holders of its FIDC Multisetorial BVA Master II will
vote on Oct. 29 whether to liquidate the fund after Austin
Rating downgraded it, according to a regulatory filing. The fund
had 107.4 million reais in assets as of September, according to
data from the Brazil securities regulator’s website.  Bank’s Deterioration  The central bank is taking “all possible measures to
investigate,” the authority said in a statement, adding that it
had to act against BVA because of “the deterioration of its
economic and financial situation and the violations of norms
that discipline the institution’s activity.”  The central bank named Eduardo Felix Bianchini the new
manager of BVA, which has seven branches in  Sao Paulo , Rio de
Janeiro and Minas Gerais states.  “There are two solutions for the bank now: its liquidation
or to find a new owner,” Luis Miguel Santacreu, an analyst at
Austin in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The bank
didn’t have sufficient capital levels.”  Austin downgraded BVA in September to BB, meaning it “is
vulnerable to the general and sector economic conditions,”
according to the rating definition. Santacreu said the downgrade
stemmed from a lack of information after BVA stopped reporting
earnings. The bank’s last financial statement was for the second
half of 2011.  No Buyer  Brazil sees slim chances of finding a buyer for BVA, a
government official said. The bank had insufficient provisions
for its credit portfolio, faced liquidity issues and had an
unsustainable business model, the official said, requesting not
to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The current owners are unlikely to come up with capital to
put the bank on its feet again, the official said.  The central bank declined to comment beyond what it said in
its statement. BVA declined to comment, according to a spokesman
who asked not to be named in accordance with bank policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  