-- Cameron Says No EU Budget Deal If It’s Not Good for Britain
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-19T12:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/cameron-says-no-eu-budget-deal-if-it-s-not-good-for-britain-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he won’t do a deal on the European Union’s budget if it’s
not good for Britain.  Discussions about the budget are on the agenda for the next
EU summit on Nov. 22. U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  attacked European Commission President Jose Barroso
yesterday for seeking a budget increase of more than 100 billion
euros ($130 billion) over the next seven years, saying he should
follow national governments across the EU and find ways to
reduce spending.  “There’s a deal that can be done, but it can’t be a deal
that involves spending a lot more money,” Cameron told
reporters in Brussels today after talks with EU leaders.
“There’s no point doing a deal that’s a bad deal. If there’s
not a deal that’s good for Britain, there won’t be a deal.”  Cameron again signaled he plans to put the U.K.’s
relationship with the EU to a referendum once changes have been
negotiated. Unlike many of his Conservative Party lawmakers, he
favors staying in.  “I’ve always been clear that leaving the EU is not in our
national interest,” the prime minister said. “We are a trading
nation. We need  Europe ’s markets to be open. We don’t just want
to be able to trade with Europe. We want to have a say over the
rules of how that trade works and that’s exactly what EU
membership gives us.”  The U.K. gets a refund from its contribution to the EU
budget and has long opposed increasing it, given that 40 percent
goes to agriculture. The commission, the bloc’s executive arm,
said total spending over the seven years starting in 2014 should
be a maximum 1 trillion euros.  France  is the biggest beneficiary of European farm aid,
which the commission wants to shift to growth-boosting areas in
the wake of the worst recession since World War II. The U.K.’s
budget rebate, which then Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher 
negotiated in 1984 when Britain was one of the poorer countries
in the bloc, was worth 3.5 billion euros in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Brussels at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  