-- Cameron Chief Whip Mitchell Quits Over Insults to Police
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-19T23:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/cameron-chief-whip-mitchell-quits-over-insults-to-police.html
Andrew Mitchell , responsible for
enforcing discipline among David Cameron’s Conservative
lawmakers, quit after weeks of pressure over a verbal attack on
police. The U.K. premier named George Young, a veteran lawmaker,
to replace him.  The opposition  Labour Party  had led calls for Mitchell, the
Tory party’s chief whip, to resign after The Sun newspaper
reported Sept. 21 that he called police officers outside the
premier’s Downing Street office in London “plebs” and said
they should “learn their place” because they refused to let
him cycle through the main gate.  “Over the last two days, it has become clear to me that
whatever the rights and wrongs of the matter, I will not be able
to fulfill my duties,” Mitchell, 56, wrote in a letter to
Cameron, released by the prime minister’s office yesterday.  Mitchell was only moved to the Cabinet-level position from
the job of international development secretary at the start of
last month when Cameron overhauled his government. Amid a
continuing furor, he stayed away this month from the annual
 Conservative Party  conference in Birmingham, where five Tory
lawmakers called for him to go, saying he now lacked the
authority to tell them to behave.  “Pleb” is an abbreviation of the word “plebeian,” an
insult directed at one’s perceived inferior. Cameron, a distant
descendant of royalty, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , heir to a hereditary title, have both been labeled
“posh boys” by Conservative and Labour lawmakers.  ‘Pejorative Descriptions’  “I give you my categorical assurance again that I did not,
never have, and never would call a police officer a ‘pleb’ or a
‘moron’ or used any of the other pejorative descriptions
attributed to me,” Mitchell wrote. “The reason for my apology
to the police was my parting remark ‘I thought you guys were
supposed to f---ing help us.”’  With the story dominating domestic political news coverage
in recent weeks, focus groups found the suggestion he had told
officers to “know your place” the most damaging, according to
Rick Nye of polling company Populus Ltd. In a parallel episode,
Osborne was criticized yesterday after an aide tried to get him
a free upgrade to a first-class seat on a train.  The Mitchell incident “played into perceptions of some of
the untrue stereotypes about the Conservative Party,” Tory
lawmaker Andrew Percy told the  BBC . “We just have to draw a
line under all of that now. We just have to get on with the
issues of governing the country.”  Labour’s home-affairs spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said
Mitchell had made “a sensible decision” to step down.  ‘Bad Signal’  “It is very unfortunate that  David Cameron  allowed this to
drag on so long,” she said in an e-mailed statement. “Letting
it carry on like this sent a very bad signal to the police and
public servants across the country about the government’s
attitude.”  Police helped Osborne avoid a throng of reporters gathered
at London’s Euston station to greet him yesterday after ITV News
reported the discussion between his aide and a conductor. Virgin
Trains said the episode had ended amicably, with Osborne paying
for an upgrade.  Young, 71, a Tory lawmaker since 1974, was named as the new
chief whip, the prime minister’s office said by e-mail. He
returns to a key government post only six weeks after he was
replaced as leader of the House of Commons in last month’s
Cabinet overhaul.  He’ll take over from Mitchell the brief of restoring
loyalty to the Conservative parliamentary party, the most
rebellious of any in the House of Commons since at least the
Second World War.  ‘Incredibly Important’  “Cameron does need a good chief whip,”  Philip Cowley ,
professor of politics at Nottingham University and author of a
book on parliamentary discipline, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s not in a situation where he’s got a huge majority. Party
management is incredibly important.”  Cameron had refused to fire Mitchell. The altercation came
a day after two policewomen were shot dead answering an
emergency call in Manchester, northern  England , and as Cameron’s
coalition government axes thousands of police jobs to tackle the
 budget deficit .  Mitchell “probably recognized this had become a very toxic
and difficult issue” that “was going to make his job much more
difficult,” Nick de Bois, a Conservative lawmaker, told the
BBC. “This could have been cleared up a lot earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  