-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Inflation Data Adds to Rate Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-19T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/canadian-dollar-falls-as-inflation-data-adds-to-rate-speculation.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
its U.S. counterpart to the least since August as a lower-than-
forecast advance in consumer prices added to speculation the
central bank will place less emphasis on raising policy rates.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slumped against almost all of its
most-traded peers.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  suggested
in an Oct. 15 speech that next week’s economic forecast will
reflect a slow global recovery.  “Inflation data out of  Canada  is taking tightening even
more off the table,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX
Solutions LLC, an online currency-trading company in Saddle
River, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.  “Nothing
firm came out of the EU summit, and fiscal cliff talk isn’t
helping things.”  Canada’s currency dropped 0.8 percent to 99.36 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The decline is the biggest
since Aug. 24. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0064.  Investor risk aversion increased after German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said it’s an open question whether European policy
makers can meet the deadline they’d set hours earlier to
establish a euro-area bank supervisor by year-end. Merkel spoke
after a two-day European Union summit in Brussels wrapped up
today.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark 10-year note
down 0.05 percentage point, or five basis points, to 1.84
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June
2022 rose 49 cents to C$107.95.  Policy Meeting  The consumer price  index  rose 1.2 percent in September from
a year ago, matching the August pace,  Statistics Canada  said
today from Ottawa. The central bank’s preferred core rate slowed
to 1.3 percent from 1.6 percent in August, the least in more
than a year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast total
inflation of 1.3 percent and a core rate of 1.4 percent.  Carney has kept his key lending rate at 1 percent for more
than two years and will probably leave it unchanged again at the
Oct. 23 policy meeting, according to a Bloomberg economist
survey.  “The weak CPI data will have an impact on how the Bank of
Canada telegraphs its forward-looking language,” Mazen Issa,
Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, said in a phone interview. “The data shows that on a
year-over-year basis, inflation will be fairly benign and the
growth outlook won’t change between now and next week -- we’re
still expecting to see below-trend growth.”  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar compared
with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 93,750 on
Oct. 16, compared with net longs of 95,628 a week earlier.  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell 2.1 percent to
$90.17 a barrel in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell for a second day, declining 1.7 percent.  “It’s generally risk off,” said Molloy of FX Solutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  