-- Canada September Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-19T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/canada-september-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s  consumer price index  report for September released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 1.2% in the 12 months to September,
matching the increase in August. Higher energy prices,
particularly for gasoline and electricity, led the advance in
the Consumer  Price Index  (CPI) for September. This was tempered
by lower year-over-year price increases for the purchase of
passenger vehicles and for food purchased from stores.  Energy prices  Energy prices advanced 2.9% in the 12 months to September
after rising 0.8% in August.  Gasoline prices rose 4.7% in the 12 months to September,
following a 2.2% gain the previous month. Compared with August,
higher year-over-year price increases for gasoline were recorded
in eight provinces, most notably in the Atlantic region.  The cost of electricity rose 6.0% year over year in
September after rising 3.4% in August. Increases in Ontario and
Alberta continued to lead the rise at the national level.  In contrast, natural  gas prices  declined 14.2% in the 12
months to September, continuing a pattern of year-over-year
declines observed since January 2011.  Excluding energy, the CPI rose 0.9% in the 12 months to
September, after rising 1.4% in August. This slower rate of
change in the CPI excluding energy indicates that energy prices
were the main upward contributor to the All-items CPI in
September.  12-month change in the major components  Consumer prices rose in every major component in the 12
months to September, except for clothing and footwear.  Chart: Prices rise in every major component except clothing and
footwear  Prices for transportation rose 1.6% in the 12 months to
September, after rising 1.8% in August. The advance in the
transportation component in September was led by higher prices
for gasoline. This was tempered by lower year-over-year price
increases for the purchase of passenger vehicles.  Shelter costs rose 1.2% in the 12 months to September,
following a 1.0% gain in August. In addition to higher
electricity prices, increases were recorded for homeowners’
replacement cost and rent. Natural gas prices and mortgage
interest cost declined on a year-over-year basis.  Food prices rose 1.6% in the 12 months to September,
following a 2.2% increase in August. This slower year-over-year
advance was attributable to monthly price decreases in September
for food purchased from stores. Notable declines were recorded
for fresh vegetables, fresh fruit, meat (particularly fresh or
frozen pork) and cereal products.  Tuition fees rose 3.7% in September 2012. This figure
reflects the recent decision to freeze tuition fees in  Quebec .  12-month change in the provinces  Consumer prices in Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince  Edward
Island ,  New Brunswick , and Alberta rose at a faster year-over-
year rate in September compared with August, led by higher price
increases for gasoline.  Prices in Ontario and British Columbia increased the least
(+0.7%) of all provinces in the 12-months to September.  In Ontario, gasoline prices advanced 3.6% in the 12 months
to September after rising 0.3% in August. Despite this
acceleration in gasoline prices, the year-over-year increase in
the Ontario All-items CPI slowed from a 1.0% rise in August to a
0.7% increase in September. The slower pace was primarily the
result of smaller monthly price gains in September 2012 compared
with September 2011 for both the purchase of passenger vehicles
and women’s clothing.  Consumer prices in British Columbia increased 0.7% in the
12 months to September, after rising 1.0% in August. British
Columbia was the only province where gasoline prices fell
(-0.8%) on a year-over-year basis in September.  Seasonally adjusted monthly CPI increases  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, the CPI increased
0.2% in September after rising 0.4% in August.  The seasonally adjusted index for transportation rose 0.9%
while the clothing and footwear index went up 0.1%. The food
index fell 0.2% in September, following a 0.3% increase in
August.  Bank of Canada’s core index  The Bank of Canada’s core index rose 1.3% in the 12 months
to September, following a 1.6% increase in August. The slower
rate of increase was mostly attributable to smaller price
increases for the purchase of passenger vehicles.  On a monthly basis, the seasonally adjusted core index was
unchanged in September after rising 0.3% in August.  Note to readers  The special aggregate “Energy” includes: electricity;
natural gas;  fuel oil  and other fuels; gasoline; and fuel, parts
and supplies for recreational vehicles.  The Bank of Canada’s core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index’s most volatile components (fruit, fruit
preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable preparations;
mortgage interest cost; natural gas; fuel oil and other fuels;
gasoline; inter-city transportation; and tobacco products and
smokers’ supplies) as well as the effects of changes in indirect
taxes on the remaining components.  A seasonally adjusted series is one from which seasonal
movements have been eliminated. Users employing Consumer Price
Index data for indexation purposes are advised to use the
unadjusted indexes. For more information on seasonal adjustment,
see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  