-- Canada Inflation Was Slower Than Forecast on Natural Gas
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-19T13:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/canada-s-inflation-was-slower-than-forecast-on-natural-gas-drop.html
Canadian  consumer prices  advanced
less than economists forecast last month, suggesting Bank of
 Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  doesn’t need to emphasize raising
interest rates at next week’s decision.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in September from
a year ago, matching the August pace, Statistics Canada said
today from Ottawa. The central bank’s preferred  core  rate slowed
to 1.3 percent from 1.6 percent in August, the least in more
than a year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast total
inflation of 1.3 percent and a core rate of 1.4 percent.  Carney has kept his  key lending rate  at 1 percent for more
than two years and will probably leave it unchanged again at the
Oct. 23 decision, according to a Bloomberg economist survey.
Carney gave a speech Oct. 15 that left out a reference to the
potential need for higher borrowing costs, and said next week’s
economic forecast will reflect a slow global recovery.  “From the inflation side, there isn’t a lot of pressure
there” to raise interest rates, said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant
chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  Canada’s currency dropped 0.6 percent to 99.07 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:51 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0095. Two-year government bond yields declined by four basis
points to 1.09 percent, while trading in overnight index swaps
showed investors pricing in about seven basis points of rate
cuts for the April 2013 rate decision.  Natural Gas  The pace of inflation was slowed by a 14.2 percent drop in
 natural gas  prices and a 2.2 percent decline in mortgage
interest costs, Statistics Canada said today. The biggest
contributors to the total price gain were a 4.7 percent advance
in gasoline prices and a 6 percent rise in electricity.  Consumer prices will remain below the central bank’s 2
percent target through the middle of next year according to a
Bloomberg economist forecast. The central bank sets  interest
rates  to keep inflation at the center of a 1 percent to 3
percent band.  The central bank forecast in July that the economy would
grow at a 2 percent annualized pace in the third-quarter, while
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast it will be 1.7 percent
instead. Carney is counting on business investment and  consumer
spending  to bring the economy to full output in the second half
of next year.  “Clearly, growth and inflation are both very soft in
Canada,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National
Bank Financial in Montreal. Next week policy makers will
probably pare their economic forecast and scale back “hawkish
language” about raising rates, he said.  ‘Well Below’  The core inflation rate averaged 1.5 percent in the third
quarter, “well below” the central bank’s July forecast of 1.9
percent,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  economist  Robert Kavcic  wrote in a
client note. “Market speculation continues to build that the
tightening bias could be dropped at next week’s policy
meeting,” he said.  The central bank’s forecast next week “will take into
account the impact of the uncertainty,” about the global
recovery, Carney said during his Oct. 15 speech in Nanaimo,
British Columbia. He has said since April that tighter policy
“may become appropriate” as the economy moves toward full
output, a phrase he didn’t use that day.  Inflation was also slower than economist predictions on a
monthly basis. Consumer  prices  rose 0.2 percent in September, as
did the core rate, while economists surveyed by Bloomberg said
both those measures would advance by 0.3 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.2 percent in September
while the adjusted core measure was unchanged,  Statistics Canada 
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  