-- Canada Gas Rises to 11-Month High on Momentum From Storage Data
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-19T17:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/canada-gas-rises-to-11-month-high-on-momentum-from-storage-data.html
Canadian natural gas rose to an 11-
month high after the U.S. Energy Department reported a shrinking
gas storage surplus yesterday.  The November  gas contract in Alberta  rose 0.9 percent to
its highest level since Nov. 10. The Energy Department said
inventories expanded by 51 billion cubic feet last week, less
than the five-year average gain of 71 billion and last year’s
106 billion increase.  “We’re having a December rally in the middle of October;
it’s a little disconcerting,” said Carl Neill, a consultant
with Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta. “Every single weekly
storage injection that we get pretty much falls below last
year’s levels.”  Neill, whose company hedges for end-users such as power
plants, said natural gas didn’t find a low in the fall as it
typically does because prices were already low from the fourth-
warmest winter on record.  “The fact that it’s not falling is forcing people to come
in and buy,” he said.  Alberta  gas for November delivery rose 3 cents to C$3.30
per gigajoule ($3.15 per million British thermal units) at 10:55
a.m. New York time on the NGX, a Canadian electronic exchange.  Natural gas for November delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  rose 4.2 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $3.629
per million Btu.  Warmer Weather  Most of the U.S. will see higher-than-normal temperatures
over the next five days, according to Commodity Weather Group of
Bethesda,  Maryland . U.S. heating demand is expected to be 44
percent below normal over the next seven days, according to
Weather Derivatives of Belton,  Missouri .  Starting Oct. 24, a cold front will affect the western U.S
and  Canada , Commodity Weather Group said. The southern and
eastern U.S. will see warmer weather until Oct. 28, when the
much of the U.S. will see lower-than-normal temperatures into
early November.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 16.2 billion cubic
feet at 10:30 a.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.99 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 2.07 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 217
million cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.45 billion cubic feet today, 87 percent of
estimated capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.93 billion cubic feet at 10:35 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  