-- Caterpillar Growth Is Seen Slowing as World Expansion Dims
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-19T20:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/caterpillar-growth-seen-slowing-as-world-economic-expansion-dims.html
After  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s heady post-
recession expansion, the world’s biggest construction and mining
equipment maker will probably forecast the slowest sales growth
in four years as its prospects for 2013 fade with the
decelerating global economy.  The manufacturer, an economic bellwether, is expected to
project next week that revenue will increase 5.1 percent in
2013, according to the average of 17  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with year-over-year growth
of 31 percent in 2010, 41 percent in 2011 and an estimated 13
percent this year.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  has
expanded factories and announced deals for about $10.3 billion
in the past two years to meet demand from mining companies and
North American builders, and to position the company to become
the “market share leader” in China by 2015. His plans have hit
a snag on rising machine inventories as the  European debt crisis 
persists and expansion decelerates in  emerging markets  from
China to  Brazil .  “The problem is he was sizing his business model for long-
term global growth,”  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst
at Jefferies & Co. who recommends holding the shares, said in an
interview last week. “It didn’t go his way.”  Idled Production  The Peoria, Illinois-based company plans to idle some
production in its home state for a couple of weeks in the
current quarter after shutting a Chinese excavator factory for
most of July.  Caterpillar’s global retail machine sales growth reported
by dealers slowed to 6 percent in the three months through
September, because of declines in  Latin America  and the region
that includes  Europe , the Middle East and Africa, the company
reported in a securities filing today. The growth rate also
slowed in the Asia-Pacific region and  North America . Retail
machine sales grew 13 percent for the three months through
August and 14 percent for the three months through July.  Last month, Oberhelman cut Caterpillar’s profit target for
2015 to $12 to $18 a share from an earlier projection of $15 to
$20 and said revenue this year may be about $2 billion less than
forecast.  China’s  growth rate  dipped to 7.4 percent in the third
quarter, the lowest since 2009. The world economy will expand
3.3 percent this year, the slowest pace since the 2007-09 U.S.
recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the  International Monetary
Fund  said Oct. 9. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said
Oct. 15 that the world is “awfully close” to a recession.  ‘Fairly Anemic’  While Caterpillar doesn’t forecast a recession next year,
“we see fairly anemic and modest growth through 2015,” and
2013 would “resemble” this year, Oberhelman said on Sept. 24.
He declined to provide specific numbers about Caterpillar’s
outlook next year. The company is expected to provide its first
sales forecast for 2013 when it reports third-quarter earnings
on Oct. 22.  Caterpillar is coming out a period of expansion following
the recession. Revenue is projected to double to $67.7 billion
this year from $32.4 billion in 2009.  The growth was spurred by deals Oberhelman inked since
becoming CEO in July 2010, the replacement of aging North
American construction equipment, and purchases from global
miners trying to meet demand in  China  and  India  for metals and
coal.  Rising Inventories  The company’s  third-quarter profit  will rise 30 percent to
$2.22 a share from a year earlier while sales increase 6.5
percent to $16.7 billion, according to average analysts’
estimates.  The good times may not last. Weaker expansion rates outside
North America and mounting new and used inventories pose a near-
term risk for construction and mining machinery manufacturers as
demand has deteriorated in Europe and Latin America and
inventory restricts growth in China, according to Karen Ubelhart, a Bloomberg Industries machinery analyst.  “Revenue and earnings may fall short of estimates as
equipment producers curtail production,” Ubelhart said by e-
mail this week. “Mining capital spending should slow
substantially in 2013.”  After increases in spending by miners of more than 30
percent this year, initial 2013 guidance indicates a 4 percent
decline, Ubelhart estimates.  Delayed Projects  In August,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining
company, delayed an estimated $68 billion of projects.  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company by market
value, said last week it will cut jobs and delay decisions on
building projects because of reduced growth in China.  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , the U.S. engine maker that projected a dimmer
outlook on Oct. 9, may be a “precursor to third-quarter
earnings and guidance disappointments,” Ubelhart said.  Caterpillar has slipped to fourth-worst performer on the
30-member  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  this year after ranking
as second-best in the first two months. The  shares , which fell
3.2 percent to $83.86 at the close in  New York , have dropped 7.4
percent this year compared with the average 9.2 percent gain for
the Dow.  Sales and profit estimates  for Caterpillar in 2013 have
come down as global economic forecasts were reduced. Company
sales next year will be $71.2 billion, according to the average
estimate. That’s $2.19 billion less than four weeks ago after
nine analysts cut forecasts.  Jim Dugan , a spokesman for Caterpillar, declined to comment
on its sales guidance when reached by phone yesterday.  ‘All Eyes’  “All eyes will be on the outlook for next year,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co. who
recommends buying the shares, said in an interview last week.
“What’s going to hold them back is softness in mining, which
will be down a little, and softness in the global economy.”  In the longer term, Caterpillar’s sales expansion may be
stronger. China’s growth has started to stabilize, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in remarks published on Oct. 17.  “I’m convinced a year from now, we’ll see recovery in
China, which will be helpful for us,” Oberhelman said Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  