-- McDonald’s Post-Black Monday Advance Leads Dow: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/mcdonald-s-post-black-monday-advance-leads-dow-chart-of-the-day.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  has reason to
celebrate today’s 25th anniversary of the stock-market crash
that sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to its biggest-ever
percentage loss.  As the CHART OF THE DAY depicts, shares of McDonald’s rose
at a 12.8 percent annual rate from what’s known as Black Monday
through yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
advance for the world’s largest restaurant chain is the biggest
among 14 companies in the Dow industrials that were part of the
average when the crash occurred.  “McDonald’s is a powerhouse,” said Robert Stovall, who
ran his own money-management firm in 1987 and is now a managing
director and global strategist at Wood Asset Management Inc. in
Sarasota,  Florida . “The future holds well for them, just like
the past has.” Wood Asset owns shares as part of a strategy
focused on dividend growth, he said.  McDonald’s, based in the Chicago suburb of  Oak Brook ,
 Illinois , just beat Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s
largest maker of soft drinks. Coke climbed 12.7 percent a year
on average.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the Cincinnati-based maker of
consumer products, ranked third at 12.3 percent. All three were
well ahead of the Dow average, which rose at an 8.6 percent pace
after falling 22.6 percent in the crash.  The worst performer of the past quarter-century that’s
still part of the Dow is  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , which also appears in the
chart. Alcoa, based in  New York , gained 2.2 percent a year after
the crash. The rate reflected a 69 percent plunge in shares of
the largest U.S. aluminum producer in 2008.  Five companies removed from the average after 1987 posted
losses in post-crash trading. Three of them -- Bethlehem Steel
Corp., Eastman Kodak Co. and General Motors Corp. -- filed for
bankruptcy. The others were Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., which
fell at a 2 percent annual rate, and Navistar International
Inc., which fell at a 3.4 percent pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  