-- Cemig Defies Prediction for Biggest BRIC Dividend Cut
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i ,   A d r i a n a   A r a i   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-10-19T17:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/cemig-defies-prediction-for-biggest-bric-dividend-cut.html
Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais  vows
to maintain dividends even as analysts predict  Brazil ’s pressure
to cut rates will prompt the utility to lower payouts the most
among the largest companies in top  emerging markets .  Cemig, the South American country’s third-largest electric
utility by market value, has “no plans whatsoever to reduce
dividends,” Chief Financial Officer Luiz Fernando Rolla said in
an interview yesterday. It is forecast to pay out 74 cents per
share in 2013, 50 percent less than in 2012. That would be the
biggest cut among the 200 largest publicly traded companies in
Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China , according to forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg.  PetroChina Co. Ltd., the biggest company by market value in
the so-called BRIC countries, is expected to increase its
dividend by 10 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  President  Dilma Rousseff  last month unveiled measures to
force power utilities seeking concession renewals to cut rates
by as much as 28 percent to stoke economic growth and boost the
competitiveness of Brazilian manufacturers.  Cemig’s dividend in the short term “will probably remain
unchanged, as the new rate rules probably won’t be in place
until a couple of years from now,” Rodolfo Amstalden, an
analyst at equity consulting firm Empiricus Research, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The problem is that it all can change if
the government decides to carry out a more drastic change.
Things are too unclear right now.”  License Renewal  Shares of Cemig  rose  0.5 percent to 24.84 reais at 2:52
p.m. in  Sao Paulo  after earlier jumping as much as 3.4 percent.
The benchmark Bovespa index lost 1.5 percent.  Cemig this week said it wasn’t interested in seeking the
renewal of three power-generation licenses under the new terms
set by Rousseff, saying that would hurt profit. Rolla said
yesterday in an interview the government has signaled
willingness to negotiate the rules for the concessions renewal.  “We are already seeing signs from the government, and some
of the government’s positions coincide with ours,” Rolla said.
“There’s some comfort that the government will sit and
negotiate with us to resolve this issue.”  Infrastructure Bonds  Rolla said Cemig is seeking to diversify its sources of
revenue by investing in gas while bidding for 10 billion reais
($4.93 billion) worth of contracts to build power transmission
lines. If Cemig wins some of those contracts, it plans to raise
funding in the local market in 2013 by selling tax-free bonds
linked to infrastructure projects, the executive said.  The longer Cemig and other power utilities take to
negotiate the new rules with the government, the more earnings
can suffer, BES Securities do Brasil SA’s analyst Gabriel Laera
said.  “The government’s message for operators that decide not to
renew the concession contracts now is that they are only
delaying what is almost certain to be a negative outcome,”
Laera wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Given the
political nature of the government’s tariff moderating agenda,
we think companies that elect to push forward renewals could be
hurting their chances of obtaining a favorable outcome in future
negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  