-- Ceradyne Directors Sued Over 3M’s $860 Million Purchase
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ceradyne-directors-sued-over-3m-s-860-million-purchase.html
Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN) ’s directors didn’t get
enough for the defense contractor’s shares in an $860 million
buyout by  3M Co. (MMM)  and didn’t make proper disclosures about how
the deal was negotiated, investors said in a lawsuit.  Executives of  Costa Mesa , California-based Ceradyne, maker
of ceramic  body armor  for the U.S. Army and foreign militaries,
didn’t solicit other bids for the defense firm before accepting
a $35-a-share offer from 3M, lawyers for a Ceradyne shareholder
said in the Delaware Chancery Court suit.  “The board engaged in a flawed sales process involving
neither a market check nor an auction, instead negotiating only
with 3M, a longtime business partner of the company,” attorneys
for Ceradyne investor Dennis Henderson said in the suit, filed
yesterday. 3M makes products ranging from dental braces to
commercial sealants.  The purchase, the biggest announced by  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based 3M this year, will help the company expand into ceramics
as the material becomes more popular across several industries,
such as energy and aerospace.  Ceramics are more frequently used because they are more
heat-resistant and harder than metal,  Nick Heymann , an analyst
with William Blair & Co. in New York, said when the Ceradyne
acquisition was announced Oct. 1. 3M needs acquisitions to spur
growth amid weak European markets and China’s slowdown, he
added.  Neither Phil Bourdillon, a Ceradyne spokesman, nor Donna Runyon, a 3M spokeswoman, immediately returned calls yesterday
seeking comment on the suit over the buyout.  Deal Mechanics  3M uses Ceradyne’s ceramic material to make orthodontic
brackets, according to Henderson’s suit. 3M officials approached
Ceradyne executives in May to inquire about buying the company,
the investor contends.  Instead of seeking other offers, Joel Moskowitz, Ceradyne’s
founder and chief executive officer, negotiated solely with 3M
and then structured the deal with the conglomerate in a way to
discourage new bidders from coming forward, Henderson’s lawyers
contend.  The Ceradyne board’s backed 3M’s offer in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that misled investors
about the negotiations, the investors’ attorneys also allege in
the suit.  The statement omits or presents misleading information
about  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s valuation of the company. New York-based
Citigroup served as Ceradyne’s financial adviser on the deal.  This month, 3M scrapped an agreement to buy  Avery Dennison
Corp. (AVY) ’s office-products business. The company gave up on the
$550 million deal because of U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust
concerns about the acquisition. 3M already makes offices
supplies, such as sticky notes sold under the Post-it brand.  The Ceradyne case is Dennis Henderson v. Ceradyne Inc.,
7968, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  