-- Cerberus’s Bawag in Talks With New Investors to Raise Fresh Cash
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-19T17:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/cerberus-s-bawag-in-talks-with-new-investors-to-raise-fresh-cash.html
Bawag PSK Bank, the Austrian lender
controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, is in talks to
bring in new investors besides Cerberus to raise “a significant
amount” of additional capital, the bank said.  Bawag,  Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender by assets, said
Cerberus would keep a majority stake in the transaction under
discussion, Sabine Hacker, a company spokeswoman, said today in
an e-mail statement. She declined to elaborate.  GoldenTree Asset Management LP may buy a 33 percent stake
in the lender, with Cerberus falling back to 55 percent, Der
Standard newspaper reported today, without saying where it got
the information.  “Bawag is in discussions with Cerberus Capital Management
and other investors regarding the investment by Cerberus of a
significant amount of new capital,” Hacker said in the
statement. The potential investment “would result in Cerberus
maintaining a majority equity position.”  Bawag hasn’t produced returns for its shareholders since a
Cerberus-led group bought the lender for 3.2 billion euros ($4.2
billion) in 2006. It has to replace 170 million euros of hybrid
capital it bought back in March and may need more capital to
repay state aid and meet new rules from the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. Cerberus, the private-equity firm led by
Stephen Feinberg, said last month it “stands behind” the bank
and will support “potential capital actions.”  John Dillard, a spokesman for Cerberus at Weber Shandwick,
didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the Standard report. Scott Sunshine, a spokesman for
GoldenTree, the $16.6 billion New York-based credit hedge fund
founded by Steven Tananbaum, declined to comment.  ‘Workers’ Bank’  Bawag was founded as the “Workers’ Bank” in 1922 by Karl
Renner, a socialist and Austria’s first chancellor after World
War I. The bank, which Cerberus bought from the Austrian trade
union federation, lost money each year from 2007 to 2009,
causing the New York-based private-equity company to inject 205
million euros into Bawag in 2009, with the Austrian state
providing an 550 million euros.  The bank, which already had to be rescued by the government
in 2006 before the purchase by Cerberus, is now preparing for
so-called Basel III rules. More than a quarter of its core
reserves consist of capital that will be phased out under these
new rules or have to be replaced for other reasons.  Bawag’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, rose to 8.8 percent at the end of June, from 7.8
percent at the end of 2011. That measure includes the non-voting
capital the lender received from the government. The state
capital costs Bawag 9.3 percent interest annually until next
year, and will get increasingly more expensive starting in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  