-- Chile Holds Key Rate at 5% on Steady Prices and Surging Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-19T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/chile-holds-key-rate-at-5-on-steady-prices-and-surging-growth.html
Chile’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged yesterday for a ninth straight month as
the world’s top copper producer combined  Latin America ’s slowest
inflation with some of the region’s fastest growth.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the key interest rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 20
analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last changed
borrowing costs in January with a quarter-point reduction.  Inflation rates have held below the central bank’s target
for the past four months even as economic growth continues to
exceed estimates made by economists. While analysts view
monetary tightening as increasingly likely in 2013 or 2014,
risks of a further slowdown in  China  or deeper recession in
 Europe  are keeping policy makers in a wait-and-see mode.  “Two forces remain at play: there’s uncertainty abroad,
although the panorama has improved somewhat, and internally
consumption continues to grow at a strong pace,” Matias  Madrid ,
an economist at Banco Penta in Santiago, said by phone after
yesterday’s decision. “With both forces at play, the central
bank is maintaining a neutral bias.”  Policy makers in their statement yesterday removed a
reference seen in September to the peso’s appreciation, saying
only that the  U.S. dollar  had weakened internationally. Chile’s
peso has strengthened 9.9 percent this year, the biggest gain
among the seven Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Sustained Growth  Economists increased their growth forecast for 2012 and
2013 in an Oct. 9 central bank survey after economic growth data
exceeded estimates, unemployment fell and manufacturing surged.
The analysts in the monthly poll forecast borrowing costs will
increase to 5.25 percent within 23 months after expecting no
change in the September survey.  Gross domestic product in the Andean nation expanded 5.4
percent in the first half of the year, while growth as measured
by the central bank’s Imacec index was 5.3 percent in July and
6.2 percent in August, the fastest pace in half a year. Retail
sales surged 11.3 percent in August from last year.  Manufacturing climbed 3.6 percent in August, compared with
the median estimate for a 1 percent gain by analysts polled by
Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  fell to 6.4 percent in the
three months through August after economists forecast it would
remain unchanged at 6.5 percent.  Chile’s GDP will grow 5 percent in 2012, the fastest
expansion among major Latin American nations after Peru and
 Venezuela , the  International Monetary Fund  said in an Oct. 12
report on the region. The economy of  Brazil  will expand 1.5
percent while that of  Mexico , which is Latin America’s second-
largest economy, will increase 3.8 percent, the Washington-based
lender said.  Inflation Rate  “Domestically, output indicators have evolved around trend
rates and private consumption has strengthened,” policy makers
said in yesterday’s statement. “The labor market remains
tight.”  Inflation quickened to 2.8 percent in September, the
highest rate in four months, on gains in the price of food and
beverages, health care and transportation. Policy makers target
3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  Traders estimate inflation will continue to accelerate, and
policy makers in minutes from last month’s rate meeting warned
against “latent risks” to consumer prices as the economy
expands.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
rose 7 basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 3.06 percent
yesterday from the previous meeting on Sept. 13.  Slowing Down?  Still,  Chile  has the lowest inflation rate of any major
Latin American economy tracked by Bloomberg, and the economy is
starting to feel the effect of the global slowdown. Chile in
September posted its third consecutive monthly trade deficit and
fourth for the year, as exports fell 9.5 percent from the year
earlier.  The price of copper, which accounts for more than half of
Chile’s exports, has averaged $3.64 a pound this year compared
with $4.01 a pound in 2011. Prices will fall further in 2013,
averaging $3.40 a pound, according to the latest central bank
forecasts.  “In Chile, the economy continues to show a strong
performance and the effects of the weakened external scenario
have been tenuous,” Vergara said in a Sept. 28 presentation
posted on the bank website. “The board continues to monitor
developments in external and internal macroeconomic scenarios
and their impact on inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  