-- Memo to China: Size Isn’t Everything
-- B y   O d d   A r n e   W e s t a d
-- 2012-10-19T00:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/china-must-learn-that-size-only-gets-you-so-far-odd-arne-westad.html
For more than three decades,  China 
has been courting its neighbors to the south. Enticing the
countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean)
into closer cooperation has been a top goal of Chinese foreign
policy since the days of Deng Xiaoping, and it has brought great
rewards.  In 2010 the two sides entered into a free-trade agreement
that created one of the world’s largest integrated markets. But
now, with its aggressive attitude on demarcation lines in the
South China Sea, China risks throwing it all away. Why?  Up to about two years ago, everything, including diplomatic
affairs and trade, seemed to be developing swimmingly between
China and its southern neighbors. Even with  Vietnam , China’s
opponent in a brief border-war in 1979, relations had improved
markedly. Leaders in Hanoi were looking to Beijing both for
advice on how to run a one-party Communist state and on how to
reform its economy into a market-driven engine of growth. Some
Southeast Asian countries with large Chinese minorities were,
for the first time, beginning to see these groups as an
opportunity in dealing with China, rather than as a threat.  Then things changed markedly. At a 2010 regional forum in
Hanoi, the usually equipoised Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi fumed at his Southeast Asian hosts for their mutual
solidarity and their perceived attempts to enlist U.S. support
in their long-brewing disagreements over who had sovereignty
over portions of the South China Sea.  ’Big State’  “There is one basic difference among us,” Yang is supposed to
have said. “China is a big state and you are smaller countries.”
He infuriated not only the Vietnamese, but the truly big
countries that were present, such as  Indonesia . I met with a
senior Indonesian policy maker in Jakarta soon afterward. “We
are a serious country,” he bristled. “We will not be treated
like this.”  Since then, China’s relations with Southeast Asia have been
sinking fast. There have been clashes at sea between China and
two other South China Sea claimants, Vietnam and the
 Philippines . Some countries are looking again at the content of
the free-trade agreement, feeling that it gives China too much
influence. Chinese attempts to use its power within the weaker
Asean countries -- Cambodia and  Burma  -- to prevent a united
front within the organization have backfired badly. The bigger
countries now suspect that China is out to break up Asean (if
given half a chance). In spite of recent Chinese restraint (at
least verbally), relations seem to go from bad to worse.  What is at stake is not only a settlement of the disputed
 claims  to zones of maritime control in the South China Sea (and
the rights to exploit the resources that lie beneath them). It
is the whole future relationship between China and the region.
Even as the U.S. is encouraging negotiations and peaceful
settlements, it is strengthening its regional role. Every big
Asean country has drawn considerably closer to  Washington  over
the past year or so. China’s policy has therefore been almost
entirely self-defeating in terms of its long-term interests.  Why is China acting the way it does? The underwater
 resources  at stake are deemed to be considerable and crucial to
China’s future development.  Nationalist public opinion in China demands a tough stance
on territorial issues, as the conflict with  Japan  over the East
China Sea islands has also recently shown. There is genuine
anger in Beijing about Asean’s efforts to seek U.S. support and
about what is seen as an unwillingness to negotiate based on
China’s demands. Some Chinese naval officers are bucking to test
China’s newly gained capabilities for offshore naval deployment.  Immature Diplomacy  But at the root of the problem lies exactly what Yang
alluded to in Hanoi. Because of a heritage that goes back to the
deeper past, China regards its position within the region as
unique. It is the big country and other countries must treat it
as such. This does not preclude meaningful negotiations or a
respect for the sovereignty of others. But it does imply a
position for China that puts its views and its claims in a
different category than those of other states. Especially in the
long run, it is an attitude that will not serve China well.  China’s approach to Asean on the South China Sea disputes
points to a country whose diplomacy is still remarkably immature
and not ready to take on a regional leadership role. It does not
slowly integrate its neighbors and putative partners into a
cooperative constellation of states that may serve China’s
interests and that also demonstrably serves the interests of
others. This is what the U.S. did with its main allies after
World War II. Instead, the PRC’s leaders seem hell-bound on
looking after its own interests and challenging those of its
neighbors, from  Korea  to Myanmar. This policy will not win China
its much coveted regional role, not to mention a position as a
global great power.  China’s demands on the South China Sea are not even clear.
Officially the country claims “historical rights” over a vaguely
defined section of ocean that covers most of the maritime
regions to its south. That claim is often symbolized by a nine-
dashed line on maritime maps, which would -- in effect --
recognize almost all of the South China Sea as Chinese. This is,
to put it mildly, a nonsensical position that will not stand
under international  law . Most serious Chinese diplomats know
this (though I am sometimes shocked by how many do not).  The best thing that China could do now would be to define
its actual demands. This would include coming to terms with the
fact that the country, at best, can only lay claim to a 12-
nautical-mile zone around the islets. According to the UN
Convention on the  Law of the Sea , small islands that cannot
sustain human habitation do not have the right to a 200 mile
exclusive economic zone. So instead of the “right” to all of the
South China Sea, which many Chinese think they claim, the real
maximum demand will be much more modest. This should sober minds
in Beijing and elsewhere.  In the meantime, China and the other countries should adopt
the new Indonesian proposal for an interim international code of
conduct in the South China Sea.
It calls for concrete confidence building and  conflict
prevention  measures, including a reduction of military activity
in the region. For the time being, that may be as close to calm
as we can get within these troubled waters.  (Odd Arne Westad is a professor of history at the London
School of Economics and Political Science and the author of the
just-published “ Restless Empire: China and the World Since
1750 .”)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  better way to shrink big
banks  and on  Pakistan’s “Malala moment” ; Stephen L. Carter on  
how U.S. senators are elected ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama’s
vulnerabilities in the foreign-policy debate ; William Pesek on
why  world hunger poses a risk to capitalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Odd Arne Westad at  A.Westad@lse.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at  jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 