-- China Might Have Overstated Growth in Standard Chartered View
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/china-third-quarter-data-gets-skepticism-from-standard-chartered.html
China ’s third-quarter  growth  may
have been weaker than official data indicate even amid signs
expansion may be picking up, according to analysts at  Standard
Chartered  Plc and  Capital Economics  Ltd.  A slowdown in electricity production and an
“unimpressive”  reading  in a manufacturing survey are reasons
September’s pickup in factory output was “a bit difficult to
believe,” Standard Chartered said in an Oct. 18 note. Capital
Economics said its own analysis indicates the economy expanded
about 6.5 percent in the third quarter, below the 7.4 percent
year-over-year growth reported by the government this week.  Skepticism about China’s data is resurfacing as the ruling
Communist Party prepares for a once-a-decade leadership
transition with a congress set to start Nov. 8 in Beijing. An
improving economy after a seven-quarter slowdown may bolster the
image of top leaders and reduce the need for additional  stimulus .  “The growth rebound is too good to be true,” said  Li Wei ,
an economist at Standard Chartered in  Shanghai . “Maybe the
political agenda has played a role. If you are going to hold a
board meeting of course you want to report a decent number. It’s
understandable.”  The party congress next month and the meeting of the
national legislature in March “should limit the risk of a
double dip in China,” he said.  Data Evidence  Evidence supporting the official data included rising
production and prices of both steel and cement on the back of
increased project approvals, said  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS
AG in  Hong Kong . Industrial output may have been helped by a
rebound in export growth last month, part of so-called light
industries that are not power-intensive, she said.  Li Keqiang , who may succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier in March,
was quoted in 2007 as saying he watched data on power, rail
cargo and loans because gross domestic product numbers were
“man-made.” Li’s remark was published in a leaked diplomatic
cable published by WikiLeaks in late 2010.  Electricity output slowed to a 1.5 percent year-over-year
growth rate in September from 2.7 percent in August, according
to the National Bureau of Statistics. Power production was down
11 percent from August.  GDP expanded 2.2 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, the statistics bureau said in Beijing Oct.
18. On an annualized basis, that indicates growth accelerated to
9.1 percent in the last three months from 7.4 percent in the
second quarter, Standard Chartered’s Li said. He estimates the
annualized pace was 7.7 percent, up from 7.1 percent.  The statistics bureau’s news office didn’t respond to faxed
questions about the economists’ skepticism from Bloomberg News.  ‘Implausible’ Speed  “The speed of the turnaround implied by the official
figures is implausible,”  Mark Williams  and Qinwei Wang,
economists with Capital Economics in  London , wrote in a note Oct.
18. They said their analysis of data including freight,
electricity output and construction “suggests that conditions
on the ground are weaker.” Williams was previously Asia
economist for the U.K. Treasury and Wang formerly worked at the
People’s Bank of China.  Standard Chartered also questioned the acceleration of
industrial  production  in September to a 9.2 percent pace from a
year earlier from 8.9 percent in August, a three-year low. A
production sub-index of September’s official purchasing managers
index “was flat compared to the average reading of the previous
two months,” Li said.  Property Prices  “It is hard for me to imagine that manufacturers are
undertaking huge investments and construction activities remain
buoyant, showing a growth rate that seems totally unaffected by
the stalling of property prices,” said Stephen Jen, managing
partner at hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP in London and
former head of currency research at Morgan Stanley.  Jen said he’s skeptical of figures showing  investment  and
residential construction expanding at a 20 percent pace.  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., said he’s not convinced by the
doubters. “I don’t buy the story Chinese data is systematically
overstated any more than I bought the story a few years ago that
it was systematically understated,” said Oliver, who helps
oversee A$123.2 billion ($128 billion). China’s electricity
consumption is “not surprising” and “will always be more
volatile both up and down,” Oliver said.  Jim Walker , chief economist at researcher Asianomics Ltd.
in Hong Kong, sided with the skeptics, saying in a research note
that the official data report was in “La-La Land.”  “We all know that Chinese GDP data are what the State
Council or Politburo wants them to be,” said Walker, former
chief economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  To contact the  Bloomberg News  staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  