-- China Foreign Investment Drops Amid Slowing Economic Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T03:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/china-foreign-investment-drops-amid-slowing-economic-growth-1-.html
Foreign direct investment  in China
fell for the 10th time in 11 months, as companies reined in
spending amid a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Investment fell 6.8 percent from a year earlier to $8.43
billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in Beijing today.
Spending in the first nine months of the year dropped 3.8
percent to $83.4 billion compared with a drop of 3.4 percent in
the first eight months.  The decline underscores foreign investors’ concerns that
moderating expansion in China, the world’s most populous nation,
will weigh on sales and profitability. Economic growth slid to
its weakest pace in more than three years, a government report
showed yesterday, while Coca-Cola Co. said this week the
nation’s slowdown may have a short-term effect on the industry
and its soft-drinks business.  “ China ’s traditional advantages in attracting foreign
investment, from cheap land and labor supply to high returns,
are changing,” said Chen Bingcai, a Beijing-based researcher
with the Chinese Academy of Governance, an institute that trains
government officials. “As such, foreign investors may need to
re-consider their China business strategies,” Chen, who
previously worked at the nation’s foreign-exchange regulator,
said before the release.  Investment Comparison  Foreign direct investment of $9.05 billion in September
2011 was the most for that month on record. The highest for a
single month was $14 billion in December 2010, and investment of
$116 billion in 2011 was the biggest annual figure.  The Shanghai Composite Index, China’s benchmark stock gauge,
was down 0.1 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  Non-financial outbound investment in the first nine months
increased 28.9 percent from a year earlier to $52.5 billion, the
ministry said, after a 39 percent gain in the first eight months.
“Weak growth abroad and tighter liquidity conditions at home
are hampering China’s ambitions to buy foreign assets,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
said in a note to clients.  China yesterday reported third-quarter economic growth
eased to 7.4 percent from a year earlier, the seventh straight
deceleration, and the International Monetary Fund last week cut
its estimate for 2012 expansion to 7.8 percent from 8 percent.  At the same time, some monthly data showed signs of a
pickup.  Industrial production  in September rose a more-than-
estimated 9.2 percent from a year earlier, retail sales climbed
14.2 percent, the most since March, and fixed-asset investment
excluding rural households for the first nine months of the year
increased 20.5 percent.  Equipment Imports  Government figures signal investment from overseas may
remain subdued. Equipment imported by foreign-invested companies
has fallen for the past seven months and dropped 32.9 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to customs bureau data.
A statistics bureau report released yesterday showed fixed-asset
investment from overseas fell 6.3 percent in the first nine
months.  Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the commerce ministry, said
today that the decline in investment is “very modest,
especially when the property sector is excluded.” Changes in
the structure of investment are “encouraging,” including
higher spending in central China and in services industries,
Shen said at a briefing in Beijing.  A territorial dispute with  Japan  along with concerns over
rising costs and labor unrest may cap foreign investment.  Toyota Damage  Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Panasonic Corp.
reported damage to their operations in China last month as
thousands marched in demonstrations sparked by Japan’s purchase
of islands in the East China Sea, known as Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japan.  The row may prompt Japanese companies to shift more
investments to Southeast Asia to reduce the risk of overexposure,
according to Singapore-based analysts at Barclays Plc.  Japan’s investment in China rose 17 percent in the first
nine months to $5.62 billion, the ministry said today. Trade
between China and Japan still has great potential to grow if
relations get back on their normal track, Shen said.  Labor conflicts are also rising as employees fight for
better pay and conditions.  Workers at Sino- Singapore  venture Henan Xinfei Electric Co.
in central Henan province went on strike this month demanding
higher wages at the appliance maker, according to the official
Xinhua News Agency. They returned to work after reaching
agreement for a pay raise of 300  yuan  ($48) a month starting in
October and another 200 yuan beginning in 2013, the agency said.  Foxconn Technology Group, the assembler of Apple Inc.
iPhones, had to halt production this month after factory-line
workers at one of its plants protested against increased
pressure.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in Singapore.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  