-- China’s Stocks Decline on FDI Data, Paring This Week’s Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T07:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/china-s-stock-index-futures-swing-between-gains-and-losses.html
China’s stocks  fell, paring a third
week of gains for the benchmark index, on a report showing a
decline in foreign direct investment and concern corporate
earnings are deteriorating.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011)  led a retreat among
electricity producers after the nation’s power output fell to
the lowest level in four months in September. Western Mining
Co.,  China ’s fourth-largest maker of zinc concentrate, lost 0.6
percent after the company posted a third-quarter loss.  Jiangsu
Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co. (002304)  rose to the highest in two months
after the liquor maker said it plans to buy back shares.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.2 percent to 2,128.30
at the close, trimming a weekly gain to 1.1 percent. The measure
posted its longest weekly winning stretch since April after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the economy has started to stabilize as
data including industrial production and retail sales beat
forecasts. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 0.2 percent to 2,332.47.  “The economy is showing signs of recovery but it’s not
clear that momentum will pick up,” said Dai Ming, a  fund
manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co. in  Shanghai ,
which manages $190 million. “Earnings are lackluster. Investors
are worried profits may not improve in the fourth quarter.”  The CSI 300 Index fell 0.2 percent to 2,332.47. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong  gained 0.5 percent. An index of A shares tracked by  Hang
Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  closed at a discount to the equivalent securities
traded in Hong Kong yesterday for the first time since August
2011. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.5 percent in  New
York  yesterday.  FDI Declines  Foreign direct investment  fell 6.8 percent from a year
earlier to $8.43 billion, the 10th decline in 11 months, the
 Ministry of Commerce  said in Beijing today. Spending in the
first nine months of the year dropped 3.8 percent, compared with
a drop of 3.4 percent in the first eight months.  The government won’t provide big economic stimulus and a
strong rebound in growth is unlikely, said Song Guoqing, an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China.  Local-government investment plans probably won’t
materialize quickly because they’re reliant on the central
government and banks for funding, Song said in a speech in
Beijing yesterday.  The Shanghai index has rebounded 6.2 percent since reaching
a three-year low on Sept. 26 on expectations regulators will
introduce measures to stabilize the market ahead of a once-in-a-
decade power transition of the Communist Party in November. The
gauge is still down 3.2 percent this year and trades at 10 times
estimated earnings for this year, compared with the 17.9 average
since Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Positive Data  The Chinese  economy  expanded 7.4 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said yesterday. That
matched the median projection of 43 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Industrial production increased 9.2 percent last
month, rebounding from a three-year low of 8.9 percent in
August, and retail sales advanced the most in six months at 14.2
percent, the data showed.  Leading Chinese indicators are turning positive, according
to Hao Hong, managing director of research at Bank of
Communications, said in a report. The proportion of longer-term
loans is increasing, non-bank financing remains robust, M1 and
M2 growth is strong, inflation has slipped below 2 percent and
housing prices have calmed, he said.  Share Buybacks  A measure of nine utilities in the CSI 300 slid 0.5 percent
today, the second-biggest drop among the 10 industry groups.  Huaneng Power, the listed unit of China’s largest power
group, fell 1.5 percent to 5.98  yuan .  Huadian Power
International Corp. (600027) , the listed unit of China’s fourth-largest
power producer, retreated 2.5 percent to 3.45 yuan.  Electricity production was 391 billion kilowatt-hours, the
least since 390 billion in May, data from the National Bureau of
Statistics showed yesterday in Beijing. The figure was down 11
percent from August and up 1.5 percent from a year ago,
according to the data.  Western Mining dropped 0.6 percent to 7.99 yuan. The
company posted a net loss of 34.6 million yuan ($5.54 million)
for the third quarter of this year, according to a statement.  China’s publicly traded non-financial companies’ profits
for the first nine months probably dropped 17 percent from the
year-earlier period, almost unchanged from the first half,  Li
Peng , Huang Xindong and Chen Jianxiang, analysts at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., said in a report this week.  Jiangsu Yanghe rose 1 percent to 129.31 yuan, its highest
close since Aug. 22. The liquor maker plans to use as much as 20
percent of its annual profit to buy back shares, according to an
exchange statement. The company also plans to invest 3.7 billion
yuan in brewery equipment, it said in a separate statement.  Consumer Staples  A gauge of consumer staples stocks in the CSI 300 advanced
3.1 percent this week, the most among industry groups, after
companies from  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858)  to Anhui Gujing Distillery
Co. forecast profit gains.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 19.9
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.2. About 6.7
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 13 percent lower than
the daily average in 2012.  Emerging-market equity funds recorded a sixth week of
inflows, taking in $1.5 billion, according to Citigroup Inc.,
citing EPFR Global. China-focus funds took a “huge portion” of
inflows into  Asia , raking in $444 million, Citigroup said.  Franklin Templeton Investments is setting up its first fund
targeting mostly mainland Chinese stocks after the government
expanded a program to attract more foreign investment in the
nation’s slumping equities.  The Templeton China Opportunities Fund favors consumer
stocks such as liquor producers and pharmaceutical companies,
Eddie Chow, Hong Kong-based managing director of Templeton Asset
Management, said yesterday in an e-mailed interview. He will
jointly manage the fund with  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of
Templeton  Emerging Markets .  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  