-- Citigroup Agreed to Carve Out Hedge Funds Before Pandit’s Exit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-10-20T00:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/citigroup-reached-deal-to-carve-out-hedge-funds-before-shakeup.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to move a
stable of internal hedge funds to an entity controlled by bank
managers in a deal reached before the firm’s top two executives,
Vikram Pandit and  John Havens , left this week.  The bank disclosed the move, calling it a “carve-out,” in
a footnote to a quarterly financial  supplement  posted on its
website Oct. 15. The funds have been housed in the Citi Capital
Advisors division, which was overseen by then-Chief Operating
Officer Havens. He said in March that the company was looking to
let managers take a “significant” stake in the funds.  The deal was reached during Pandit’s final quarter as chief
executive officer and may help Citigroup comply with the Volcker
rule, which limits banks’ bets with shareholder money. The CCA
unit holds about $5 billion of Citigroup cash, as much as half
of which is invested in the hedge funds, according to a person
briefed on the situation. The carved-out entity would repay the
money over time, the person said, requesting anonymity because
the figures haven’t been disclosed.  “Citi has begun transitioning certain CCA businesses from
being wholly Citi-owned to being owned primarily by
management,” said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
the New York-based lender. “As we announced earlier this year,
this will allow us to facilitate our compliance with regulatory
obligations.”  Cost Cutting  The bank’s board named  Michael Corbat  to replace Pandit as
CEO on Oct. 16, and Havens resigned the same time. Corbat, 52,
said that day he will “immerse” himself in the lender’s
businesses and try to cut costs. Romero-Apsilos declined to
comment on whether the shakeup may affect the hedge-fund deal or
how much the bank may get from the managers for their stake.  Pandit, 55, and Havens, 56, joined the bank in 2007 when
they sold their hedge fund, Old Lane Partners LP, to Citigroup
for $800 million. They oversaw the fund unit before being
promoted.  The pair previously worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  with the
current heads of the CCA,  James O’Brien , 52, and Jonathan Dorfman, 50. In October 2007, within months of Pandit and
Havens’ arrival at the bank, Citigroup bought Carlton Hill
Global Capital LLC, the hedge fund that O’Brien and Dorfman ran.
Pandit and Havens later named them to lead the firm’s hedge-fund
business.  CCA hedge funds trade across at least 10 strategies,
including municipal bonds, corporate debt and distressed assets,
according to the unit’s  website . Manu Rana, Mukesh Patel and
Kevin Bespolka are among CCA fund managers who also worked with
Pandit and Havens at Old Lane.  Funds Excluded  Dorfman and O’Brien may control about 24 percent of the
entity with Citigroup keeping 25 percent, said one of the
people. The rest may be divided among fund managers and
employees, the person said. Dorfman and O’Brien didn’t respond
to messages seeking comment.  At least one of CCA’s managers hasn’t committed, according
to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Rajesh Kumar, who heads the Mortgage/Credit Opportunity
Fund in New York, has yet to agree, the people said. His $400
million fund has gained more than 20 percent this year through
September after losing 4 percent in 2011, according to one of
the people. About 95 percent of the fund’s assets belong to
Citigroup.  CCA’s biggest hedge fund, the  Emerging Markets  Special
Opportunities fund, may not be part of the new entity, according
to two of the people. The fund, which manages more than $1
billion, is run by London-based executive Mark Franklin, 54, and
invests in fixed-income products.  CCA manages about $18.6 billion in total, including funds
from outside investors, a person familiar with the matter said
in June. CCA’s venture-capital and private-equity funds also
won’t be included in the new entity, and Citigroup is exploring
options for them, one of the people said. They include the
Metalmark Capital private-equity fund, which has invested in
energy firms including Cantera Resources and Mountain Gas
Resources, according to the fund’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  