-- McMoRan Falls as Wait for Davy Jones Continues: Dallas Mover
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-10-19T20:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/mcmoran-falls-as-wait-for-davy-jones-continues-dallas-mover.html
McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  declined the
most in more than three months after it said it hasn’t conducted
a planned flow test at the Davy Jones No. 1 natural gas well in
the Gulf of Mexico.  McMoRan fell 7.8 percent to $11.76 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since July 10.  Operations at Davy Jones No. 1 to remove wellbore debris,
which has hindered flow testing, took longer than expected, the
New Orleans-based company said in a statement today. Testing has
been delayed multiple times this year. On Oct. 9, John Schiller,
chief executive officer at Energy XXI Bermuda Ltd., a partner in
the well, said flow-test results may be available in November.  “I think the weakness today is on a lack of news, however,
it had been pretty clearly signaled that we weren’t going to get
anything new today” on the Davy Jones test, Duane Grubert, a
senior energy analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  Some investors are committed to McMoRan in the long term,
while others “are looking to just make a trade on the Davy
Jones flow-test event,” said Grubert, who rates the shares the
equivalent of buy and owns none.  McMoRan operates and has a 63.4 percent working interest in
Davy Jones. Other partners include Energy XXI, JX Nippon Oil
Exploration (Gulf) Ltd. and Moncrief Offshore LLC, according to
today’s statement. McMoRan’s total investment in the Davy Jones
project was $961 million as of Sept. 30, the company said.  The company also today reported a third-quarter net loss of
$64 million, compared with a net loss of $9.4 million a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  