-- Congressman Walsh Says Abortion Not Needed to Save Lives
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/congressman-walsh-says-abortion-not-needed-to-save-lives.html
U.S. Representative  Joe Walsh , an
 Illinois  Republican seeking a second House term, said abortion
is “absolutely” not medically necessary to save a pregnant
woman’s life, a claim contradicted by medical research and that
sparked outrage from doctors and political opponents.  “There’s no such exception as life of the mother,” Walsh
told reporters after an Oct. 18 debate. “And as far as health
of the mother, same thing, with advances in science and
technology. Health of the mother has become a tool for abortions
any time, under any reason.”  Walsh, who was supported in his 2010 victory by the anti-
tax  Tea Party  movement, faces Democratic challenger Tammy Duckworth, a double-amputee Iraq War veteran, in the Nov. 6
election. He’s defending his House seat representing Illinois’
8th District, which includes suburbs of  Chicago .  Walsh’s statements, dismissed as inaccurate by the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, fueled criticism of
his party’s stance on abortion rights. The Republican national
platform calls for an abortion ban with no medical exceptions,
while the party’s nominee for president,  Mitt Romney , supports
some exceptions.  Comments ‘Alarming’  Planned Parenthood Action Fund Executive Vice President
Dawn Laguens called the comments “alarming” and likened Walsh
to Representative Todd Akin, a Missouri Republican running for
the  U.S. Senate  who said Aug. 19 that “legitimate rape” rarely
leads to pregnancy. That erroneous comment has been a liability
in his race to unseat Democratic incumbent  Claire McCaskill .  “As the advocate for Planned Parenthood health centers, we
know that ending a pregnancy can often be a very complex,
personal decision and that there are absolutely times that a
woman’s life depends on it,” Laguens said in a  statement .  Walsh’s claim is “absolute nonsense,” said Mark I. Evans,
president of the Fetal Medicine Foundation of America and a
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Mount Sinai School of
Medicine in New York. “This is scientific and political
malpractice.”  Abortions can save the lives of pregnant women suffering
from many conditions, said  Lawrence Platt , a professor of
obstetrics and gynecology at the David Geffen School of Medicine
at the  University of California  at  Los Angeles  and the director
of the Center for Fetal Medicine and Women’s Ultrasound. A
leading example is ectopic pregnancy, in which a fetus develops
outside of the normal location in the womb and can cause the
uterus or tube to rupture, leading women to bleed to death.  Health Risks  Pregnancy also can worsen the conditions of women suffering
from heart, lung and kidney diseases, among others, that can
lead to death, Platt said.  Walsh elaborated on his initial comments yesterday at a
press conference in suburban Chicago. Beyond “very rare
circumstances,” abortion is often unnecessary to save a woman’s
life, he said.  “Let me be very clear that when I say I am pro-life I mean
that I am pro-life for the mother and I am pro-life for the
unborn child,” Walsh said. “For me there is no distinction
between the two.”  Romney’s View  Romney has said he supports limiting abortion “to only
instances of rape, incest or to save the life of the mother.”
He made his statement in a “pro-life” pledge last year that
was posted on the National Review magazine’s website.  The Republican platform, adopted at the party’s August
convention in Tampa,  Florida , supports amending the U.S.
Constitution to state that an “unborn child has a fundamental
individual right to life which cannot be infringed.” The plank
doesn’t include exceptions. Drafters say this is intended to
give states latitude to legislate on the issue.  Duckworth opposes any further restrictions on abortion
rights.  “Prohibiting a woman to have an abortion, when her life is
at risk, shows a blatant disregard for the facts and a
carelessness that is not acceptable from an elected official,”
she said in a statement.  Maternal Deaths  According to the Centers for Disease Control, there were
1,294 maternal deaths related to pregnancy in the U.S. in 2006
and 2007, the most recent data available. The rate of pregnancy-
related deaths was 15.1 per 100,000 live births during 2006 and
2007, the  center  said.  “Get out of our exam rooms,” the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists said in a statement. “Many more
women would die each year if they did not have access to
abortion to protect their health or to save their lives.”  A former teacher with a history of foreclosure and liens
for failing to pay income taxes, Walsh ran against runaway
spending in  Washington  and the health-care overhaul law and won
his swing district in 2010 by 291 votes. He defeated Democratic
Representative Melissa Bean, who had the support of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and other business organizations.  The Cook Political Report and the Rothenberg Political
Report, newsletters based in Washington, rate Duckworth, 44, as
the “likely” or “favored” winner against Walsh, 50.  Seventeen percent of registered voters say “they will vote
only for candidates for major office who share their own views
on abortion, one of the higher rates of abortion-centric voting
seen in presidential election years since 1992,” according to a
September  survey  by Gallup. A  poll  taken this month showed that
39 percent of women in 12 competitive states say abortion is the
most important issue for their gender in this year’s election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at   jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  