-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Warner Music Selling Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-19T20:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-after-meeting-of-eu-leaders.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed for the second day after earnings of companies from
General Electric Co. to McDonald’s Corp. fell short of
estimates.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.7
basis points to a mid-price of 93.6 basis points at 4:26 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to  Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)  Inc. rose to the highest in
almost three years.  The measure increased as General Electric, McDonald’s and
Microsoft Corp. all posted profit that was less than analysts
had estimated, fueling concerns that the economic recovery is
weakening. That can heighten investor concern about companies’
ability to repay debt.  “Earnings misses really can’t be a good thing,” Stephen Antczak, Citigroup Inc.’s New York-based head of U.S. credit
strategy, said in a telephone interview. “The vulnerability to
any negative headline is probably a little greater than anybody
expects.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Warner Music  Warner Music  Group Corp., the music and entertainment
company acquired by Access Industries Holdings Inc. in 2011,
plans to sell the equivalent of $635 million of bonds in U.S.
dollars and euros. The company, through WMG Acquisition Corp.,
is issuing the eight-year notes to repay existing debt,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The U.S. two-year interest rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose 1.12 basis points to 10.5 basis
points. The measure, which rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds, touched the narrowest on
an intraday basis this week since at least 1988, or as far back
as Bloomberg tracks data.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt rose 4
basis points, led by spreads on the bonds of technology
companies, which widened 14 basis points. The average relative
yield on investment-grade issuance climbed 1 basis point.  Junk Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, a gauge of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
rose for a second day, climbing 15.1 basis points to a mid-price
of 483.5 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  Credit swaps tied to Advanced Micro Devices rose 7.3
percentage points to 18.2 percent upfront, the highest since
November 2009, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $1.82 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of the company’s debt for five years. The second-
largest maker of processors for personal computers said
yesterday it will cut 15 percent of its staff and forecast
fourth-quarter sales that will miss analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  