-- Cycling Body to Rule on Lance Armstrong Doping Findings Oct. 22
-- B y   L a r r y   S i d d o n s
-- 2012-10-19T17:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/cycling-body-to-rule-on-lance-armstrong-doping-findings-oct-22.html
Cycling’s world governing body will
say next week whether it agrees with findings that seven-time
 Tour de France  winner  Lance Armstrong  violated anti-doping rules
for more than a decade.  The International Cycling Union said it would hold a news
conference in Geneva on Oct. 22 to announce if it accepts the
1,000-page report from the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency or plans to
appeal it to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.  “On this occasion, UCI President Mr. Pat McQuaid will
inform on the UCI position concerning the USADA decision on the
Armstrong case,” the Aigle, Switzerland-based federation, which
goes by its French acronym, said in a statement.  It gave no indication on its decision. The  International
Olympic Committee  and top officials of the Tour de  France  have
said they would wait for the federation to act before deciding
what to do with Armstrong’s results. The American cyclist won a
bronze medal in the road time trial at the 2000 Olympics in
Sydney.  USADA, based in  Colorado  Springs, Colorado, said on Oct. 10
that Armstrong, a 41-year-old Texan, was a “serial cheat” who
used banned drugs and forced teammates on the U.S. Postal
Service team and other squads to do likewise.  It said the actions started before and lasted beyond the
period when Armstrong won the Tour, cycling’s most prestigious
race, from 1999 through 2006. USADA stripped him of those titles
and banned him from all Olympic-related sports.  “The evidence shows beyond any doubt that the U.S. Postal
Service Pro Cycling Team ran the most sophisticated,
professionalized and successful doping program that sport has
ever seen,” USADA said in a statement the day the report was
released.  Weighted Process  Armstrong has consistently denied using banned substances
and has said he never failed a drug test. He declined to take
USADA’s findings to arbitration, saying the process was weighted
overwhelmingly against him.  Armstrong stepped down two days ago as chairman of
Livestrong, the foundation he started to help people live with
cancer. The retired cyclist won his Tour titles after surviving
testicular cancer that spread to his head and lungs.  Minutes after he resigned as foundation head, Armstrong was
dropped as an endorser by  Nike Inc. (NKE) , which said it could no
longer support him because of the “seemingly insurmountable
evidence” of his drug use and cover-up. It had sponsored
Armstrong since 1996.  Other sponsors, including  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , quickly
followed in dropping Armstrong while saying they would continue
to support the Livestrong foundation.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Siddons in  New York  at 
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 