-- De Beers Optimistic About Diamond Demand During Holiday Season
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-10-19T11:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/de-beers-optimistic-about-diamond-demand-during-holiday-season.html
De Beers , the world’s biggest
diamond producer by value, said it is positive about demand for
the gems ahead of the key holiday sales period.  “We’re cautiously optimistic about it based on the
feedback we’ve had,” Stephen Lussier,  executive director  at the
unit of London-based Anglo American Plc, said in a phone
interview today. “It’s not going to a booming year like we saw
in 2010 and 2011, but it does look to be decent given the
environment we’re in.”  Rough diamond prices have fallen for four straight months
and have slumped 15 percent this year as Asian purchases slowed
and the euro region debt crisis eroded demand, according to data
compiled by WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd. Prices
have risen by more than 20 percent in each of the past three
years as producers struggled to keep pace with consumption.  Growth in global diamond demand may slow this year to about
3 percent to 5 percent from a record 10 percent in 2011,  De
Beers (AAL)  said in August. Chinese demand growth may slow to 5
percent to 10 percent. Thanksgiving and Christmas sales, along
with the Diwali festival in  India  and and the Chinese New Year
are the most important sales periods for diamond retailers.  “Between now and February is the key period,” said
Lussier, who is also chief executive officer of Forevermark, De
Beers’ diamond brand. “As long as the season is ok we’ll
probably see prices starting to trend up next year.”  Anglo American bought the Oppenheimer family’s 40 percent
of De Beers for $5.1 billion this year, increasing its stake to
85 percent. Botswana owns the rest of the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  