-- Telefonica’s German Unit Has Buyers for All Shares in IPO
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-10-19T17:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/telefonica-s-german-unit-has-buyers-for-all-shares-in-ipo.html
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG,
the German unit that  Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to list in  Frankfurt 
this month, has received orders for all the stock it plans to
sell, according to deal terms obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The order book is fully covered, including the so-called
over-allotment option, according to terms e-mailed to potential
buyers. Most orders are coming in the mid- to low-end of the
 price range , said two people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be named because the details are private. A final
price hasn’t been set, they said.  Strong demand for the stock is a relief for Madrid-based
Telefonica, which is seeking to sell the shares as part of a bid
to gain funds to reduce  debt . Telefonica said this week it plans
to sell almost a quarter of the German business in the IPO,
raising as much as 1.68 billion euros ($2.2 billion).  “This shows how the deal is very attractive to investors
even if the valuation was regarded as higher than its peers,”
Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in Madrid,
said by phone today. “It’s definitely good news for the company
because it erases all doubts about a potential failure of the
IPO.”  Telefonica,  Spain ’s biggest phone company, is offering as
many as 258.8 million shares of Telefonica Deutschland at 5.25
euros to 6.50 euros each. The IPO values the German business at
as much as 7.3 billion euros.  A Telefonica official in  Madrid  declined to comment.  Meeting Investors  Demand for the shares came at prices across the range
offered, with funds from France, Switzerland and Spain among
those seeking them, said a person with knowledge of the matter.
The company’s management will meet more investors in Europe and
the U.S. next week, the person said, asking not to be named as
the details are confidential.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are managing the IPO, with
help from Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.
and HSBC Holdings Plc.  IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised
about $8 billion this year, compared with $37 billion in the
same period in 2011 as market volatility caused by  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis slowed the pace of sales, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telefonica  shares  fell 2.3 percent to close at 10.60 euros
in Madrid, valuing the company at 48.2 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is selling assets,
including Telefonica’s German and Latin American businesses, as
he seeks to avert a further debt-rating cut. With more than 58
billion euros of net debt, Telefonica is Europe’s most indebted
phone operator.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday confirmed Telefonica’s
long-term debt rating of Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade, with a negative outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  said last week
it may reduce Telefonica’s BBB rating, equivalent to Moody’s,
citing the company’s exposure to Spain’s sovereign risks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  