-- Emerging Stocks Pare Weekly Gain on Earnings Concern
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-10-19T21:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/emerging-stocks-pare-weekly-gain-on-earnings-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring
the biggest weekly rally in more than a month, as disappointing
earnings at Microsoft Corp. dragged down computer companies and
foreign investment in China fell more than economists forecast.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.7 percent to
1,006.07 at the close of trading in New York, its first retreat
in four days.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s largest laptop
maker, declined for a third day in Taipei, and Samsung
Electronics Co. fell for the first time in five days in  Seoul .
 Brazil ’s  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , the biggest producer of steel in Latin
America, fell the most since May, and Russian steelmaker OAO
Severstal dropped for the first time in four days as metals
slumped.  Information technology companies  led declines  in emerging
stocks, paring the gauge’s largest weekly advance since the
period ended Sept. 14 to 0.9 percent. Microsoft, the largest
software maker, and Google Inc., the biggest search engine,
reported profits and sales that missed analysts’ estimates.
China’s foreign direct investment fell for the 10th time in 11
months.  “People are being cautious given the weakness in some of
the U.S. bellwethers, like Google and Microsoft,”  Ed Kuczma , an
investment analyst at Van Eck Associates Corp., which manages
$38 billion, said by telephone from New York. “I think people
had pretty high expectations, and they’re being challenged right
now.”  Bovespa, Kospi  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 10 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 1.4 percent, dragged down by
commodity producers. South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index and Taiwan’s
 Taiex (TWSE)  index both lost 0.8 percent,  Russia ’s Micex Index lost 1
percent,  Poland ’s WIG20 Index sank 2 percent and  India ’s Sensex
slipped 0.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.2
percent.  Gerdau slipped 4.4 percent in Sao Paulo, the most since May
4, and  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, slipped
1.7 percent. Severstal declined 2.2 percent in Moscow.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials slipped 1.4 percent
and copper for delivery in three months fell 2.5 percent on the
London Metal Exchange.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong gained 0.4 percent, lifted by  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. (489)  after Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. said car
sales in the nation may grow in October.  Tech Shares  A gauge of technology stocks in emerging markets sank 1.3
percent, led by Taiwanese and Korean companies, posting the
biggest  decline  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The broader
measure has climbed 9.8 percent this year, trailing an 11.8
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries.
The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung (005930) , Asia’s biggest maker of chips and flat screens,
sank 2.6 percent and Quanta Computer lost 1.4 percent.  Acer
Inc. (2353) , a Taipei-based computer maker, dropped 2.5 percent.  India’s rupee weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar on
speculation importers stepped up purchases of the dollar to meet
payments. Hungary’s forint declined 0.3 percent against the euro
and 10-year bond yields rose for a second day this week as the
 Economy Ministry  said its forecasts no longer assume potential
benefits from an aid deal with the International Monetary Fund
and demand for riskier assets ebbed.  Fund Inflows  Emerging-market equity funds recorded a sixth week of
inflows, taking in $1.5 billion, according to Citigroup Inc.,
citing EPFR Global. China-focused funds took a “huge portion”
of inflows into Asia, raking in $444 million, Citigroup said.  Reports this week showed  China ’s economy grew 7.4 percent
in the third quarter, matching analyst estimates, while
industrial output rebounded. U.S. housing starts surged to a
four-year high in September, while European leaders committed to
establishing a euro-area bank supervisor by year-end, opening
the prospect of direct aid to Spain’s banks.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co., China’s
second-biggest maker of construction equipment, dropped 3.1
percent after closing yesterday at the highest level since May
31.  China Stimulus  China’s government won’t provide big economic stimulus and
a strong rebound in growth is unlikely, Song Guoqing, an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China, said in a speech at Tsinghua
University in Beijing yesterday. Local-government investment
plans in China probably won’t materialize quickly because
they’re reliant on the central government and banks for funding,
PBOC’s Song said.  Foreign direct investment in the world’s second-largest
economy fell 6.8 percent from a year earlier, the Ministry of
Commerce said in Beijing today. Economists predicted a 3.5
percent drop, according to the median of six estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 275, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  