-- Merkel Facing Campaign Asserts Euro Control Snubbing Joint Bonds
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-10-19T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/merkel-facing-campaign-asserts-euro-control-snubbing-joint-bonds.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
reasserted control over the future shape of the euro zone,
rebuffing a French-led bid for the setup of a joint treasury
with independent borrowing powers.  Merkel blunted French President  Francois Hollande ’s appeal
for more transfer payments from rich to poor countries along
with common euro-area bond sales, demanding that a future
central budget be confined to projects like job training.  “As long as there are individual national budgets, I
regard the assumption of joint liability as inappropriate and
from our point of view this isn’t up for debate,” Merkel,
seeking a third term next year, told reporters after a European
summit in Brussels yesterday.  Germany ’s campaign colored the crisis-management summit,
the 20th since February 2010. Hollande jabbed at Merkel,
pressing her to overcome re-election demands to complete a deal
on a banking union. The thought of elections influencing her
European Union policy “never crossed my mind until I heard
people talking about it here,” she said.  In the 19 hours between those two comments, the German
leader checked Hollande’s attempt to ally with  Italy  and Spain
to form a counterweight to Germany. The skirmishing preceded a
November summit on the next seven-year EU budget and a December
gathering that will map out the euro’s future architecture.  ‘Fiscal Capacity’  Some form of euro-area “fiscal capacity” with possible
joint borrowing is at the center of an options paper presented
at the summit by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  German aides kept references to euro bonds or bills out of
a statement drafted before the summit. Merkel went further in
the leaders’ session that lasted until 3 a.m. yesterday, getting
rid of a call for “further mechanisms to prevent unsustainable
budgetary developments.”  At the same time, Germany and its allies ceded little on
the question of a euro-region bank supervisor, warning that an
end-of-year deadline for creating it may be missed while leaving
sensitive operational issues to be settled later.  In a further blow to Spain, Merkel said the Spanish
government will be liable for paying back as much as 100 billion
euros ($130 billion) in loans to recapitalize its banks. Plans
to give the euro rescue fund the power to inject cash directly
into banks won’t be made retroactive, she said.  Summit Turnaround  Her comments mark a shift from the previous summit in June,
when the newly elected Hollande scored a tactical victory by
injecting a pro-growth bias into euro policy and pushing through
pledges of support for  Spain  and Italy, then beset with near-
unaffordable borrowing costs.  Finland and the Netherlands backed Germany in maneuvering
that will climax at a Dec. 13-14 summit to set deadlines --
possibly as long as a decade -- for a more united economy with
more disciplined budget management and central oversight.  Austria leads a second category of skeptics of a euro-zone
budget, warning of duplication with the infrastructure and farm-
subsidy programs that already cover the entire 27-nation EU and
amount to 1 percent of the bloc’s gross domestic product.  “I see no reason whatsoever why the euro zone should
promote training more strongly than other countries,” Austrian
Chancellor Werner Faymann said. “We in the European Union and
in  Austria  are reliant on all doing well, not only the euro
countries.”  Countries outside the euro zone queried what the separate
pot of money would be used for. Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis of  Latvia , which hopes to adopt the euro in 2014,
said in an interview: “There are more questions than answers.”  EU Budget  Legal and political complications bedevil proposals of a
separate budget for the euro area, which come as negotiations
over the next EU-wide spending plan head for a conclusion at the
next summit, on Nov. 22-23.  Even with  Greece ’s future in the euro far from assured,
Spain teetering on the edge of a full bailout and the specter of
recession stalking Germany, Merkel has emerged from almost three
years of crisis fighting as an odds-on favorite to win re-
election in less than a year.  Hollande has taken an outside-in approach to dealing with
Merkel, bonding with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and disowning the Germany-
first strategy of his predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy .  France ’s influence over the remodeling of the euro zone has
been further diminished by deficits and competitiveness
handicaps that Hollande, by making tax increases the centerpiece
of domestic policy, has done little to address.  Hollande started to ease back from a commitment to getting
France’s deficit down to 3 percent of GDP next year, a target
that will test his credibility with fellow policy makers and the
financial markets.  “We shouldn’t give up on reaching our targets, but EU
rules do say we must think in terms of structural deficit,”
Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  