-- Terrorist Stings Make the U.S. Less Safe
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-10-19T19:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/terrorist-stings-make-the-u-s-less-safe.html
When Mario Buda blew up the  first
car bomb , in 1920 in front of the U.S. Sub-Treasury on  Wall
Street , he had something in common with Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul
Ahsan Nafis, who is accused of trying to do more or less  the
same thing  this week in front of the  New York  Federal Reserve
building a few blocks away: Both wanted to harm the U.S. through
a symbol of its financial center.  There was also a big difference. Buda, who escaped to  Italy 
and was never brought to justice, belonged to an extended ring
of anarchists who planned and executed terrorist attacks
including the spectacular seven-city midnight  attacks  in June
1919. Nafis, on the other hand, hoped to connect himself to al-
Qaeda, yet was acting almost in isolation -- except for the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  and New York Police Department
agents who had set him up, strung him along and given him his
1,000 pound fake bomb. In plain English, Nafis was a patsy.  Should we care? Since 2004, the most impressive visible
 domestic victories  against terrorism have involved elaborate
sting operations. (Faisal Shahzad, who set a car bomb in New
York’s Times Square, would have succeeded if two street vendors
hadn’t noticed smoke coming from the car.) Since Congress closed
domestic courts to prosecutions of terrorists held in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, all the high-profile terror convictions in U.S.
courts have come from setup operations except for Shahzad.  Unlikely Scenarios  Of course, it is conceivable that other, genuine domestic
terror operations have been thwarted without arrests being made
-- but outside the realm of “Homeland” or “24,” such a scenario
is highly unlikely. The value of a public conviction is too high
for  law enforcement  to pass up. More to the point, the risk of
letting a would-be terrorist walk around freely is too great for
law enforcement to take.  The upshot is that our domestic anti-terror system has been
reduced to a series of sting operations. Those who have gotten
through the cracks, such as Army Major Nidal Hasan, who is
accused of killing 13 at Fort Hood in 2009, acted alone and
remained undetected. Unless you believe that the people caught
in stings were going to commit acts of terror on their own, it’s
hard to escape the conclusion that there isn’t much connection
between domestic counterterror operations and the actual terror
threats that surely still exist.  Would those convicted for attempting terror in concert with
undercover agents have acted alone?  Entrapment  law says a jury
must believe that the accused had a prior inclination to commit
the crime. But even if we accept that a jury would actually
throw out a terror charge on entrapment grounds, proving prior
inclination is a far cry from proving that the accused would
have acted without the assistance and encouragement of law
enforcement.  In several well-publicized cases, it seems almost certain
that no terrorist attack would have occurred without the
government’s active support. The  Fort Dix Six  were a group of
New Jersey men who shot semi-automatic weapons in the woods,
played paintball and sat around  Dunkin’ Donuts  talking about
jihad. They were convicted after an FBI undercover agent offered
to sell them guns and RPGs for what was said to be an attack on
Fort Dix, where one of them had delivered pizzas.  In a few more extreme cases, run not by the FBI but the  New
York Police Department , the would-be terrorists were either
unbalanced or of low intelligence, and sometimes both. Indeed,
given the ubiquity of such stings, you have to wonder about the
intelligence and stability of anyone who allows himself to be
guided into terror by a stranger whose identity he hasn’t
reliably verified.  Preventative Medicine  The FBI  would probably say that none of this matters.
Catching people who might become terrorists is good preventive
medicine. However hapless, those arrested aren’t morally
blameless. Their arrests may discourage others and strike fear
in the hearts of those who might authentically be trolling for
co-conspirators to commit crimes. Surely a zero-tolerance policy
is the right one for avoiding terrorist attacks.  The trouble is that the sting approach has undesirable
consequences, too. Mainly, it focuses counterterrorism resources
where they are probably least likely to thwart major events such
as the Sept. 11 attacks. That operation, remember, was self-
contained and did its recruiting abroad.  After 2001, the FBI was supposed to change its focus from
capture and punishment to detection and prevention. Such
detection, though, doesn’t on its own generate arrests and their
attendant publicity. The FBI thus faces a constant incentive to
backslide to the old paradigm. Sting operations are the closest
thing to the old model of arrest -- which would be fine if they
didn’t become an end in themselves.  Then there is the cost to the free speech and free
association rights of the many innocent people -- mostly Muslims
-- who must be encountering trolling agents without ever knowing
it. Candidates for arrest don’t simply present themselves. They
must be actively identified, cultivated and seduced by agents
who meet them in mosques or Internet chat rooms or beyond.  We may never know just how many false leads the agents must
follow before they catch a live one, and how many potentially
seduced terrorists drop out before they take the steps that
would lead to their conviction. But if earlier historical
experiences of complex undercover operations like  Cointelpro  are
any guide, the numbers must be high indeed. The risk of domestic
terror is real. But when a future Church Commission opens the
files, we may well see what the efforts of the 1960s and 1970s
revealed: Scores or hundreds of agents trying to generate
trouble to justify their mission.  This troubling possibility leads to the last problem with
terrorist stings: They get everybody thinking about terrorism.
The salience of events looms large in our cognitive capacities.
Each time we hear of a thwarted “attack,” we are tempted to
imagine that this means a real attack could be imminent. That in
turn encourages us to devote more resources to prevention --
which might not be rational.  Worse, we are not the only ones whose thoughts are affected
by the notion that terrorism is everywhere. Potential terrorists
are, too. If they believe that there are many potential
terrorists, it will make them feel less marginal and alone. In
the end, this could actually increase the likelihood of them
committing terror. After all, the usual disincentive of getting
caught doesn’t apply to many would-be terrorists. If, in fact,
their movement is near dead in the U.S., it would be better for
them to know it.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 