-- EU Leaders Agree On Bank Oversight Amid Merkel Questions
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-19T12:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/eu-leaders-agree-on-bank-oversight-amid-merkel-questions.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
it’s an open question whether European policy makers can meet
the deadline they’d set hours earlier to establish a euro-area
bank supervisor by year-end.  “There are complicated questions to clarify and we’ll see
in December if we complete it or not,” Merkel told reporters
after a two-day European Union summit in Brussels wrapped up
today. “For now, the political will is there.”  The comments underscore  Germany ’s go-slow approach that may
stymie plans laid down in June to break the link between banks
and governments that has worsened the region’s debt crisis. She
also ruled out allowing Spain to shift bank-bailout loans off
its balance sheet if they are made before the new system starts
operating.  The  European Central Bank  is set to become the bloc's
main financial supervisor by Jan. 1, raising the prospect of
direct aid to Spain’s banks during 2013, the 27 EU leaders
agreed at the gathering. The system will phase in and could
cover all 6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  The so-called banking union dominated talks at the 20th
crisis-fighting European summit, nailing down a formula that
Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  worked out
yesterday before the chiefs convened. Leaders praised  Greece  for
its budget-cutting efforts aimed at securing its next aid
installment. They sidestepped questions of when and how Spain
might secure further assistance.  No Pressure  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he’s not facing
pressure to seek a sovereign bailout and he wouldn’t take any
such pressure into account in any case. Spain already has
secured a 100 billion-euro ($130 billion) financial-sector
lifeline and has so far not sought to ask for aid that would
unlock ECB bond-buying.  “I’m not going to take into account any pressure that
people might exert on me, but frankly no one is doing that,”
Rajoy told reporters. “I don’t see any European Union leader
telling me I should use the mechanism the ECB has put in
place.”  Spanish 10-year bonds pared gains today after Rajoy
downplayed the prospect of a bailout. The yield on the
securities was little changed at 5.34 percent at 1:55 p.m. in
Brussels. It fell to as low as 5.26 percent, the lowest level
since April 2. The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3042.  Implementation Process  The banking supervisor can “probably be effectively
operational,” allowing the euro bailout fund to lend directly
to banks as soon as 2013, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  told
reporters around 3:20 a.m. today after the first round of summit
meetings. He said finance ministers will design rules for such
bank rescues.  Merkel said the bank-oversight system needs to reach
“practical completion” before direct aid becomes possible. She
told reporters her nation would oppose any initiative to
transfer recapitalization efforts from Spain to the euro area’s
firewall fund.  “There won’t be a retroactive direct recapitalization, but
once recapitalization is possible, it will be for
recapitalizations that come in the future,” she said.  The EU has struggled to maintain the momentum of its June
plan to spur investor confidence by putting the ECB in charge of
lenders across the euro area and other nations that choose to
sign on. Divisions have flared over the scope of the ECB’s
authority and how losses would be shared.  Carsten Brzeski, an economist at at ING Groep NV in
Brussels, said the “integration pace remains slow.”  ‘Cumbersome’  “The new single supervisory mechanism will come, but
direct bank recapitalization looks very unlikely any time
soon,” he said. “Moreover, all other big-picture issues for
deeper euro-zone integration remain schematic. Last night’s
marathon session again illustrated how cumbersome and difficult
the European decision-making process is.”  Rajoy wants the euro area’s firewall to inject cash
directly into its ailing banks, to relieve it of the burden of
paying back the bank-rescue loans, none of which has been
disbursed. The prospect of direct bank rescues became less
urgent after stress tests revealed that  Spain ’s lenders required
less than half of the funds approved by euro-area states, a
Spanish official told reporters in Brussels.  Spain’s Needs  Spain estimated on Sept. 28 it may need about 40 billion
euros to recapitalize its banks. The government has played down
the necessity of seeking additional aid while pushing for
progress on a European banking union.  “The direct recapitalization of banks can take place when
the banking supervision process is in place and approved by the
euro group,” Rajoy told reporters. “I don’t know when that
will be.”  The EU leaders vowed to ensure that the single supervisor
won’t put countries outside the euro area at a disadvantage.
They said non-euro nations that join the supervisory framework
can receive “equitable treatment and representation,” and
intensive technical work in this area will continue.  The decisions don’t settle the question of when the
European Stability Mechanism will be able to recapitalize banks
directly. The plan calls for the supervisor to take charge of
big banks and bailed-out institutions first, while also saying
direct assistance requires “effective” supervision in place.  “What’s important is that we agreed that the legal
framework which will make the banking union possible, should be
decided by finance ministers by Jan. 1,” Luxembourg’s Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters today. “The
detailed questions of what should be done how, when and by whom
will be tackled in the course of 2013. I hope in the first
quarter but it can get dragged into autumn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  