-- Carbon Offsets Tumble as EU Said to Eye Russian Credits Ban
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-19T16:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/eu-said-to-seek-ban-on-post-2012-carbon-offsets-from-russia.html
United Nations carbon offset
contracts slumped to records after the European Union proposed
to ban from its market certain credits issued from next year by
countries that fail to adopt new carbon goals.  The  European Commission , the EU’s regulatory arm, proposed
draft rules for the use of UN-sponsored Emission Reduction
offsets as of 2013 in a modified draft amendment to the bloc’s
carbon registry regulation at a meeting of officials from
national governments on Oct. 17, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the gathering was private.  European law allows companies in its emissions trading
system to use international offsets, including ERUs, for
compliance with their greenhouse-gas reduction quotas.  “ERUs could be set to become the hot potatoes of the
carbon markets as projects rush to issue and compliance buyers
look to submit as quickly as possible,” Richard Chatterton, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London , said by e-
mail.  ERUs for delivery in December tumbled as much as 28.6
percent to 90 euro cents ($1.17) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the lowest level since the contract began
trading in 2010. They ended the session at 92 cents.  Track One  Emission Reduction Units are generated under the UN Joint
Implementation program, which encourages investments in low-
carbon energy by industrialized countries in other nations that
have emission-reduction goals under the Kyoto Protocol, whose
first period runs from 2008 to 2012.  The EU proposal would bar emitters in the bloc’s cap-and-
trade from holding in their accounts ERUs issued after 2012 by
non-EU countries such as  Russia , the people said. That nation is
not planning to adopt a new set of binding climate goals under
the Kyoto Protocol after its first phase expires. It generates
credits in a procedure overseen by the government known as Track
One.  ERUs from countries without new emission-reduction targets
in place until 2020, and whose greenhouse-gas cutting projects
are approved by UN regulators, would be allowed for use in the
EU as long as they were issued before the end of April 2013, and
covered emissions reductions achieved before the end of 2012,
according to the people. This  procedure , where issuance of ERUs
under the Joint Implementation program is supervised by UN
authorities, is referred to as Track Two.  International Offsets  Along with Certified Emission Reduction offsets issued
under another UN program, the Clean Development Mechanism, ERUs
offer emitters in the EU program a cheaper form of compliance
with their pollution limits.  CER credits for December, which are not subject to any
restrictions under the commission’s proposal, fell as much as 26
percent to a record of 1.05 euros a metric ton. The contract
closed 23 percent lower at 1.10 euros on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange, its biggest-ever daily slump.  JI projects are hosted by some EU nations and countries
including Russia and Ukraine. While the EU has declared it would
adopt targets under the  Kyoto Protocol  until 2020, Russia has
said it won’t commit to a new set of goals. Nations are set to
discuss the global climate framework when they meet at a two-
week UN summit in Doha, Qatar starting Nov. 26.  ‘Sharp Fall’  “The sharp price fall in ERU price reflects the
expectation that a ban on some track 1 ERUs issued from May next
year will urge countries, particularly Russia, to accelerate ERU
issuance in the short-term,” Chatterton said. “This causes
selling pressure on ERUs and increases the level of swapping
from CERs and EU allowances, placing selling pressure on these
contracts as well.”  EU carbon permits for delivery in December dropped as much
as 3.1 percent to 7.83 euros a metric ton and ended the session
at 7.97 euros on ICE.  The previous version of the EU draft proposal, submitted to
member states last month, sought to prohibit from the bloc’s
carbon-trading program the use of ERUs issued after 2012 by
countries without a new set of binding emission targets. Several
EU member states objected to the original amendment, two people
with knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 1.  In the next phase of the EU carbon program, starting in
2013, offset credits can only be used if they are exchanged for
EU allowances, according to rules to be set in the upcoming
revision of the bloc’s carbon registry regulation. Any changes
to the regulation proposed by the commission need qualified-
majority support from member states to pass.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  