-- EU to Sell 197 Million of CO2 in Early 2013, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-19T11:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/eu-to-sell-197-million-of-co2-in-early-2013-new-energy-says-1-.html
The European Union will probably
sell about 197 million metric tons of carbon allowances in the
first two months of next year, even as it seeks to complete
details of a supply-glut fix, said Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  That volume will “almost certainly” be sold in auctions
over that period while the bloc seeks to complete details of its
plan to temporarily delay supply, James Cooper, an analyst in
 London  for New Energy Finance, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “How the market reacts to this volume will depend on the
outcome of the potential Climate Change Committee vote in
December,” Cooper said. “If the CCC passes the backloading
measure, the market could react favorably to the auctioning
volume in an effort to buy up the market in anticipation of
depleted auction volumes later in the year.”  The European Union’s Climate Change Committee includes
representatives of all 27 member states.  EU carbon for December, the industry benchmark, has dropped
22 percent in the past year, as low economic growth curbed
demand because of muted industrial output. Supplies of  United
Nations  offset credits advanced, adding to a glut. The bloc is
already planning to sell 150 million tons of Phase 3 allowances
by the end of this year, according to its website. That phase
begins next year and ends in 2020.  With about 71 business days between today and the end of
February, supplies will average 4.9 million tons a day, before
accounting for additional volume left over from reserves for
new-entrant factories and power stations for the five years
through 2012, according to a Bloomberg calculation. That
compares with a daily average in September of 1.1 million tons.  ‘All Important’  The committee may not vote until the second quarter of 2013
on the plan to temporarily delay sales, Deutsche Bank said today
in an e-mailed research note.  “There is still a chance that the all-important Climate
Change Committee vote on the volumes to be back-end loaded could
happen by the end of this year, although the risk is that this
will not now happen until the second quarter of next year,”
Isabelle Curien, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in Paris, said in
the note.  Prompt EU carbon prices will probably remain in a range
from 6 euros ($7.83) a metric ton to 8 euros and there is a
chance carbon could rise to 10 euros by the end of the year
should the European Commission propose to delay at least 900
million tons, Curien said. EU carbon for December rose 1 percent
today to 8.16 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London at 11:34 a.m.  ‘Risky Move’  “Even if the CCC does vote to support backloading in
December, it would be a risky move for them to scale back
auctions and effectively begin backloading in January,” New
Energy Finance’s Cooper said.  A regulatory process involving member states, the
parliament and the commission was put in place to gain legal
backing via an amendment to law, Cooper said.  “The commission may be eager to push backloading through,
but to deliberately ignore the process they have followed thus
far would be politically contentious, hence why we see it as
almost certain the volumes at the start of the year won’t be
reduced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  