-- European Stocks Rise This Week on U.S. Economic Reports
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-10-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/european-stocks-rise-this-week-on-u-s-economic-reports.html
European stocks  climbed this week as
Moody’s Investors Service reiterated its investment-grade debt
rating on  Spain  following a review and U.S. reports on retail
sales, manufacturing and house building beat estimates.  ArcelorMittal advanced 9.8 percent after a report said the
steelmaker is considering the sale of a minority stake in its
Canadian iron-ore unit.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  slumped 9.3 percent
after France’s second-biggest distiller posted an improvement in
first-half sales that trailed analysts’ projections.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.7 percent to 274.08
this past week, after dropping 1.7 percent the previous week.
The equity benchmark has  rallied 17 percent  from this year’s low
on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  announced
a third round of quantitative easing.  “The rating assessment of Spain at the beginning of the
week certainly gave the market a positive shove,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as head of equity
and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in Vaduz,
Liechtenstein. “The U.S. data turned out to be good news as
well. The market may hold rather well until the end of the year;
one just needs to endure the volatility.”  National benchmark indexes gained in every western-European
market except Norway and  Iceland  this past week.  Germany ’s DAX
advanced 2 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.8 percent.
 France ’s CAC 40 and Spain’s IBEX 35 each rallied 3.4 percent.  Spain Rating  Moody’s decided against removing Spain’s investment-grade
credit rating on Oct. 16. The ratings company said that the risk
of the country losing access to credit markets has fallen
because the ECB now has the power to buy its debt. Moody’s
assigned a negative outlook on Spain’s bonds as it concluded a
review that it began in June.  Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and  Greece  all have ratings below
investment grade. S&P has a negative outlook on its BBB- rating
for Spain, while  Fitch Ratings  has given the country a BBB
score, which is two levels higher than junk.  European Union leaders agreed on a timetable to introduce
common regulation of the euro area’s 6,000 lenders by Jan. 1
2014. At a two-day summit, the 27  member states  decided to put
in place the framework for a single regulator by the end of this
year. The ECB will move to oversee all the banks in the currency
area in stages next year.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report on Oct. 15 showed
that  retail sales  climbed 1.1 percent in September, beating the
median economist forecast for a 0.8 percent gain. Sales
increased a revised 1.2 percent in August.  A separate U.S. release on Oct. 17 showed that  house
building  surged last month to the highest level in four years.
Starts jumped 15 percent to an annual rate of 872,000, the most
since July 2008 and more than  every forecast  in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The median estimate of 81 economists
polled by Bloomberg had called for a reading of 770,000.  A measure of manufacturing in the Philadelphia region,
published on Oct. 18, jumped to 5.7 this month. That beat the
median analyst  forecast  for a reading of 1.  Bankia SA surged 12 percent, leading gains in a gauge of
European lenders this past week to post the  best performance  as
a group. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA rose 8.7 percent and
Banco Espirito Santo SA climbed 12 percent.  ArcelorMittal Rallies  ArcelorMittal advanced 9.8 percent as the Financial Times
reported on Oct. 18 that the world’s biggest steelmaker is
considering the sale of a minority stake, possibly 30 percent,
in its Canadian iron-ore unit. The newspaper cited unidentified
people familiar with the matter. The unit may be valued at $8
billion to $10 billion, the FT said.  Douglas Holding AG jumped 7.9 percent after Advent
International Corp. made a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) bid for
the retailer.  Advent made an offer of 38 euros per share for the German
retailer via investment vehicle Beauty Holding Three AG. The
retailer’s three largest shareholders have a binding commitment
to accept the bid, Advent said.  Waertsilae Oyj soared 13 percent as the maker of ship
engines and  power plants  reported third-quarter net income that
exceeded estimates and raised its full-year sales-growth
forecast.  Wincor Nixdorf AG,  Europe ’s biggest maker of automated
teller machines, increased 11 percent on speculation that its
new open-source technology platform will lead to more profitable
mobile-payment systems.  Remy Cointreau  Remy Cointreau dropped 9.3 percent. Organic revenue rose 13
percent in the six months through September, the company said on
Oct. 18. That missed the median estimate of nine analysts for an
18 percent gain. Revenue climbed 5.3 percent in the second
quarter. It had surged 24 percent in the first three months of
the fiscal year.  Man Group Plc slumped 10 percent. The world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager said outflows increased 57
percent in the third quarter.  “Investor sentiment and -- consequently -- the outlook for
flows continues to be subdued,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in a statement on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  