-- European Stocks Fall as EU Leaders Fail to Discuss Spain
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-19T15:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/european-stock-futures-little-changed-on-eu-bank-talks.html
European (SXXP)  stocks fell, snapping four
days of gains, after yesterday rising to their highest valuation
since 2010, and as European Union leaders failed to discuss
further aid for Spain.  Bankia SA led lenders lower, losing 14 percent as a gauge
of banks contributed most to the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s drop.
 Aggreko Plc (AGK)  fell 7.2 percent after it said bad-debt provisions
would hurt full-year results.  Spectris Plc (SXS)  surged 12 percent
after it reported a 12 percent increase in sales last quarter
and said it will meet its full-year targets.  Carrefour SA (CA) 
advanced 5.9 percent after it agreed to sell its Colombian unit.  The Stoxx 600 fell 0.8 percent to 274.08 at the close of
trading, paring its weekly gain to 1.7 percent. The gauge has
 rallied 17 percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as the
European Central Bank agreed on a bond-purchase program and the
Federal Reserve announced further stimulus. Shares yesterday
rose to 12.33 times their estimated profit, the highest price-
earnings ratios since 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’re towards the top of the recent range, so from a short
term technical standpoint you can understand why if there’s a
bit of bad news out there then people may either just stop
buying or take a bit of profit,” said Stewart Richardson, chief
investment officer of RMG Wealth Management in  London .  French President Francois Hollande said additional
assistance for Spain wasn’t discussed at the summit of European
leaders in Brussels.  Bank Supervisor  Leaders committed to their goal of establishing a euro-area
bank supervisor by the end of the year. The EU will seek to
agree on a framework that makes the ECB the main supervisor by
Jan. 1, according to conclusions released early today after
leaders met. The new system, intended to break the link between
banks and governments at the root of the region’s financial
crisis, will phase in over the next year and could cover all
6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014, a year later than
initially targeted.  Still, the move doesn’t settle the question of when the
European Stability Mechanism will be able to recapitalize banks
directly. The plan calls for the supervisor to take charge of
big banks and bailed-out institutions first, while also saying
direct assistance requires “effective” supervision in place.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said after the summit that
it’s an open question whether European policy makers can meet
the deadline they’d set hours earlier to establish a euro-area
bank supervisor.  Complicated Questions  “There are complicated questions to clarify and we’ll see
in December if we complete it or not,” Merkel told reporters
after the two-day European Union meeting wrapped up today.  She also ruled out allowing Spain to shift bank-bailout
loans off its balance sheet if they are made before the new
system starts operating.  “The direct injection of capital into banks can now only
happen once the supervisory framework has been put in place,
which means now about sometime in 2013, which is different to
the expectation of immediate recapitalization once the ESM was
set up,” said William De Vijlder, CIO Strategy & Partners, BNP
Paribas Investment Partners. “This triggers the questions: will
this have an impact on the speed at which the Spanish banking
recapitalization will be taken on, and how will rating agencies
react to that? This is why you have markets behaving as they are
today.”  Bankia SA (BKIA)  and  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  fell 14 percent to
1.10 euros and 5.3 percent to 1.31 euros, respectively. A gauge
of banks was the worst performer of the 19 industry groups on
the Stoxx 600.  KBC Groep  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , a Belgian bank and insurer, fell 4.7 percent
to 18.51 euros. Bank of America Corp. downgraded the stock to
underperform, similar to a sell rating, from neutral.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  lost 3.3 percent to 40.49 pence.
The stock was downgraded to underweight, the equivalent of sell,
from neutral at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Aggreko, the world’s largest provider of mobile power
supplies, fell 7.2 percent to 2,137 pence, its biggest drop in
14 months, after it said higher bad-debt provisions would hurt
full-year profits.  Drax Group Plc, (DRX)  the operator of Western Europe’s largest
coal-fired power plant, fell 3.2 percent to 532.5 pence. The
stock was downgraded to neutral from overweight at  HSBC Holdings
Plc. (HSBA)   STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest semiconductor
maker, fell 3.5 percent to 4.78 euros as Banco Santander SA cut
its price estimated on the shares to 5.20 euros from 6.75 euros.  Spectris Gains  Spectris surged 12 percent to 1,779 pence. The maker of
production-testing gear said it is well positioned to meet full-
year expectations.  Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, added 1 percent to 149.90 euros.  Valeo SA (FR)  advanced 3 percent to 35.95 euros.  France ’s
second-largest car-parts maker said third-quarter revenue rose
6.8 percent to 2.84 billion euros from 2.66 billion euros a year
earlier as demand from  emerging markets  offset a declining car
market in Europe.  Carrefour gained 5.9 percent to 18.36 euros. Cencosud SA,
Chile’s biggest retailer by sales, agreed to buy Carrefour’s
Colombian unit for 2 billion euros including debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  