-- Hewlett-Packard Ending Deal With Pre-IPO Violin Memory
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-20T02:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/hewlett-packard-ending-deal-with-pre-ipo-violin-memory.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is planning to
end a deal to resell high-end storage computers from Violin
Memory Inc., in a potential blow to the company as it prepares
for an initial public offering.  Hewlett-Packard, which supplies server computers, data
storage devices and networking equipment to businesses, has been
reselling Violin’s solid-state storage machines, which can
 quickly crunch  large amounts of  data , working with Hewlett-
Packard’s servers. Hewlett-Packard is discontinuing the
partnership in favor of its own 3PAR storage devices.  “HP 3PAR is our strategic platform for solid-state
storage,” Mary Camarata, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard,
said in a e-mail.  The relationship between the two companies “remains
unchanged,” Suzanne Chan, a spokeswoman for Violin, wrote in an
e-mailed statement. “The same products continue to be available
to customers via HP as when we entered into the relationship.
Joint selling also continues.”  Neither spokeswoman would comment on the scope of the
partnership or how much revenue it generates.  The market for enterprise solid-state storage was $2
billion last year and accounts for about 40 percent of solid-
state sales, according to data by market research firm IDC
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  IPO Plans  Violin Memory stands to lose a key partner. Last month, it
filed to go public in a deal that could fetch almost a $2
billion valuation, two people familiar with the matter said this
week. Based in Mountain View,  California , Violin Memory had
sales of  $100 million  last year, according to Chief Executive
Officer Don Basile.  Customers pair Violin’s solid-state storage devices --which
use silicon chips instead of magnetic disk drives to store
information in data centers for faster access -- with Hewlett-
Packard’s servers to run  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s database software. The
combination of products lets Hewlett-Packard and Violin compete
with Oracle’s high-end Exadata computer, he said.  Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, in the middle
of a multiyear turnaround effort by CEO Meg Whitman, is favoring
its own intellectual property. It bought 3PAR for $2.1 billion
in 2010 as it seeks to maximize revenue from data center sales.  Whitman is cutting 29,000 jobs by the end of fiscal 2014 to
save as much as $3.5 billion a year. On Oct. 3, the company
sliced its earnings forecast for the coming fiscal year at a
meeting with analysts, and Whitman outlined steps including more
focus on corporate customers and narrower product lines.  Hewlett-Packard’s storage business accounts for about $4
billion a year in sales, Senior Vice President David Scott said
in a recent interview. Demand is growing as corporate data
expands by at least 35 percent a year and storing data accounts
for about 10 percent to 15 percent of businesses’ information
technology spending, he said.  Hewlett-Packard shares fell 2.2 percent to $14.48 at the
close in New York. The stock is down 44 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  