-- Ex-Steelers Doctor Said to Be Target of U.S. Drug Indictment
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ex-steelers-doctor-said-to-be-target-of-u-s-drug-indictment-1-.html
A former Pittsburgh Steelers doctor
was indicted on charges that he illegally distributed human
growth hormone, anabolic steroids and prescription pain killers.  Richard A. Rydze, 62, a physician and sole owner of Optimal
Health Center in Pittsburgh, was charged with two other men in
an indictment filed in federal court there on Oct. 17 and
unsealed yesterday. The National Football League team isn’t
mentioned in the indictment.  “This doctor is accused of using his prescription pad like
a personal ATM, doling out steroids, painkillers and other
medicine for his own gain,” U.S. Attorney Steven M. Dettelbach
of  Cleveland  said in a statement.  Because of doctor-patient relationships Rydze had in
Western  Pennsylvania , the case is being prosecuted by
Dettelbach’s office, he said.  Attorney information for Rydze wasn’t immediately
available, a spokesman for Dettelbach, Mike Tobin, said in a
telephone interview. A woman answering the phone at Rydze’s
office declined to comment on the allegations.  Other Defendants  Also named as defendants are James Hatzimbes, 42, and
William Zipf, 56, of Pittsburgh. Only Rydze is named in all 185
counts, which include allegations of health-care fraud,
obtaining possession of controlled substances by fraud and
deception and obstruction of justice.  Hatzimbes, who prosecutors said owned a wellness center in
Pittsburgh, allegedly conspired with Rydze to unlawfully
distribute steroids and human growth hormone.  Rydze and Zipf are accused of conspiring to illegally
traffick in pain killers as well as health-care fraud.  Zipf’s initial court appearance is set for Nov. 8, Tobin
said. Attorney information for him and for Hatzimbes also was
not immediately available.  Burt Lauten, a spokesman for the Steelers, declined to
comment on the charges and wouldn’t say if Rydze had worked for
the team. NFL spokesman Greg Aiello declined to comment.  Rydze’s previous employment with the Steelers was confirmed
by a person familiar with the matter who declined to speak on
the record because the team isn’t named in the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Rydze, 12-cr-262, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  