-- Mexican Tomato Growers Make Proposal to Salvage U.S. Pact
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-19T23:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/mexican-tomato-growers-make-proposal-to-salvage-u-s-price-pact.html
Mexican tomato growers yesterday
made what they say is an unprecedented proposal to the U.S.
Commerce Department to salvage a 16-year-old pricing agreement
for exports to the U.S.  The proposal would extend the current accord to cover 100
percent of Mexican tomatoes instead of the current 85 percent,
Martin Ley, a representative for the growers from Mexico, said
in an interview after meeting with Commerce Department officials
yesterday in  Washington . His group is also offering to add 18
percent to 25 percent to the floor price, depending on the type
of tomato.  “We have presented a very comprehensive proposal,” Ley
said in a phone interview. The offer to increase the floor price
is “about six to eight times higher than the previous increases
we’ve had under the agreement.”  Acting on a petition from U.S. producers led by Florida
growers, the Commerce Department on Sept. 27 issued a
preliminary decision to end the agreement, which has been in
place since 1996. A final decision could come between mid-
November and late May.  While U.S. producers say that doing away with the agreement
will result in a free market, American importers and the Mexican
farmers say it may trigger tariffs and ignite a trade war.  Mexican Challenge  Mexico  is urging the Commerce Department to respond
promptly to the growers’ proposal, Deputy Economy Minister
Francisco de Rosenzweig said in an interview yesterday. The
nation is working to diversify its tomato exports to countries
such as  Japan  due to the “uncertainty” triggered by the U.S.
decision, de Rosenzweig said.  The deputy minister said in a Sept. 27 interview that
Mexico would consider retaliatory tariffs on $1.9 billion worth
of U.S. exports if, after exhausting all legal appeals, the
tomato agreement isn’t reinstated.  Arturo Sarukhan, Mexico’s ambassador to the U.S., said last
month that the Commerce Department’s action “seems to be
dictated by politics rather than policy” and that his nation
was prepared to challenge the preliminary decision.  A higher price floor “won’t have an impact on the U.S.
consumer, because the tomatoes we bring to the U.S. market
already command a high price,” Ley said yesterday. Retail
prices for the goods in the U.S. can vary from $1.20 a pound to
$3.99 a pound during the course of the year, depending on the
type of tomato, he said.  The Commerce Department declined to comment yesterday on
the Mexican proposal.  Reggie Brown, executive director of the Florida Tomato
Exchange, a growers group, said politics has nothing to do with
the request to end the agreement.  “It’s about simple economics and fair trade,” he said.
The goal of the U.S. growers remains “the restoration of fair
terms of competition in the tomato trade,” Brown said.  Mexico exported $2.1 billion worth of tomatoes last year,
93 percent to the U.S., the nation’s  Agriculture Ministry  said
in a Sept. 6 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  