-- Hey Folks, You Dug Your Debt-Filled Grave, Now Lie in It: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/hey-folks-you-dug-your-debt-filled-grave-now-lie-in-it-books.html
Hedrick Smith is a dogged assembler
of data. Practically every page of his “ Who Stole the American
Dream? ” crawls with numbers, statistics and percentages like
the following:  “The top 0.1 percent -- about 315,000 people out of 315
million Americans -- garner roughly half of all  capital gains  in
the U.S.”  “CEO pay ... rocketed from 40 times the pay of an average
company worker in 1980 to nearly 400 times by 2000.”  “The typical 401(k) nest egg of people in their 60s ... is
$84,469,” yet “analysts project that most retired couples will
spend $200,000 on [health-related] items only partially covered
by Medicare.”  This and similar material, which deserves to be thundered
by an Old Testament prophet, is cushioned in a drone fit for an
agricultural report.  Smith  was a celebrated reporter for the  New York Times. (NYT)  His
lack of a discernible style probably results from many decades
of suppressing his own voice in the interest of reporting the
news objectively.  The 400-plus pages of drab, personality-free prose he has
assembled on all the ways the rich have been sticking it to the
middle class since the late 1970s read like a Times
investigative report from hell. You can admire the book’s
usefulness and still get indigestion reading it.  Golden Era  Moreover, it’s padded. It begins with 40 pages of throat-
clearing that describe the golden era before everything went
sour.  (The only reason I can think of for Smith to bring up the
1963 March on  Washington  -- a “festival of democracy” that may
have been “history in the making” but wasn’t really about the
middle class -- is to let us to know he was there.)  Three culminating chapters on Congressional gridlock, the
rise of the far right and lunatic defense spending are old news
that could have been covered in several paragraphs.  More seriously damning: Although Smith is obviously
concerned that the wealth gap is damaging American society, his
blandness suggests a dearth of real anger that, in turn, hints
at an insufficiency of analysis.  He’s informative on the disaster that 401(k) plans have
turned out to be for middle-income earners, on the way
corporations have used bankruptcy law to decimate worker pension
plans while rewarding executives with millions and on how an
increasingly rightward-leaning Congress has made these
injustices possible.  Fooling Voters  But somebody put those legislators into office. Smith
thinks American voters have been fooled; I refuse to believe
they’re that dumb. I’m convinced they were voting their values
-- and nowhere does Smith offer a critique of a consumerist
society that has spiraled out of control.  Is the CEO with a yacht, a private jet and a 30,000-square-
foot mansion different in kind from the salaried worker whose
day isn’t complete without a new kitchen appliance from Amazon?  All that credit-card debt didn’t mount up just because
people were buying socks for their children. As Smith observes,
with atypical asperity: “We Americans have done it to
ourselves.”  Digging Out  Yet his closing 10-point program for getting ourselves out
of the hole we’ve dug doesn’t seem to have come from the same
keyboard that’s just spent 40-plus pages delineating the reasons
Congress has ground to a standstill.  For example: He advocates removing the cap on the  payroll
tax  for incomes above $106,800 and either increasing Medicare
premiums for the top 10 percent of earners or applying a means
test for coverage.  He also proposes drawing down American troops in foreign
lands -- a sensible idea, given that our defense spending is
“roughly equal to the total of defense expenditures for all the
other nations in the world.”  Maybe some of them could be ordered to hold Republican
legislators hostage, since, unless something very surprising
happens in November, that’s the only way his tax proposals have
a prayer of being enacted into law.  “Who Stole the American Dream?” is published by  Random
House  (557 pages, $30). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 