-- Fate of Indiana Senate Seat Resides With Lugar Loyalists
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/fate-of-indiana-senate-seat-resides-with-lugar-loyalists.html
For 36 years, Jim Rice was a loyal
supporter of Richard Lugar, the six-term Republican senator from
 Indiana  with a reputation for compromise and stature in
Washington. Now, Rice says he will vote for a Democrat.  A 60-year-old civil engineer, Rice is put off by the
campaign of Richard Mourdock, a Tea Party favorite who defeated
Lugar in a Republican primary with an anti-tax, anti-Washington
message.  The race for the open seat between Mourdock, the state
treasurer, and Democratic Representative Joe Donnelly will
probably pivot on which candidate can win over the kind of
voters who cast ballots for Lugar regardless of party
affiliation, with control of the U.S. Senate at stake.  “Politics have taken a nasty turn,” said Rice, who lives
in the Indianapolis suburb of Carmel in vote-rich Hamilton
County, which ranks among the three-dozen wealthiest counties in
the U.S. “I will vote for Donnelly just in terms of what
Mourdock did.”  Mourdock, 61, and his supporters say the attacks on Lugar
during the primary came primarily from outside spending groups
he doesn’t control.  Lugar, 80, hasn’t publicly supported Mourdock and a
spokesman reiterated that the senator has no plans to campaign
for him. “During the primary, Mourdock and his supporters
perpetuated misleading statements about Senator Lugar,” said
spokesman Andy Fisher.  While the race probably will be decided by voters in
prosperous suburbs such as Carmel and nearby Fishers, it was the
economically depressed pockets of Indiana that gave life to
Mourdock’s challenge to Lugar.  Manufacturing Towns  The aging manufacturing towns that have lost thousands of
jobs have hollowed out the economies of places such as Anderson,
where  General Motors Co. (GM)  parts plants once employed as many as
23,000 workers.  The jobless rate in Indiana is 8.3 percent, down from 9.1
percent a year ago, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. The improving jobs picture works in Mourdock’s favor
in this state that, with the exception of President  Barack Obama , has voted for Republican presidents since 1964.  “The economy has improved and Hoosiers are feeling much
better about circumstances,” said Morton Marcus, a former
Indiana University business professor. “They’re back to the
patterns they voted prior to 2008.”  With plants shuttered and businesses disappearing, the
economic anxiety of voters in cities like Anderson heightened
amid the downturn that started in 2007, said Indiana Republican
Senator Dan Coats. The unemployment rate in Anderson stood at
9.5 percent in August, according to the BLS.  ‘Shift of Focus’  “All of a sudden there was a shift of focus from support
for long-serving senators who had established themselves” like
Lugar, said Coats, who beat two-term Democratic Congressman Brad
Ellsworth in 2010. “There was just a lot of open talk about the
fact that he doesn’t listen to the concerns over the fiscal and
economic plight of the country.”  Republicans like Mick Jacks, a 65-year-old retired Air
Force member from Logansport, said Lugar had become part of the
problem in  Washington . “He just became what we call out here in
the boonies, ‘the establishment,’” he said.  The Indiana Senate race, along with those in Massachusetts
and  Virginia , is among the most closely watched in the U.S.
According to data compiled by Kantar Media’s CMAG, it is a top
target for outside Republican and Democratic-aligned groups
seeking to influence which party gains the Senate majority for
the next Congress, with 22,134 ads having aired in the past 90
days.  Can’t-Lose Seat  Republicans must hold all five of their competitive seats
and pick up four seats to win control of the Senate next year,
and Indiana is one of the seats the party can’t afford to lose
to reach that goal.  The outcome may depend on how many Indiana voters join Rice
in supporting Donnelly or in skipping over the Senate race on
their ballots, said Brian Howey, publisher of Howey Politics
Indiana, a political newsletter.  Donnelly, a three-term congressman, touts independence from
his party with support for oil drilling, gun rights, and a
balanced budget amendment and opposition to abortion.  It has been difficult for Mourdock to unite his party after
the divisive primary.  Base ‘Problem’  “Mourdock has a problem with his base,” Howey said. After
winning the nomination, Mourdock said “bipartisanship ought to
consist of Democrats coming to the Republican point of view.”  Howey considers the race a toss-up -- his latest poll taken
Sept. 19-23 shows Donnelly with a 2-point lead, though other
surveys give Mourdock an edge.  Mourdock beat Lugar by 20 percentage points in the May
primary, in which 75 percent of the state’s Republican Party
county chairs had endorsed Mourdock.  “Many of them would not have done that if Richard had been
the Tea Party candidate,” Coats said. “He’s an establishment
candidate.”  Even so, Mourdock’s bid was powered by the Tea Party wing
of the party, including groups such as FreedomWorks and the
super-political action committee Club for Growth Action that
bankrolled millions of dollars in negative ads against Lugar.  Tea Party Support  He espouses the party’s positions on issues including the
national debt. In an interview, Mourdock said would have voted
against the 2011 legislation that raised the U.S.  debt  limit,
which was supported by most of the Republican leadership.  Now Mourdock is seeking to broaden his appeal by playing
down the Tea Party label.  “We appreciate the help of all of the so-called Tea Party
groups that have come forward,” Mourdock said. “I certainly
don’t look at myself as just a candidate of one special interest
group.”  Outside groups have spent $11.4 million on the race in the
general election, with $5.9 million on negative ads against the
Democratic candidate and $4.4 million on negative ads against
the Republican, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Mourdock is bashing Donnelly for supporting Obama’s health-
care law, casting the Democrat as fiscally irresponsible and
trying to tie him to the president and Democratic congressional
leaders Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi.  ‘Extreme Makeover’  Donnelly is using footage of the treasurer’s previous
comments scorning bipartisanship and his ties to the Tea Party,
trying to repel Lugar voters and independents.  “This is the extreme makeover  Richard Mourdock  edition,”
Donnelly said in an interview. “We are not a state that sends
bomb-throwers to the U.S. Senate.”  Indiana Lieutenant Governor Becky Skillman, a Republican,
said Mourdock will be able to live down some early gaffes.  “Richard made some comments the morning after capturing
the nomination in the heat of the moment and the adrenaline was
still flowing and probably it could have been phrased a little
bit better,” she said.  Donnelly also is emphasizing a controversy over Mourdock’s
role in a 2009 lawsuit seeking to stop Chrysler Group LLC’s
government-supported bankruptcy in a state where manufacturing
employment dropped 26 percent from its peak in 1973 to 2007,
according to a July 2010 report by Ball State University. The
losses came primarily in counties including Lake, Marion and
Madison that had employed 237,211 workers in industries
including machinery, electronics and appliances.  Pension Funds  Teachers’ and firefighters’ pension funds that Mourdock
invested as state treasurer lost millions buying up Chrysler’s
secured debt. Mourdock argues that he was trying to force
Chrysler’s liquidation to get the money back for the pension
funds. Donnelly maintains that if Mourdock’s suit had succeeded,
it would have cost more than 120,000 jobs in Indiana and that
Mourdock was offered a settlement and refused it.  “This made him a Tea Party star,” Donnelly said. “This
gave him the vehicle to go after Richard Lugar.”  In the end, Donnelly probably can’t win the Senate seat if
Obama loses the state to  Mitt Romney  by more than 10 percentage
points because of the tendency of many voters to vote along
party lines, said Evan Bayh, the former Democratic senator who
won re-election in the state in 2004 as Republican George W. Bush won his second term.  “It depends on the magnitude of the president’s margin,”
Bayh said. “When it gets into double digits, it’s just a bigger
burden to carry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  