-- Father of New York Fed Bombing Suspect Denies Son’s Involvement
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-10-19T07:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/father-of-new-york-fed-bombing-suspect-denies-son-s-involvement.html
The father of a Bangladeshi man
arrested in the U.S. on charges of plotting to bomb the New York
Federal Reserve said his family isn’t “jihadist” and denied
his son was involved in the plan.  “We are a religious family, but we aren’t involved with
any jihadist organization,” Quazi Mohammad Ahsanullah, father
of Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, said in an interview at
his house in the Bangladeshi capital of Dhaka. “My son is
innocent.”  Nafis, 21, was arrested on Oct. 17 as part of a federal
sting operation in which he was provided with fake explosives
and attempted to detonate what he thought was a 1,000-pound
bomb, according to the FBI’s Joint Terrorist Task Force. The New
York Fed is a few blocks from the World Trade Center, the site
of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks masterminded by al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.  Nafis was charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass
destruction and providing material support to al-Qaeda,
according to the U.S. attorney’s office in  Brooklyn , New York.
He could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted, according
to the office.  “I can’t believe my son could ever do that,” said
Ahsanullah, a 56-year-old banker, adding that he spoke to his
son via Skype hours before the arrest. “I want to speak to my
son, at least once. This is all I want now,” he said, with
tears on his face.  Nafis’ aunt, Sufia Akunjee, called on the Bangladeshi
government to help secure her nephew’s release from U.S.
custody. Local police who visited the family’s house in Dhaka
wouldn’t comment on the case.  The New York Times reported yesterday that Howard Willie
Carter II, a 36-year-old San Diego man who was arrested on child
pornography charges, has been linked to Nafis. Carter’s computer
contained e-mails addressed to Yaqeen, a name Brooklyn
prosecutors said Carter used in the bomb plot, the newspaper
said, citing an unidentified law enforcement official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  