-- Fed's Dudley Regrets Penny-Pinching
-- B y   E v a n   S o l t a s
-- 2012-10-19T14:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/fed-s-dudley-regrets-penny-pinching.html
William Dudley , the president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , gave a
 speech  on Monday to the  National Association for Business Economics , an
organization for academic and applied economists. What made the speech
particularly remarkable was Dudley did something the Fed almost never does: He
disagreed with the consensus opinion of economists. Dudley said he saw tight money as a major reason for the sluggishness of the
economic recovery. "Monetary policy, while highly accommodative by historic
standards, may still not have been sufficiently accommodative given the economic
circumstances," Dudley said. In adding it to a roster of conventional
explanations -- such as the  natural consequence  of recovering from a financial
crisis and fighting global economic headwinds -- Dudley stepped out of line with
the vast majority of his fellow economists. In a recent Economist  poll  of top U.S. economists, a majority said that
 monetary policy  was "not important" to answering the question of why the
recovery has been slow. Less than 10 percent of economists saw it as "very
important." Many of the surveyed are members of the NABE, perhaps even in
attendance to hear Dudley tell them they're wrong. In more normal times -- and even through this crisis and the recovery -- the
Fed is a preternaturally cautious animal, inclined towards stability,
predictability and agreement. When it changes course, it usually does so only
after it has secured wide support for the shift. That makes Dudley's front-running of the consensus very much out of the
ordinary, especially because as the head of the  New York  Fed, he has a permanent
seat on the  Federal Open Market Committee , which determines monetary policy.
Though calls for a new approach to monetary policy have dominated the economics
community's  blog conversations , that is not at all true offline. You're wrong if
you think that the decision to do a third round of bond-buying, let alone its
form, was consistent with normal Fed behavior. Dudley's speech is all the more important because it fleshes out the Fed's
rationale for QE3, which follows from the view that monetary policy has been
restricting the recovery. Underlying the Fed's actions is a distinctly new
philosophy about the state of the economy -- one that characterizes the recovery
as persistently and unacceptably weak. Whereas the first two policy
interventions came in response to one or two quarters' worth of weak economic
data, the Fed's latest answers are for three years of disappointment in
unemployment, hiring and gross-domestic-product growth. The Fed isn't hoping to keep the recovery on track. It wants to put the
recovery on a faster one. One way to think about the difference is in respect to the growth in private
payrolls. During the recovery, monthly growth bounced up and down -- and when
the downward swings had been pronounced enough, the Fed used it as reason to
ease monetary policy. That is no longer how things are going to work. Now the goal is a large and
sustained push to labor markets -- enough that, by one metric, it shifts the
year-over-year growth in private payrolls toward 200,000 or even 250,000 jobs
per month, instead of the current equilibrium of 150,000. There’s a fundamental problem, however, with the Fed’s focus on “ sustained
improvement in labor market conditions .” Though monetary policy can certainly
affect unemployment and hiring in the short run, it simply can’t in the long
run, as they are what economists call “ real ” variables. While the Fed’s newfound
determination to strengthen, rather than restrain, the economic recovery is
welcome news, it should articulate its goal in nominal terms. There’s every
reason to think we’ll see real improvements from a nominal goal, but there’s no
reason for the Fed to make promises it can’t ultimately keep in the long
run. Nor was the speech a full  mea culpa . Dudley took  no responsibility  for the
downturn itself in the way that Chairman  Ben Bernanke   famously blamed the Fed 
for the Great Depression. His other explanations for the weak recovery,
moreover, put him safely in agreement with most economists. Dudley's speech shows that behind the Fed’s goal lies a profound change of
heart. Let's see if the consensus opinion of economists will follow. (Evan Soltas is a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .        