-- Forint Trims 3rd Week of Gains as Hungary’s Bond Yields Advance
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-19T14:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/forint-pares-weekly-advance-as-hungary-s-bond-yields-increase.html
The forint pared a third week of
gains and bond yields rose after  Hungary ’s Economy Ministry said
its forecasts no longer assume benefits from an international
aid deal and as demand for riskier assets dropped.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 278.75 per
euro by 3:16 p.m. in Budapest, trimming its appreciation this
week to 0.4 percent. Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-
year bonds rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
6.67 percent. It rebounded from the lowest level reached
yesterday since the security was first sold in January 2011.  The latest economic forecasts, submitted to the European
Commission yesterday, no longer assume the potential beneficial
economic impact of the government receiving aid from the
 International Monetary Fund , according to a report published by
the ministry on its website. The Cabinet, which sees the  budget
deficit  at 2.7 percent of gross domestic product this year and
next, needs to ensure “safe attainment” of those targets with
or without aid, it said.  “The wording indicates that the Cabinet does not expect a
favorable impact from a possible” IMF/European Union deal
anymore, Erste Group Bank AG said in an e-mailed report today.  Emerging-market stocks fell, paring the biggest weekly
rally in more than a month, as disappointing earnings at
Microsoft Corp. dragged down computer companies and a Chinese
central bank adviser said stimulus will be limited.  The rally “was very much driven by the liquidity in the
market and high yield countries like Hungary benefited more than
others,” Daniel Lenz, Frankfurt-based chief emerging-markets
strategist at DZ Bank AG, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg.  “We are however skeptical about further upside potential
for bonds and the forint,” Lenz said. Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s government, which requested IMF aid 11 months ago, will
probably delay an aid agreement further, Lenz added.  “In a good market environment they might even come along
without any deal without ending talks officially,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  