-- Formula One Race Along Hudson Postponed, Jersey Journal Reports
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/formula-one-race-along-hudson-postponed-jersey-journal-reports.html
The Formula One Grand Prix along the
Hudson River waterfront through New Jersey and New York has been
postponed until 2014,  the Jersey Journal reported .  The June 16, 2013, race was canceled because road repairs
and permits for the 3.2-mile (5-kilometer) course are behind
schedule, the newspaper reported yesterday, citing Mayor Richard Turner of Weehawken, New Jersey. An official announcement is
scheduled for today.  The Paris-based International Automobile Federation, F-1’s
governing body, placed an asterisk beside the New Jersey event
when it released its 2013 calendar, saying it was subject to
confirmation. Event promoter Leo Hindery said this month that
all outstanding contract obligations, including safety and
facility reviews, would be met in time for the race.  “We will be racing,” Hindery, managing partner at
InterMedia Partners LP, told Bloomberg in an interview Oct. 5.
“We don’t have existing, fixed facilities that can be inspected
today, so when he says we’re subject to review, we’ll be subject
to review until the race date just because of the nature of a
street course racing for the first time.”  A call to Turner’s office after hours wasn’t answered. Alex
Howe, a spokesman for Hindery, declined to comment on the
report.  The plan calls for streets in Weehawken and West New York
in New Jersey to be cordoned off for the entire three-day event,
which will boost the local economy by $100 million annually,
according to estimates.  There hasn’t been a Formula One race in the U.S. since
2007, when Indianapolis Motor Speedway hosted the U.S. Grand
Prix. The sport is scheduled to return Nov. 18 at a new $300
million track in Austin,  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  