-- GE Falls as Sales Forecast Cut on Shrinking Finance Unit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-19T20:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ge-revenue-trails-estimates-as-health-unit-sales-weaken.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  fell the most
in almost a year after cutting its 2012 sales target amid lower
finance-unit revenue and reporting weaker third-quarter demand
for some industrial equipment.  Full-year sales will climb about 3 percent instead of the 5
percent  projected  last month, with  GE Capital  revenue falling by
10 percent, GE said. Quarterly sales rose 3 percent to $36.3
billion, short of the $36.9 billion  average analyst estimate .
Adjusted profit of 36 cents a share matched projections.  GE has bolstered manufacturing and reduced its finance
unit’s size after billions of dollars in credit losses in the
financial crisis. It’s grappling with tougher markets for
products like  jet engines  and health-care imaging equipment as
airlines delay non-essential repairs to save cash and European
hospitals contend with government austerity programs.  “Our expectations were higher going into earnings today,”
Steven Winoker, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has
a market perform rating on the stock, said in an e-mail today.
“We did expect some messiness to the numbers but we thought GE
would find a way to pull out all stops and beat estimates.”  GE  fell  3.4 percent, the most since Nov. 9, to $22.03 at
the market close in New York as it joined manufacturing
companies from  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  to Ingersoll Rand
Plc in paring revenue forecasts.  Estimates Matched  Adjusted earnings from continuing operations rose 10
percent to $3.8 billion, GE said. Including pension costs and
other expenses, net income for the parent company climbed 49
percent to $3.49 billion, or 33 cents, from $2.34 billion, or 22
cents, a year earlier.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company maintained its
full-year profit outlook, predicting growth of at least 10
percent. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is still
squeezing higher earnings from industrial businesses, with
quarterly profit margins rising for the first time since 2010.  Sales dropped 1 percent in both aviation, which posted
sales of $4.78 billion, and health care, which garnered $4.31
billion. Total infrastructure orders fell to $21.5 billion, GE
said.  GE Capital revenue declined 5 percent to $11.4 billion in
the quarter as  ending net investment , a measure of assets,
decreased $27 billion, ahead of the company’s goal, GE said. The
unit’s sales will fall 10 percent this year, which prompted the
sales-outlook reduction, the company said.  Finance Shrinks  Immelt pledged to shrink GE Capital after $32 billion of
credit losses following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  The lower-than-expected sales and reduced  outlook  shouldn’t
obscure GE’s strong operating performance, Chief Financial
Officer  Keith Sherin  said in a telephone interview.  With organic industrial revenue growth of 8 percent in the
quarter “and on target for 10 percent for the year, that’s a
great performance in this uncertain economic backdrop,” Sherin
said.  The industrial order backlog was $203 billion, while
earnings in that group of businesses climbed 11 percent to $3.57
billion. Their profit margin expanded to 14.4 percent, the first
year-over-year improvement since the fourth quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The industrial profit improvement was well telegraphed,”
 Matt Collins , a St. Louis-based analyst at  Edward Jones  who has
a hold rating on the stock, said in an e-mail. “Now it’s about
what happens in 2013 and beyond. The backlog remains strong but
the order decline cast a cloud over that outlook.”  Demand in the unit that makes imaging equipment used in
hospitals was tempered by questions on U.S. health-care policy
in a presidential election year as well as the European
slowdown, John Dineen, the unit’s head, told investors in late
September.  “I’ve got good, bad and ugly in every part of the world
here,” he said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  