-- Generali Names Balbinot Insurance Chief in Management Revamp
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-10-19T11:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/generali-names-balbinot-insurance-chief-in-management-revamp.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  moved
Managing Director Sergio Balbinot to the new position of chief
insurance officer as Chief Executive Officer  Mario Greco 
shuffles management after taking charge of  Italy ’s largest
insurer.  Balbinot, 54, will lead insurance activities worldwide,
reporting to Greco, the Trieste, Italy-based insurer said in a
statement today. Generali also created a 10-member management
committee that will be led by Greco, have Balbinot as deputy,
and include the heads of Italy,  France  and  Germany  as well as
other top executives.  Greco, 53, named CEO in June to replace Giovanni Perissinotto, 58, is realigning management to spur profit
growth, strengthen capital and smooth relations with investors.
Balbinot’s shift follows the appointment of Alberto Minali as
chief financial officer last month to replace Raffaele Agrusti,
who became country manager for Italy.  “Today’s announcement marks the completion of the review
of Generali’s organizational structure,” said Greco in the
statement. “We want to refocus on the core insurance business
at an international level and therefore begin to enhance our
internal capabilities.”  Generali also created chief operating and chief investment
officer roles, to be held by Greco on an interim basis. Balbinot
will leave the board of directors.  Business Plan  Greco said in August he’ll announce the timing of a new
business plan on Nov. 9, when third-quarter results are
published. The insurer is seeking to sell non-strategic assets,
including its U.S. life reinsurance business and Swiss asset-
management unit BSI Group, people familiar with the matter have
said.  Generali’s second-quarter profit climbed 45 percent after
year-earlier writedowns on Greek bonds and other securities
weren’t repeated. In 2011, net income slumped 50 percent to the
lowest level since 2002, and the insurer’s stock sank to an
almost two-decade low on May 31.  Investors are betting Greco, a former McKinsey & Co.
consultant who joined from Zurich Insurance Group AG, can
replicate what he achieved over 17 years in the  insurance
industry , when he oversaw businesses in countries including
France, Spain,  Turkey  and Italy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  