-- Gevo, Syntroleum Vying for Military Biofuel Supply Deals
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-10-19T20:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/gevo-syntroleum-vying-for-military-biofuel-supply-deals.html
(Corrects company name in first paragraph.)  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , Syntroleum Corp. and
 Solazyme Inc. (SZYM)  may be among a “small set” of biofuel producers
vying for supply contracts from the U.S. Defense Department, the
world’s largest consumer of fossil fuels, analysts said.  The agency is preparing to announce about five initial
grants to companies making fuels from renewable materials to
power jet fighters, battleships and other vehicles. The
decision, which according to application  documents  is due “on
or about” today, may come Oct. 22, Laura Ortiz, the program’s
agreements negotiator, said in an Oct. 17 interview.  The military bought about 130 million barrels of jet fuel,
diesel and other petroleum products in fiscal 2011, and is
seeking to replace as much as half with renewable biofuels.
Winning one of the small initial grants will land recipients on
the short list for large, long-term fuel-supply contracts,
according to Pavel Molchanov, an analyst with Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston.  “The addressable market for the Navy and Air Force each
will be in the hundreds of millions of gallons,” Molchanov said
in an interview.  Gevo,  Syntroleum (SYNM)  and Solazyme may be on the inside track
because they’re already conducting research with the military or
have delivered biofuels for testing, he said. Cobalt
Technologies Inc. and Sustainable Oils Inc. also meet that
criteria and there may be other potential recipients “that
perhaps we’re not currently anticipating.”  First Grants  Recipients of the first grants under the Advanced Drop-In
Biofuel Production Project will receive about $6 million in
March. In the program’s second phase nine months later, as many
as three companies will share as much as $180 million to help
fund commercial production facilities.  The goal is to identify and support companies “capable of
producing drop-in replacement biofuels,” which can be used
without requiring changes to existing engines or infrastructure
and are “suitable for military use,” according to the official
request for proposals. The military plans to “establish one or
more complete domestic value chains” to ensure a steady supply
of fuel.  Gevo, which produces isobutanol from corn, won an 11,000-
gallon (42,000-liter)  Air Force  supply contract last year and
has submitted a proposal for the biofuel grant program, Lew
Phelps, a spokesman for the Englewood, Colorado-based company,
said in an e-mail.  The Navy used in a July demonstration 450,000 gallons of
renewable jet and marine diesel fuel that Syntroleum produced
from recycled cooking oil and algae oil made by Solazyme.
Syntroleum Senior Vice President of Business Development Jeffrey Bigger wouldn’t say whether the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company
applied to the biofuel grant program  Supply Contracts  The company is already in commercial production and is more
interested in a long-term military supply contract than in the
smaller grants to build a plant, Bigger said. “The most
important element to our business is contracts.”  Solazyme, based in South San Francisco,  California ,
collaborated with  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s UOP unit on two
military contracts in 2010. A spokeswoman wouldn’t say whether
it applied for the biofuel grant program.  The program requires applicants to demonstrate viable
supply chains and scalable technologies. “It’s a relatively
small set of folks who would meet those qualifications,” said
James Rekoske, UOP’s vice president of renewable energy.  Sustainable Oils supplied about 500,000 gallons of its jet
fuel to the military last year and Cobalt has a cooperative
research and development agreement with the Navy. Sustainable
Oils declined to comment and Andy Meyer, Cobalt’s senior vice
president of business development, wouldn’t say whether his
company applied to the grant program.  Best Partner  Other companies developing renewable  jet fuel  include
ZeaChem Inc., Virent Energy Systems Inc. and Applied Research
Associates Inc., which developed renewable jet fuel technology
with a  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  venture and is licensing the process to
Aemetis Inc. Cupertino, California-based Aemetis submitted an
application for the grant program, Chief Executive Officer Eric
McAfee said yesterday.  “The best offtake partner you could have is the U.S.
military,” ZeaChem Chief Executive Officer Jim Imbler said by
telephone. He wouldn’t say whether the Lakewood, Colorado-based
company is participating in the biofuel grant program. ZeaChem
and Gevo both received Department of Agriculture grants last
year to develop processes for converting wood into jet fuel.  “The military has a pretty strong appetite,” he said.
“It’s a potential partner that can take all the product you
make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  