-- Gold Imports by India Seen Climbing First Time in Six Quarters
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/gold-imports-by-india-seen-climbing-first-time-in-six-quarters.html
Gold imports by  India , the world’s
largest buyer, are set to climb for the first time in six
quarters as a decline in domestic bullion prices stokes jewelry
and investment demand ahead of major festivals.  Overseas purchases may jump to as much as 200 metric tons
this quarter, said Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India
Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. That compares with the 157
tons in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to World Gold
Council data. Purchases in the quarter ended September probably
fell to as low as 170 tons from 205 tons a year earlier, Bamalwa
said. The council is yet to release data for the third quarter.  A rebound in Indian imports may help sustain an 11 percent
rally in global prices, headed for a 12th consecutive year of
gains. Bullion in India has fallen about 3 percent since
climbing to a record last month after the rupee posted the
biggest monthly gain against the dollar since January.  “The appreciation in the rupee has caused the gold price
to correct from the record levels and this correction is seen as
an opportunity by many to get into gold,” said Chirag Mehta, a
 fund manager  at Quantum Asset Management Co. “With the festival
season and marriage season starting now, demand will gain
further momentum.”  Spot gold fell 0.2 percent to $1,737.65 an ounce at 8:14
a.m. in Mumbai. The contract for delivery in December rose 0.8
percent to 31,375 rupees ($585) per 10 grams on the Multi
Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. yesterday. The rupee rallied
5.1 percent in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Latent Demand’  Demand has picked up in the last 10 to 15 days and buying
may be better this festival season than a year earlier, Bamalwa
said. “In the last three to four months, there was practically
no demand for gold because of the high prices. There is a lot of
latent demand, and we expect this festive season to be better.”  Imports plunged 42 percent to 340 tons in the first half of
this year as an increase in import tax and a strike by jewelers
hurt demand, according to the World Gold Council. Purchases may
decline for the first time in three years to 600 tons this year
from a record of 969 tons in 2011, Bamalwa said.  “India should be a better buyer over the next two weeks
from a seasonal perspective, but this remains highly contingent
on the behavior of the rupee gold price,”  Edel Tully , an
analyst at UBS AG in  London , said in a report yesterday.
“Indian imports are already 40 percent less than they were last
year, and we understand inventories are generally light.
Therefore, if the rupee behaves, fresh demand will also prompt
restocking.”  Buying gold is considered auspicious during the religious
festivals in India. The festival season starts this year with
Dussehra on Oct. 24 and ends in November with Diwali, which is
followed by the traditional wedding season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  