-- Gold Slides to Six-Week Low as Commodity Demand May Drop
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-10-19T18:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/gold-set-for-second-weekly-drop-as-data-damp-stimulus-outlook.html
Gold futures slumped to a six-week
low as signs of slowing growth in  China  dimmed the outlook for
commodities demand.  Foreign direct investment slid for the 10th time in 11
months, China’s government said today. The dollar gained as much
as 0.4 percent against a six-currency basket on speculation this
week’s European Union summit in Brussels will fail to provide
clarity on potential financial aid for  Spain . The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials tumbled as much as
1.4 percent.  “The gold bulls are nervous about the hitherto slowing
Chinese economy and the impact that this will have on overall
commodity demand,” Jon Nadler, an analyst at Kitco Inc., a
precious-metal refiner and research company in  Montreal , said in
a report. “Meanwhile, the nebulous situation in  Europe 
continues to unnerve speculators as well.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 1.2 percent to
settle at $1,724 an ounce at 1:40 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the metal touched $1,716, the lowest since Sept. 7.  Prices have dropped 3.2 percent in two weeks on concern
that global central banks will reduce stimulus measures, curbing
demand for the metal as a hedge against inflation. Government
reports this week showed China’s industrial production, retail
sales and fixed-asset investment accelerated in September, while
U.S. housing starts jumped to a four-year high.  “When it comes to China, it seems that gold is now unable
to benefit from either bullish or bearish economic news from
that country,” Nadler said.  Silver futures for December delivery slid 2.3 percent to
$32.097 an ounce in New York, extending the weekly drop to 4.7
percent.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery slipped 1.7 percent to $1,615.50 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery retreated 3.7 percent to
$623 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  