-- Greece Nears Aid Revival as Samaras Wins EU Summit Praise
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-19T13:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/greece-nears-aid-revival-as-samaras-wins-eu-summit-praise.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
moved closer to winning a delayed aid disbursement when European
leaders praised his government’s budget-cutting push.  At his first European Union summit since becoming premier
in June, Samaras said record unemployment showed the price
 Greece  was paying for austerity demanded by the euro area as a
condition for emergency loans. He urged parallel steps to kick-
start the economy and stuck to a request for two extra years
until 2016 to meet targets for narrowing the  budget deficit ,
prompting signs of European goodwill.  “We welcome the determination of the Greek government to
deliver on its commitments and we commend the remarkable efforts
by the Greek people,” the 16 other euro-area leaders said in a
statement released about 3 a.m. today in Brussels after the
first session of the EU meeting. “Good progress has been made
to bring the adjustment program back on track.”  The Samaras government has been negotiating with the euro
area and the  International Monetary Fund  over 13.5 billion euros
($17.6 billion) of austerity measures for 2013 and 2014 needed
to qualify for the release of more loan instalments. Transfers
have been frozen since June.  The next aid payout is scheduled to total 31 billion euros,
most of which would be to recapitalize banks. That disbursement
would be under a 130 billion-euro rescue package approved
earlier this year after an initial 110 billion-euro bailout in
2010.  Greek Recession  Creditors that also include the IMF are loosening the
budget noose on Greece as its recession heads for a sixth year
in 2013, domestic anti-bailout parties gain in popularity and
the jobless rate reaches 25 percent. At stake is whether
Samaras’s shaky three-party coalition can pay its bills,
recapitalize domestic banks and stay in the 17-nation euro.  The softening in attitude was symbolized earlier this month
when  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the biggest European
backer of the total 240 billion euros in rescue pledges for
Greece since 2010, made her first visit to  Athens  since  Europe ’s
debt crisis erupted three years ago. She held a meeting with
Samaras today in Brussels as the second part of the EU summit
got under way.  ‘Big Progress’  “One has to recognize that a lot has already been done and
that they’re pressing ahead” in Greece, Merkel told reporters
afterward. She said she works “very well” with Samaras, who,
at his own press conference, said “the climate has changed. All
our European partners have recognized that we have made big
progress lately. The Greek economy and society are on the
brink.”  After an inconclusive election in May, Greece held a re-run
the following month in which Samaras’s New Democracy party
remained the biggest in the Greek parliament while still lacking
a majority.  Samaras formed a government with the Socialist Pasok, which
came in third, and the sixth-place Democratic Left. The ruling
coalition is an unprecedented attempt at political unity in
Greece after an anti-bailout party called Syriza overturned four
decades of dominance by New Democracy and Pasok with second-
place finishes in the May and June elections.  Greece narrowed its budget deficit from more than 15
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 -- five times the EU
limit -- to 9.1 percent in 2011. The spending gap is due to
shrink to about 7 percent of GDP this year.  Policy Reforms  “We expect Greece to continue budgetary and structural
policy reforms and we encourage its efforts to ensure swift
implementation of the program,” the euro-area leaders said.
“These conditions will allow Greece to achieve renewed growth
and will ensure its future in the euro area.”  French President  Francois Hollande  said the next aid
tranche for Greece must be paid in “the coming weeks” once the
euro area and IMF complete their current review of the nation’s
finances.  Samaras said his request for a two-year extension to meet
fiscal-austerity targets is tied to the questions of a 12
billion-euro funding gap that would result from the longer
timetable and of the sustainability of Greece’s debt, which is
supposed to fall to 120 percent of GDP in 2020. He said these
issues would likely be decided after the creditors’ review.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said he expected Greece to win the green light for the next
disbursement within a month.  ‘Positive Conclusion’  “I’m confident that we will be able to come to a positive
conclusion of this review,” Rehn told Bloomberg Television in
Brussels yesterday. “I expect that this will happen in the
early part of November, before mid-November.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  signaled the
onus is on euro-area governments to unblock the aid for Greece.  “I am very happy with the performance the Greek government
has undertaken,” Juncker, who also heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, told reporters as he emerged from the first
EU summit session. “Now it’s up to the other 16, after Greece
will have delivered, to deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  