-- India’s Sensex Drops, Erase Weekly Gain, on Valuations Concern
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-19T10:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/india-s-sensex-drops-paring-weekly-gain-tcs-falls-itc-rises.html
India’s benchmark stock index fell,
erasing a weekly advance, amid concern the recent rally has made
equity valuations expensive.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 0.7 percent
at 18,667.72, according to preliminary closing prices. About
four shares slid for each that gained on the 30-stock gauge. The
S&P  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  of 50 companies dropped 0.7 percent to
5,679.20.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  retreated 1.3 percent
before its earnings report.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the biggest
home-products maker, fell the most in a month.  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  climbed
to a record after reporting profit that beats estimates.  The Sensex has surged 21 percent this year as  foreigners 
bought $18 billion of domestic shares, the most among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding China. The inflows have
come even as the fastest inflation among BRIC countries curbed
policy makers’ scope to boost an economy that the International
Monetary Fund forecast may grow at the slowest pace in a decade
this year. The Sensex trades at 14.8 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with 12.6 times at the end of May. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF) ’s trades at 11.6 times.  “Company earnings have been reasonably satisfactory so far
but valuations are not all that cheap,”  Gajendra Nagpal , chief
executive officer at Unicon Financial Intermediaries Pvt., said
by phone from New Delhi. “The 5,700-5,800 level on the Nifty
will be difficult to surmount unless we see a gush of flows.
There may not be a significant downside, although there may be
some correction.”  One out of the four Sensex companies that have reported
profits so far for the September quarter have missed analyst
estimates. Earnings for 40 percent of the 30 companies in the
gauge trailed forecasts in the June quarter, compared with 30
percent in the three months ended March and 47 percent three
months earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  