-- India Is Said to Get Query on Wal-Mart Investments
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-10-19T12:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/india-government-gets-query-on-wal-mart-investments-official.html
An Indian lawmaker has written to
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s office, questioning whether  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  violated rules while making Indian investments,
according to a commerce ministry official in New Delhi, who
asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
on the subject.  The prime minister’s office has passed the letter from M.P.
Achutan of the  Communist Party of India  to other departments for
examination and hasn’t requested a probe, the official said.
Wal-Mart said in an e-mailed statement it’s in “complete
compliance” with  India ’s investment laws.  India’s government in September decided to allow foreign
companies to invest in multi-brand retail store chains, a sector
they had previously been barred from.  “All procedures and processes have been duly followed and
details filed with relevant Indian government authorities,”
Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said in the statement.  This week the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer created
a position to monitor international business units amid a
bribery probe at the company’s Mexico operations. Daniel
Trujillo will start as senior vice president and chief
compliance officer of its international operations on Oct. 29,
according to a company memo.  Wal-Mart is being investigated in India over accusations it
secretly invested in supermarkets, the Financial Times reported
today.  Mexico Probe  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission are investigating possible violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The government agencies are
probing allegations that Wal-Mart systematically bribed Mexican
officials so it could more quickly open stores.  In India, Wal-Mart may open retail outlets in the world’s
second most-populous country over the next 12 to 18 months,
 Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s Asia operations, said in a Sept.
21 interview in Hong Kong. At that time, it operated 17
wholesale outlets in India with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s
Bharti Enterprises.  International retailers including  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  have been setting up wholesale operations to gain a foothold
in India, where policy makers had debated the ownership rules
for retail for at least seven years. The change in rules allows
overseas supermarket chains to own as much as 51 percent in
local ventures.  India Venture  In 2007, Wal-Mart formed a joint venture in India for
wholesale stores and has been building a supply chain and
logistics network in the country.  Wal-Mart owns a 50 percent stake in the wholesale-venture
with Bharti. Closely held Bharti runs its own chain of more than
186 Easyday stores including supermarkets.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
India’s largest mobile phone carrier, is a part of the Bharti
group.  Wal-Mart can meet the minimum $100 million investment set
by the government and the requirement for overseas companies to
spend at least 50 percent of that on back-end infrastructure
within three years, Price said.  Wal-Mart fell 0.6 percent to $76.56 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  