-- Iran Risk Lurks in Shadows as Refiner Sells Bonds: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-10-19T07:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/iran-risk-lurks-in-shadows-as-refiner-sells-bonds-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s sole oil refiner is
planning its first bond sale as investors weigh an investment-grade ranking from Fitch Ratings against prospects for dwindling
crude supplies from neighboring  Iran  amid tightening sanctions.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS)  won state approval on
Oct. 16 for the sale, which Chief Executive Officer Yavuz Erkut
said that day would be between $500 million and $1 billion. The
refiner, rated BBB- by Fitch and one step lower at Ba1 by
Moody’s Investors Services, its highest junk level, is raising
funds after the average yield on debt for emerging-market oil
and gas companies tumbled to 3.9 percent from 5.5 percent a year
ago, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. index  showed.  Turkey was among seven countries exempted in June from U.S.
oil sanctions on Iran for a renewable six-month period because
they reduced trade with the Islamic republic, U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said at the time. Tupras pledged on March
30 to cut its purchases of 180,000 barrels a day of Iranian
crude by 20 percent following a U.S. law giving nations until
June 28 to show reductions.  “Tupras was buying Iranian crude on lira-based long-time
contracts, and now with 20 percent of Iranian supplies gone,
they will have to make it up with shorter-term dollar-based
contracts,” Hasan Sener, an analyst at Istanbul-based Oyak
Securities, said by phone yesterday. The bond will finance
additional working capital needs, he said.  Iran Sanctions  Turkey, which imports 95 percent of its oil needs, is
buying more crude from  Russia  and  Saudi Arabia  as it seeks to
extend the U.S. exemption on purchases from Iran, Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Oct. 15. Iran was Turkey’s top
supplier in the first half of this year, according to the energy
market regulator’s website.  Yildiz said Turkey is in talks with U.S. officials on the
waiver, which expires Dec. 6, and expects the dispensation to be
granted. If a country fails to meet the terms of the law, its
banks settling trades with Iran risk being shut out of the U.S.
financial system. The U.S. sanctions are designed to prevent
Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear
program is for peaceful medical purposes and power generation.  “A ban on purchases of Iranian oil due to international
sanctions could be negative for Tupras’s refining margins and
working-capital needs, if Iranian crude cannot be economically
replaced with suitable alternative sources,” Arkadiusz Wicik, a
director at  Fitch Ratings , said in a statement Oct. 17. Fitch
said in its statement that a substantial reduction in Iranian
imports by Tupras “would be treated as an event risk” which
could lead to a review of its rating.  ‘Dominant Position’  Moody’s assigned its Ba1 rating to Kocaeli, Turkey-based
Tupras on Oct. 18, the same as its grade for Turkey. The refiner
is owned by  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest conglomerate.  “The ratings primarily reflect Tupras’s dominant position
in the Turkish market, as well as the execution risks associated
with the company’s ongoing capital expenditure investment
program,” Martin Kohlhase, Moody’s lead analyst for Tupras,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Tupras ratings also
incorporate challenges, including future profitability
compression from reduced sourcing of discounted Iranian crude.”  Tupras hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to arrange
the sale, which would be Turkey’s largest by a non-financial
institution, the company said Oct. 17. Investor meetings start
from today in Europe and the U.S.  Corporate Bonds  Turkish non-financial companies are planning debt sales to
take advantage of declining international rates.  Istanbul-based Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS,
Turkey’s largest brewery that received an investment-grade  Baa3
rating (AEFES)  from Moody’s Oct. 10, is the second company, after
Tupras, to announce an investment-grade bond sale in the past
month as bets increased the nation’s sovereign rating is heading
for an upgrade.  Turkey is “quite close” to being reviewed and its growth
is consistent with a lower inflation rate and current-account
deficit,  Paul Rawkins , senior director at Fitch, told a London
conference last week. Fitch rates Turkey BB+, one level below
investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  places it one step
lower at BB.  Efes, which plans to sell as much as $500 million of bonds
with a maturity of up to 10 years, hired JPMorgan,  Bank of
America Merrill Lynch ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  for the sale, it said Oct. 11.  Two-Year Yield  Calik Holding AS, with interests in media, energy and
construction, won a B rating from S&P Oct. 17 for a planned bond
sale worth $300 million maturing in 2017.  The lira fell 0.1 percent to 1.7988 per dollar at 9:56 a.m.
in Istanbul yesterday, taking its gain this year to 5 percent.  The  yield  on Turkey’s two-year local currency notes rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.36 percent, 60
basis points lower than two-year Brazilian debt. On Sept. 14 the
yield on Turkish debt was 87 basis points lower.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-denominated sovereign bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose two
basis points to 203 today,  JPMorgan (JPM) ’s EMBI Global index showed.
That  compares  with 385 at the end of 2011, and with 135 basis
points for  Brazil .  Credit-default swaps on Turkey climbed one basis point to
150, in comparison with 131 for Russia and 86 for  Poland . Rising
prices show deteriorating perceptions of a borrower’s
creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent should
a government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Four Refineries  “After big corporates such as Tupras set a benchmark for
Turkish corporate bond sales, other smaller companies will
follow suit,” Cem Karakas, chief financial officer of Istanbul-based Yildiz Holding AS, maker of Godiva chocolates, said in an
interview in Istanbul Oct. 17.  Tupras, operating Turkey’s four refineries, aims to
complete a $2.4 billion project by 2015 to turn high-sulfur
products such as fuel-oil into low-sulfur ones including diesel.  The main purpose of the debt sale is diversification of
financial sources, and to help manage liquidity and interest-rate risk, Tupras said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 17.  “ Interest rates  are so low at the moment that they are
opening a window of opportunity for Turkish corporates,” Alper Paksoy, head of research at TEB Investment, an Istanbul-based
unit of BNP Paribas SA, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Tupras is one of the most sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  