-- Iran Oil Tankers Said by Zanzibar to Signal Wrong Flag
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-10-19T11:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/iranian-oil-tankers-said-by-zanzibar-to-be-signaling-wrong-flag.html
Iranian oil tankers are mistakenly
signaling their flag state as Tanzania-Zanzibar and no such
registration took place, according to a government official from
the east African territory.  The 14 ships, previously registered in the Pacific island
of Tuvalu, transmitted data from Sept. 24 to Oct. 13 to show
they changed their names and were flying the Tanzania-Zanzibar
flag, according to data compiled by a unit of Englewood,
Colorado-based  IHS (IHS)  Inc. The company maintains a global shipping
database for the United Nations’ maritime agency.  “This must be a mistake,” Abdullah Kombo, director of
planning, policy and research at Zanzibar’s Ministry of
Infrastructure and Communications, said by phone Oct. 15. The
following day he forwarded confirmation from his country’s ship
registry that the vessels aren’t entitled to fly the flag.  Iranian tankers have been switching flag states as the U.S.
and European Union tighten sanctions on the country over its
nuclear program. The EU banned imports of the Middle East
nation’s oil in July under legislation that also prohibited any
vessel insured in the 27-country bloc from carrying the crude.
Zanzibar, a semi-autonomous part of the United Republic of
Tanzania, said Aug. 10 it would stop registering Iranian
vessels, and  Tuvalu  announced the same decision six days later.  Pension Funds  The tankers are operated by Tehran-based NITC, which says
it is owned by Iranian pension funds. Three phone calls and an
e-mail on Oct. 16 and 17 to Habib-ullah Seyedan, NITC’s
commercial director, weren’t returned. NITC Chairman Hamid
Behbahani didn’t respond to phone calls or an e-mail yesterday.
Three calls to NITC’s switchboard weren’t answered.  Nine of the tankers are going to Asia, according to the
signals. One is in the Mediterranean heading for  Turkey  and the
others are returning to the Persian Gulf. Nine of the vessels
have depths in the water that indicate they may have cargoes on
board. Eleven are very large crude carriers, each able to haul
about 2 million barrels of oil.  Merchant ships transmit data such as location, destination,
name and flag state through so-called automatic identification
systems, designed to avoid collisions with other vessels and
improve safety at sea. IHS maintains the database with
information from ship registries, signals from carriers,
classification societies and other sources, said Richard Hurley,
a senior maritime data specialist at the Redhill, England-based
IHS Fairplay unit.  Iranian Exports  The concentration of the maritime insurance industry in
 Europe  means the EU sanctions extend to about 95 percent of the
global tanker fleet. That leaves Iran, once OPEC’s second-
largest producer, more reliant than ever on its own vessels to
export crude. Shipments probably averaged 1.2 million barrels a
day so far this month, compared with about 2.4 million in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg through Oct. 15.  NITC switched at least 10 tankers to Tanzania-Zanzibar from
registries in Cyprus and Malta before the EU sanctions began
July 1, IHS data show. Those ships are no longer registered and
no new Iranian tankers have been added since then, Kombo said.
The Tanzania Zanzibar International Register of Shipping manages
the flagging of Zanzibar’s ships.  The 14 Iranian carriers now signaling Tanzania-Zanzibar as
their flag state are listed on the Specially Designated
Nationals and Blocked Persons List of the U.S. Treasury’s Office
of Foreign Assets Control. That freezes assets and bars U.S.
citizens from dealing with them. Each vessel appears under its
International Maritime Organization number, a six-digit
identifier assigned to ships for life by the UN agency.  Carriers have no obligation under IMO rules to signal flag
states through the AIS system, Lee Adamson, a spokesman for the
London-based agency, wrote in an e-mail Oct. 17. Mistakes
usually result from operator error, particularly with newly
installed equipment, Adamson said.  While the U.S. and EU say  Iran ’s nuclear research is a
cover for developing atomic weapons, the government in Tehran
contends it is for civilian purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  