-- Italy Anti-Austerity Party Tops 20% for First Time, Poll Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-19T13:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/italy-anti-austerity-party-tops-20-for-first-time-poll-says.html
Backing for Italy’s  5 Star Movement ,
whose leader Beppe Grillo says the nation may have to
restructure debt and exit the euro, surpassed 20 percent for the
first time in an opinion poll before next spring’s elections.  Support for the comic-turned-politician’s movement rose to
21 percent from 19.4 percent a week ago, a poll by the SWG
Institute showed today. That makes it the country’ second-
biggest political force after the Democratic Party, or PD, whose
support was little changed at 25.9 percent, Trieste, Italy-based
SWG said.  Former premier Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party
garnered 14.3 percent, down from 15.1 percent in the previous
poll. The 5 Star movement opposes Prime Minister Mario Monti’s
austerity measures and Grillo has questioned whether  Italy 
should remain in the euro. Discontent among Italians about the
government’s domestic policy has sharply risen recently, Monti
told reporters in Brussels today after a meeting with his
European counterparts.  Monti’s popularity fell to 37 percent from 39 percent last
week, today’s poll also showed. The premier’s rating remains
above an all-time low of 33 percent recorded in June, SWG said.  Today’s poll follows corruption scandals that toppled the
regional government of Lazio, where Rome is located, and the
administration in northern area Lombardy, whose capital is
Milan. The heads of both regions were elected in 2010 with the
support of Berlusconi’s party.  “Recent news of scandals has certainly benefited Grillo’s
party,” Maurizio Pessato, vice president of SWG said in an
interview. “It will be difficult for 5 Star to go beyond 21
percent between now and the general election in April.”  A key test for Grillo’s group and other parties will come
later this month in Sicily, where about 4 million voters will be
asked to elect the region’s assembly and government. Grillo, 64,
opened his movement’s campaign in the island on Oct. 10 by
swimming cross the strait of Messina and is currently touring
Sicily ahead of the vote on Oct. 28. In May the 5 star won four
mayoral seats in northern Italy, including the city of Parma.  SWG’s poll of 1,100 people was conducted Oct. 16-17 and has
a margin of error of 2.96 percent.  -- With assistance from Gregory Viscusi in Brussels and Andrew
Frye in  Rome . Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Andrew Davis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  