-- Italian Cashmere Seller Cucinelli to Boost China Investment
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g
-- 2012-10-19T03:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/italian-cashmere-seller-cucinelli-to-boost-china-investment.html
Brunello Cucinelli (BC) , the Italian
maker of cashmere sweaters worn by  Prince William , plans to add
stores and boost investment in  China  in a bet that demand from
the wealthiest shoppers will hold up in a slowing economy.  The Solomeo, Italy-based company will invest 10 million
euros ($13 million) in China in the next three years after
spending 7 million euros since its 2010 entry, Brunello
Cucinelli, founder of the namesake clothier, said in an
interview.  “China is our light house,” he said yesterday in Hong
Kong. “This is going to be the Chinese century. China is very
important for us.”  Cucinelli, which sells 1,140-euro cashmere sweaters, joins
 Hermes International SCA (RMS) ,  PPR SA (PP)  and  Prada SpA (1913)  in expanding in
the world’s fifth largest luxury market. China’s so-called
absolute luxury segment -- the priciest goods -- where Hermes
and Cucinelli compete, is the fastest-growing part of the market
and will keep outperforming until at least 2014, Bain & Co. has
predicted.  Cucinelli and other so-called absolute luxury companies
will grow more than 10 percent this year, buoyed by demand from
Asian and Latin American consumers, the executive said in a
Sept. 22 interview.  China yesterday reported third-quarter economic growth
eased to 7.4 percent from a year earlier, the seventh straight
deceleration, and the  International Monetary Fund  last week cut
its estimate for 2012 expansion to 7.8 percent from 8 percent.  Cucinelli plans to open four to five outlets per year in
the world’s most populous country over the next three years,
while keeping the brand’s exclusivity for long-term growth, he
said. China is the world’s fifth-biggest luxury market,
accounting for 92 billion  yuan  ($15 billion) of sales in 2011,
according to London-based research company Euromonitor.  The company currently operates eight stores in China, two
in Hong Kong and one in Macau through local distributors.  Chinese Tourists  Attracting Chinese tourists to stores outside the Asian
nation is also part of its growth strategy, said Cucinelli. Such
sales have more than doubled in the past two years, he said.  Sales from stores in China, which accounts for 4 percent of
the group’s total, are expected to increase to 10 percent of the
total within three years, he said. Another 10 percent of sales
will probably come from Chinese tourists outside the country in
three years, an increase from about 1.5 percent currently,
Cucinelli said.  Overall outbound travel numbers from China may rise to 100
million a year by 2020 as economic growth makes travel
affordable to more people, according to the World Tourism
Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  