-- Itau Sinks as Rousseff Plan Hurts Bank Profits: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-10-19T20:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/itau-sinks-as-rousseff-plan-hurts-bank-profits-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s push to drive down consumer
borrowing costs is eroding the value of its biggest banks.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (IBOV) , Brazil’s largest bank by market
value, is trading at 9 times its estimated earnings for the next
12 months, the cheapest relative to the Bovespa index since
December 2009 and down from 10.96 times a month ago. The
country’s three other biggest lenders --  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,
state-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA  and Banco Santander Brasil
SA -- have also fallen to their lowest versus the benchmark in
at least a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts have been trimming earnings estimates for
Brazilian banks amid government pressure to cut consumer credit
costs as the central bank lowers benchmark rates to record lows.
President  Dilma Rousseff  said last month that doing so would
reduce their profits to “civil levels.” Banco do Brasil and
state-run Caixa Economica Federal have led the way with lower
rates and fees, prompting private banks to follow suit.  “The times of very high returns are over,” Gustavo Schroden, an analyst at BES Securities, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The strategy to use state-controlled
banks to force the others to reduce interest rates and service
fees seems natural and will not change. This fiercer competition
is part of the scenario for financial institutions from now
on.”  Itau declined 1.1 percent to 29.50 reais at the close of
trading today in Sao Paulo. Bradesco slid 0.3 percent to 32.35
reais, while Banco do Brasil dropped 0.9 percent to 22.70 reais
and Santander retreated 1.8 percent to 14.63 reais.  Itau Shares Fall  Itau has  fallen  13 percent this year as the Sao Paulo-based
bank cut its average monthly  interest rate  on consumer loans to
3.38 percent earlier in October from 4.2 percent in December,
2011. On Oct. 17, the bank also announced it would reduce some
service fees by as much as 33 percent. Osasco, Brazil-based
Bradesco reduced its monthly average rate from 5.15 percent to
3.83 percent. Banco do Brasil has dropped 4.2 percent, while the
Bovespa index is up 3.8 percent.  “Itau is focused on improving its efficiency by cutting
costs and increasing revenues,” the bank’s press office said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “With this new scenario of
lower profitability, Itau is seeking to raise its income with
services and non-banking financial products, like insurance.”  Bradesco declined to comment. Banco do Brasil and Caixa
didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.  Brazilian consumers paid an average of 35.6 percent on
loans annually in August, down from 46.2 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by the central bank. That’s the
lowest since at least 1994, when the monetary authority began
monitoring the figure. Consumer rates in the U.S. declined to
8.06 percent in August from 11.39 percent a year earlier,
according to Bankrate.com.  ‘Too Early’  It may be premature to reduce earnings forecasts because
lending growth will likely offset falling profits caused by
lower interest rates on loans, said Luis Miguel Santacreu, an
analyst at Brazilian rating company Austin Rating.  “It seems too early to make such a negative forecast for
Brazilian banks,” Santacreu said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “These financial institutions are very well capitalized
and there is a lot of room for credit to expand, comparing the
country’s total financing portfolio with the world average.
Banks could compensate for a decline in revenue in the short
term with a growing loans portfolio.”  Domestic credit provided by Brazilian banks amounted to
98.3 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2011,
compared with a global average of 163.5 percent, according to
the  World Bank .  Outstanding Loans  Banco do Brasil’s lending growth is outpacing Itau and
Bradesco. The bank increased its outstanding loans to 508.2
billion reais in the second quarter, up 20 percent from a year
earlier, according to a regulatory filing. That compares with a
15 percent gain for Itau and a 14 percent rise for Bradesco.  Lending in Brazil  has surged 67 percent since 2009, data
compiled by the central bank show. Expanding credit pushed the
default rate to the highest in almost three years, sapping
consumer demand and threatening to saddle banks with bigger
losses as overburdened consumers take on more debt.  Banco do Brasil and Caixa, both based in Brasilia, have
been lowering interest rates and service fees since August 2011,
when the central bank started cutting the Selic rate. Policy
makers have since reduced the benchmark by 525 basis points, the
most among Group of 20 nations, to a record 7.25 percent.
Rousseff has compelled state-run lenders to cut borrowing costs
as part of an effort to boost growth that includes tax cuts.  ‘Structural’ Changes  The average return on equity for Brazil’s biggest banks,
which fell to 18.2 percent last year from a 2005 peak of about
30 percent, will decline to 16.2 percent this year and 16
percent in 2013, Philip Finch, a strategist at UBS AG in  London ,
wrote in an Oct. 11 note to clients. The average return on
equity is a measure of how efficiently companies generate
income.  “We view ongoing lending rate reductions instigated by
state-controlled banks as structural in nature with an
additional cyclical component, and do not expect lending rates
to return to former levels once GDP growth recovers,” Finch
wrote. UBS lowered its earnings-per-share estimates by an
average of 11 percent for 2012 and 16 percent for 2013 for the
Brazilian banks it covers.  ‘Investment Opportunities’  Caixa, Banco do Brasil, Bradesco and Itau said last month
that they’re cutting credit card rates, with Banco do Brasil
lowering some by as much as half. The state-controlled banks
also reduced fees on banking services this month. The reductions
make it “increasingly difficult for the banks to compensate for
revenue losses on credit card rates,” Rafael Ferraz and
Francisco Kops, analysts at Banco J. Safra in Sao Paulo, wrote
in a note to clients on Oct. 1.  Credit cards account for about 10 percent of total loans
for Itau, compared with 7.1 percent at  Banco Santander Brasil
SA (BSBR) , 6.6 percent at Bradesco and 3 percent at Banco do Brasil,
according to a Sept. 25 report by Deutsche Bank AG.  “The rate cuts are definitely not positive for the
banks,” said Schroden at BES Securities. “After looking at
earnings results in the following quarters, we’ll see how the
banks adjust their strategies and which stocks remain good
investment opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  