-- Jindal Steel Nears $2 Billion Mine Purchase in West Africa
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-19T08:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/jindal-steel-close-to-buying-2-billion-african-iron-ore-mine.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , India’s
second-biggest steelmaker by value, is approaching an  iron ore 
mine acquisition in West  Africa  for at least $2 billion as it
seeks raw material to feed its factories at home and in Oman.  The investment will secure deposits of at least 1 billion
metric tons and include building a transport line, Executive
Director Manish Kharbanda said in an interview, without
identifying the seller. The New Delhi-based company has looked
exhaustively for reserves in Sierra Leone,  Ghana , Mauritania,
 Sudan , Gabon and Liberia, he said.  Jindal Steel, which plans to more than quadruple capacity
by spending as much as 350 billion rupees ($6.5 billion) in the
next two years, is looking to secure raw material sources
following curbs on iron ore mining at home. The New Delhi-based
company, run by billionaire lawmaker Naveen Jindal, ended a
$2.1 billion contract with the Bolivian government in July to
develop the El Mutun iron ore mines following a dispute.  “As long as  Jindal Steel  doesn’t go overboard with the
price it pays, the overseas acquisitions should serve it well,”
said Chirag Shah, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Mumbai, who has
an overweight rating for the stock. “There are risks in western
Africa -- one has to be wise enough not to commit a lot of money
upfront.”  Jindal Steel shares fell as much as 2.8 percent to 405.40
rupees and traded at 405.80 rupees as of 2:25 p.m. in Mumbai.
The shares have fallen 10 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  “We’re in advanced stages of talks, Kharbanda said,
without giving details. “The lesson we learnt from Bolivia is
to not put all our eggs in one basket.”  African Assets  Jindal Steel already operates coal mines in  South Africa 
and  Mozambique  and recently acquired  Canada ’s CIC Energy Corp.,
which is developing a coal mine in  Botswana .  “It’s the familiarity with African culture that draws us
to that continent,” said Kharbanda, who returned from a six-
week trip to western Africa this week. “Managing cultural
diversity is a big challenge in doing acquisitions.”  Other obstacles include uncertainty about the estimated
reserves, lack of infrastructure to ship iron ore from the mines
and political instability, he said. The scourge of transnational
crime, drug and arms trafficking, terrorism and piracy are
threatening West Africa’s slow march to stability, the United
Nations Office for West Africa said in an Oct. 8 press note on
its website.  “Investment in infrastructure is a big factor in
calculating the rate of return,” Kharbanda said. “One
shouldn’t consider western Africa if one is not looking at a
time span of less than eight to 10 years.”  Illegal Mining  In  India , concern over illegal mining and environmental
breaches has prompted the government to restrict mining in the
biggest iron ore producing regions of the country. India’s top
court banned mining in the southern state of Karnataka last year
and agreed to partially lift the ban this year. Goa, the largest
exporting state, halted mining after a government-appointed
panel reported damage to environment.  Goa is the first among seven mineral-rich states the panel
will probe, said Vishwapati Trivedi, former secretary at the
mines ministry, raising concerns the curbs may widen.  Jindal Steel’s capacity will increase to 13 million metric
tons by 2015, according to V.R. Sharma, chief executive officer
of the steel business. The company, which runs a 3 million ton
steel plant in the central state of Chhattisgarh, is building a
mill each in the eastern states of Odisha and Jharkhand and a
factory in Oman.  Spot iron ore prices at  China ’s Tianjin port have risen 33
percent after nearing a three-year low last month. At $115.50 a
ton as of Oct. 18, prices are 23 percent down from this year’s
peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  