-- JPMorgan Readies Clients for Negative Euro Money Yields
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-10-19T21:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/jpmorgan-readies-clients-for-negative-euro-money-yields.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , squeezed along
with other money-market fund providers by low  interest rates ,
has become the first to prepare investors for negative yields
from funds that maintain a constant net-asset value.  Constant NAV share classes of the 3.84 billion euro ($5
billion)  JPMorgan Euro Government Liquidity Fund (JPMEGAA)  and the 13.5
billion euro  Euro Liquidity Fund (JPMEULC)  will be replaced next month
with new share classes that allow the funds to maintain their
stable value by taking shares from investors, causing them to
lose money, the New York-based bank said yesterday in a
 statement . The firm is giving customers until Nov. 18 to switch
to the new share class, to a floating-value share class or
redeem shares.  “It’s not that we think negative yields are imminent, but
we want to be prepared,” Robert Deutsch, JPMorgan’s head of
global liquidity, said today in a telephone interview. He said
some institutional investors, to which the funds cater, have
signaled they would still use the fund if yields turn negative.  Euro-denominated money funds have been extending the
maturity of holdings, broadening their assets, waiving fees and
turning away clients to prevent record low interest rates from
pushing investor returns below zero. Rate cuts prompted
JPMorgan,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to close
or restrict deposits to euro money funds. The  European Central
Bank  cut its deposit rate to zero on July 5, pushing down yields
on the short-term debt to which money funds are restricted.  ‘Promising Avenue’  “Small funds are likely to liquidate should yields turn
negative while large ones will try to accommodate their
investors, and this looks like the most promising avenue for
that,”  Peter Crane , president of research firm Crane Data LLC
in Westborough,  Massachusetts , said in an interview, referring
to the JPMorgan announcement.  The average seven-day yield on funds that buy euro-
denominated  government securities  was at zero percent for the
week ended Oct. 12, according to research firm iMoneyNet, also
based in Westborough, Massachusetts. The average yield on euro
funds eligible to purchase corporate debt was 0.05 percent.  No constant NAV cash product has ever returned a negative
yield to investors, according to JPMorgan’s Deutsch.  The share prices of funds with floating values would
decline if investment returns fail to exceed fees fund managers
impose on clients. The same scenario would cause a constant NAV
product to “break the buck,” as it’s known in the U.S., where
money-fund share prices are kept at $1.  Reserve Primary  The $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund was forced to shut
down in September 2008 after losses on debt issued by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. caused the fund to fall below $1 a share.
That triggered a run on the industry and efforts by regulators
to overhaul fund rules in the U.S.  To avoid breaking the buck, JPMorgan is rewriting the
prospectuses of the two Luxembourg-registered funds and adding
share classes that allow the funds to reverse the normal process
by which constant NAV investors receive returns.  Those funds typically maintain a steady share value by
distributing new shares as investment earnings cause total
assets to rise. The JPMorgan funds would automatically reduce
the number of shares by taking some away from all investors if
total assets drop, an action that isn’t allowed under current
fund rules.  “At the time you redeem, you may get back less than you
originally invested,” the company said in the statement.  JPMorgan was the second-biggest provider of money funds
with $372 billion in assets worldwide as of Sept. 30, according
to Crane Data. Fidelity was the largest with $422 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  