-- NCR Says It Received SEC Subpoena Over Whistle-Blower’s Claims
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ncr-says-it-received-subpoena-on-whistle-blower-s-claims-1-.html
NCR Corp. (NCR) , a maker of automated
teller machines and payment systems, received a subpoena from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over a whistle-
blower’s claims that it may have violated anti-bribery laws.  The company is cooperating with the SEC, a representative
of Duluth, Georgia-based NCR, said yesterday on a  conference
call .  NCR had said in August that it received claims by a
“purported whistle-blower” over aspects of its business
practices in China, the  Middle East  and Africa. The actions
alleged “might constitute violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act,” the August  filing  said.  The company also is cooperating with the Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the U.S.
Attorney’s office for the Northern District of  Georgia , Gavin Bell, NCR’s vice president of  investor relations , said yesterday
on the company’s third-quarter earnings call with analysts.  “We are making good progress toward completing our
internal investigation in a thorough and expeditious manner” in
conjunction with outside counsel, Bell said. The investigation’s
goal is to refute untrue allegations by the whistleblower and
take “appropriate, remedial action” on allegations that may be
true, he said.  Technology companies including Oracle Corp., International
Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. also have dealt
with investigations related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
in recent years.  Lou Casale, a spokesman for NCR, said in an e-mail that the
company has retained the law firm Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP to
assist in its investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  