-- News Corp.’s Ailes Extends Pact to Run Fox News for 4 Years
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-19T20:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/news-corp-s-ailes-extends-pact-to-run-fox-news-for-4-years-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Roger Ailes, who built
Fox News into the most-watched cable-news outlet, signed a four-
year contract extension to lead the network and Fox Television
Stations.  Ailes, 72, will remain chairman and chief executive of Fox
News and chairman of the Fox stations, New York-based News Corp.
said today in an e-mailed statement. He will continue as a
senior adviser to News Corp. Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch .  The renewal comes ahead of News Corp.’s planned split into
separate publishing and entertainment companies, due to take
place by the middle of next year. Murdoch has made a number of
executive changes and is considering giving son James oversight
of the company’s U.S. TV businesses outside of Ailes’s control,
people with knowledge of the situation said last month.  Ailes is among the company’s highest-paid executives,
making more than $21 million in salary, bonus and stock awards
in the fiscal year that ended June 30, according to company
filings. Ailes, who founded Fox News in 1996, will also continue
to run Fox Business News, local Fox broadcast stations and its
syndication unit.  Fox News was expected to generate more than $1.8 billion in
revenue in 2012, according to SNL Kagan.  Dan Berger, a spokesman for News Corp., wouldn’t specify
when the renewal starts. The extension will at least go through
2016, meaning Ailes will manage Fox News past the next U.S.
presidential election.  Network Pioneer  Ailes, who worked for Republican presidents including
 Richard Nixon ,  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush , pioneered a
more partisan approach to U.S. news coverage favoring
Republicans and issues supported by the party. Its ratings have
consistently beat  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
MSNBC, which has mirrored Fox’s approach with an agenda more
favorable to Democrats.  News Corp. fell 2 percent to $24.91 in New York. The Class
A shares have  gained  40 percent this year.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp.
units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  