-- Noda Fails to Reach Deal With Opposition on Deficit Bill
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-19T09:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/noda-fails-to-reach-deal-with-opposition-on-deficit-bill-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  failed to reach agreement with the two largest opposition
parties on passing legislation needed to fund  government
spending  amid a standoff over when to call elections.  Noda met today with Liberal Democratic Party leader Shinzo Abe and New Komeito head Natsuo Yamaguchi. The two parties
supported legislation passed in August doubling the five percent
sales tax in return for Noda’s pledge to call elections “soon”
and are blocking a bill authorizing deficit financing bonds
needed to pay for the rest of this year’s budget until the prime
minister follows through.  “I am fully aware of the weight of my words when I said I
would call an election soon and I need to prepare the
environment to make a decision,” Noda told reporters in Tokyo.
“If we abandon the deficit financing bill the country will run
out of money.”  The legislative deadlock leaves the government with few
options to revive a faltering economy being hit by a drop in
exports due to a territorial dispute with  China , its biggest
trading partner. Noda this week ordered his cabinet to draw up
stimulus steps by November that may use up to 1.3 trillion yen
($16.4 billion) in reserves from this year’s budget.  Abe, who will become prime minister if his party prevails
in an election that must be called by August, said Noda had
presented no new proposals in the meeting.  “To be honest, I am extremely disappointed,” Abe said.
“It was a tough meeting. Mr. Yamaguchi and I made harsh
comments.”  ‘No Intention’  While saying he had “no intention of clinging to power,”
Noda said he also wants to pass legislation aimed at reducing
the number of seats in parliament and set up a framework to
revise the social security system.  Polls indicate Noda’s  Democratic Party  of  Japan  will lose
to the LDP in the next election. In another blow to the
government, Justice Minister Keishu Tanaka today skipped a
cabinet meeting and was admitted to the hospital for tests.
Public broadcaster NHK Television said he would resign after he
admitted to having taken donations from a foreign national and
attended a gangster’s wedding years ago.  Noda needs to call a new session of parliament to pass the
deficit financing bill. He said today he will call the new
session at an undetermined time and continue to try to gain
opposition understanding regarding the legislation.  The sixth Japanese prime minister in as many years, Noda’s
approval rating was 34 percent in a Yomiuri newspaper poll
published Oct. 3, compared with 65 percent when he took office
in September 2011. Support for his DPJ was at 18 percent, while
that of the LDP was 28 percent. Almost 45 percent had no party
preference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  