-- Nordgold Offers $300 Million in Stock, Cash to High River Owners
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-10-19T12:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/nordgold-offers-300-million-in-stock-cash-to-high-river-owners.html
Nordgold NV (NORD) , owned by billionaire
Russian Alexey Mordashov, offered to buy out the minorities of
unit  High River Gold Mines Ltd. (HRG)  for $300 million in stock and
cash as part of a goal to increase the parent’s market value.  The deal, valuing the unit at $1.2 billion, offers 0.285 of
a Nordgold global depositary receipt or C$1.40 ($1.42) in cash
for each High River share, Nordgold said today in a statement.  Nordgold plans to raise the proportion of its London-traded
stock in public hands, and boost trading volume and market value
by paying for High River with the parent’s equity, according to
Chief Executive Officer Nikolai Zelenski. Nordgold trades at a
discount to Russian peers Polyus Gold International Ltd. and
 Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  because of its smaller free-float.  “We hope minorities will choose a share swap rather than
cash,” Zelenski said today. “We consider Nordgold being
undervalued, partly because of the low free-float.”  The parent, which owns 75 percent of Toronto-traded High
River, would more than double its free-float to 23 percent from
10.6 percent if all minorities opt to swap their stakes for
Nordgold shares, Zelenski told a call today. Nordgold set aside
as much as $200 million of funds to buy out minorities, he said.  In July, the company said 28 percent of minorities, with a
total 7 percent of High River, agreed to take Nordgold stock.  Nordgold plans to issue as much as 60 million new shares in
the deal and Mordashov’s stake in the parent may fall to as low
as 77 percent from more than 90 percent. The Russian company
expects to save $3 million a year by delisting High River from
the Toronto bourse during the first quarter, Zelinski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  