-- Novo Nordisk Wins EU Panel’s Recommendation for Tresiba
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-19T15:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/novo-nordisk-wins-eu-panel-s-recommendation-for-tresiba.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  won backing from a
European Union advisory panel for Tresiba, a rival to  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
top-selling Lantus insulin, paving the way for increased
diabetes-market competition and sending its stock to an all-time
high.  Tresiba, also known as insulin degludec, was recommended by
the  European Medicines Agency’s  Committee for Medicinal Products
for Human Use, the London-based agency said in a statement
today. The European Commission usually follows the panel’s
recommendation. The treatment, approved in Japan last month, is
also under review in the U.S.  Novo, the world’s largest insulin maker, needs Tresiba, a
long-acting insulin analogue, to wrest market share from Sanofi
in the diabetes field. Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo’s older
product, Levemir, has been trailing Lantus, which garnered 3.92
billion euros ($5.1 billion) in sales last year.  “This new insulin is key for future growth” at Novo
Nordisk, Philippe Lanone and Beatrice Muzard, analysts at
Natixis Securities in Paris, wrote in a Sept. 12 note to
clients. They estimate Tresiba may deliver annual peak sales of
19.5 billion kroner ($3.4 billion) by 2025.  All-Time High  Novo Nordisk  shares  rose 2.2 percent in Copenhagen trading
to 970.50 kroner, the highest price since the company went
public in 1991. The stock has gained 50 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends, outstripping an 18 percent gain
in the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   “This is the first insulin approved in  Europe  at a higher
strength than the EU-wide standard,” the EMA said in today’s
statement. Tresiba “is expected to respond to the growing need
for higher-dose insulin.”  Between 200,000 and 700,000 diabetes patients in the EU
currently need higher-dose injections, according to the
regulator.  “We are very happy about the positive opinion by the
CHMP,” Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, Novo’s chief science officer,
said in an e-mailed  statement . Novo is confident it will be able
to soon provide Tresiba to patients in Europe, he said.  Diabetes afflicted 366 million people worldwide last year,
according to the  International Diabetes Federation . Drugmakers
are developing new products as the market is likely to grow to
more than $58 billion in 2018 from $35 billion now,  Standard &
Poor’s  said on Oct. 4. The disease, caused by a lack of insulin
needed to convert blood sugar into energy, can lead to kidney
damage, blindness, heart problems and death, if untreated.  Steady Stream  Long-acting insulins such as Lantus seek to replicate the
steady stream of the hormone that healthy people produce over 24
hours. Degludec has a longer duration of action than Lantus and
can be dosed in a more flexible way, according to Novo.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  this year extended
the review period for Tresiba. The agency plans an advisory
committee meeting on Nov. 8 to discuss the medicine’s benefits
and disadvantages.  “Assuming no further delays in the U.S., Novo should have
Tresiba approved in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  during the first
quarter of 2013,” Lars Hevreng, an analyst with SEB Enskilda in
 Stockholm , wrote in a Sept. 3 note to clients.  Sanofi shares were down 1.3 percent in Paris trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  