-- Obama Will Beat Romney in Colorado, Senator Bennet Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/obama-will-beat-romney-in-colorado-senator-bennet-predicts.html
Democratic Senator Michael Bennet
predicted that President Barack Obama would win Bennet’s home
state of  Colorado , one of the most competitive in the
presidential race.  “The president’s going to carry Colorado; I think he’s
ahead” of Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , Bennet said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  One of the reasons Obama will carry Colorado is because his
“field operation that’s out here is like nothing we’ve ever
seen before,” Bennet said. “The ground game that the president
has in place here is going to be something that the Romney folks
just can’t overcome.”  Bennet’s comments may give fuel to the race in Colorado, a
state that Obama’s political chief  David Plouffe  left off the
list of competitive states where he said the president was doing
well. Plouffe listed  New Hampshire ,  Nevada ,  Iowa , and  Ohio .  Looking ahead to a post-election congressional session,
Bennet said the odds are “50-50” that the  U.S. Congress  will
reach a tax-and-spending deal that would include a down payment
on  deficit  reduction with a framework that would guide a long-
term approach. Such an approach would include an increase in
revenue and an overhaul of entitlement spending, he said.  Unless Congress acts to avert it, the U.S. faces a so-
called fiscal cliff in January, when $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts over 10 years will start and taxes will increase.
Democrats propose letting the George W. Bush-era tax cuts expire
for top earners, while Republicans want spending reductions and
insist they won’t raise taxes.  Long-Term Plan  Bennet is part of a bipartisan group of senators who have
been meeting to discuss possible solutions to the nation’s
growing deficit. The group has discussed reviving a proposal by
the leaders of Obama’s failed 2010 deficit-cutting commission to
require Congress to act on a long-term plan.  “I hate to be such a coward on this one, but the way I
honestly see it is that it’s 50/50,” Bennet said. “There are
days I get up and I feel like people are going to come together
on this and exercise some leadership. And then there are other
days where a variety of things lead me to conclude that we’re
going to have to surf over the fiscal cliff in order to put it
back together again.”  Bennet said the group of eight senators doesn’t have the
backing of the Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and that the group would need that for their approach
to succeed.  Leadership Role  “One of the things we’ve learned over the last months is
that this has to be a conversation that includes the leadership
at every step of the way, both Democratic and Republican, and
we’re having those conversations,” Bennet said.  Bennet also said Democrats must put on the table an
overhaul of entitlement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare,
while Republicans will have to agree to revenue increases.  Bennet likened the outcome of the presidential race to his
run for the Senate in 2010. He said he won his Senate seat by
“one vote a precinct.”  “I expect the president will do better than that, because
he’s  Barack Obama  and not Michael Bennet,” he said.  In anticipation of the last presidential debate on foreign
policy on Oct. 22, Bennet called on critics of Obama to let the
investigation into a Sept. 11 terrorist attack in  Libya  “sort
itself out and figure out the intelligence.” That attack killed
U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other
Americans.  “I actually think that people here don’t understand what
that part of the debate -- why we’re having that discussion and
debate as part of the presidential campaign,” Bennet said.  Libyan Issue  In the two previous debates, Romney has criticized Obama
for the administration’s suggestion soon after the attack that
the incident grew out of a spontaneous protest against an
offensive anti-Muslim video circulated on YouTube.  Obama and other administration officials have countered
that they cited acts of terror from the start and that changing
explanations stemmed from evolving intelligence reports.  In an Oct. 16 debate, Obama told Romney the suggestion that
“anybody on my team would play politics or mislead when we’ve
lost four of our own, governor, is offensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  