-- Obama’s Medicare Cost-Control Plan Relies on Unsure Steps
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/obama-s-medicare-cost-control-plan-relies-on-unsure-steps.html
President  Barack Obama  argues that
Republican  Mitt Romney ’s tax-cut proposals don’t add up, saying
they rely on unproven assumptions to show they wouldn’t add to
the federal deficit.  A similar complaint could be made against Obama on
Medicare, the federal health-insurance plan for the elderly and
disabled, which he has said is a key driver of the  deficit .  The president’s approach to Medicare cost containment,
embodied in his new health-care law and budget proposals, relies
on experimental measures that don’t have a track record. Among
the issues Obama doesn’t directly address is the share of
health-care outlays consumed by beneficiaries in their final
year of life -- more than 25 percent of Medicare spending.  “There’s a whole lot of uncertainty about this stuff,”
said  Robert Reischauer , a Medicare trustee and former director
of the  Congressional Budget Office . “Would I be surprised if
things turn out to be 10, 15 percent better than projected? No I
wouldn’t be. I wouldn’t be either if things turn out to be 10,
15 percent worse than expected.”  Obama’s backup plan, an independent board empowered to
reduce Medicare payments to health-care providers if savings
fall short, also could be stymied. Congress can override its
decisions by a three-fifths majority or Senate Republicans might
filibuster the panel’s appointments. The board isn’t permitted
to reduce coverage for Medicare beneficiaries or raise the
Medicare tax that workers pay on their wages.  Avoiding Choices  Obama and Republican nominee Romney are both ducking
unpopular choices on the way health care is provided, said  Bob Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition, an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that is an advocate for action
to lower federal deficits.  “Are we overcompensating physicians? Are we over-treating
patients? Is there too much intensity of service or are end-of-
life services too high?” Bixby cited as examples.  Even as several  studies show  that more than a quarter of
Medicare spending goes to care in the last year of life,
resistance to curbing those costs is strong. A proposal to pay
for counseling on end-of-life medical decisions such as “living
wills” was dropped from Obama’s health-care legislation after a
political backlash, with former Republican vice presidential
candidate Sarah Palin condemning the idea as a “death panel.”  Capping Costs  Medicare, created in 1965 as part of President  Lyndon Johnson ’s “Great Society,” provided health insurance to 49
million elderly and disabled Americans in 2011, according to the
U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The $483
billion in spending for the program last year accounted for 13.4
percent of the federal budget, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  A budget plan Obama submitted to Congress would cap the
annual increase in Medicare costs at the growth rate of gross
domestic product plus 0.5 percentage points -- a target that
Republican vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan  also adopted
for his Medicare cost-cutting plan. Ryan would convert Medicare
from a defined-benefit plan to a “premium support” model,
offering subsidies for individuals to purchase insurance.  “The president has been very clear that controlling the
growth of health-care costs is essential to our long term
economic security,” Obama campaign spokesman Adam Fetcher said
in an e-mailed statement. The new health-care law is “making
tremendous progress, and the president’s budget contains
additional reforms that would build even more on that success.”  Congress Balks  Still, recent history shows Congress has balked at
permitting reductions in Medicare payments to politically
influential groups, even if the cuts are mandated by law. A
provision in the 1997 Balanced Budget Act cutting Medicare-
reimbursement rates to physicians has been annually overridden
by Congress, a legislative maneuver now so much a part of the
rhythm of  Washington  it has a nickname: “The Doc Fix.”  Reductions in provider payments by the independent panel
that Obama’s health law established and shortfalls in subsidies
for insurance coverage under the Ryan plan would run into the
same political obstacles, Bixby said.  “The underlying problem here is both are trying to do a
magic savings approach: Wave the magic wand,” Bixby said. “No
cap is going to work if it’s not realistic. That’s what we’ve
learned from the Doc Fix. You can put it into law, but if it’s
totally unrealistic it isn’t going to happen.”  The Obama-backed Affordable Care Act includes a series of
steps intended to improve Medicare finances, both in the
immediate years and over the long haul.  Medicare Advantage  Among the moves in the early years are a reduction in
payments to private Medicare Advantage insurance plans, new
taxes on high-income earners, and a curtailment of growth in
reimbursement rates for medical providers other than doctors
through annual downward adjustments in payments based on the
growth in economy-wide productivity.  Those changes will maintain Medicare’s solvency through
2024, which otherwise would only last until 2016, said Tricia Neuman, a senior vice president at the  Kaiser Family Foundation 
and director of the health research group’s Medicare program.  Even so, Medicare chief actuary  Richard Foster  cautioned in
a 2012 report that it would require “unprecedented changes”
for health-care providers to lower costs enough to match
improvements in the overall economy’s productivity.  “The best available evidence indicates that most health-
care providers cannot improve their productivity to this degree
-- or even approach such a level -- as a result of the labor-
intensive nature of these services,” Foster wrote in an
actuarial opinion contained in Medicare’s 2012 trustees report.  Romney Plan  To be certain, Romney has provided few specifics on how he
would contain Medicare costs other than by converting the
program to a subsidy for individual insurance purchases. In
contrast to Ryan and Obama, he doesn’t include a cap in the
annual growth of Medicare expenditures in his plans.  Romney has also offered few details on his  tax plan . He
says he will cut individual income tax rates by 20 percent,
eliminate the estate tax and alternative minimum tax and reduce
corporate income taxes without adding to the  budget deficit . He
has said he will pay for them by closing loopholes, though he
hasn’t identified which ones.  Peter Orszag , Obama’s former budget director and one of the
architects of the health law, said White House policies already
have contributed to a “remarkable” slowdown in Medicare cost
growth.  The program’s costs grew by 3.2 percent during the fiscal
year ended in September 2012, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. By contrast, annual growth averaged more than 10
percent over the previous four decades, Orszag said.  ‘Leading Edge’  Orszag attributed the slower increases to “the leading
edge” of changes in medical-care practices such as the use of
computer software in medical treatment decisions that “are
being actively encouraged by Medicare policies.”  The health law also calls for programs to test longer-term
strategies to lower costs. Among them are financial penalties
for hospitals with high readmission or infection rates and
research on comparative effectiveness of medical procedures. It
also authorizes accountable-care organizations, which award
hospitals and physician groups a share of any savings they can
produce by streamlining care and reducing unnecessary or
wasteful services.  “They’ve planted a thousand seeds and are hoping one or
two of them will bloom,” said Marc Goldwein, senior policy
director for the Committee for a Responsible  Federal Budget , a
nonprofit Washington group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  