-- Oil Falls Most in Two Weeks on Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-10-19T19:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/oil-heads-for-weekly-gain-as-keystone-pipeline-shut.html
Oil tumbled the most in two weeks as
 Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. and General Electric Co. missed quarterly sales
forecasts, raising concern that slowing economic growth will
reduce oil demand.  Crude prices and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined
for a second day on the companies’ results and as euro-area
leaders failed to discuss further aid for Spain at a summit in
Brussels. Oil also retreated as the euro weakened against the
dollar amid speculation the debt crisis is worsening.  “The weak earnings are making people nervous about the
shape of the economy and about oil demand,” said Michael Lynch,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The dollar is up and stocks are down, and
that’s pushing oil lower.”  Crude for November delivery fell $2.05, or 2.2 percent, to
settle at $90.05 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the biggest decline since Oct. 3. Futures slipped 2 percent this
week and are down 8.9 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement dropped $2.28, or 2 percent,
to end the session at $110.14 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  The S&P 500 slumped as much as 1.9 percent after Microsoft
and  GE (GE)  reported revenue that fell short of analysts’
predictions. Microsoft, the largest software maker, said
yesterday that the fiscal first quarter was affected by
declining sales of Windows, its operating system. GE cut its
2012 revenue-growth forecast on weaker third-quarter demand.  U.S. Supplies  U.S. oil  stockpiles  jumped to a two-month high last week as
output reached the most in 17 years, the Energy Department said
Oct. 17. Gasoline demand has slipped 6.2 percent since August.  “The economy is the primary driver in the market,” said
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We have a well-supplied market in
the U.S. and demand is weak.”  U.S. oil consumption declined to a four-year low last month
on economic weakness, the American Petroleum Institute reported
today in  Washington . Total petroleum deliveries, a measure of
demand, dropped 3.8 percent from a year earlier to 18.2 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since September 2008.  Oil may fall next week on concern that supply is outpacing
demand. Nineteen of 33 analysts, or 58 percent, forecast crude
will decrease through Oct. 26. Seven respondents, or 21 percent,
predicted a gain and seven forecast little change.  Euro Falls  Crude also declined as the euro retreated as much as 0.4
percent against the dollar. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
reduce oil’s investment appeal.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said after the euro-
region summit in Brussels that his nation doesn’t feel that it’s
under any pressure to ask for a bailout, fueling concern the
debt crisis will be prolonged. Germany and  France  agreed to
enforce common banking regulation for the euro area’s 6,000
lenders by the end of 2013.  “The macro economy is overshadowing the market,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “There is a lot of disappointment after the EU meeting
in Brussels.”  Oil also declined after failing to sustain gains above $93
a barrel, said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. Oil rose to $93.05 earlier
as TransCanada Corp. shut the Keystone pipeline to the U.S.  “We have such big resistance at $93 and the outside
broader market is running the show,” he said. “The dollar is
up and we have stocks falling.”  Keystone Restart  TransCanada (TRP)  closed the 590,000-barrel-a-day Keystone line
Oct. 17 for three days of repairs after finding an “anomaly”
in a section running from  Missouri  to  Illinois . Keystone moves
oil from  Canada  to Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York futures.  The company plans to restart the line tomorrow, James Millar, a company spokesman in Calgary, said in an e-mail
yesterday. TransCanada may have to deliver extra crude in
November to make up the amount shippers will lose this month as
a result of the shut-in, he said.  “The news about Keystone initially drove prices up, but as
people digested it, they realized it’s not as important as they
thought,” Lynch said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
December, a measure of expected swings in futures and a gauge of
options prices, rebounded from the lowest level since May.
Prices posted a daily change of 25 cents or less during each of
the past five sessions. Volatility was 29.2 percent at 3:20 p.m.
in New York. It was 28 percent each of the past two days.  Electronic trading  volume  on the Nymex was 549,376
contracts as of 3:30 p.m. Volume totaled 533,036 contracts
yesterday, 1.1 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.59 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 