-- Hong Kong Dollar Touches HK$7.75 Per Dollar, Strong End of Peg
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-19T08:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/hong-kong-dollar-touches-hk-7-75-per-dollar-strong-end-of-peg.html
The Hong Kong dollar touched HK$7.75
versus the greenback in  New York  trading hours, a move that may
trigger intervention by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  Hong Kong’s currency is allowed to trade between HK$7.75
and HK$7.85. When it reaches the strong end of the permitted
trading range, the HKMA offers to buy U.S. dollars to prevent
further appreciation. The linked exchange rate was adopted in
1983 when negotiations between China and the U.K. over the
city’s shift to Chinese control spurred capital outflows.  The  Federal Reserve  unveiled a third round of quantitative
easing last month, generating inflows into the city’s assets.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced for a seventh straight
week and Hong Kong home prices are at record levels.  China’s
economy  expanded 7.4 percent last quarter, matching economists’
estimates, while industrial production, retail sales and fixed-
asset investment accelerated in September.  “With an influx of capital on the back of QE3 and an
improving China outlook, it is now a live show testing the
HKMA’s loyalty and commitment to the peg,” said Raymond Yeung,
a Hong Kong-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The Hong Kong dollar was little changed at HK$7.7506
against the U.S. currency as of 4:05 p.m. local time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spot rate last tested the
strong end of its permitted range in December 2009.  The peg’s strong-side “convertibility undertaking” hasn’t
been triggered as it’s only the bid price that hit HK$7.75, a
Hong Kong Monetary Authority spokeswoman who declined to be
identified citing policy, said by telephone today.  “The  Hong Kong dollar  market has been stable and orderly
recently,” the spokeswoman said in a consequent e-mail. “The
Hong Kong dollar exchange rate has been trading close to the
strong side of the convertibility zone recently due to market
demand for the Hong Kong dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  