-- Hong Kong Stock Book Longest Winning Streak Since 2011
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-10-19T08:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/hong-kong-stock-book-longest-winning-streak-since-2011.html
Hong Kong ’s benchmark  stock  index
rose, capping its longest winning streak since January 2011, as
cement and automakers advanced today. Gains were limited after a
 China  central bank adviser said the nation won’t provide big
economic stimulus measures.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , China’s biggest supplier of the
building material, rose 2.6 percent, extending yesterday’s gains
as Bank of America Merrill Lynch turned positive on the sector.
Dongfeng Motor Group Co., a Chinese automaker, gained 4.7
percent after Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. said car
sales in the nation may grow in October. Chinese developers fell
on a report that a researcher at the Ministry of Housing said
China will maintain limits on property purchases.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose a seventh day, gaining 0.2 percent
to 21,551.76 at the close, with about three stocks advancing for
every two that fell on the 49-member gauge. The measure advanced
2 percent for the week, a seventh straight week of advance. If
the streak extends next week, it would be the longest run since
November 2006.  “People believe that  China’s economy  has bottomed and
there won’t be any hard landing,” said Francis Lun, managing
director at Hong Kong-based brokerage Lyncean Holdings Ltd.
“The general mood is optimism. Even though the macro economy
seems to be doing well, export growth is still very low for
China. The Hong Kong market has been rising, which means a
correction can happen any time and there may be some profit
taking.”  China Growth  Volume on the Hang Seng Index was 2.4 percent below the 30-
day average for the time of day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies, also known as the H-share index, gained 0.5 percent
to 10,683.61. The measure rose yesterday after China reported
third-quarter economic growth that matched economists’
estimates, and after Xinhua News Agency cited Premier  Wen Jiabao 
as saying China’s “economic growth has started to stabilize.”  The Hong Kong equity benchmark rose 3.3 percent this month
through yesterday, extending last month’s 7 percent advance, as
Chinese lenders gained on prospects for more stimulus measures
in the world’s second-largest economy. The Hang Seng Index
 traded  at 11.3 times estimated earnings on average yesterday,
compared with 13.9 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
12.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Black Monday  Futures on the  S&P 500  slid 0.1 percent today. The gauge
fell 0.2 percent yesterday as technology shares dropped after
Google Inc. reported third-quarter profit and sales that missed
estimates. Google slumped 8 percent after its earnings report
was filed inadvertently during regular trading hours.  Today marks the 25th anniversary of the so-called Black
Monday, the worst one-day global stock crash in history. The
Hang Seng Index tumbled 33 percent on Oct. 26, 1987, following a
four-day suspension by the city’s stock exchange.  “It was disbelief, hopelessness,” said Lyncean’s Lun, who
owned a real-estate investment company in Hong Kong during the
crash. “They thought if you stop the market then the market
will return to normal, but of course that did not happen, the
market crashed. Now you have  program trading  dominating the
equity markets around the world. A glitch in a computer could
plunge the stock markets around the world into the abyss.
There’s much more system risk than before.”  Anhui Conch rose 2.6 percent to HK$27.25, while  China
Shanshui Cement Group Ltd. (691)  advanced 3.6 percent to HK$6.03.
Cement shares rose yesterday after Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said demand for the material will rise 6.7 percent in 2013 from
5.3 percent in 2012.  Carmakers Climb  Dongfeng Motor climbed 4.7 percent to HK$10.80. BYD Co., a
maker of electric vehicles that’s partially owned by billionaire
 Warren Buffett , advanced 1.8 percent to HK$15.64.  Passenger vehicle sales volume in China may grow 10 percent
in October from a year earlier as sentiment improves, Daiwa
analyst Jeff Chung wrote in a report dated yesterday.  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  rose 4.3 percent to HK$14.24 after
winning a land grant to develop a second casino resort in Macao.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , a solar-power company,
advanced 5.5 percent to HK$1.34 after the Shanghai Securities
News reported that China may issue more policies to support the
industry.  China’s local-government investment plans probably won’t
materialize quickly because they’re reliant on the central
government and banks for funding, said Song Guoqing, an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China. A strong rebound in growth is
unlikely, Song said in a speech at  Tsinghua University  in
Beijing yesterday.  Investment Falls  Foreign direct investment  in China fell for the 10th time
in 11 months as companies reined in spending amid a slowdown in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Spending fell 6.8 percent
from a year earlier to $8.43 billion, the Ministry of Commerce
said in Beijing today.  A measure of property developers had the  biggest drop  among
the Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups. State-controlled
China Resources Land Ltd. slid 1.3 percent to HK$16.96.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., a builder based in the
southern city of Guangzhou, declined 2.1 percent to HK$3.26.  China should avoid large profits in the real-estate
industry, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing Wang Juelin,
a researcher at the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural
Development. China will continue limits on property purchases
for at least the next one to two years, the report cited Wang as
saying.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent to 21,558.
The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  fell 4.2 percent to 14.92, the lowest
since October 2006. The level indicates traders expect a swing
of 4.3 percent for the equity benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  