-- Hong Kong Firm to Pay $14 Million to Settle Insider Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-10-19T02:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/hong-kong-firm-to-pay-14-million-to-settle-insider-case.html
Well Advantage Limited, a Hong Kong-
based firm controlled by billionaire Zhang Zhi Rong, agreed to
pay $14 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that it
profited from illegal trades before  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s announcement
that it would buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   The settlement, which still must be approved by U.S. Judge
Richard J. Sullivan in  Manhattan , amounts to double the illicit
profits Well Advantage is alleged to have made when it
stockpiled shares of Nexen based on confidential knowledge of
the pending deal, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in
a  statement  yesterday.  Nexen’s stock  rose  more than 50 percent on July 23 after
Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, said it
would pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire the Calgary-based
company. Well Advantage’s owner, Zhang, is the controlling
shareholder of  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings
Ltd. (1101) , a Hong Kong-based company that engages in significant
business activities with Cnooc, the SEC said.  “The speedy resolution of this case shows the serious
consequences that await traders who engage in  insider trading ,”
said Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy head of the SEC’s enforcement unit
that polices for market abuse.  Well Advantage neither admits nor denies the charges,
according to the SEC statement. The agency has sharpened its
focus on Chinese companies in recent years.  Personal Issue  Alan Brudner, an attorney for Well Advantage, declined to
comment. Zhang declined to comment before the approval of the
settlement, according to Summer Si from iPR Ogilvy in  Hong Kong ,
which handles Zhang’s public relations.  China Rongsheng said today it isn’t in an “appropriate”
position to comment on the personal issues of its chairman. The
Chinese shipbuilder had said earlier that its day-to-day
operations wouldn’t be affected by the case as Zhang has a non-
executive role.  Zhang, 43, is the chairman and founder of Rongsheng, and
Chinese developer  Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845)   Rongsheng won an order from state-owned Cnooc to build a
deepwater pipe-laying vessel in 2007 and Cnooc was one of the
cornerstone investors in its initial public offering in Hong
Kong in November 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  