-- Morgan Stanley’s Gorman Set to Lose $2.9 Million in Pay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-10-19T12:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/morgan-stanley-s-gorman-set-to-lose-2-9-million-in-pay.html
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  is set to lose stock once valued at almost
$2.9 million as the bank misses profitability and share-
performance goals.  Gorman, 54, probably will forfeit so-called performance-
based stock units awarded in 2009 that required the New York-
based firm earn a 12 percent  average return on equity  and have
shareholder gains ranking in the top half of a 10-company group
during his first three years as CEO. He could have earned shares
worth almost $6 million if he exceeded those goals.  Instead, Morgan Stanley has produced an ROE of less than 6
percent with one quarter remaining and ranks ninth in its peer
group in terms of shareholder return, beating only Credit Suisse
Group AG. Gorman, who’s criticized Wall Street pay as too high,
has pledged to improve results, in part by shrinking fixed-
income trading and buying the rest of a brokerage joint venture.  “With pay for performance, you don’t always get paid,”
said Rose Marie Orens, a senior partner at New York-based
Compensation Advisory Partners LLC. “If you always got paid,
we’d have to wonder how you stacked the deck. This plan is not a
walk in the park, it sounds like they really did set up a
performance plan that made sense.”  Colm Kelleher, 55, who now oversees the firm’s trading
division, received performance-based stock units, or PSUs,
valued at $2.36 million, according to the bank’s 2010 proxy
filing. Ken deRegt, 56, then-chief risk officer who now runs
fixed-income trading, got $1.87 million of PSUs.  Shareholder’s Vote  While executives don’t like missing out on the payments,
the plan shows investors the bank is committed to rewarding real
performance, Orens said. Citigroup Inc. faced criticism after
then-CEO Vikram Pandit, 55, who resigned this week, had his pay
package rejected by shareholders in a nonbinding vote in April.  Directors had awarded Pandit about $15 million in total
compensation for 2011 and granted him a separate, multiyear
retention package that was potentially worth $40 million.
Citigroup shares slumped 44 percent in the year, prompting more
than half of shareholders to oppose the  executive compensation .  About 95 percent of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shareholders approved
the firm’s executive compensation for 2011, in which Gorman’s
pay was cut by a quarter to $10.5 million and included $1.94
million of PSUs. The $2.85 million in PSUs, now worth $1.73
million as the firm’s share price has decreased, were part of a
$15 million pay package for 2009.  ‘Still Overpaid’  Banks haven’t cut compensation enough when faced with
falling profits and “the industry is still overpaid,” Gorman
said in an interview with the Financial Times published this
month. Morgan Stanley will consider a new round of cost-cutting
next year, and that could include lower pay, Gorman told the FT.  Gorman bought 100,000 shares of Morgan Stanley in August
2011 as a sign of confidence after the stock dropped 19 percent
in two weeks. He owns 1.18 million shares, according to a
regulatory filing, valued at $21 million at yesterday’s closing
price.  Gorman could still receive a fraction of the 2009 award. He
would get one-eighth of the shares if Morgan Stanley exceeds the
total shareholder return of another bank to move into eighth
place in the group. Morgan Stanley has slid about 40 percent
since the end of 2009.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which has  dropped 
about 38 percent, is the only firm within 10 percentage points
of Morgan Stanley’s decline.  Public Scrutiny  He could receive an additional one-eighth of the award if
the firm’s ROE averages 7.5 percent over the three years,
excluding the effect of accounting adjustments related to Morgan
Stanley’s own credit spreads, known as DVA. The bank would have
to earn more than $5 billion in the fourth quarter to reach that
mark, a total larger than it produced in the previous two years
combined.  Wesley McDade, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to
comment on Gorman’s compensation.  The macroeconomic environment has probably been worse than
the bank anticipated when it set the goals, said Joseph Sorrentino, a managing director at Steven Hall & Partners, a
compensation-consulting firm in  New York . Still, given the
public scrutiny surrounding Wall Street pay, the company must
stick to targets, he said.  “If you’re talking about senior executives, modifying
those goals after the fact in today’s environment is just not
possible,” Sorrentino said.  Tweaking Metrics  Morgan Stanley did tweak the metrics in subsequent years’
awards. Gorman was given $1.94 million of the PSUs for each of
the past two years.  For 2010, the bank placed a larger weight on ROE earned in
2013 than in 2011. In last year’s deal, Morgan Stanley lowered
the benchmark for ROE to 10 percent and excluded certain sales
of businesses and legal costs. The bank also replaced the group
of rival firms with a comparison to the 81-company  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index. (S5FINL)   Some top  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  executives will be beneficiaries
of awards tied to performance, as they’re set to receive payouts
almost double the original amount. The San Francisco-based bank
gave CEO  John Stumpf , 59, and other executives retention bonuses
in December 2009 tied to the firm earning a higher ROE than half
the lenders in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  for the three years ended
2012.  Wells Fargo is poised to finish in the top quartile of the
24-company index on that measure, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, meaning the executives would get 1.5 times the amount
of stock they were originally set to receive. For Stumpf, that
means he’d get shares valued at $19.7 million from a bonus that
was originally worth $10.3 million.  Deferred Bonus  Bank of America and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have also
given executives bonuses tied to future performance. Bank of
America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, and his deputies received
PSUs for 2010 and last year that are based on reaching a return-
on-assets target at some point between 2011 and 2016. Moynihan
received his entire $9.05 million bonus in the PSUs for 2010.  Goldman Sachs in February 2011 gave its named executives,
including CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, a performance-tied
deferred cash bonus of $7 million separate from year-end pay.
The full bonus would be given if the firm averaged a 10 percent
ROE and 7 percent growth in book value per share over three
years. The company can decide by the end of December to extend
by five years the period in which it can achieve those goals.  Goldman Sachs gave a similar bonus of $3 million in
February.  “They’ve become quite common, and they are very much a
response to the feeling that given how our shareholders fared,
we need to have something in our pay program that demonstrates
financial performance,” Orens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  