-- Moscow Investment Firm Seeks $5.3 Million in Insider Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-19T14:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/moscow-investment-firm-seeks-5-3-million-in-insider-case.html
A Moscow-based investment firm is
fighting to recover $5.3 million frozen as part of a U.S.
investigation into  insider trading  by a former high-ranking
government official in Central Asia, according to court records.  The firm, Ergoport Experts Ltd., is being sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The agency’s complaint cites
“highly profitable and suspicious” trades in oil-field
construction company Global Industries Ltd.  Federal prosecutors in  Brooklyn , New York, are also probing
the trades, which involve an individual “who previously held a
high-level position in the government of a Central Asian
country, which government was overthrown by a coup d’etat in
2010,” they said in court papers.  “We are investigating a conspiracy in which it appears
that individuals who exercised control over an account in
Ergoport’s name agreed to use inside information in order to
execute stock trades,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Rachel Nash told
U.S. District Judge  Ronnie Abrams  at an Oct. 12 hearing in
 Manhattan  federal court, where the SEC lawsuit is pending.  Nash didn’t identify the subjects of the criminal probe.
One individual under scrutiny is Maksim Bakiyev, the son of
former Kyrgyzstan leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people involved in the investigation
that it didn’t name.  Michael O’Kane, a lawyer for Maksim Bakiyev, didn’t return
a phone call seeking comment on the report.  London Arrest  The U.S. is seeking to extradite the younger Bakiyev, who
was arrested in  London  on Oct. 12 for allegedly conspiring to
commit  securities fraud  and obstructing justice, the U.S.
Embassy in Kyrgyzstan said in an Oct. 13  statement . President
Bakiyev, a former U.S. ally who was ousted in a 2010 coup, has
taken refuge in Belarus.  Ergoport’s New York-based lawyer, Robert Heim, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday that neither the elder Bakiyev nor
his son is an Ergoport shareholder.  The “allegations that Ergoport is related to Bakiyev stem
solely from the anonymous sources referenced in the documents”
filed in court by prosecutors, Heim said in the e-mail.  Ergoport’s identity surfaced after the SEC filed a lawsuit
on Sept. 16, 2011, seeking to freeze proceeds of the trades in
Carlyss, Louisiana-based Global Industries.  The SEC said the owners of an account at Vienna-based
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG  bought 685,840 shares of Global
Industries days before a Sept. 12, 2011, announcement that the
company would be acquired by  Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
oil services business.  Denied Tips  The account earned $1.7 million when shares were sold after
the deal was announced, according to the SEC. The agency said it
didn’t know who owned the account when it filed the lawsuit.  On July 31, about 10 months after the SEC won a judge’s
order freezing the funds, Ergoport responded to the SEC’s
lawsuit, identifying itself in court papers as a unit of an
entity called Interhold Ltd. Ergoport, which according to Heim
manages at least $40 million, said it made the trades, denied
acting on inside tips and sought to recover the $5.3 million.  Dean Conway, an SEC lawyer, declined in an e-mail to
comment on the agency’s lawsuit.  On Aug. 15, prosecutors asked the judge to halt proceedings
in the suit so as not to interfere with a pending criminal
probe. That investigation has already led to criminal charges
against a trader named Taiyyib Ali Munir. Ergoport opposes the
prosecutor’s request.  Guilty Plea  Munir pleaded guilty on Oct. 15 to conspiracy to commit
insider trading, said  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn. He declined to comment
further on the case. Munir’s lawyer, Pamela Johnston, declined
to comment on the plea.  Munir, a U.K. citizen who is free on bail, was accused in a
criminal complaint of gathering and passing tips in 2010 and
2011 to a person managing the accounts of “a high-level
government official of the Central Asian country.”  The scheme involved illegal trades in  Tyco International
Ltd. (TYC) ,  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  and Global Industries, according to Munir’s
complaint. The trades were made by a “shell company registered
in New Zealand” with accounts at Latvia-based  JSC Baltic
International Bank , according to the complaint. Ergoport,
incorporated in  New Zealand , held funds at that bank,
prosecutors said in their filing in the SEC case.  ‘Professional Relationship’  The shell company’s accounts were managed by a consultant
who had a “personal and professional relationship” with the
ex-Central Asian official, according to the complaint against
Munir. The consultant, a U.S. citizen who is cooperating with
U.S. prosecutors, hasn’t been publicly identified in court
papers.  Separately, Maksim Bakiyev has been charged in Kyrgyzstan
with theft of state assets and other crimes, Edil Baisalov,
deputy minister of social development in the country’s current
administration, said in a phone interview.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One
or More Unknown Purchasers of Securities of Global Industries,
1:11-cv-06500, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Munir, 1:12-mj-
00331, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  