-- Otkritie Said Planning Nomos Buyout Offer in Next Two Weeks
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-19T14:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/otkritie-said-planning-nomos-buyout-offer-in-next-two-weeks-1-.html
Otkritie Financial Corp. plans to
buy minority stakes in Nomos Bank for $14 per global depositary
receipt and will make an announcement within the next two weeks,
said three people with knowledge of the plans.  Management is holding final meetings with minority
shareholders in Nomos and plans to complete the deal by the end
of the year, the people said, asking not to be identified before
a decision is announced.  President  Vladimir Putin  last month urged consolidation of
 Russia ’s 963 banks to help safeguard the “lifeblood” of the
economy. Otkritie, which is 20 percent owned by state-run VTB
Group, plans to increase its stake in closely held Nomos to 100
percent within two years from 19.9 percent, the Moscow-based
lenders said in an August 31 statement.  “We plan to announce the Nomos buyout, but the timing may
change depending on the regulatory requirements,” Dmitry
Romaev, Otkritie’s financial director, said in an interview
today in Moscow. “The price of the minority shareholders’
buyout offer will be no less than $14 a GDR.”  After buying all of Nomos, Otkritie Financial’s top
management will get 25 percent of the investment group, while
affiliates of Nesis’s ICT Group, state-run VTB Group and
businessmen Boris Mints and  Alexander Mamut  will each get stakes
of as much as 10 percent, according to the statement.  Nomos shares jumped as much as 3.8 percent in Moscow before
trading up 2.5 percent at 820 rubles by 5:26 p.m. Nomos’s dollar
bonds due 2019 rallied, lowering the yield by one basis point to
9.708 percent, a record low.  Absolut Bank  The synchronization of operations and products as well as
the process of acquiring a single banking license will
“likely” start next year, Ruben Aganbegyan, Otkritie’s
incoming chief executive officer said today.  “This deal will be life-changing for Otkritie,”
Aganbegyan said. “Because of its size, it will allow it to
occupy a completely different spot in the sector.”  The deal will create another major private lender,
Aganbegyan said. “ Alfa Bank  won’t be the only one.”  Aganbegyan, the former president of the Moscow Exchange,
will officially become Otkritie’s CEO starting Oct. 22,
Aganbegyan said today. Vadim Belyaev, Otkritie’s current chief,
will head Nomos Bank following “corporate procedures,”
Aganbegyan said.  Otkritie is not currently in talks to buy Absolut Bank ZAO,
Alexey Karakhan, Otkritie’s spokesman said today.  Belgium ’s  KBC
Groep NV (KBC)  may decide to sell Russia’s Absolut Bank, Vedomosti
reported in April, citing Otkritie, Nomos and  Commercial Bank
Stroycredit as potential bidders. Otkritie didn’t consider
Nomos’s bid for Absolut during the buyout plans, Karakhan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  