-- Lowe’s Sees Top Merchant to Supply-Chain Chief as CEO
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-10-19T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/lowe-s-sees-top-merchant-to-supply-chain-chief-as-ceo.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  is seeking an eventual
successor to Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  as it hires
chiefs for merchandising and supply-chain operations.  Lowe’s is interviewing retail executives with the potential
to become CEO, Maureen Ausura, chief human-resources officer for
the Mooresville, North Carolina-based company, said today in an
interview.  Niblock, chairman and CEO since 2005, has cut jobs, closed
stores and shuffled senior executives in the past year after
trailing larger  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  in sales growth. While Niblock,
50, hasn’t announced a plan to retire, recent reassignments at
the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer have left top
merchandising and supply-chain posts open.  “Either a merchant or an operations-focused executive
would be a good fit” for the CEO role,  Laura Champine , an
analyst for Canaccord Financial Inc. in New York, said today via
e-mail. She rates Lowe’s a hold.  Lowe’s has “no timeline” for Niblock’s succession, Ausura
said. Niblock, who has been with the company for 19 years,
hasn’t talked to the board about retiring, Chris Ahearn, a
company spokeswoman, said.  The board is pushing to hire a chief merchant who would
succeed Niblock within three years, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. Niblock wasn’t available for an interview, Lowe’s
spokeswoman Julie Yenichek, said.  ‘Leadership Potential’  “We are always saying we want to hire not only for the job
but somebody who can at least do the next level and possibly the
level after that,” Ausura said. With the top merchant and
 supply-chain  chief two levels below the CEO “there’s a chance
they could be a candidate in the CEO succession in the future,”
she said.  Lowe’s is looking for a chief merchant “who’s been there,
done that in a chief-merchandising role for another retail
company,” Ausura said. “We’re looking for somebody who has
leadership potential. We want somebody with multi-channel
experience” as the retailer ramps up selling online, she said.  Lowe’s advanced 0.2 percent to $32.64 at the close in  New
York . The shares have climbed 29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  