-- Lowe’s-Home Depot Shares Lure Investors on House Recovery
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-10-19T14:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/lowe-s-home-depot-shares-attract-investors-on-housing-recovery.html
Shares of Home Depot Inc. and Lowe’s
Cos. -- the two largest U.S. home-improvement retailers -- are
trading at the highest level in more than 10 years relative to
the broader market amid signs the housing recovery is gaining
momentum.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Home Improvement Retail Index,
comprised of these two companies, has risen about 14 percent
since Aug. 20, compared with the  S&P 500 ’s 2.1 percent gain.
Prior to this recent rally, the home-improvement stocks closely
tracked the market, lagging behind the broader index by 1.7
percent in the preceding four months.  Shares of these retailers are outperforming since
Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s reported fiscal second-
quarter earnings and sales that missed analysts’ estimates -- a
sign that investors shrugged off these weak results, said
Christian Bertelsen, who oversees more than $1.5 billion in
assets as chief investment officer of Global Financial Private
Capital in Sarasota,  Florida .  Instead of focusing on one quarter’s earnings, investors
are looking ahead to the big picture: housing’s shift from “a
depressant to an enhancer” in the U.S. economic expansion,
Bertelsen said.  Beating Estimates  New-home construction is the latest sign of improvement, as
starts jumped 15 percent in September from the prior month to an
 872,000 annual rate , based on data from the Commerce Department,
beating the 770,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Residential permits -- a proxy for future
construction -- also exceeded the median forecast, rising to an
 894,000 annual rate . Both were the highest since July 2008.  Housing appears to be “turning a corner” in what’s
shaping up to be a multiyear recovery, said  Gary Balter , a
senior analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. The data
have been “pretty supportive that things are getting better,”
which has helped boost shares of Lowe’s and Atlanta-based Home
Depot, said Balter, who maintains “outperform” recommendations
on both.  Just how much an improving housing landscape benefited
these companies’ fiscal third-quarter sales remains to be seen,
as Home Depot is scheduled to release earnings on Nov. 15,
followed by Lowe’s on Nov. 19.  ‘Direct Play’  These stocks provide a “direct play” on the U.S.
residential industry, Bertelsen said, adding that they provide
more liquidity and cheaper valuations than homebuilders such as
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  or  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  As a result, there’s a
“funneling effect” that attracts large money managers, said
Bertelsen, who has holdings in Lowe’s.  Lowe’s shares rallied after it withdrew an unsolicited
proposal to buy Canadian home-improvement retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)  on
Sept. 17. This provided some relief to investors who were
disappointed by a potential acquisition that took many by
surprise, Balter said.  The  Federal Reserve ’s program of purchasing $40 billion in
mortgage debt a month until the labor market improves also is
helping to embolden investors, said Jim Stellakis, founder and
director of research at New York-based research company
Technical Alpha Inc. The home-improvement index has experienced
a “sustained follow-through” -- reaching a 10-year relative
high today -- since the Fed announced its third round of
quantitative easing on Sept. 13, he said.  Accelerating Renovations  Home renovation probably will  accelerate  into the first
half of 2013, driven by gains in the housing market and record
low interest rates, with annual spending projected to reach
“double-digit” growth, according to Harvard University’s Joint
Center for Housing Studies in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The average fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage has fallen to
 3.46 percent  on Oct. 17 from 3.57 percent on Sept. 12, according
to Bankrate.com data.  “The seeds for what appears to be a very robust remodeling
recovery have been planted,” the center said in a statement
yesterday, citing its leading indicator of this activity.  Private-residential fixed investment, which includes
spending on new-home construction and major replacements to
existing houses, rose about 11 percent from a year earlier to an
annualized  $372.8 billion  for the three months ended June 30.
This was the strongest pace of yearly growth since 2005,
according to data from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis , which is
scheduled to release advance third-quarter figures Oct. 26.  Regaining Confidence  This nominal measure of residential spending probably will
increase to an annualized rate of $400 billion in the fourth
quarter, according to estimates by  Russell Price , senior
economist at  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit . Rising
construction activity also could lead to more renovation
projects as consumers regain confidence that their home values
are increasing, he said.  “The somewhat faster pace of home sales and construction
provided some encouraging signs of improvement,” the Fed’s Open
Market Committee said in the minutes of its September meeting
released Oct. 4.  Even so, momentum could slow as the supply of low-priced
 foreclosures  begins to decrease, Price said. These residences
have helped to sustain existing-home sales since the housing
bubble in 2006, though that may start to “peter out,” he said.
Sales of previously owned homes fell 1.7 percent in September to
a 4.75 million annual rate, after the fastest pace in more than
two years the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
reported today.  Trading Up  When the market begins to normalize, the number of
homebuyers looking to “trade up or move locations” will
increase, accounting for a greater share of purchases, Price
said. Still, that probably “will come back more slowly.”  While Lowe’s executives are “encouraged” by recent
housing data, there still are “a lot of macro concerns,”
including  high unemployment , Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Robert Niblock said Sept. 5 at a conference hosted by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  As a result, comparable-store sales in the last half of the
year probably will be “slightly better” than in the second
quarter, he said. Similarly, Home Depot is looking ahead to
“kind of modest growth” in the final six months of 2012, aided
by housing’s slow recovery, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Frank Blake  said the following day at the same conference.  “We’re in more of a workout mode,” Blake said. “It
hasn’t yet really hit acceleration.”  That hasn’t stopped investors from betting on a comeback
for the past year, as the home-improvement index has
outperformed the S&P 500 by about 48 percent in the last 12
months. This optimism also is driven by investors who don’t want
to risk missing a rally by remaining underweight these stocks
for too long because they represent large components of
portfolio benchmarks such as the S&P 500, Balter said.  With the industry on a firmer road to recovery, “these
stocks are pretty well positioned to rally through the end of
the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  