-- Pathfinder Minerals Wins Lawsuit Over Mozambique Subsidiary
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-10-19T12:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/pathfinder-minerals-wins-lawsuit-over-mozambique-subsidiary-1-.html
Pathfinder Minerals Plc (PFP)  won a London
court ruling in a dispute with a former African partner over
ownership of its  Mozambique  mining business.  Pathfinder had legally acquired the shares in the
Mozambique subsidiary from its local partners, Judge Richard
Field said in a ruling today. He also agreed to block the former
partner from interfering with the subsidiary.  Pathfinder is embroiled in a legal battle with General
Jacinto Soares Veloso, a former director at the company, in the
U.K. and Mozambique over the subsidiary, which has mining rights
in the southeast African country.  “I very much hope that the courts and government of
Mozambique will now acknowledge the wrongs which have been
committed and facilitate the resumption of project development
without any further delay,” Pathfinder Chief Executive Officer
Nick Trew said in an e-mailed statement.  Pathfinder broke Mozambique law by going to British courts,
Veloso said in a statement from his spokesman, Damien McCrystal.  Veloso and his group “are confident that while it is
likely to take several years for this case to be finally
resolved, they will be successful in defending their rights of
ownership under Mozambique law,” according to the statement.  A Pathfinder unit won two 25-year mining concessions on
32,000 hectares of land along Mozambique’s coast. The area
contains heavy minerals including ilmenite, rutile and zircon,
the company has said.  Pathfinder asked that its shares be suspended from trading
on  London ’s Alternative Investment Market today until the judge
ruled, it said in a statement this morning. The shares have
resumed trading, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  