-- Patriot Coal Retirees May Seek Claims on Peabody, Arch
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-10-19T19:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/patriot-coal-retirees-may-seek-claims-on-peabody-arch.html
Retired coal miners may seek to
bring claims against  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  if
bankrupt  Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp. won’t cover what it has called
$1.3 billion in “unsustainable” medical benefits.  A group of 16 retirees, representing about 10,000 retirees
whose benefits are being paid by Patriot, traveled from West
Virginia to meet with company officials, Patriot’s creditors’
committee and the U.S. Trustee yesterday in  New York . The former
miners say they worked for predecessor companies Peabody or
Arch, not Patriot.  “We want to make sure other creditors, the court and the
public know that Peabody and Arch are responsible for the
obligations they made to the miners,” Arthur Traynor, a lawyer
for the group, said by phone before the meeting. “They are
responsible as well for Patriot’s financial condition.”  Peabody spun off Patriot in 2007. The following year,
Patriot bought Magnum Coal Co., which had acquired three Arch
units in 2005. Patriot filed for bankruptcy July 9 in New York,
saying those transactions left it responsible for the benefits
of three times as many retirees and dependents as active
employees, saddling the company with liabilities estimated at
$1.3 billion or more.  “Patriot was a viable company when it was spun off in
2007, and substantial events inside and outside Patriot’s
control significantly altered its future,” Vic Svec, a Peabody
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. He cited Patriot’s Magnum
acquisition, a drop in coal demand and increased regulation.  Union Seats  Miners are represented in the bankruptcy through two of
seven seats on a creditors’ committee -- one for the United Mine
Workers of America, which represents about 42 percent of
Patriot’s 4,000 employees, and one for the union’s 1974 Pension
Plan and Trust, which pays benefits to one working miner for
every 10 pensioners, according to court papers.  The creditors’ committee hasn’t announced any lawsuits
against Peabody or Arch. Adam Rogoff, a lawyer for the
committee, didn’t respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment
on whether the panel is considering suing the companies. Under
bankruptcy law, claims can be made against corporate
predecessors if a “fraudulent conveyance,” or transfer of
money with the intent to hurt creditors, can be proven.  It’s unclear whether Peabody and Arch could be held liable,
given that creditors would have to prove in court that a
fraudulent conveyance occurred, said Chris Haberlin, an analyst
at Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport & Co. A public spinoff of
a coal company hasn’t resulted in bankruptcy recently, leaving
Patriot without a precedent, he said.  “This type of situation has not arisen before,” Haberlin
said in a phone interview.  Miners’ Questions  Patriot was unable to answer several of the miners’
questions at yesterday’s meeting, including what the company has
done to probe Peabody’s potential responsibility for its
financial situation, and why Peabody currently pays some retiree
obligations and not others, said Jamie Horwitz, a spokesman for
the miners.  The need to address labor and retiree obligations is one
reason why Patriot wants the deadline to file a bankruptcy plan
extended to May 5 from Nov. 6, the company said in court papers
filed yesterday.  Patriot is expected to propose how it might continue to
meet any obligations to the retirees after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  rules on whether the case should be
sent to  West Virginia , Traynor said. Patriot’s proposal will
help determine what kind of claims the group of retirees tries
to make against Peabody or Arch, he said.  Aaron Palash, a spokesman for Patriot, declined to comment
on the company’s coverage of the medical benefits. Patriot,
Peabody and Arch are all based in  St. Louis .  ‘No Ties’  Larry Knisell, 63, of Morgantown, West Virginia, worked for
Peabody for 28 years before retiring in 1999 for medical
reasons. A 1984 mining accident led to leg injuries that have
required five knee reconstructions, and more surgeries are
needed, he said in a phone interview.  “I never worked a day for Patriot,” Knisell said. “I
feel I have no ties to Patriot whatsoever.”  Gary Asher, 68, worked for Peabody’s Eastern Gas unit for
30 years, retiring in 1996. His medications for  Parkinson’s
disease , a brain disorder that causes tremors, cost $1,300 a
month, a sum now covered by Patriot, he said.  “If I lost my health benefits, this is what it would do to
me: I wouldn’t walk, or eat,” Asher said in a phone interview.  More than 150 retired miners have written letters to
Chapman during the past 30 days, asking the court to consider
their plight.  ‘Little People’  “I began work for Arch Coal Co. in my younger years with
the understanding and agreement that once I retired my health
care would be taken care of for the rest of my life,” Albert
Prince, 71, of Lyburn, West Virginia, who worked at Arch for 37
years and retired in 2003, wrote to Chapman. “Please take our
lives, ‘the little people,’ into consideration.”  Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer by sales, said in a
July regulatory filing that it may be responsible for less than
$150 million in liabilities for the treatment of black  lung
disease  that were assumed by Patriot in the spinoff.  Aside from $1.3 billion in liabilities covered by Patriot,
a Peabody unit pays health-care liabilities valued by Patriot at
$696.8 million as of Dec. 31. Patriot administers the payments,
according to court papers.  Arch Costs  Arch may be responsible for medical benefits for a small
group of union-represented individuals who retired as of
September 1994 only if Patriot doesn’t reorganize and leave
bankruptcy, said Kim Link, an Arch spokeswoman. Link said she
didn’t know how much the potential obligations might cost.  Arch, the fourth-largest U.S. coal producer, also has said
in  regulatory filings  that it may have to cover contracts from
Magnum Coal.  Patriot has been asked by its union and the U.S. Trustee,
an arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees bankruptcies, to
move its bankruptcy to West Virginia, where most of its
employees and operations are based. Chapman heard arguments on
the issue Sept. 11.  Patriot listed assets of $3.57 billion and debt of
$3.07 billion as of May 31 in its Chapter 11 filing. The company
has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and the Illinois
Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of coal
reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal to
electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and coke
producers.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  