-- John Mack, Patton Boggs, Mayer Brown: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-19T11:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/patton-boggs-mayer-brown-clifford-business-of-law.html
John Mack, the former head of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , is going into business with a 77-year-old tax lawyer
who oversees more than $15 billion in investment assets for
clients such as ex-basketball star Magic Johnson and the
founding family of Estee Lauder Cos., Bloomberg News’s Miles
Weiss reports.  Joel Ehrenkranz, who co-founded a tax and estate legal
practice with his brother Sanford in 1966, joined forces with
Mack to start fund-of-funds manager E&M Advisors LLC, according
to a  registration  filing last month with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. E&M expects to raise $500 million this
quarter to invest in outside hedge funds and private-equity
deals, the firm said in the filing.  Mack, a onetime bond salesman and trader, could help E&M
Advisors attract assets from corporate executives and private-
banking contacts cultivated during the course of his 35-year
career at Morgan Stanley, said Brad Hintz, a bank and brokerage
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Since leaving as Morgan
Stanley’s chairman at the end of last year, Mack has become an
adviser to companies including buyout firm KKR & Co., where he
signed on in March.  “John’s Rolodex would be mammoth,” said Hintz, who worked
for Morgan Stanley from 1986 to 1996 as a managing director and
treasurer. “The classic model of Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley was you had the relationship with the company and the
executive.”  Daniel Schloendorn, a partner at the law firm Willkie Farr
& Gallagher LLP who represents Ehrenkranz, said his client
declined to comment. Mack said in a brief interview that he had
simply lent his name to the venture.  “We have no plans,” Mack said. “I’ve just known Joel for
a long time.”  After exiting Morgan Stanley last December, the Wall Street
veteran set up John Mack Advisors LLC, according to Delaware
state records. E&M Advisors was incorporated two months later,
with John Mack Advisors and Ehrenkranz’s E&E Capital Advisors
LLC both holding 50 percent stakes, according to the September
filing.  Joel and his brother Sanford, 73, started a tax and estate
planning legal practice 46 years ago that catered to high-net-
worth individuals, such as the Lauder family, SEC  filings show .
According to court documents, Joel was an executor for the
estate of Alan Tishman, the real estate developer who “helped
transform New York’s skyline,” according to the New York Times.  The law firm began managing money for its clients,
initially by having them invest in commercial real estate
partnerships and then in hedge funds, said a person familiar
with the firm who requested anonymity because of confidentiality
agreements. In a 2004 civil trial tied to his former role as the
president of Walt Disney Co., Michael Ovitz testified that Joel
Ehrenkranz was one of his two principal money managers and had
also been one of his main tax advisers from 1990 to 1995,
according to court transcripts.  For more, click here.  Dewey’s Insurance Can Pay Up to $6.75 Million for Defense  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the liquidating law firm, agreed that
as much as $6.75 million from a $25 million insurance policy can
be used to pay defense costs for firm managers defending
lawsuits.  XL Specialty Insurance Co. filed papers in August for
authority to pay defense costs incurred by those covered by the
policy. Dewey initially opposed and later negotiated a so-called
soft cap where $6.75 million can be paid.  The agreement, approved yesterday by the bankruptcy court
in New York, allows XL to ask for increases in the cap. Payments
for defense costs reduced the $25 million policy limit.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Moves  Two Patton Boggs Partners Return to Firm in the U.S.  Two former Patton Boggs LLP partners, Todd R. Harrison,
former chief counsel for oversight and investigations for the
Energy and Commerce Committee in the U.S. House of
Representatives, and Susan B. Bastress, former managing partner
of the firm’s office in Doha, Qatar, rejoined the firm as
partners.  Harrison joins the firm’s litigation and dispute resolution
practice group in  Washington  and New York. Bastress rejoins the
real estate practice in Washington. Later this year, she will
return to the Doha office.  As chief counsel to the Energy and Commerce Committee,
Harrison led investigations, including one on the failure of
solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC and the related loss of taxpayer
funds. Harrison has held lead or first-chair responsibility in
more than 40 jury trials in both federal and state courts, and
has argued before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, the firm said.  Bastress joined Patton Boggs in 1996 and established the
firm’s Doha office in 2003. She served as its managing partner
until 2006. She was chair of the firm’s real estate practice at
the time of her departure in 2008.  Bastress was a partner in the real estate practice at
Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP from 2008 to 2010. After that,
she established Bastress & Associates.  Patton Boggs has more than 600 lawyers and specialists in
nine offices in the U.S. and the Middle East.  Winston & Strawn Practice Heads Join Squire Sanders  Squire Sanders LLP announced that Eric W. Cowan and Glynna
K. Christian joined the firm as partners in the corporate
transactions, finance and governance practice group. The new
partners will work in both the  London  and New York offices.  Before joining Squire Sanders, Cowan was the global chair
of communications, media and technology and Christian was the
global chair of sourcing at Winston & Strawn LLP, the firm said.  Cowan and Christian will focus their practices on advising
public and private companies on international corporate and
commercial transactions, including cross-border mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures, financial arrangements and complex
outsourcing transactions.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 37 offices in
18 countries.  Locke Lord Hires Washington Litigator Marlon Paz  Marlon Q. Paz, a litigator experienced in complex
securities issues, internal investigations and compliance, has
joined Locke Lord LLP as a partner in Washington.  He joins Locke Lord from the Inter-American Development
Bank, where he was principal integrity officer and managed a
team of lawyers and investigators in the development,
investigation and prosecution of fraud and corruption cases in
26 Latin American countries, the firm said.  Paz also worked at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission as senior special counsel to the director of the
trading and markets division from 2004 to 2010.  Paz has represented in private practice financial
institutions and corporations in large-scale securities and
other litigation matters. He is an adjunct professor of law at
Georgetown University Law Center, where he teaches courses on
securities law and international business litigation.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 13 offices in the
U.S., London and Hong Kong.  Deals  Ally to Sell Mexico’s ABA Seguros to Ace for $865 Million  Mayer Brown LLP advised  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  in its
agreement to sell its Mexican insurance business to  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  for
$865 million in cash as the bailed-out company narrows its focus
on auto lending and U.S. banking. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
represents Ally.  The price for ABA Seguros is more than twice the unit’s
$390 million book value -- what it would be worth if liquidated
-- at the end of June, Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia said in an e-
mail. The purchase of  Mexico ’s sixth-largest property-casualty
insurer will add coverage of autos, homes and small businesses,
according to a statement yesterday from Zurich-based Ace.  The Mayer Brown team included corporate and securities
partners Eddie Best, Bill Kucera and Linda Rhodes. Tax
transactions and consulting partners Jim Barry and Lee Morlock
also worked on the deal, as did employment and benefits counsel
Karen Grotberg and IP partner Rich Assmus.  The S&C New York-based team is led by financial
institutions M&A partner Andrew Gerlach and M&A partner Sergio Galvis, who is head of the firm’s Latin America Group. Other
partners include senior chairman H. Rodgin Cohen; Jay Clayton;
Theodore Edelman; Andrew Solomon, tax; Marc Trevino, executive
compensation and benefits; and Palo Alto special counsel Spencer
Simon, intellectual property.  Ace Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg has been using
acquisitions to expand in  emerging markets  in Latin America and
Asia. He announced a deal last month to buy Fianzas Monterrey in
Mexico from New York Life Insurance Co. for $285 million.
Detroit-based Ally, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, previously divested a U.S. auto insurer.  “Taking these actions with respect to the international
operations will enable Ally to further invest in and grow its
leading U.S.-based automotive services and direct banking
franchises and be best-positioned to return additional capital
to the U.S. taxpayer,” Carpenter said in a separate statement.  Returning capital to the U.S. Treasury Department, which
owns 74 percent of Ally after bailouts of $17.2 billion, remains
a priority and must be approved by the Federal Reserve, Proia
said in an e-mail. She declined to comment on whether any of the
sale proceeds will go to the Treasury.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Clifford Chance Lawyers Elect New Managing Partner in Moscow  Clifford Chance LLP’s Moscow partners elected Logan Wright
as managing partner of the office. Wright will succeed finance
lawyer Jan ter Haar on Jan. 1 for a four-year term.  Wright is also a finance partner, representing both banks
and borrowers on cross-border financings into  Russia  and the
CIS, including debt restructurings and work-outs. He has been
based in Russia since 2000, and was made partner at Clifford
Chance in 2006. He will continue to counsel clients while
handling his leadership responsibilities.  “Logan has deep knowledge of the Russian market and the
right leadership skills to develop further our existing strong
position in the Moscow and the wider Russian market,” Ter Haar
said in a statement. He has held the post since 2009.  Clifford Chance has been in Russia since 1991. The firm has
34 offices in 24 countries with about 3,400 legal advisers.  Loeb & Loeb Names New Chief Financial and Information Officers  Loeb & Loeb LLP said Scott Cotie was named chief financial
officer and Patricia Anne O’Hara was named chief information
officer of the firm. They will be based in the Los Angeles and
New York offices, respectively.  Cotie, a certified public accountant, joins the firm from
the Minneapolis office of law firm Faegre & Benson LLP, where he
served as the executive director since 2008. O’Hara joins the
firm from Adaptive Solutions Inc., a provider of systems
integration and consulting services, where she served as CIO,
the firm said.  Cotie and O’Hara will work closely with Loeb & Loeb’s Chief
Operating Officer Alan B. Cutler. Cotie will direct Loeb &
Loeb’s financial functions in keeping with the firm’s strategic
objectives. O’Hara’s responsibilities will include managing
information and software development for the firm, particularly
addressing the implementation of new and emerging technologies
and applications, the firm said.  Loeb & Loeb LLP has more than 300 attorneys in seven U.S.
and Asian offices.  Litigation  Level Global Fund Manager Seeks to Show Partner Traded  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, who
faces trial Oct. 29 for insider trading of two technology
companies, asked to present jurors with an analysis he said
shows the hedge fund’s other co-founder, David Ganek, made
trades in the same stocks at the same time, Bloomberg News’
Patricia Hurtado and Katherine Burton report.  While Ganek hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, Chiasson’s
lawyers told a judge in an Oct. 3 letter that they want to
introduce evidence showing the fund manager’s trading in  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  occurred in the same period their client
was accused of insider trading. The two men were co-heads of
Level Global’s largest fund before the firm closed.  The government, opposing the request, said such testimony
wasn’t relevant to the case. Prosecutors, however, acknowledged
in a court filing that Chiasson had two uncharged co-
conspirators at Level Global, though their names were blacked
out. If the defense can show others may have been responsible
for the Dell and Nvidia trades, it could create reasonable doubt
for the jury.  “Chiasson shared discretion over the (only) two funds at
Level Global with two other individuals, who have been named as
co-conspirators by the government,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys
Antonia Apps, Richard Tarlowe and John Zach wrote. Chiasson
faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office has
pursued a wide-ranging probe of hedge funds that has yielded 70
convictions, alleged Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman were part of a
tight-knit group of fund managers and analysts who engaged in
insider trading of 13 stocks. Chiasson and Newman earned more
than $67 million in illicit profits, the U.S. said. Both men,
who were first charged in January, have pleaded not guilty.  Ganek and Chiasson were running Level Global when it closed
in February 2011 because of the federal investigation. Chiasson
and Newman were charged along with five other fund managers,
analysts and technology company employees who allegedly swapped
illegal tips about Nvidia and Dell.  Greg Morvillo, a partner at the  Morvillo  law firm and
Steptoe & Johnson LLP partner Reid Weingarten, Chiasson’s
defense lawyers, wrote U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in
Manhattan federal court seeking to have expert testimony by a
finance professor presented at trial. They contend that much of
the trading at the hedge fund in Nvidia and Dell stock was
directed “not by Mr. Chiasson but by others at Level Global.”  Professor Mukesh Bajaj, of the University of California at
Berkeley, “may identify which of the trades at issue with
regard to Dell Inc. and Nvdia Corp. were directed by Mr.
Ganek,” they told Sullivan, who presides over the case.  Prosecutors said Bajaj should be barred from testifying
because the defense hasn’t revealed what trades were reviewed in
his analysis. He would have to determine which trades were
executed by Chiasson in order for his testimony to provide “any
meaningful comparisons in trading analysis of trades executed,”
the government said in its Oct. 12 filing, which included the
defense letter to the judge. Morvillo declined to comment.  Ganek’s lawyer, John Carroll said if prosecutors don’t
specify at trial the trades Chiasson made that are the subject
of his prosecution, the defense must make clear to jurors “what
trades he made and what trades were done by others.”  “What Chiasson is doing is identifying people who may have
traded in this stock,” Carroll said in an interview. “He’s not
pointing the finger at anybody else, including my client. ‘‘If
the government accuses us of that, then we’ll defend it.”  In a revised indictment filed Aug. 28, prosecutors claimed
Chiasson helped illegally boost Level Global’s profits by $67
million, including $53 million from alleged insider trading in
Dell stock during trades in August 2008.  “The government’s alleged illegal profit amounts are
profoundly inflated,” Morvillo and Weingarten said in court
papers. “Much of Level Global’s trading in these stocks was
directed not by Mr. Chiasson but by others at Level Global.”  The defense lawyers, arguing prosecutors are trying to hold
their client responsible for trading he didn’t do, pointed to
the unidentified Level Global employees noted in the
government’s court filings.  “Although the government contends those individuals are
unindicted co-conspirators, for whose conduct Mr. Chiasson may
be held liable,” Morvillo and Weingarten wrote, “it would be
misleading and unfair for the government to suggest inaccurately
to the jury without explication, that all of Level Global’s
profits in Dell and Nvidia are ill-gotten and attributable
solely to Mr. Chiasson’s actions.”  Carroll said the government hasn’t told him the identities
of the unindicted co-conspirators.  “There were other people at the fund who were authorized
and could trade at Level Global,” Carroll said. “There were
absolutely more than two people.”  Carroll, previously the chief of the securities and
commodities fraud unit at the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office,
is a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP who
specializes in white-collar crime and regulatory enforcement.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Hartford Settles Lawyer’s Suit Involving Treasury Deputy Wolin  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  settled a lawsuit by
a  Texas  attorney who accused the insurer of causing him to be
prosecuted on bribery charges that were later dropped after a
mistrial, a lawyer for the man said.  The lawyer’s negligence allegations against Hartford
included claims that the company’s former general counsel, Neal S. Wolin, now U.S. deputy treasury secretary, took part in a
cover-up linked to alleged extortion by two employees, attorneys
for the lawyer told jurors in opening statements last week.  “We settled today, and I can’t discuss the terms,” John
Flood, who represents Texas lawyer Todd Hoeffner, said Oct. 17
in a phone interview when the trial in state court in Houston
was halted before Hoeffner was to take the stand.  Wolin, who isn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit,
testified against Hoeffner in a 2009 criminal trial that ended
with a deadlocked jury. Wolin’s testimony was to be part of the
jury trial that began last week.  Hoeffner was charged with making illegal payments to two
claims processors to get inflated insurance settlements for
clients suffering from silicosis. The charges followed an
internal company investigation ordered by Wolin and given to
federal prosecutors, according to court records.  Jurors at the 2009 trial couldn’t reach a verdict.
Hoeffner, later faced with new charges that didn’t include
bribery, agreed to pay prosecution costs and the criminal case
was dropped.  Hoeffner sued Hartford in October 2011 on claims the
insurer lied to the government about him. The motive, he said,
was to hide the claims processors’ extortion of $3 million from
the portion of the settlements paid to him as legal fees. He
accused Hartford of negligence, economic duress, interference
with his attorney-client relationships and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  Thomas Hambrick, a spokesman for the Hartford, Connecticut-
based insurer, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday on the settlement. He said in a phone
interview before the trial that there was “no evidence to
support Hoeffner’s allegations.”  Wolin, through his attorney, denied Hoeffner’s allegations
and said that when he learned of what appeared to be a bribery
scheme involving rogue workers, he ordered company investigators
to dig into the matter.  “He directed them to investigate the facts no matter where
those facts led them, and if they deemed it appropriate, to
refer the matter to law enforcement authorities for a full and
complete investigation,” James E. Rocap, Wolin’s lawyer, said
in an e-mail before the trial. “Any assertion to the contrary
is ridiculous.”  The case is Sanchez v. Hoeffner, 2010-15489, 133rd Judicial
District Court of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  