-- Pimco Buying Aussie, N.Z. Assets; Sees Further Rate Cuts
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-10-19T00:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/pimco-buying-aussie-n-z-assets-sees-further-rate-cuts.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, has boosted holdings
in Australia and  New Zealand  as it expects policy makers to cut
 interest rates  to combat currency gains and weaker world growth.  Decisions in larger developed economies to keep policy
rates close to zero and engage in currency market intervention
have helped push the Australian and New Zealand dollars higher,
according to  Scott Mather , head of global  portfolio management 
at Pimco, which oversees $1.8 trillion in assets. The Newport
Beach, California-based company’s holdings in the region are at
the highest levels “in a very long time,” he said at a
briefing in Auckland.  “Rates will continue to fall in this region, in Australia
and New Zealand,” Mather said in a conference call from
Auckland. “It’s partially the reflection of weak global growth
and partially in response to an abnormal amount of currency
strength relative to what history would tell you we should
have.”  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has the highest benchmark
rate among major developed economies, even after reducing it by
1.5 percentage points over the past year to 3.25 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s key rate is a record-low 2.5
percent. Higher yields, safe-haven flows and buoyant global
commodities demand have helped push the South Pacific currencies
above their 20-year averages.  Currency Gains  The so-called Aussie dollar has climbed almost 90 percent
versus its U.S. peer over the past decade, while its New Zealand
counterpart has risen by more than 70 percent.  The Australia and New Zealand region is likely to become
more important for the  fund manager , Mather said.  “It’s a bigger part of our portfolios here than it’s been
in a very long time,” he said. “When you think about regions
of the world that we may be avoiding, and relative differences
in economic performance and in the amount of debt outstanding,
you can understand the attraction.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.0376 as of 11:22 a.m. in
Sydney, while the New Zealand dollar was at 81.93 U.S. cents.
Australian  10-year debt  yielded 3.22 percent, while the New
Zealand rate was at 3.57 percent.  Australia’s gross domestic product will expand 3.6 percent
this year and New Zealand’s will grow 2.5 percent, outpacing the
average 1.26 percent pace for economies in the Group of 10
currencies, according to surveys of economists carried out by
 Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  