-- Pound Rises Versus Euro, Trims Weekly Drop, as Deficit Shrinks
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-19T15:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/pound-heads-for-weekly-decline-versus-dollar-before-finance-data.html
The pound rose for the first time in
four days against the euro after a report showed Britain’s
budget deficit was the smallest for a September since 2008.  Sterling slid for a fourth week against the dollar, the
longest streak of losses in four months, after Bank of England
policy maker  David Miles  said the U.K. economy was not
recovering as well as he had hoped. The pound trimmed its weekly
drop versus the euro after a technical indicator used by traders
to predict price changes signaled its recent decline was
excessive. Gilts are also set for a weekly fall, with 10-year
yields touching 1.96 percent yesterday, the highest in a month.  “The deficit data was a pleasant surprise,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “It
shows less fiscal slippage.”  The pound strengthened 0.1 percent to 81.34 pence per euro
at 4:30 p.m. London time, trimming its weekly slide to 0.9
percent. It rose 0.2 percent to $1.6010, having dropped 0.4
percent this week.  The U.K. shortfall excluding government support for banks
narrowed to 12.8 billion pounds from 13.5 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The median estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was a deficit of 13.5 billion pounds.  Britain’s public finances have been hit by a recession that
has depressed  tax revenue  and pushed up welfare spending.
Today’s figures showed borrowing between April and August was
revised down by 6.7 billion pounds, meaning U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  may overshoot his full-year
forecast by less than previously thought.  Retail Sales  The pound has weakened 1.3 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 3.3
percent and the dollar dropped 3.3 percent.  The 14-day relative strength index for the pound against
the euro, which tracks momentum by comparing closing prices with
daily trading ranges, was 33, after reaching 29 yesterday, the
lowest since Sept. 14. A drop below 30 indicates an asset may be
“oversold” and has fallen too quickly.  Data this week showed U.K. retail sales rose more than
analysts forecast in September and jobless claims slid, adding
to signs that the economy is recovering from a recession. The
government will release gross domestic product data for the
third quarter on Oct. 25.  British Growth  “Slightly better retail sales data yesterday shouldn’t be
overstated in their significance,” Lloyds Banking Group Plc
Strategists Adrian Schmidt and Jennifer Hau wrote in a note to
investors. “We still look for the  Bank of England  to extend
stimulus in November. We are biased toward a lower pound.”  British GDP will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to
a Bloomberg survey, the first contraction since 2009.  “The state of the economy is not as good as I had hoped a
year or so back, I must admit,” Miles told the Guardian in an
interview published late yesterday. “The last 18 months have
seen no significant growth.”  Minutes of the London-based central bank’s October meeting
released on Oct. 17 showed policy makers were split on the need
for more stimulus once their current program ends next month.  Policy makers voted 9-0 to keep the bond-purchase target at
375 billion pounds at that meeting, the minutes showed. They
were also unanimous in holding the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  Ten-year gilt yields fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.89 percent. The 1.75 percent security
maturing September 2022 rose 0.19, or 1.90 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 98.73.  Gilts returned 1.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
2.2 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  