-- Pro-Obama Super-PAC Has Best Month, Raising $15 Million
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-10-20T00:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/pro-obama-super-pac-has-best-month-raising-15-million.html
A super-political action committee
backing President  Barack Obama  slightly outraised a super-PAC
supporting Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  last month.  Priorities USA Action, run by former Obama aides, will
report $15.2 million in September contributions when it files
tomorrow with the U.S. Federal Election Commission, according to
an aide with knowledge of the report. That would mark its best
fundraising month yet.  Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney group, reported to the FEC
today that it collected $14.8 million in September, making it
the group’s second most lucrative month. Restore Our Future
raised about $21 million in June after Romney defeated a field
of primary competitors.  Both super-PACs have been airing thousands of television
advertisements in support of their preferred candidates. The
presidential contenders and many of the major outside groups
involved in the election are due to report their September
campaign finance activity to the FEC tomorrow.  Obama’s campaign took in $126.1 million and spent $111.4
million, both monthly highs for his re-election campaign, which
had $99.3 million left to spend as October began, according to
financial reports filed with the FEC tonight.  The president raised $96.4 million from individual donors
and received $28.5 million from a joint fundraising committee,
Obama Victory Fund 2012, which also raises money for the
Democratic National Committee and several state Democratic
parties, according to the Obama FEC reports.  Familiar Names  Obama and allied Democratic party committees have said they
raised $181 million last month, while Romney and the Republican
committees said earlier this month they will report $170 million
in contributions.  Familiar names appear in Restore Our Future’s September
filing.  Houston home builder Bob Perry wrote a $2 million check,
bringing his total investment in the group to $10 million since
the beginning of 2011. Perry has given millions more to other
Republican super-PACs.  Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based Contran Corp.,
donated $500,000 for a total of $1.3 million so far. Simmons
also has given $11 million since last year to American
Crossroads, a Republican super-PAC linked to political
strategist Karl Rove, former adviser to President George W. Bush.  Koch Contribution  Oxbow Carbon LLC, a Florida-based energy company founded by
billionaire William Koch, gave $1 million to Restore Our Future
to match its 2011 contributions to the group.  Restore Our Future also got a $1 million boost from Robert McNair, the owner of the Houston Texans professional football
team. Another $1 million came from Stanley Herzog, the chairman
and chief executive officer of Herzog Contracting Corp. in St.
Joseph,  Missouri .  Restore has raised $111.5 million since the beginning of
2011, more than double the $50.9 million Priorities has
collected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  