-- Prudential In Final Stage of U.S. Systemic-Risk Review
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s ,   I a n   K a t z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-19T20:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/prudential-said-to-near-systemic-risk-tag-in-u-s-review-1-.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, is in the last stage of a
regulatory review that may impose extra oversight because its
central role could endanger the economy if the firm ever failed.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council told  Newark , New
Jersey-based Prudential that it has advanced to a third round of
evaluation, which could tag the company as systemically
important, Scot Hoffman, a Prudential spokesman, said today.
Firms in that category could see  dividends  and buybacks curbed
as regulators try to head off a repeat of the 2008 crisis that
almost destroyed the banking system.  “There’s a concern that they won’t be able to return
capital to shareholders in the way that they’ve been accustomed
to,” Sean Dargan, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in
an interview before the council’s decision. “They will have to
submit capital plans of some sort to the Fed.”  The council, led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ,
is evaluating which companies must submit to Federal Reserve
supervision, including stress tests and tougher standards for
capital and liquidity. The U.S. spent, lent or committed as much
as $12.8 trillion to bolster financial firms and automakers amid
the financial crisis.  “The company plans to continue its ongoing discussions
with regulators about the differences between banks and
insurance companies as they consider whether insurance companies
are systemically important,” Hoffman said by phone.  Prudential Declines  Prudential, led by Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld,
58, fell 3.1 percent to $58.04 at 4:05 p.m. in  New York  and
earlier tumbled as much as 4.2 percent, the most intraday since
May.  MetLife (MET)  Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer, dropped 3.2
percent to $35.93.  A Treasury Department spokeswoman declined to comment and
referred to a statement yesterday that said the council won’t
announce the name of any nonbank financial company that’s under
evaluation before a decision is final.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , once the world’s largest
insurer, and  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance arm have also
entered the final stage of review. The council can still advance
other companies to the last round.  Shareholder Payout  AIG, which received a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3
billion amid the financial crisis, disclosed its FSOC status on
Oct. 2. The New York-based insurer has said it’s preparing to be
regulated by the Fed and isn’t concerned about the effect on its
main businesses.  The designation may limit AIG’s ability to repurchase
shares or pay a dividend,  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., wrote in an Oct. 2 research note.  Prudential and New York-based MetLife were among the
largest financial firms in the U.S. to avoid a bailout, and have
questioned the need for increased oversight. Insurers are mostly
regulated by states.  The two companies have said that bank rules are not a good
fit for life insurers, which often retain policyholder funds for
decades before paying benefits and may be less vulnerable to
client withdrawals.  MetLife is already regulated by the Fed because it owns a
bank, and the insurer is seeking to exit banking to end the
oversight, which has blocked share buybacks and a  dividend 
increase.  The oversight council was created in the aftermath of the
crisis under the Dodd-Frank law and evaluates leverage and
derivative liabilities of firms with more than $50 billion in
assets. A company under consideration as a SIFI, or systemically
important financial institution, can challenge the notice within
30 days. The council would still have to vote at a future
meeting to officially designate the companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  