-- Rabobank Drops Cycling Sponsorship on U.S. Doping Scandal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-19T14:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/rabobank-drops-pro-cycling-sponsorship-on-u-s-doping-scandal.html
Rabobank Groep, the biggest Dutch
mortgage lender, will end its 17-year sponsorship of
professional cycling after its team was linked to the doping
scandal involving  Lance Armstrong .  Rabobank has lost confidence in pro cycling following a
report by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency last week, board member
Bert Bruggink said on the bank’s website. The report, which
described widespread cheating, said American rider Levi Leipheimer doped when on the Rabobank team in 2003. Current team
rider Carlos Barredo of  Spain  was suspended yesterday pending an
investigation of his blood profiles.  The company is among the biggest sponsors of professional
cycling, spending as much as 15 million euros ($19.6 million) on
the sport last year. Its women’s team includes Olympic road-race
champion Marianne Vos of the Netherlands. Rabobank will withdraw
its name from its men’s and women’s pro teams on Dec. 31,
although it will fund them for one more year through a
foundation, Bruggink told reporters.  “We are now longer convinced that the international
professional world of cycling can make this a clean and fair
sport,” Bruggink said. “We are not confident that this will
change for the better in the foreseeable future.” He said it
was a “painful” decision because it affects fans and cyclists
who aren’t deserving of blame.  This week,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  were among
companies that said they were withdrawing support from Armstrong
after the USADA report, according to which the Texan had
“engaged in serial cheating.” USADA stripped Armstrong of his
seven Tour de France titles in August.  Earlier today, Stephen Hodge quit as vice-president of
Cycling  Australia  after he admitted doping in a career as a
professional rider that ended in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  