-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls Most in 6 Weeks on Europe Crisis
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-19T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/treasuries-snap-four-day-loss-before-existing-home-sales.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields down the most in six weeks, amid concern a failure of
European leaders to provide clarity on aid for  Spain  will
prolong the region’s debt crisis, stoking refuge demand.  The yield on the  10-year note  dropped from the highest
level in a month as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
after a meeting in Brussels his nation doesn’t feel pressure to
ask for a bailout and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  questioned
whether creating a euro-area bank supervisor by the end of 2012
was realistic. The benchmark note yield dropped for the first
time in five days as a U.S. industry report showed purchases of
existing houses fell. Stocks slid the most since June.  “It’s the unwinding from the pressure we saw in the market
all week,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in
New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that deal with the
 Federal Reserve . “Some of the headlines out of the European
Union summit don’t seem so encouraging. In general, whatever
their fixes are seem to be pushed out even further till next
year.”  The 10-year  yield  declined seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It earlier dropped
eight basis points, the most since Sept. 7. The 1.625 percent
note maturing in August 2022 climbed 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 3/4.  The yield  gained  11 basis points on the week. It rose to
 1.83 percent  yesterday, the highest level in a month. The rate
climbed through its 200-day moving average on Oct. 17.  Stocks Fall  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-short position to a net-long position in 30-year bond
futures in the week ending Oct. 16, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 3,219 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, traders were net-short 828 contracts.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  fell 1.7 percent today, in
its worst drop on a closing basis since June 25.  “Some of the risk-on trade we’ve had has been
dissipating,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at
Navigate Advisors LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There isn’t any selling pressure
coming in.”  Treasuries rebounded from the least expensive in almost two
months. The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists
at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation, was negative 0.81 percent today, after closing at
negative 0.76 percent yesterday, the least costly level since
Aug. 21. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent. The all-time low was
negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  ‘Range Trade’  A measure of stress in U.S. credit markets, which falls
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities ,
rebounded from a record low level on an intraday basis reached
earlier this week.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, the difference
between the two-year swap rate and the comparable-maturity
Treasury yield, widened to 10.5 basis points today after
narrowing to eight basis points on Oct. 17 in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the least on
an intraday basis since Bloomberg started keeping data in
November 1988. It is down from a 2012 high of 49.3 basis points
on Jan. 3.  Home Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes, tabulated when a
contract closes, decreased in September  1.7 percent  to a 4.75
million annual rate, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median prices from a
year earlier jumped by the most since 2005 as inventories
dwindled.  The Fed sold $1.09 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities today due from April 2014 to January 2016. The
central bank is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
for longer-term securities to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs, part of its efforts to spur the economy.  Bidders in a $7 billion sale of 30-year inflation-indexed
securities yesterday accepted a record-low yield of 0.479
percent for securities that guard against the threat of rising
consumer prices.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.50 percentage points. The average over the past
decade is 2.17 percentage points.  ‘Political Will’  In Brussels, Merkel said it’s an open question whether
European policy makers can meet the deadline they’d set hours
earlier to establish a euro-area bank supervisor by year-end.  “There are complicated questions to clarify and we’ll see
in December if we complete it or not,” Merkel told reporters
after a two-day European Union summit wrapped up today. “For
now, the political will is there.”  The  European Central Bank  is set become the currency zone’s
main financial supervisor by Jan. 1, raising the prospect of
direct aid to Spain’s banks during 2013, the 27 EU leaders
agreed at the gathering. The system will phase in and could
cover all 6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  Spain already has secured a 100 billion-euro ($130 billion)
financial-sector lifeline and has so far not sought to asked for
aid that would unlock ECB bond-buying.  “It’s a long road of uncertainty and it’s been going on
for so long,” Comiskey of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  said. “There’s
no change in terms of the big picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  