-- Republicans Press Obama on Libya Security Before Debate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-10-19T22:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/republicans-press-obama-on-libya-security-before-debate.html
Top Republicans on a House oversight
panel demanded that President  Barack Obama  say whether the White
House staff played any role in decisions on security at the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi, Libya, raising new questions days before
a presidential debate on foreign policy.  “Your administration has not been straightforward with the
American people in the aftermath of the attack” on Sept. 11
that killed U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three
other Americans, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
Chairman  Darrell Issa  and Representative  Jason Chaffetz , who
heads a subcommittee, said today in a letter to Obama.  In addition to repeating criticism of the administration’s
changing accounts of the attack, the Republicans said the panel
found requests from personnel in Libya for increased security
beforehand had been turned down because the administration was
eager for a “normalization” of relations with that country
after the rebellion that ousted ruler Muammar Qaddafi.  “These critical foreign policy decisions are not made by
low or mid-level career officials –- they are typically made
through a structured and well-reasoned process that includes the
National Security Council at the White House,” wrote Issa of
 California  and Chaffetz of  Utah .  Obama and Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  on
Oct. 22 will face off for their final campaign debate, an
exchange focused entirely on foreign policy. The committee’s top
Democrat said today that Issa was using the investigation for
partisan gain in advance of the debate.  ‘Crossed the Line’  An investigation “should be thorough, careful and
responsible,” Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland  said
in a letter to Issa. “In my opinion, your letter crossed the
line by throwing out partial, incomplete and in some cases
inaccurate information in an effort to help your candidate for
president.”  The House exchanges over Libya came as the Senate  Homeland
Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee said it has opened
it own investigation into the circumstances surrounding the
attack.  Committee Chairman  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, and Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the panel’s top
Republican, requested documents and a classified briefing on the
attack in letters to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta and Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper.  Candidate Debates  In the two previous presidential debates, Romney has
criticized Obama for the administration’s suggestion soon after
the attack that the incident grew out of a spontaneous protest
against an offensive anti-Muslim video circulated on YouTube.  Obama and other administration officials have since said
that it was a terrorist attack from the start and that changing
explanations stemmed from evolving intelligence reports.  In the Oct. 16 debate, Obama told Romney the suggestion
that “anybody on my team would play politics or mislead when
we’ve lost four of our own, governor, is offensive.”  Issa and Chaffetz today also released 166 pages of
 documents  the Republicans used as the basis of an Oct. 10 panel
hearing. The committee heard testimony from a State Department
witness who said he was turned down when he asked that a 16-
member security support team scheduled to leave  Libya  in August
be extended.  The witness, Eric Nordstrom, who was a regional security
officer in Tripoli, also acknowledged in prepared testimony that
having more members of that team with Stevens in Benghazi on
Sept. 11 “would not have enabled us to respond to that kind of
assault.”  Embassy Cables  The documents also include cables sent under Stevens’ name
outlining challenges to security in the area, including one
issued the day he died.  “The American people have a right to know why the
administration withdrew security resources over the objections
of embassy officials and why their government did not heed the
warnings of Ambassador Stevens and his colleagues,” the two
lawmakers wrote Obama.  In the letter to Issa, Cummings said the documents released
by the Republicans were selective and provided a “contorted and
incomplete” account of security at the consulate.  While Issa wrote Obama that the State Department ignored
“two formal requests” for five security agents in Benghazi,
Cummings said one of those requests was only for a minimum of
three agents. Issa also failed to mention that there were five
agents present in Benghazi on the night of the attack, Cummings
said.  Review Board  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security
Council, declined to comment and said questions about Issa’s
letter should be directed to the State Department, which has
established an accountability review board to determine whether
mistakes were made.  In the Senate, Lieberman and Collins today released three
letters dated yesterday that seek extensive information from the
administration, without stating opinions about circumstances
surrounding the attacks.  In a letter to Clapper, they asked if there was any
information warning of a possible attack and how alerts about
possible threats were communicated to consulate staff. The
lawmakers also requested from Clapper any intelligence
assessments regarding the need for additional security.  The senators asked Clinton for a chronology and description
of the attack and administration assessments of initial
statements about the attack made by senior officials. The
senators sought any video used by State Department officials to
follow the melee.  Information about the role of private security contractors
also was requested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  