-- Republicans Said to Discuss Tax Options for Fiscal Talks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/republicans-said-to-discuss-revenue-options-for-fiscal-talks.html
Republicans in the  U.S. Congress  are
designing options that would raise  revenue  from high earners
while preserving the 35 percent top income- tax rate , in a sign
of preparations for a post-election session, said two Republican
congressional aides.  The tax-raising options would be used only as part of a
broad agreement on taxes and entitlement programs if President
 Barack Obama  wins re-election. They are included in a toolbox to
be opened after the Nov. 6 elections if Republicans make a
political calculation to support a deal that raises taxes, said
the aides, who requested anonymity to discuss the options.  The tax talk is part of discussions about post-election
scenarios in  Washington  among congressional staff members while
they wait to see who will control the U.S. House of
Representatives, Senate and White House in 2013. Those talks are
useful and also limited, because of the unpredictable emotional
response that lawmakers will have to the election results, said
J.D. Foster, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a
Washington research group that favors small government.  “Somebody’s going to be sorely disappointed, and that
person’s going to react somewhat differently than they would in
the cold logic of political calculus,” said Foster, who worked
at the Office of Management and Budget for President  George W. Bush . “To say the least, it’s going to be interesting.”  Post-Election Session  When they return to Washington after the election,
lawmakers will have less than two months before the so-called
fiscal cliff, or the $607 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts set to take effect in January. If Congress doesn’t act, the
Bush-era tax cuts will expire, a 2 percentage-point cut in the
payroll tax will lapse and automatic cuts in defense and
domestic programs will take effect. The top tax rate on ordinary
income would rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  Inaction probably would cause a recession in the first half
of 2013, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .
Economists from The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a note
yesterday that most of the negative effects would come from
policies, such as expiration of middle-class tax cuts, which
both parties want to avoid and that are embedded within more
contentious issues.  The lame-duck Congress -- including members who will leave
office in January -- will have a compressed time frame.
Lawmakers’ willingness to act will be shaped by whether they
think they will have a stronger negotiating hand if they wait
until 2013. For example, a Republican sweep could mean little
action while Congress waits for  Mitt Romney  to take office as
president and sign an extension of the tax cuts and other
Republican-favored policies.  Seeking Agreement  No pre-election negotiations are taking place between
leaders in Congress and committee chairmen. Separately, a
bipartisan group of senators including  Mark Warner  of  Virginia 
and  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia  has been trying to come up with
an agreement.  On the Democratic side, staff members are preparing
questions that lawmakers will have to consider during the
session, said a Senate Democratic aide who requested anonymity
because the discussions are private. They won’t volunteer cuts
in entitlement programs such as Medicare, the aide said.  Examining Possibilities  Another Senate Democratic aide said while Democrats are
favorable about their electoral chances and aren’t planning
sacrifices, they are developing plans for a variety of
scenarios. The realistic thing to do, said the aide who didn’t
want to be identified to discuss private conversations, is not
to exclude possibilities.  Publicly, the parties are far apart, with Republicans
maintaining they’ll resist tax increases and defense cuts to
avoid hurting the economy. Democrats say taxes must be increased
for high earners. The administration says Obama will veto any
bill that extends the tax cuts for high-income taxpayers.  Both parties say they think the other side can be pressured
into compromising. Republicans have been pointing to Obama’s
2010 decision to extend the tax cuts for all income levels and
say he will relent on his veto threat. Democrats say they have
leverage on raising taxes from high earners.  ‘Grand Bargain’  “The lure for Republicans to come to the table around a
grand bargain should be the potential for serious entitlement
reform, not the promise of a lower top rate in  tax reform ,”
Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said in a speech
last week.  Behind the scenes, the aides said, congressional offices
are preparing for scenarios in which they don’t have complete
control and might work with the other side on a significant
 deficit -reduction package.  Such a deal, if it came together, would include overhauling
entitlement programs and the  tax code , along with up-front
 deficit reduction  from taxes and spending as a kind of down
payment. Congress could reach a more limited deal that would
address only the most urgent issues for a short time. Foster
said he expects the end-of-year negotiations to settle around
the least common denominator of what the parties can accept.  Revenue Options  Reaching a broader bipartisan agreement to avert the cliff
and implement long-run deficit reduction will be difficult both
policy-wise and politically. Obama’s fiscal commission in 2010
couldn’t get the supermajority required to advance its plan to
Congress. Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  couldn’t reach a
deficit reduction deal in 2011. The congressional deficit-
reduction supercommittee in 2011 deadlocked.  The issues in play are ones that lawmakers have examined
before, said Arshi Siddiqui, a former tax policy adviser to
Representative  Nancy Pelosi , the House Democratic leader.  “You get the right people in the room with a will to get
to a deal, then it’s not a difficult endeavor,” she said.  The Republican aides said they are considering revenue
options that would be the most palatable to Republicans, who
oppose tax increases. The party places a priority on the top
rate because that’s what defines marginal economic incentives
for taxpayers and businesses that pay taxes under the individual
code.  Such a proposal would mean that Republicans would be using
some of the potential revenue -- and perhaps the most
politically achievable revenue -- from broadening the tax base
to pay for preserving current rates. Under their preferred
policy, they would broaden the tax base to pay for lower rates.  ‘Worth Exploring’  The idea is “something that’s worth exploring,” said
Siddiqui, now a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP
in Washington. “From a Democratic perspective, it will be very
much making sure that the middle class doesn’t bear a
disproportionate share of anything.”  Possible options could include limits on deductions similar
to those floated by Romney or the ones proposed by Obama. The
1986 tax overhaul included a “bubble rate” on high earners
that clawed back some of the benefits they received from having
some income taxed in lower brackets.  Coming up with options, particularly in a politically
palatable way, remains tough, Foster said.  “Where is that unknown revenue source that’s not higher
rates that would satisfy the president that says he only wants
higher rates?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  