-- Richard Li to Buy ING’s Hong Kong Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-10-19T12:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/richard-li-to-buy-ing-s-hong-kong-other-units-for-2-14-billion.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  will sell insurance
assets in Hong Kong, Macau and Thailand to Richard Li, a son of
 Asia ’s richest man, for 1.64 billion euros ($2.14 billion) as
local buyers seek to profit from the dismantling of one of
Europe’s largest financial companies.  Pacific Century Group, controlled by Li, will buy the
insurance and pension units in a sale that values the life
businesses at 24.3 times estimated 2012 earnings and 1.9 times
estimated book value of 865 million euros, according to a
statement from ING today. Amsterdam-based ING said it’s
expecting a net gain of about 1 billion euros from the sale.  For ING, which was forced to sell its entire insurance
operations after Dutch bailouts in 2008-09, it’s the second
disposal in Asia after agreeing to sell its Malaysian business
to  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  for $1.7 billion last week. ING must still
sell insurance units in  Japan  and  South Korea , where valuations
will be lower given they are in slower-growing markets than
those already sold, analysts say.  “This is another good deal,” said Dirk Peeters, a
Brussels-based analyst at KBC Securities. “The question is,
which assets will stick to ING’s fingers in the end? If you sell
country by country, it’s logical the first parts fetch better
prices.”  ING  dropped  1.8 percent to 7 euros at 1:30 p.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at about 26.8 billion euros.  Asian Deal  The shares are still up about 21 percent since the close on
Aug. 29, when the company announced the sale of ING Direct
Canada. That has outpaced the 8.2 percent gain in the 33-company
Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance index over the same period.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the flagship company of Richard
Li’s father,  Li Ka-shing , fell 0.7 percent to 113.50 Hong Kong
dollars.  HSBC Holdings Plc is advising Li on the ING deal.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are advising ING.  The purchase by Li, 45, is the biggest insurance deal in
Asia since Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd., controlled by billionaire
 Cheng Yu Tung , bought a $2.5 billion stake in  Ping An Insurance
Group Co. (2318)  in March last year.  Required Sales  ING is required to sell its insurance and investment-
management businesses before the end of 2013 after getting 10
billion euros of state aid during the financial crisis. While
executing the imposed divestment program, ING is also selling
banking assets to help speed up repayment of 4.5 billion euros
it owes.  Deleveraging among a sample group of 58 European Union
banks, including ING, has reached more than $600 billion from
the third quarter of 2011 through the end of June, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report earlier this month.  European banks may need to sell as much as $4.5 trillion in
assets by the end of next year should policy makers fall short
of pledges to stem the fiscal crisis, an increase from an
estimated $3.8 trillion in April, the IMF said in a report
published on its website last week.  In the last two months, ING  announced  an agreement to sell
its Canadian online bank for $3.16 billion and disposed of its
U.K. internet business and a 33 percent stake in China Merchants
Fund, an investment-management joint venture. The company also
raised about $3 billion last month by selling 54 million shares
of Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)   The company’s Asian insurance and asset-management
businesses had a combined book value of 6.6 billion euros at the
end of June, the company said on Sept. 27.  Korea, Japan  ING said the sale process for its remaining insurance units
in the region is continuing. The transaction announced today is
expected to close in the first quarter, it said.  The Dutch company may have to sell its “mature, slow-
growing” Korean unit at 0.8 times book value, JPMorgan analysts
Michael Huttner and Ashik Musaddi said in a note today. That’s
less than half the valuation for today’s deal.  ING’s entire Asian disposal plan may break even, the
JPMorgan analysts said, even if the Japanese unit and its money-
losing variable-annuity business are sold at half the book value
of 2.1 billion euros.  Li Family  Today’s deal follows  Richard Li ’s purchase of PineBridge
Investments LLC, a $68 billion investment manager, from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010. Li’s Pacific Century Group
completed the $500 million purchase as AIG sold assets to repay
a $182.3 billion U.S. government bailout.  Li Ka-shing has pledged financial support for his youngest
son’s ambitions.  “With the money from his dad, it’s sensible for Li to make
more of these acquisitions going forward,” Benjamin Tam, who
helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong
Kong, said before the announcement. “He has personal passion
for the financial industry and had exposure in the insurance
sector.”  Richard Li sold his stake in Hong Kong insurer Pacific
Century Insurance Holdings Ltd. to  Fortis (FBAVP) , the Belgian-Dutch
financial-services company now called Ageas, in 2007.  As chairman of technology firm  PCCW Ltd. (8) , Richard Li also
runs HKT Trust and HKT Ltd., as well as property developer
Pacific Century Premium Developments Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  