-- Riksbank Rift Deepens as Joblessness Splits Board: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-19T10:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/riksbank-rift-deepens-as-joblessness-splits-board-nordic-credit.html
Disagreement over whether Swedish
 unemployment  should guide policy instead of imbalances in the
housing market is deepening a rift at the Riksbank less than a
week before its six-member board  decides on interest rates .  Yet far from being seen as an impediment to rate setting,
the disagreement may help the bank do its job better, according
to Par Magnusson, head of Scandinavian rates strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stockholm . He argues policy makers
are doing society a service by embracing an open debate, instead
of covering up any discord.  “It’s healthy that more and more people find out how
they’re thinking,” Magnusson said by phone yesterday. “It’s
good with insight into such an important societal institution.”  The bank, which is due to announce its next decision on
Oct. 25, will probably leave its  benchmark repo  rate unchanged
at 1.25 percent, overnight index swaps show. The Riksbank
lowered rates by a quarter of a percentage point last month in
its third cut since December, citing the effect on exports of
 Europe ’s debt crisis and Sweden’s strong krona. Its official
rate path signals borrowing costs will remain unchanged until
the middle of 2013, after which the bank predicts tightening.  Opposing Views  Riksbank board members have voiced opposing views on what
should determine Sweden’s monetary policy trajectory. Deputy
Governor Per Jansson has argued events in the  euro zone  should
dominate, while Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O.
Svensson have spoken in favor of deeper cuts to prevent more job
losses. Meanwhile Governor Stefan Ingves has shown he’s more
worried about the risk of credit-market imbalances spurred by
low rates.  The exchanges have grown ever more pointed. In an opinion
piece in Swedish newspaper  Svenska Dagbladet , Ingves yesterday
responded to “voices” that have called for the “lowering of
an already very low rate” and argued that he “can’t just act
in a short-term perspective.”  The comments sent the krona up the most in a month to
become yesterday’s best-performing major currency against the
euro, the dollar and the yen. The krona appreciated as much as
0.9 percent versus the euro and the dollar as investors scaled
back bets that the Riksbank may be tempted to cut rates again.
The krona gained 0.3 percent against the euro to 8.5534 as of
12:40 p.m. in Stockholm.  The yield on  Sweden ’s two-year note was little changed
today after jumping six basis points yesterday to 0.806 percent,
swelling the spread to similar-maturity German bunds to 70 basis
points, the widest in a month.  Damaged Recovery  Within hours, Ekholm responded that Ingves wasn’t speaking
on behalf of the whole board. The views expressed were Ingves’s
own, and “not the council’s,” she said in an interview in
Warsaw. Ekholm and Svensson in September both entered
reservations, arguing for a lower rate path.  Svensson has gone so far as to criticize the Riksbank for
policy moves he says damaged Sweden’s recovery and kept
unemployment higher than it needed to be. In September last
year, he railed against the bank’s decision to embark on a
tightening cycle that delivered seven rate increases over 12
months starting in July 2010, even as the global economic crisis
continued. The bank reversed course in December last year and
has cut rates three times since.  According to Magnusson at RBS, history has proven Ingves’s
board members right more often than the governor himself.  ‘Double Whammy’  Ingves’s latest comments, timed to guide markets before the
bank announces rates next week, packed a “double whammy,”
Magnusson said. “They will get a tightening effect both on the
interest rate and currency side of things.”  The disagreement of how to deploy policy comes as Sweden
shows growing signs of succumbing to Europe’s debt crisis. The
$500 billion economy exports about half of its output. More than
70 percent of its sales abroad go to Europe, where countries are
cutting spending to reduce debt.  Some of Sweden’s biggest companies have resorted to mass
job cuts to stay competitive. Sweden’s biggest phone company
TeliaSonera AB this week said it will eliminate 2,000 jobs as
growth stalls. Truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , papermaker  Holmen AB (HOLMB) , steel
manufacturer SSAB have also in recent weeks said they’ll cut
their workforces to adjust to sluggish markets.  At the same time, the nation’s housing market has shown
signs of imbalance. Residential property prices are 20 percent
overvalued, according to the National Housing Credit Guarantee
Board, or BKN. Bengt Hansson, head of research at BKN, said in
August that Sweden is in the grip of a housing bubble.  Credit Standards  The financial regulator has responded by introducing
stricter mortgage lending standards. Credit growth has since
slowed for 22 consecutive months after borrowing was capped at
85 percent of the value of a property in October 2010.  That suggests Ingves’s timing is off, according to
Magnusson at RBS.  Ingves is “behind the curve,” he said. “Credit growth
has actually turned” and “we’re entering a recession.”  Unemployment rose to 7.4 percent in September from 7.2
percent a month earlier,  Statistics Sweden  said yesterday.
 Manufacturing confidence  sank to its lowest last month since
February, while headline inflation slowed to 0.4 percent, well
below the bank’s 2 percent target.  “To in that situation say that it’s now probably time to
start thinking about that we shouldn’t cut the rate to prevent a
credit bubble, that timing couldn’t get any worse,” Magnusson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  