-- Romania Leu Heads for Weakest in Two Months on December Polls
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-19T11:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/romania-leu-heads-for-weakest-in-two-months-on-december-polls.html
Romania ’s leu headed for the weakest
in more than two months as concern over political instability
from elections outweighed the central bank’s decision to support
the currency by capping funding for lenders.  The leu depreciated 0.1 percent to 4.5837 per euro at 2:40
p.m. in Bucharest, the lowest on a closing basis since Aug. 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 2018 euro-
denominated bonds rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.15 percent.  Campaigning for Romania’s parliamentary elections begins a
month before polling on Dec. 9. The nation may face renewed
political turmoil as the governing coalition backing Prime
Minister Victor Ponta goes head-to-head with the opposition
party, which supports President Traian Basescu. A Constitutional
Court invalidated an impeachment vote on the president due to
lower-than-required turnout, leading to Basescu’s reinstatement
in August.  “Romanian assets continue struggling into December
elections,” analysts led by  Benoit Anne  at Societe Generale SA
wrote in a note today. “The political environment remains
unfavorable” for the leu, they said.  The central bank capped lending at its one-week repurchase
agreements auction to 6 billion lei ($1.7 billion) on Oct. 8 and
Oct. 15 to support the leu, which had weakened to a two-month
low on Oct. 5. Lenders demand for funding reached to a record
high of 21.4 billion lei at the mid-month sale.  The repo cap “is the way to move more rapidly and
effectively than regular interest-rate changes,” and the impact
on the exchange rate is “more effective,” Governor Mugur Isarescu said yesterday.  “We read this as suggesting stronger actions for
supporting the leu are not on the near-term radar,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania, wrote
in a note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net  