-- Russia Police Detain TNK-BP Manager for $6 Million Fraud Attempt
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-10-19T11:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/russian-police-detain-tnk-bp-holding-official-for-bribe-seeking.html
A manager at OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) ,
 Russia ’s third-biggest oil producer, was arrested on suspicion
of seeking $6 million in a fraudulent scheme to sell state jobs.  The TNK-BP official was detained Oct. 4 while taking an
advance payment of more than 3 million rubles ($97,400) from two
businessmen, according to the Interior Ministry. The man, the
head of a government relations department, had promised to
secure jobs in the presidential administration and the office of
the envoy to the Central Administrative District, the ministry
said today in on its  website , without giving his name.  TNK-BP identified the employee as Igor Korneev and said the
detention isn’t related to his job at the  oil company . Korneev,
who had been employed for about three months, hadn’t started in
his role in subsoil use regulatory support yet, TNK-BP said in
an e-mailed statement. Attempts to reach Korneev through TNK-BP
and the  Interior Ministry  weren’t immediately successful.  TNK-BP Holding is the traded unit of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 50-50 oil
venture with a group of billionaires. BP board is set to review
an offer from state-run OAO Rosneft for its half of the venture
today, people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. TNK-
BP Holding shares fell as much as 3.8 percent today, before
narrowing losses to trade little changed at 80 rubles by 3:24
p.m. in Moscow.  The suspect had worked as deputy chairman of Irkutsk
regional government and was the eastern Siberian region’s
economics minister until June, according to the Interior
Ministry. In September, he offered to sell the state jobs, which
he had no authority to secure, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  