-- Russia’s Rosneft Sale to Balance TNK-BP Purchase, Shuvalov Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-10-19T15:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/russia-s-rosneft-sale-to-balance-tnk-bp-purchase-shuvalov-says.html
Russia’s sale of OAO Rosneft shares
will counter the oil producer’s potential “multilayered”
acquisition of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture, keeping the state’s
influence over the oil industry from ballooning, according to
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov .  Russia plans to reduce its 75 percent stake in Rosneft
selling shares in 2013 and 2014, Shuvalov told reporters today
in Moscow. Russia will move “very cautiously, taking care about
the quality of the investor and of course seeking the highest
proceeds from the sale,” he said.  Rosneft offered to buy BP’s half of the oil venture with
cash and shares amounting to about $25 billion to $28 billion
and has preliminary accord to acquire the half held by the U.K.
explorer’s billionaires partners, who are also seeking $28
billion, people with knowledge of the plans said Oct. 17. BP’s
board is set to consider the bid today, one of the people said.  “If you look at the reaction of the TNK-BP shareholders to
the proposals from Rosneft, you’ll see the deal has many layers
and many stages,” said Shuvalov, who has pushed for state asset
sales. “It’s much more complex than simply saying the
government is expanding its influence.”  BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley proposed using some
proceeds, if the sale of its TNK-BP stake to Rosneft is
successful, to buy some state-held shares in the  oil company  and
develop projects in Russia, while meeting in September with
President  Vladimir Putin  and Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin  in Sochi,
on the  Black Sea .  Russia’s government hasn’t yet made any decision on selling
Rosneft shares to BP, Shuvalov said at the time. He declined
today to comment on a share sale to BP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  