-- Russia Stocks Retreat Most in One Week on Commodities, Europe
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-19T15:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/russia-s-stocks-retreat-for-1st-day-in-four-on-lower-oil-google.html
Russian stocks  dropped for the first
time in four days, declining the most in a week, as commodities
slumped and the European Union summit failed to boost investor
confidence the region’s debt crisis will be contained.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1 percent to 1,460.06 by the close in
Moscow, paring its weekly gain to 1 percent. Basic metals and
utilities stocks declined the most, losing more than 1.3 percent
on average. OAO Severstal, a steelmaker, and aluminum producer
United Co Rusal tumbled 2.2 percent and 2.3 percent,
respectively. OAO Transneft, the oil pipeline operator, dropped
2.6 percent, the biggest decliner. AFK Sistema surged 2.8
percent as the company won’t participate in  India ’s 2G spectrum
sale.  Oil,  Russia ’s main export earner, traded down for the
second day, losing as much as 0.5 percent to $91.63 a barrel in
 New York . Most metals, including nickel, copper and tin, sank in
 London . A European Union summit failed to discuss further
financial assistance for  Spain , French President  Francois Hollande  said.  Europe  is Russia’s largest trade partner.  “The European Summit is the main concern for the Russian
market,” Peter Szopo, head of research at  Alfa Bank , said by
phone. “Negotiations about Spain and banking regulation
progressed but there was a lot of disagreement. Commodities are
weak on the economic growth concerns.”  TNK-BP Detention  OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the traded unit of BP’s Russian
venture, plunged as much as 3.8 percent before closing down 0.4
percent at 79.78 rubles. Police detained the head of the
company’s government relations department on suspicion of
seeking bribes to sell government posts. TNK-BP is aware of the
man’s detention, which is not related to his work at the
company, the press office said by e-mail.  The Russian  Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  of global depositary receipts
traded in London fell 1 percent to 1,682.46.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said today the government
will discuss the planned asset sales at the next meeting and the
program is being finalized.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, lost 2.4
percent to 214.20 rubles, while OAO Gazprom, the natural gas
export monopoly, slid 0.5 percent to 154.57 rubles.  Russia may sell shares in Rosneft in 2013, 2014, Russian
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  told reporters outside
Moscow. Rosneft’s deal with BP Plc won’t affect Russian plans to
reduce state shareholding in the  oil company , Shuvalov said.  Rosneft submitted a bid yesterday to buy BP’s 50 percent of
TNK-BP for a mix of cash and shares that values the whole
venture at $50 billion to $56 billion, a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  Nomos Soars  Nomos Bank rose as much as 3.8 percent before closing up
2.5 percent at 820.20 rubles, the biggest gain since Sept. 5.
Otkritie Financial Corp. plans to buy minority stakes in Nomos
Bank for $14 per global depositary receipt and will make an
announcement within the next two weeks, said three people with
knowledge of the plans.  OAO MRSK Holding lost 10 percent in the week, the biggest
decliner. The board of directors recommended to sell new shares
at 2.16 rubles a share.  OAO Raspadskaya was the second-biggest decliner, losing 4.9
percent. Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Plc
cut their recommendations for the coal producer this week.  Sistema rose the most this week on the Micex, gaining 5.9
percent. OAO Sberbank’s preferred shares advanced 4.3 percent,
the second-biggest.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 4.1 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
9.8 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  