-- S. Korea, Australia Among Five to Join Security Council
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-19T02:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/s-korea-australia-among-five-to-join-security-council.html
South Korea  and Australia were
elected to two-year terms on the  United Nations Security
Council , strengthening the hand of the U.S. with two Pacific
allies as it faces tensions with  China  and North Korea.  Argentina,  Rwanda  and Luxembourg also were elected
yesterday to fill seats on the 15-member Council, the highest
decision-making body of the world organization. Bhutan, Cambodia
and Finland ran and failed to get enough votes from the UN’s 193
members to win any of the five contested seats.  “Australia and South Korea may be able to act as bridges
for more effective diplomacy with the Chinese, and if you have a
crisis on the Korean peninsula they will almost certainly line
up with the U.S.,”  Richard Gowan , associate director at New
York University’s Center on International Cooperation said in an
interview. Still, he said, if the U.S. and China have a security
showdown, Australia and South Korea may find themselves in an
uncomfortable situation.  China is Australia’s top trading partner as its demand for
 iron ore  and coal spurs a resources boom. The U.S. is boosting
its military presence in the Asia-Pacific region as China’s
power grows and is deploying as many as 2,500 Marines in the
northern Australian city of Darwin.  ‘Constructive Role’  Australia will “play a constructive role across the
breadth of the Council’s peace and security agenda,” Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  said in an e-mailed statement today. The
nation’s priorities will include  Afghanistan ,  Syria ,  Iran  and
North Korea, and ensuring the effectiveness of sanctions
regimes, she said.  South Korea now has “considerable deterrence” against
North Korea by being able to directly participate in  Security
Council  discussions, Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan said today
in Seoul. Kim Jong Un’s regime has shown no signs of submitting
to international calls to abandon its nuclear weapons program
despite UN sanctions weighing on its impoverished economy.  Rwanda has been accused by UN rapporteurs of backing a
violent ethnic militia, the M23, in the neighboring Democratic
Republic of the Congo, and Argentina earlier this year stepped
up a public campaign to regain control of the Falkland Islands,
a British overseas territory that it unsuccessfully invaded in
1982.  Before voting began yesterday, a Congolese diplomat
objected publicly to Rwanda’s candidacy, accusing it of
harboring war criminals.  Departing Nations  The five nations elected yesterday will take their seats at
the beginning of the year, replacing Colombia, Germany, India,
 Pakistan  and  South Africa , whose terms are expiring.  Power in the Security Council, whose support is needed for
the strongest UN actions, such as economic sanctions and armed
interventions, rests with the five permanent members, known as
the P-5: China, France, the U.K., Russia and the U.S. Each has
the power to veto Security Council resolutions, which are
legally binding on all UN member states.  The rotating members can approve or reject other Security
Council decisions, and are often relied on by the P-5 to build
consensus with other member states and to help resolve regional
issues.  Terms expire at the end of next year for five other
rotating members of the Council: Azerbaijan, Guatemala, Morocco,
Pakistan and Togo.  ‘Important Voices’  The impending departure from the council of Germany, India
and South Africa will remove three countries contending for
permanent seats on the Council if it ever were to expand, said
Karl Inderfurth, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington and a former deputy U.S.
representative to the Security Council under President  Bill
Clinton .  “In that sense, you are losing some important voices,”
Inderfurth said in an interview, although none of the three had
managed to make the case that their influence would strengthen
the council.  Germany voted against authorizing the NATO-led intervention
in Libya that stopped Muammar Qaddafi’s forces from bombing
their own people, and India and South Africa stalled for months
on taking action against the war Syrian president Bashar al- Assad is waging on his own people, Inderfurth said.  “The P-5 were unsettled by the presence of so many other
big powers in the council,” said Gowan. Even with the tensions
among the P-5, particularly Russia and China’s steadfast
opposition to imposing sanctions on Iran and Syria, they have
worked together to restore their hold on the council’s agenda,
he said.  “The idea two years ago was that the presence of big guys
on the council would make a difference, and that proved to be
wrong,” Gowan said. “Even the really big differences over
Syria haven’t stopped the U.S., China and Russia from working
together to make sure they rule the roost at the UN.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  