-- Safe Harbor, ASIC Inquiry, JPMorgan Apology: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-19T12:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/safe-harbor-asic-inquiry-jpmorgan-apology-compliance.html
U.S. lenders may get strong
protections against lawsuits over government-backed mortgages
under rules being weighed by the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, according to two people briefed on the process.  The so-called qualified mortgage regulations would give
banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
safeguards against legal action arising from the underwriting
process, provided the loans are backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie
Mac or government insurers such as the Federal Housing
Administration, according to the people who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the discussions aren’t public.  The consumer bureau, which is crafting the rules as part of
a broader overhaul of housing-finance oversight, revealed its
plans in a meeting with other federal regulators Oct. 17,
according to the people. Bureau officials have said they will
issue a final rule by the statutory deadline of Jan. 21.  Once the rule goes into effect, lenders are expected to
originate most of their loans according to the new standards in
order to gain legal protection from the kind of lawsuits and
“putbacks” that have cost banks billions in the wake of the
mortgage crisis.  Jennifer Howard, the consumer bureau’s spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment on the planning.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Leaders Seek Deal on Bank Supervisor Starting in 2013  European leaders committed to their goal of establishing a
euro-area bank supervisor by year-end, opening the prospect of
direct aid to Spain’s banks.  The European Union will seek to agree on a framework that
makes the European Central Bank the main supervisor by Jan. 1,
according to conclusions released early today after leaders met
at a summit in Brussels. The new system, intended to break the
link between banks and governments at the root of the region’s
financial crisis, will phase in over the next year and could
cover all 6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  The supervisor can “probably be effectively operational,”
allowing the euro bailout fund to lend directly to banks as soon
as 2013, EU President Herman Van Rompuy told reporters around
3:20 a.m. this morning after the meeting. He said finance
ministers will design rules for such bank rescues.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel, underscoring a go-slow
approach, said before direct aid, the bank-oversight system
needs to reach “practical completion.”  The so-called banking union dominated talks at leaders’
20th crisis-fighting European summit. Leaders praised  Greece  for
its efforts to meet commitments and secure its next aid
installments, while sidestepping questions of when and how Spain
might secure further assistance.  The EU has struggled to maintain momentum on a June plan to
spur investor confidence by putting the ECB in charge of lenders
across the euro area. Divisions have flared over the scope of
the ECB’s authority and how losses would be shared.  For more, click here.  EU Summit Tussle Over Costs Risks Derailing Bank Union Plans  The French-backed effort to fast-track a European bank
supervisor is running into German-led concern over potential
costs as the region’s leaders tussle over putting their crisis-
fighting blueprint into action.  Pressed by counterparts from  France  to  Austria  to move
quickly on breaking the link between banks and governments in
the euro area’s financial crisis, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel demanded a “thorough” approach as the 27 European Union
leaders met for talks in Brussels yesterday.  French President Francois Hollande told reporters as the
two-day summit began that he was in favor of “moving forward.”
Suggesting electoral considerations are holding Merkel back, he
said Germany and France have a joint responsibility to get the
euro area out of crisis and “we are almost there.”  The EU has struggled to maintain momentum on a June plan to
spur investor confidence by putting the European Central Bank in
charge of lenders across the euro area. Divisions have flared
over the scope of the ECB’s supervisory powers and how losses
would be shared.  A French official, briefing reporters after a meeting
between Hollande and Merkel, said agreements in principle were
possible. He said  Finland ,  Sweden  and the U.K. were the biggest
obstacles.  The splits over banking may emerge as proxies for wider
disagreements over EU budget rules.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Energy-Trading Unit Admits Error in Apology to FERC  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s energy-trading unit admitted making
mistakes in filings to state and federal regulators as it sought
to avoid losing its authority to trade electricity.  J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. “regrets and apologizes
for its failure to address” the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission’s communications in an investigation of JPMorgan’s
electricity trading in California and the Midwest, according to
a filing yesterday. The FERC has threatened to suspend the
company’s trading powers, a penalty JPMorgan said “is not an
appropriate or proportionate response” to the errors.  The FERC ordered the company on Sept. 20 to show that it
didn’t violate agency rules and said it may suspend JPMorgan’s
authority to sell power and related services at market-based
rates shouldn’t be suspended.  The JPMorgan unit didn’t discuss the allegation of market
manipulation in its apology yesterday. The company said it
inadvertently supplied the FERC and the California Independent
System Operator Corp. with inadequate information in their
investigation. CAISO manages the state’s power grid.  Mary O’Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the
commission won’t comment on the company’s filing.  Surging Stocks at Australia’s Open Prompt Regulatory Inquiry  Trades in about a dozen Australian equities including
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and AMP Ltd. surged
at the open in the absence of company news, prompting inquiries
by the market regulator.  The incident comes 2 1/2 months after  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KGC) , one of the biggest market makers in U.S. stocks, bombarded
American exchanges with mistaken orders in the first minutes of
trading on Aug. 1. The company blamed the mishap on defective
software. Two weeks ago, orders for Indian stocks improperly
entered by a Mumbai brokerage sent the S&P CNF Nifty Index down
16 percent over eight seconds before it rebounded.  The Australian Securities and Investment Commission has
commenced informal inquiries into the incident, Andre Khoury, a
Sydney-based spokesman for ASIC said in a statement. There
haven’t been any requests to cancel trades, Matthew Gibbs,
Sydney-based spokesman for ASX Ltd., operator of the country’s
main bourse, said by telephone.  “Today was the expiry day for the October ASX 200 Index
futures contracts, which often generates heightened trading
activity as investors seek to unwind their positions,” Gibbs,
said by e-mail yesterday. “ASX alerted ASIC this morning and
has been closely monitoring trading throughout the day, which
has been orderly.”  The stocks that moved unusually yesterday were mainly those
attached to companies whose tickers begin with the letters A and
B. Australia’s market opens in phases according to the
alphabetical order of tickers,  ASX  said.  Australian regulators are considering requiring all trading
algorithms to have an inbuilt “kill switch” to immediately
disable them if they malfunction, ASIC Chairman Greg Medcraft
told a conference in Sydney Oct. 10.  For more, click here.  Bank of Scotland Is Fined $6.7 Million Over Mortgage Records  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Bank of  Scotland  was fined 4.2
million pounds ($6.7 million) over failures to keep accurate
mortgage records between 2004 and 2011 by the U.K.  Financial
Services Authority .  The bank had mortgage records for 250,000 customers spread
across two “unaligned systems,” breaching FSA rules for a
lender to “organize and control its affairs responsibly,” the
regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  The regulator censured Bank of Scotland earlier this year
for “very serious misconduct” at its corporate division that
led to it getting a government bailout during the financial
crisis. Bank of Scotland embarked on a program of goodwill
payments for some customers who took out mortgages before
September 2007, Lloyds said. The lender won’t ask for the money
back, the FSA said.  “Bank of Scotland has apologized to customers, co-operated
fully with the regulator throughout this process and has agreed
to pay a fine,” Lloyds said in an e-mailed statement.  The lender settled at an early stage in the investigation,
the FSA said.  Courts  Ex-GE Bankers Sentenced in Bid-Rig Scam Targeting Cities  Three former  General Electric Co. (GE)  bankers were sentenced to
prison terms ranging from three to four years for defrauding
cities and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service in a bid-rigging
scheme involving municipal bonds.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan  sentenced
Steven Goldberg to four years in prison while Peter Grimm and
Dominick Carollo each received three years.  The three were found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan
in May of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal bond investment contracts.  The charges grew out of a five-year investigation by
federal antitrust prosecutors into the $3.7 trillion municipal
bond market. Including the three defendants, 15 people have been
convicted in the government’s investigation into municipal
bonds, the Justice Department has said.  The case is U.S. v. Carollo, 10-cr-00654, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Blackstone’s James Says Collusion Lawsuit Is Fabrication  Tony James, president of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said
allegations that the biggest buyout firms colluded in bidding on
takeovers are untrue and may have been politically motivated in
an election year.  He made the statement in response to a question from
Bloomberg News on a conference call discussing third-quarter
earnings.  Top executives at private-equity firms including
Blackstone, Bain,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  assured each
other in e-mails that they wouldn’t compete on deals to avoid
driving up prices and angering competitors, according to an
amended complaint unsealed last week by a federal judge in
Boston. The correspondence was cited as evidence that the firms
rigged bids in 19 leveraged buyouts and eight other
transactions, including the biggest deals of the LBO boom.  The amendment to the complaint, which was first filed in
2007, was unsealed Oct. 11 after U.S. District Judge Edward
Harrington granted a request by the New York Times to make it
public. Besides James, representatives for KKR and TPG Capital,
also named in the complaint, said the firms compete vigorously
for deals and there is no evidence of the alleged conspiracy.  The plaintiffs include the Police and Fire Retirement
System of the City of  Detroit , a public pension fund, and a
Minnesota-based investor, Kirk Dahl, who owned shares of
Freescale.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here and click here.  Hong Kong Firm to Pay $14 Million to Settle Insider Trading  A Hong Kong-based firm sued for insider trading in July
will settle the case by paying more than $14 million, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a news release.  The SEC filed an emergency action against Well Advantage to
freeze its assets less than 24 hours after the firm placed an
order to liquidate its entire position in  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   The SEC alleged that Well Advantage had stockpiled shares
of Nexen stock based on confidential information that China-
based CNOOC Ltd. was about to announce an acquisition of Nexen.  The proposed settlement is subject to the approval of U.S
District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in Manhattan.  Interviews  Bankers Warn U.S. of Fiscal Cliff Threat, Nichols Says  Robert Nichols, president of the  Financial Services Forum ,
talked about a letter from some top bank executives warning of
the threat the so-called fiscal cliff poses to the U.S. and
global economies.  The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion in federal spending
cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in January
unless the U.S. Congress acts. Nichols spoke with  Tom Keene  and
Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  FSA Censure Shouldn’t Rule Turner Out of BOE Job, Tyrie Says  U.K. lawmaker Andrew Tyrie, who heads Parliament’s  Treasury
Committee , said new criticism of the Financial Services
Authority shouldn’t rule Chairman Adair Turner out of the race
to be the next Bank of England governor.  The committee, which will scrutinize the government’s
proposed candidate to replace Governor Mervyn King, published a
report today that rebuked the FSA for failing to stop Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s 2007 purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV.
The panel said the watchdog showed poor judgment and should have
intervened in the deal, which brought RBS close to collapse.  Speculation on who will succeed King in June is centering
on Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker, seen as the
favorite, and Turner after the close of applications last week.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne plans to announce a
new governor by the end of the year, and former Prime Minister
Tony Blair said in an interview yesterday that King will be a
“hard act to follow.”  In the report, the Parliament committee also criticized the
Bank of England and the Treasury for their role. It attacked
Turner for initially resisting a postmortem of the affair.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  