-- Existing U.S. Home Sales Decline as Supply Drops
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-19T20:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-declines-amid-limited-supply.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
decreased in September from the highest level in two years,
restrained by a lack of supply that may keep pushing prices up.  Purchases fell 1.7 percent to a 4.75 million annual rate,
matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in  Washington . The median price from a year earlier
jumped by the most since 2005 as inventories dwindled.  The number of existing homes for sale is drying up as
demand improves,  hedge funds  snap up foreclosed properties to
rent out and owners remain reluctant to sell until prices rise
further. Mortgages rates driven to record lows by Federal
Reserve stimulus, along with a falling jobless rate, indicate
sales will keep improving.  “There are a lot of reasons to be positive on housing,”
said Tom Simons, an economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New
York , who correctly projected the drop. “ Mortgage rates  are
near all-time lows, and inventories are at generational lows. If
housing prices continue to rise, people are incentivized to get
off the sidelines. It all sets up for continued improvement.”  Stocks fell, giving benchmark indexes their biggest
declines since June, as results from Microsoft Corp. and General
Electric Co. missed estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 1.7 percent to 1,433.19 at the close in New York.
 Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note down to 1.77 percent from 1.83 percent late yesterday.  Economists’ Estimates  The  median  forecast was based on a Bloomberg survey of 78
economists. Estimates ranged from 4.53 million to 4.9 million.
The prior month’s pace was revised to 4.83 million from a
previously reported 4.82 million. Those were the strongest back-
to-back readings since mid 2010, when the government’s first-
time buyer credit lapsed.  The  median price  of an existing home climbed to $183,900,
up 11.3 percent from September 2011. That was the biggest year-
over-year gain since November 2005.  Compared with a year earlier, purchases increased 11
percent.  The number of previously owned homes  on the market  dropped
3.3 percent to 2.32 million, the fewest for any September since
2002. At the current sales pace, it would take 5.9 months to
sell those houses compared with 6 months at the end of August.
The months’ supply was the lowest since March 2006.  Home Supply  The market is now heading into a traditionally weak period
for inventory, indicating the months’ supply may drop to the 5-
month area in the December-to-February time frame,  Lawrence Yun ,
NAR chief economist, said in a news conference as the figures
were released.  “Certainly we have broken out of the slump,” Yun said.
“Prices are now showing an accelerating trend. This is a
reflection of low inventory. Builders need to increase
production.”  In September, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called housing
“one of the missing pistons in the engine” as he announced the
third round of large-scale asset purchases intended to push down
long-term  interest rates  and spur growth.  The lower borrowing costs are bolstering home demand, even
as tighter credit standards make it harder for many Americans to
get a mortgage. The  average rate  on a 30-year fixed loan was
3.37 percent in the week ended Oct. 18, near a record-low of
3.36 reported Oct. 4, according to data from  Freddie Mac  that
dates back to 1971.  Distressed Properties  Distressed homes, which include foreclosures and short
sales, in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than
the balance of the mortgage, accounted for 24 percent of the
September total, up from 22 percent in the prior month, today’s
report showed.  All-cash transactions accounted for 28 percent of last
month’s sales, and investors, the majority of who are all-cash
buyers, accounted for 18 percent.  Private-equity firms such as Colony Capital LLC and
Blackstone Group LP, have converged on Phoenix, Atlanta and
other distressed areas in search of low-priced properties to buy
and rent out, helping to stabilize the markets. These types of
investors have raised as much as $8 billion to buy as many as
80,000 single-family homes to manage as rentals, according to a
Sept. 21 report by Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  American households may also be drawn into the market as a
falling jobless rate helps bolster confidence. Unemployment
dropped to 7.8 percent in September, the lowest since President
 Barack Obama  took office in January 2009. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index last week climbed to a six-month high, and a
similar measure from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
jumped this month to a five-year high.  Battleground States  Ohio was among six of eight states considered U.S.
presidential election battlegrounds that showed a September drop
in unemployment, according to Labor Department data issued today
less than three weeks before voters head to the polls.  The jobless rate in Ohio declined to 7 percent from 7.2
percent in August. Unemployment also fell in  Wisconsin ,
 Colorado ,  Florida ,  Iowa  and  Nevada . The rate was unchanged from
August in  New Hampshire  and  Virginia . Joblessness in five of the
states is less than the national average.  Today’s report from the Realtors’ group showed sales
dropped in three of four regions, led by a 6.3 percent decrease
in the Northeast. Demand rose 0.5 percent in the South.  Construction companies are showing an improvement in
earnings as the market turns. Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the
third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said its third-
quarter profit more than quadrupled as revenue climbed.  Builder Optimism  “Overall demand has been improving and we’ve seen a
consistent sales pace at improving prices,” Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a Sept. 24 conference call with
analysts. “The homebuilding business is beginning to revert to
normal and that’s positive for the  U.S. economy  in general.”  Existing-home sales have improved after reaching a low of a
3.39 million annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the
subprime lending collapse and recession, purchases reached a
peak of 7.25 million in September 2005.  Other reports signal that housing is on the mend. Home
starts surged 15 percent in September to an 872,000 annual rate,
the fastest since July 2008, according to Commerce Department
data released this week. An increase in building permits
signaled the gains will be sustained.  Construction companies are less pessimistic. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index
increased to 41 this month, the highest since June 2006 and the
sixth straight gain. Still, readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Demand for  new homes , another harbinger of progress, may
have climbed to a two-year high in September, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The report is due on Oct. 24
from the Commerce Department.  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  