-- San Diego Man Arrested for Porn Is Linked to Bomb Plot
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/san-diego-man-arrested-for-porn-is-linked-to-bomb-plot.html
A San Diego man who was arrested on
child-pornography charges has been linked to the Bangladeshi man
who is accused of plotting to blow up the New York Federal
Reserve in lower  Manhattan .  The  New York Times (NYT) , citing an unidentified law enforcement
official, reported yesterday that Howard Willie Carter II was an
accomplice of Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis. Carter’s
computer contained e-mails addressed to Yaqeen, a name Brooklyn
prosecutors said Carter used in the bomb plot, the newspaper
said.  Nafis, 21, was arrested Oct. 17 in an undercover effort
after he attempted to detonate what he believed to be a 1,000-
pound bomb, according to the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force.
Located at 33 Liberty Street, the bank is just a few blocks from
the site of the former twin towers at the World Trade Center,
which were destroyed in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  Carter, 36 is charged with receipt and possession of images
of “minors engaged in sexually explicit conduct,” U.S.
Attorney Laura Duffy in San Diego said yesterday in a statement.
He was arrested Oct. 17 by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and is being held pending a detention hearing set for Oct. 23,
according to the statement.  FBI Surveillance  An FBI agent “conducting surveillance in the vicinity” of
Carter’s apartment on Aug. 16, found a computer and hard drive
in a dumpster in the parking garage of the apartment building,
according to the request for a search warrant filed in federal
court in San Diego.  The hard drive, which was traced back to Carter, contained
more than 1,000 images and three video files containing child
pornography, according to the search request.  Darrell Foxworth, an FBI spokesman in San Diego, said in an
e-mail yesterday that the agency isn’t confirming or denying
Carter’s reported link to the New York case.  Representatives of the U.S. attorney’s offices in San Diego
and  Brooklyn  didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests
yesterday after regular business hours seeking comment on
Carter.  The case is U.S. v. Carter, 12-4191, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  California  (San Diego.) The Nafis case is
U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-mj-00965, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  