-- Scene in D.C.: Rumsfeld, Pataki Mark 56th of Hungary 1956
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-19T15:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/scene-in-d-c-rumsfeld-pataki-mark-56th-of-hungary-1956.html
Donald Rumsfeld , former U.S. defense
secretary, greeted the 6-foot-5  George Pataki  last night with:
“My, you’ve grown.”  “It’s my Hungarian roots,” said the former New York
governor.  The two were guests of honor at the  U.S. Institute of Peace 
for the 56’ at 56 gala hosted by the Hungarian Embassy.  The play on numbers represents the 56th anniversary of the
1956 Hungarian Revolution against the Soviet regime.  Rumsfeld, a naval pilot stationed in Hungary at the time,
recalled the “indelible impressions” the period made on him.  He was hardly taking a break from campaigning: “I want
Romney to win so bad I can’t stand it,” Rumsfeld said, grinding
his teeth.  Pataki grew up in a Hungarian-American community in upstate
 New York . He said his father cried when he saw the Soviets
retain power despite the hard-fought campaign by the student
freedom fighters.  Pataki led the U.S. delegation to Hungary to mark the 50th
anniversary in 2006.  The 300 guests were seated at tables named after U.S.
cities, with the exception of the Budapest table, where Rumsfeld
and Pataki were joined by Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Florida
Republican, and Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Janos Martonyi.  Gold Medals  Hungarian Ambassador Gyorgy Szapary made introductions,
including one between Rumsfeld and Susan Francia, a Hungarian
American athlete who took the gold medal in women’s rowing in
Beijing and London. She brought her medals along.  Martonyi compared mustaches with  John Lipsky , former first
deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, now
a visiting scholar at  Johns Hopkins University .  At the Cleveland table were Austrian Ambassador Hans Peter
Manz and Heidi Crebo-Rediker, the State Department’s chief
economist. At Boston sat Skip Warner, a senior vice president at
 General Electric Co. (GE) , one of the evening’s sponsors.  He is off to Hungary next month to facilitate sales of
Hungarian industrial business through financing.  The meal was local roasted chicken, wild rice and Esterhazy
torte with Hungarian wines, such as Matrai Irsai Oliver 2011.  Szapary surprised his guests with the announcement that the
Hungarian government has pledged $1 million toward the
construction of a Communism museum in Washington.  Other guests included Philip Reeker, former ambassador to
Macedonia, now deputy assistant secretary of state for European
and Eurasian affairs, and former Hungarian Ambassador Andras Simonyi, now the managing director of the Center for
Transatlantic Relations at the Paul Nitze School of Advanced
International Studies at Johns Hopkins.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 