-- Secret Service Agent in Sex Case Linked to Earlier Misconduct
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-10-19T21:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/secret-service-agent-in-sex-case-linked-to-earlier-misconduct.html
A U.S. Secret Service agent involved
in a prostitution scandal on a presidential trip to  Colombia  in
April told investigators he earlier solicited women for sex in
two other countries, according to a lawmaker.  Allegations about the unnamed agent’s behavior in the other
two locations,  El Salvador  and  Panama , were in a memo that
Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican, distributed to his
colleagues on the Senate Homeland Security Committee today. The
memo is based on a review by Republican staff of a Homeland
Security Department inspector general report that hasn’t been
made public.  Investigators also reported allegations of sexual
misconduct by Secret Service employees in China and  Romania ,
according to Johnson’s memo. The memo didn’t provide details of
what took place in those countries or how many agents were
involved. Brian Faughnan, a spokesman for Johnson, declined to
provide additional information.  Secret Service Director  Mark Sullivan  told the homeland
security panel at a May hearing that what happened in Cartagena,
Colombia was an isolated incident. In that episode, employees
were accused of bringing prostitutes to their hotel rooms,
triggering the worst crisis at the Secret Service outside of a
presidential assassination.  Johnson said in his memo that Sullivan’s previous
statements about the incident being isolated “suggest the
administration misled or withheld information from Congress.”  Agency Culture  “We must know if a culture exists inside the Secret
Service that could jeopardize” President  Barack Obama ’s
security, Johnson said in a statement.  The Secret Service has been “timely and truthful” when
responding to lawmakers’ questions, said Edwin Donovan, an
agency spokesman, in an e-mail.  Senator  Joe Lieberman , the Connecticut independent who is
chairman of the homeland security panel, said Sullivan and the
Secret Service deserve “a presumption of innocence unless real
evidence leads to a different conclusion.”  Nine agency employees were either fired or voluntarily left
as a result of the allegations in Colombia, Donovan said. Among
them was the agent linked to misconduct in Panama and El
Salvador in 2008 and 2009, he said.  The Secret Service and its parent agency, the Homeland
Security Department, cooperated with the independent probe, said
Inspector General Charles K. Edwards, who conducted the
investigation. He declined in a statement to comment on
Johnson’s memo and said his investigation continues.  Johnson said the inspector general also found that at least
11 Secret Service employees had knowledge of co-workers
committing “similar misconduct” in situations unrelated to the
Colombia trip.  Secret Service officials have said Obama’s security during
the trip to a regional summit in Colombia wasn’t compromised.  ABC News reported yesterday on the inspector general’s
findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  