-- Sept. 11 Trial Constitutional Questions Left for Later
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/sept-11-trial-constitutional-questions-left-for-later.html
A military tribunal for the accused
plotters of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks ended a week
of hearings without resolving questions such as whether
constitutional rights will apply and whether interrogation
techniques such as “waterboarding” can be discussed openly.  The judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, yesterday postponed
rulings on procedural questions that will govern an eventual
trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other defendants who
allegedly planned and financed the attacks that used hijacked
passenger planes to kill almost 3,000 people in New York, at the
Pentagon near Washington and in a Pennsylvania field.  The slow pace of legal action this week at the U.S. naval
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, set the stage for what defense
attorneys and prosecutors said will be years of wrangling before
a trial can occur in the biggest terrorism case in U.S. history.
Pohl said preliminary hearings will resume on Dec. 3, with a
fallback date of Jan. 28. Hearings are likely to be held for at
least a week every other month, he said.  As President  Barack Obama  reaffirmed that he would like to
close the military prison camp at Guantanamo, defense lawyers
questioned the credibility of the tribunal and the fairness of
the rules proposed by military prosecutors.  “The president knows America can do better than these show
trials,” Mohammed’s chief counsel, David Nevin, said in a
statement yesterday. “They are unfair, unsettled, unknown,
unbounded, unnecessary and un-American.”  Obama, in an Oct. 18 appearance on  Comedy Central ’s “The
Daily Show,” said, “I still want to close Guantanamo. We
haven’t been able to get that.”  ‘Worthy’ Work  The chief prosecutor, Army Brigadier General Mark Martins,
said the tribunal, known as a commission, plays a vital role.  “We are following the rule of law,” Martins said at a
news conference last night. “We commit to pursuing those who
plot against our nation and its people.”  What emerged from this week’s session was a military system
working to prove itself a credible legal forum while sorting out
complex ground rules for a trial involving suspected terrorists
captured overseas and interrogated at secret CIA prisons.  Defense lawyers and prosecutors spent days debating whether
the U.S. Constitution applies to such tribunals, whether the
defense should be given the right to subpoena witnesses without
prosecutors’ approval, as is the case in federal courts, and how
much sensitive information should be disclosed in open court.  A motion filed by prosecutors, called a “gag order” by
the defense, would require defense lawyers to treat any
information obtained from their clients about their
interrogation as classified.  183 Times  Mohammed, who has said he was the mastermind of the Sept.
11 attacks, was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until
2006, before being sent to Guantanamo. The CIA has acknowledged
he was one of three al-Qaeda operatives who were waterboarded.
He underwent the procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times,
according to government documents.  James Connell, an attorney for Mohammed’s nephew, Ali Abdul
Aziz Ali, said the military tribunal would risk creating a
society reminiscent of  George Orwell ’s “1984,” in which a Big
Brother government controls people’s thoughts, by forbidding the
defendants from revealing in open court how they were treated.  “That information will never be known if the thoughts,
observations and experiences of the defendants are classified,”
he said at the news conference last night.  Martins, the prosecutor, rejected that argument, saying
Mohammed and his four co-defendants shouldn’t be considered as
“just private individuals’” entitled to all the rights
provided in a federal court.  ‘At War’  “The U.S. is at war with al-Qaeda,” Martins said. “This
isn’t a theory.”  Pohl, the judge, offered no immediate answers to the major
procedural questions raised this week, saying he would take the
legal motions under advisement for later rulings.  “We’re in an area where there’s no precedent,” said
Victor Hansen, a former Army defense counsel and prosecutor who
now teaches criminal law at the New England School of Law in
 Boston . “There’s even more issues at stake because of that.”  The sense of uncertainty was evident on Oct. 17, when
Mohammed raised his hand seeking permission to speak after hours
of debate on rules for handling classified information.  “I don’t know what he’s going to say,” Pohl said, asking
whether a special session was needed to determine whether
Mohammed would disclose any classified information. After a
brief recess and assurances that no classified information would
be aired, Pohl agreed to let Mohammed speak.  Mohammed’s Speech  Mohammed, al-Qaeda’s former media chief, accused the U.S.
government of killing “millions” and being willing “to
torture people under the name of national security.”  Pohl told the court he was unlikely to approve additional
extemporaneous speeches by defendants.  With about nine family members of Sept. 11 victims looking
on from a courtroom spectators’ gallery, Mohammed sat in court
Oct. 18 dressed in a white turban, a long white tunic and a
military-style camouflage vest.  The vest marked a modest victory for Mohammed. Prosecutors
had opposed a motion to let him wear camouflage, saying it could
pose a security risk and become a vehicle for propaganda.  Mohammed wanted to show his military background as a former
member of the Mujahedeen force in Soviet-occupied  Afghanistan ,
according to one of his lawyers, Army Captain Jason Wright.  Pohl said he would allow the wearing of camouflage clothing
as long as it wasn’t part of any U.S. uniform.  Holy Day  While none of the five accused attended the hearing
yesterday, a holy day for Muslims, three of them showed up on
Oct. 18 and chatted with each other from their seats in separate
rows during a recess.  Seated directly behind Mohammed, who was in the first row,
was Walid bin Attash, a Yemeni who lost a leg in battle in
Afghanistan. Like Mohammed, bin Attash wore a turban, tunic and
simple pants, though no camouflage attire.  Behind him sat Mohammed’s nephew, Aziz Ali, a Pakistani who
allegedly made travel arrangements for the hijackers. He wore a
white tunic and pants and a tan-colored traditional Afghan
tribal hat. A prayer rug was draped over the back of his chair.  Heavy metal chains lay on the floor by each defendant, an
indication that an officer could shackle the defendants should
they misbehave. The chains weren’t used this week.  Martin Toyen, a retired businessman from  Connecticut  whose
24-year-old daughter, Amy, died at the World Trade Center in  New
York , said he was glad he went to Guantanamo to view the
proceedings.  “It was worth it,” Toyen said. “It really was. I have
first-hand knowledge it is going to be a fair trial.”  TV Request  Public access to the trial, if and when it happens, may be
limited. With access to Guantanamo restricted, current plans
allow for public viewing at Fort Meade,  Maryland , where it will
be broadcast on closed-circuit television.  Defense attorneys asked Pohl to make public viewing
available at other sites and to consider allowing the trial to
be televised nationally. Pohl said he had no power to open the
commission to live television coverage, with such a decision
requiring the approval of Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  The credibility of military tribunals, called commissions,
suffered a legal blow this week, when the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in Washington threw out the 2008 conviction of Osama bin Laden’s
former driver after finding he was wrongly tried under a law
that didn’t exist at the time of the alleged crime.  Retroactive Prosecution  Salim Hamdan, who was captured in Afghanistan in November
2001 and sent to Guantanamo two months later, was the first
terrorism suspect found guilty at a U.S. military  war-crimes 
trial since the Sept. 11 attacks. The appeals court said the
Military Commissions Act of 2006 didn’t cover retroactive
prosecution of acts that weren’t prohibited as war crimes.  This week’s hearings, which followed an arraignment in May,
mark the second attempt to try Mohammed and his four co-
defendants through a military tribunal.  Charges filed in a 2008 tribunal, begun in President  George W. Bush ’s administration, were withdrawn in 2010 after Obama
sought to move the case to federal court in New York. The
administration returned the charges to the military system last
year after facing political opposition to a New York trial.  As the second attempt at a military commission now gets
under way, both sides said the case would continue to move
slowly. “I would be shocked if we were on trial in 2013,” said
defense attorney Cheryl Bormann.  “What justice has there been?” asked Tom Acquaviva, who
lost his son Paul in the World Trade Center, after watching the
hearings all week. “Justice delayed is justice denied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  