-- Sequester Looms as Threat to Small Firms in Defense Supply Chain
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/sequester-looms-as-threat-to-small-firms-in-defense-supply-chain.html
Gray metal panels about the size of
paperback books lie on a mechanic’s table at  CPI Aerostructures
Inc. (CVU) ’s plant in Edgewood, New York, an hour’s drive east of
 Manhattan .  The pieces will soon be attached to an A-10 attack jet’s
outer wing, part of a Boeing Co. upgrade project. CPI’s 200
employees also build gunner windows for United Technologies
Corp.’s Black Hawk helicopters and provide wing panels for a
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  radar plane.  CPI is one of the hidden links in the Pentagon’s supply
chain, connecting machine shops to the nation’s largest defense
companies. Military work helped it triple revenue to $74.1
million in the past decade. Now, the manufacturer is among
thousands of small firms that may find themselves at risk as
$500 billion in automatic cuts threaten to ripple through the
industry early next year.  “You look at ducklings crossing the street and they’re
following mom and dad and they’re all in line,” CPI Chief
Executive Officer Edward Fred said in an interview at the
company’s headquarters. “Who gets hit last is the little duck,
but they’re still vulnerable, and we will be, too, no doubt
about it.”  The cuts, known as sequestration, are part of $1.2 trillion
in proposed reductions to national security and domestic
programs. They would occur if the Obama administration and U.S.
lawmakers fail to negotiate an alternate deal to cut the
nation’s  deficit .  Bipartisan Standoff  The automatic reductions would come on top of $487 billion
in defense reductions already planned over a decade.  If the sequester hits and remains in effect, Fred said he
will have to consider cutting as much as 20 percent of CPI’s
staff. While he hopes leaders in  Washington  will find a
solution, he said he is frustrated by the bipartisan standoff.  “This congress, for whatever reason, has chosen to dig its
heels in and nobody wants to do anything -- Democrat or
Republican,” he told CPI workers gathered for an Oct. 2 meeting
at the company’s offices.  As the reductions trickle down from top defense
contractors, they may cause more pain to the firms at the middle
and bottom of the food chain.  Small companies are “living hand to mouth in a business
sense,” Peter W. Singer, a senior fellow who studies defense
and foreign policy at the Washington-based Brookings
Institution. “They’re not going to be able to weather the storm
that some of the larger companies would.”  ‘Massive Impact’  Some of the small firms don’t have the capital or credit to
sustain themselves during a “massive impact the size of
sequestration,” Chip Sheller, a spokesman for the Aerospace
Industries Association, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that
represents top contractors such as  Lockheed Martin (LMT)  Corp., said
in a phone interview.  Another risk for CPI and other small businesses is their
lack of diversification, said Mark Jordan, a St. Louis-based
analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets.  “In a small company there’s no place to hide if you lose a
20 percent customer,” Jordan said in a phone interview.  CPI gets 26 percent of revenue as a subcontractor on
Northrop Grumman’s E-2D radar plane program and 16 percent of
revenue supplying parts for Boeing’s A-10 upgrades.  Small-Cap Suppliers  Investors have taken a dimmer view of the smaller military
suppliers. An index of 24 Pentagon subcontractors has fallen 13
percent since May 1. The top five U.S. defense contractors --
Lockheed,  Boeing (BA) ,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and
Northrop -- gained 1 percent during the same period.  Both groups lagged behind the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ,
which has advanced 3.7 percent since May 1, and S&P’s Smallcap
600 Index, which has gained 2 percent since then.  The subcontractor index, which is weighted by market
capitalization, includes firms that get at least 10 percent of
revenue from sales to the top five weapons contractors and have
market values less than $1 billion.  CPI, part of the index, has dropped 33 percent since May 1.
Other companies include Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based  Mercury
Computer Systems Inc. (MRCY) , which has declined 29 percent since then,
and  Orlando , Florida-based  API Technologies Corp. (ATNY) , which has
fallen 32 percent.  Pentagon Cuts  The military’s supply chain also includes thousands of
closely held subcontractors whose fortunes are tied to those of
the top defense companies.  Some of the smaller suppliers are already struggling with
reduced Pentagon spending. Military contracts fell 4 percent to
$372 billion in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011, from the
fiscal 2009 peak of $387 billion, according to procurement data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Slower military orders have forced Alken Industries Inc., a
machine shop that supplies CPI, to cut 12 of its 72 employees,
said Anthony Landisi, the company’s vice president of business
development.  Alken Industries, based in Ronkonkoma, New York, is seeking
opportunities outside of  defense , which now accounts for 95
percent of its sales, he said in a phone interview.  “We have a great concern because our livelihood depends on
the military,” Landisi said. “You never want all your eggs in
one basket, and right now we got all our eggs in the military
basket.”  Belt-Tightening  The company is “already running as lean as we possibly
can,” Landisi said. “Our belt is pretty much tight. But, if
the work is not there, we’re going to have to trim here and
there and let some people go.”  Acutec Precision Machining Inc., a family-owned
subcontractor that makes part of the hydraulic system for the
Lockheed Martin F-35 jet, is bracing for the automatic cuts.  “I won’t be buying the new equipment I want to,” said Rob
Smith, the company’s chief executive officer. “I’m going to
have to be very cautious.”  The 300-employee company, located 30 miles from Erie,
 Pennsylvania , gets a third of its revenue from defense work.  Smith said he is closely monitoring the automatic cuts to
see whether they will affect his company’s programs, including
the F-35, the Pentagon’s most expensive program and a potential
target for budget cutters.  “When the big guys get a cold, we get pneumonia,” Smith
said in a phone interview.  A Million Jobs  CPI’s Fred said he doesn’t expect any of the
subcontractor’s major programs to be substantially scaled back.
They include Boeing’s upgrades to the A-10 Thunderbolt II jet
and work on Northrop Grumman’s E-2D naval radar plane. Those two
programs and the Black Hawk account for about 45 percent of the
firm’s revenue.  The Pentagon in July signed an $8.5 billion Black Hawk deal
with United Technologies’ Sikorsky division that covers
purchases through 2017.  All programs are at risk, though. The Defense Department
has said the sequester would result in every budget item
shrinking by 9.4 percent, excluding military pay and benefits.  A study paid for by the Aerospace Industries Association
said 1.1 million jobs would be lost due to automatic defense cuts. 
The figure has been disputed by analysts such as the Brooking
Institution’s Singer, who say there isn’t enough information to
come up with a reliable estimate.  Huntington’s Suppliers  Even so, the automatic cuts would reduce head counts at
companies that rely on defense, Singer said. “It can’t help but
cause them to lose jobs,” he said in a phone interview.  Chief executive officers of some of the biggest defense
contractors have warned U.S. lawmakers and the public about the
sequester’s threats to small businesses.  “We are very concerned that the most vulnerable segment of
our supplier base is the over 12,000 small and minority
businesses,” Robert Stevens, head of Lockheed, said in a
statement last month.  Michael Petters, chief executive officer of aircraft
carrier maker  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) , in August said
the cuts would harm an already vulnerable supplier base.  “The supply chain has been dwindling and weakening, I’d
say over the last several years,” Petters said in a conference
call with Wall Street analysts. “We expect the supply chain to
be challenged over this next time frame.”  Parking Cars  For Justin Sicignano, 26, losing his job at CPI -- his
first in the aerospace industry -- might mean a return to
parking cars.  During a break from assembling an escape hatch for a
Lockheed Martin P-3 Orion surveillance plane this month, he said
he prefers the concentration that his work as a mechanic
requires.  “It’s almost like a form of art in a way because you have
to do things precise,” he said. “Everything has to be
perfect.”  Bill Ehrig, a mechanic at CPI who helps build the landing
gear doors for the A-10, said the looming sequester scares him.  “I’m tired of being laid off and looking for work,” he
said. “I’m 58 years old now, and I just would like to find
enough work until retirement time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  