-- Serbia’s MK Group Renews Bid to Purchase Greece’s Hellenic Sugar
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-19T11:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/serbia-s-mk-group-renews-bid-to-purchase-greece-s-hellenic-sugar.html
MK Group d.o.o. , a Serbian holding
company focused on agribusiness, renewed a bid to buy  Greece ’s
 Hellenic Sugar Co. SA (HSI)  to increase sugar production and exports.  Agricultural Bank of Greece SA , known as ATEBank, invited
offers last month for an 82 percent stake in Hellenic Sugar
after a previous attempt failed. Novi Sad, Serbia-based MK
dropped out from the earlier sale over regulatory obstacles even
before ATEBank canceled it. MK expects to succeed in purchasing
Greece’s sole sugar producer that has two plants in Serbia,
owner Miodrag Kostic said. The latest sale has new managers,
following ATEBank’s July takeover by  Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)   “I don’t think there will be a lot of competition for
Hellenic, they’re not in a good shape right now,” Kostic said
in an interview, without disclosing offer details. “They are
too small for big players and too bad for small players.”  MK’s sugar producing unit,  Sunoko d.o.o. , plans to make
some 220,000 tons this year, the same as in 2011, and is seeking
to increase capacity and output as it hopes the European Union
may increase its quota of 180,000 tons of sugar imports from
 Serbia .  Neighboring  Croatia  joins the bloc next year and Serbia
expects the EU will let it take over “at least part of the
Croatian quota” of 220,000 tons, possibly shared with other
aspiring members, Kostic said.  Serbian Plants  The acquisition would add Hellenic’s two Serbian plants,
 Crvenka Fabrika Secera AD (CRFS)  and  Sajkaska Fabrika Secera AD (SJKS) , to
Sunoko’s three facilities that now export almost a half of their
output.  MK expects that the Serbian  Commission for Protection of
Competition  won’t act against it as it did in January when it
objected to Sunoko increasing its market share to 78 percent
from 50 percent with Hellenic’s Serbian assets, Kostic said. The
Belgrade-based  Administrative Court  overturned the Commission’s
decision in August.  In the previous attempt to sell Hellenic Sugar, top
contenders were Polski Cukier, with the highest bid of 40
million euros ($52 million) plus debt assumption for the stake,
Bulgaria’s Litex Commerce and Greece’s Selected Textile
Industries SA, according to a report by Imerisia newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  