-- SJM Obtains Macau Government Land for Casino in Cotai
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-10-19T19:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/sjm-obtains-macau-government-land-for-casino-in-cotai.html
SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , the Macau casino
operator founded by billionaire  Stanley Ho , won a land grant
that paves the way for the company to build its first hotel-
casino in the Chinese city’s Cotai area.  SJM, which operates  20 of Macau’s 35 casinos , agreed to pay
the Macau government 2.15 billion patacas ($269 million) for the
land, according to a Hong Kong Stock Exchange filing late
yesterday. It will apply to operate about 700 gambling tables,
1,000 slot machines and 2,000 hotel rooms on the site,  The deal will give SJM a foothold in Macau’s popular Cotai
strip. The grant in the area is the second in two days, with  MGM
China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , a venture between Stanley Ho’s daughter
 Pansy Ho  and  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , getting approval on Oct.
18 for a $2.6 billion resort. Macau is the world’s largest
casino market and the only city in China where table games and
slots are legal.  “SJM’s acceptance of the proposed draft land concession
contract is a milestone development for the company as it offers
the opportunity for the group to expand its existing operations
from the Macau Peninsula to Cotai,” Chief Executive Officer
Ambrose So said in an e-mailed press release.  SJM  gained  2.5 percent to HK$17 yesterday in Hong Kong,
before the announcement. The stock has gained 34 percent this
year, double the 17 percent rise in the city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  SJM is the fifth company this year to receive a go-ahead to
expand on the Cotai strip, a piece of reclaimed land that is
Asia’s equivalent to the Las Vegas Strip. MGM China, Wynn Macau
Ltd.,  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  and  Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. (27)  have already won approvals.  Opening Schedule  John Kempf, an analyst who follows the Macau casino market
for RBC Capital Markets, said the government may try to delay a
couple until 2017, since all six license holders have plans to
open resorts in 2015 and 2016.  “While the amount of supply in such a short period is
staggering, the Macau hotel room base will grow by approximately
50 percent, which should drive visitation and length of stay,”
he said in an e-mail.  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  is also expanding Cotai facilities that
combine hotels and casinos to draw so-called mass-market
gamblers, who provide wider margins than “VIP” visitors.  SJM plans to start construction after Macau publishes the
land contract in the city’s Official Gazette, and expects work
to last as long as 36 months, according to the release.  The company plans to develop as much as 521,435 square
meters (5.61 million square feet) of total floor area on the
70,468-square-meter site near the intersection of Avenida do
Aeroporto and Rua de Tenis, according to the exchange filing.  Macau is granting on the land on a renewable 25-year lease,
and SJM can pay in installments, according to the filing.  The company didn’t disclose its expected total investment
in the press release or exchange filing and Janet Wong, an SJM
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return phone calls or e-mails
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  