-- SNB’s Danthine Says Too-Big-to-Fail Issue Remains Unsolved
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-10-19T14:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/snb-s-danthine-sees-too-big-to-fail-issue-is-unsolved-f-w-says.html
Swiss central bank Vice Chairman
Jean-Pierre Danthine said the problem about too-big-to-fail
banks can’t be considered solved as long as they don’t meet the
2019 capital requirements.  The  Swiss National Bank  may have bail out  UBS AG (UBSN)  or  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s two largest banks, if they run
into difficulties as the  European debt crisis  escalates,
Danthine told Zurich-based Finanz & Wirtschaft in an interview
published on the newspaper’s  website  today. The Zurich-based
SNB confirmed the remarks.  “The world economy and the financial system are still in a
very fragile state,” he said. “At the moment, the too-big-to-
fail problem is anything but solved.”  Swiss regulators require UBS and Credit Suisse to have
capital equal to about 19 percent of risk-weighted assets by
2019 as part of the so-called too-big-to-fail rules. The
government in 2008 saved UBS from near-failure by injecting 6
billion francs ($6.5 billion) to help the bank spin off its
toxic assets into an SNB fund.  The SNB is “very pleased” that Credit Suisse announced
measures in July to boost its capital, Danthine said.  “We’re encouraging both big banks to continue with capital
build-up,” he said. “Until we have reached the target, I
cannot be satisfied.”  Banks globally are still “under-capitalized,” Danthine
said, adding that “the sooner they raise the capital, the
faster they can fully perform their economic function again.”
Still, the SNB doesn’t expect a euro breakup, he said.  Danthine also said that the Swiss franc “is still
extraordinarily high” against the euro. “Experience shows that
such an overvaluation corrects itself with time,” he said.  The SNB continues to be “uneasy” about Swiss real estate
prices, Danthine was cited as saying. “It is clear that the
market is susceptible for a correction,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  