-- Southeast Asia Seen Leading Rate Increases Next Year: Economy
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-10-19T02:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/southeast-asia-seen-leading-rate-increases-next-year-economy.html
Central banks in Southeast Asia may
be forced to abandon this year’s monetary easing and raise
interest rates before their north Asian peers in 2013, as rising
inflation risks overshadow the current economic gloom.  Thailand , Malaysia, the Philippines and  Indonesia  will
probably raise rates next year, HSBC Holdings Plc, UBS AG, and
Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd. predict, even as
 interest-rate swaps  show investors expect little or no
tightening. The banks expect  China  to refrain from changing its
monetary policy stance and India to cut borrowing costs.  “In Southeast Asia, local demand is still humming,” said
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC in
 Hong Kong . “The region is gliding through the global export
downturn on the back of rising credit growth, buoyant  consumer
spending , and generous fiscal support. Before long, however,
price pressures, already bubbling away beneath the surface, will
erupt again.”  The region’s prospects stand out in contrast to the
challenges threatening the economies of China and Japan, with
 government spending  and younger populations supporting domestic
demand and luring investment even as global expansion weakens.
While Thailand’s  unexpected rate cut  this week underscores the
immediate risks to growth, Singapore’s central bank this month
refrained from policy easing as elevated inflation trumped
worries about a shrinking economy.  The Indonesian rupiah,  Thai baht , Philippine peso and
Malaysian ringgit are forecast to rise the most after India’s
rupee by the end of 2013, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Growth Differential  “The growth differential and interest-rate differential
will attract capital flows and strengthen currencies,” said
 Aninda Mitra , a Singapore-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group. “Southeast Asia will have another year
of fairly robust growth in 2013, and that alone will start to
bring up core inflation pressures, which warrants more monetary
caution.”  The  Asian Development Bank  predicts growth of more than 6
percent for Indonesia this year and more than 5 percent for the
Philippines and Thailand, compared with 1.7 percent in  Taiwan 
and 2.7 percent in South Korea. Inflation in Southeast Asia may
accelerate to 4 percent in 2013, compared with 3.3 percent in
East Asia, the ADB said.  “Starting first quarter of next year, we can expect
central banks in Southeast Asia to start taking the plunge and
raise interest rates to guard against inflation,” said Neumann.
“Central banks in  South Korea , Taiwan and China, and India will
wait before tightening the screws because growth” in those
economies “is more fragile,” he said.  Indonesian Inflation  Price gains  in Indonesia surged to an 11-month high in
August before easing last month while in the Philippines, the
central bank has raised inflation forecasts for 2012 and 2013.  Bank Indonesia  kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged at a
record-low 5.75 percent for an eighth month in October. Malaysia
maintained borrowing costs for an eighth meeting in September
and has refrained from joining its neighbors in cutting rates
this year. Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said
this month while slowing growth is a bigger threat than
inflation, monetary policy is already “quite accommodative.”  Investors and some economists expect further rate cuts in
parts of Southeast Asia in the coming months. While five of
eight economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  expect Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas to hold  interest rates  at a record-low 3.75
percent next week, three predict a reduction.  Swap Rates  Thailand’s one-year onshore interest-rate swaps, the fixed
cost needed to receive a floating payment, dropped 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 2.73 percent this week,
below the benchmark rate of 2.75 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate in Indonesia stood at 5.72
percent versus the policy rate of 5.75 percent and that in the
Philippines was 1.3 percent compared with the overnight
borrowing rate of 3.75 percent. Only Malaysia’s swap rate is
above the benchmark rate of 3 percent, trading at 3.155 percent.  Thailand’s central bank cut interest rates on Oct. 17,
four days after Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said no easing
was needed, underscoring concern Asia’s outlook has worsened.
The Bank of Thailand’s monetary policy committee voted 5-2 to
lower its one-day bond  repurchase rate  by a quarter of a
percentage point to 2.75 percent.  China yesterday reported growth eased for a seventh
straight quarter as the global slowdown crimps demand for Asia’s
exports. Malaysia’s shipments dropped the most since 2009 and
Philippine exports fell in August, while Thailand and South
Korea have recorded three straight months of declines in
overseas sales.  Migration Gains  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, New Zealand
government figures today showed permanent migration rose for the
first time in three months in September. Arrivals exceeded
departures by 90 people,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
Wellington today.  In Europe’s day ahead, a report may show German producer
price growth slowed in September to 0.3 percent from a month
earlier from a 0.5 percent increase in August, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of economists.  In the U.S., a National Association of Realtors report may
show September sales of existing homes at a 4.74 million annual
pace, compared with a 4.82 million rate a month earlier, a
Bloomberg survey of economists showed.  Government Boost  Governments in Southeast Asia have loosened fiscal policies
to spur growth. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is
increasing spending to a record and seeking more than $16
billion of investments in roads and airports, and Malaysian
Prime Minister Najib Razak is also boosting outlays.  The region’s growth prospects are helping lure companies, 
with Japan’s foreign direct investment in Southeast Asia 
surpassing that in China. Japan’s investment in the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  more than doubled to
$19.6 billion in 2011 from the previous year, according to Japan
External Trade Organization’s figures using finance ministry
data. In the same period, FDI in China and Hong Kong rose 52
percent to $14.2 billion.  Japan’s Tsuneishi Shipbuilding Co. said earlier this year
it is considering Indonesia, the Philippines and Myanmar for
another shipyard. Japan, South Korea and China are among the
fastest-aging countries in the world, while developing nations
in Southeast Asia are among the youngest in the region.  “Confidence domestically is high everywhere in Southeast
Asia,” said  Edward Teather , a Singapore-based economist at UBS.
“We’re beginning to see indicators bottoming out and improving.
That can get things heated up fairly quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  