-- Spain’s Gas Natural Leads Corporate Bonds Higher as Risk Drops
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-10-19T13:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/spain-s-gas-natural-leads-corporate-bonds-higher-as-risk-drops.html
Spanish utility bonds rallied the
most of any European corporate debt this week as borrowers led
by  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  benefited from the country sidestepping a
junk rating. Credit pared its rally after the end of a two-day
European Union summit.  Bonds sold by  Spain ’s largest energy company were the top-
three performers in  Europe ’s corporate debt market and took six
of the top 10 places in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates, Non-Financial index. Barcelona-based Gas Natural’s
750 million euros ($979 million) of 5.125 percent notes due
November 2021 rose 4.3 percent this week, the index shows.  Gas Natural was the biggest beneficiary of a credit-market
rally as Moody’s Investors Service maintained its investment-
grade rating for Spain, citing the  European Central Bank ’s
willingness to buy the country’s debt and prevent it losing
access to bond markets. Bonds pared their rise after politicians
meeting in Brussels failed to discuss giving more financial help
to Spain.  “‘Investors who may have previously been underweight
peripheral names relative to benchmarks are increasingly looking
to pick up yield relative to the issuers domiciled in the core
countries,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc
in  London .  Spanish Risk  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  dropped to a seven-month low of
5.26 percent, from 5.625 percent a week ago, while the cost of
insuring the nation’s debt using credit-default swaps plunged 21
percent to 278 basis points as of 1:36 p.m. in London. That’s
near the lowest since July 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  The contracts have dropped 57 percent from their record-
high of 647 basis points reached on July 25. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on a contract
protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year.  The EU summit in Brussels that concluded today failed to
discuss further financial assistance for Spain, French President
 Francois Hollande  said. Germany and  France  agreed to enforce
common banking regulation for the euro area’s 6,000 lenders by
the end of next year.  Continued uncertainty over Spain slowed the weekly rally
spurred by Moody’s Oct. 16 confirmation of the country’s
sovereign rating at Baa3 with a “negative outlook.” The New
York-based ratings company was concluding its review for a
potential downgrade initiated in June.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to the
debt of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies fell 50 basis
points this week to 492, the biggest weekly drop since Sept. 7,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts climbed
10 basis points today.  Bank credit risk also fell in the week, with the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index on the senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers down 16 basis points at 163, before paring the decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomber.net  