-- Spanish Notes Drop as Rajoy Says Under No Pressure to Seek Aid
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-19T15:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/spanish-notes-drop-as-rajoy-says-he-s-under-no-pressure-on-aid.html
Spanish government notes fell, with
two-year yields rising from the lowest in more than six months,
after Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he was not facing
pressure to seek a sovereign bailout.  The two-year securities dropped for the first time in four
days as Rajoy’s comments at a European Union summit in Brussels
fueled concern a delay in asking for aid will prolong the
nation’s debt crisis. German bunds advanced, pushing the yield
down from near the highest in a month. Italian bonds completed a
third weekly gain after the Treasury said yesterday it received
orders for more than 18 billion euros ($23.6 billion) of retail
securities it was selling to investors.  “The market is still very sensitive regarding the bailout
request” from Spain, said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “Our view is that the
market will have to wait to get clarity.”  Spain’s  two-year yield  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.75 percent at 4:51 p.m. London time after
dropping to 2.66 percent, the lowest level since April 4. The
3.3 percent note due in October 2014 fell 0.085, or 0.85 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.07.  Rajoy, speaking to reporters in Brussels, said it was
“very good” that the European Central Bank’s unlimited bond-
buying program was available if necessary.  “I’m not going to take into account any pressure that
people might exert on me, but frankly no one is doing that,” he
said. The ECB said last month it was open to buying government
bonds of nations seeking assistance, though they needed to
request it first.  Popularity Test  Rajoy faces assembly elections in his home region of
Galicia this weekend in a test of his popularity after
implementing the deepest budget cuts in three decades. The
Basque Country also votes on Oct. 21.  The yield on  Germany ’s  10-year bund  fell four basis points
to 1.60 percent after climbing to 1.66 percent yesterday, the
highest level since Sept. 19.  Italian bonds rose this week as Treasury said the amount of
retail securities it sold was double that of its two previous
offers combined. The Treasury earlier this year began selling
the securities to local investors, who are among the biggest
savers in  Europe , as contagion from the region’s debt crisis
triggered an exodus of foreign funds.  Italy’s  10-year yields  dropped 22 basis points this week to
4.77 percent after declining to 4.70 percent today, the lowest
level since March 9. They were little changed today.  Most Volatile  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by Finland and  Portugal , according to measures
of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-
year and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dutch 10-year
bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds shrank one basis
point to 22 basis points after contracting to 20 basis points
yesterday, the least since March 2011.  Germany’s bonds returned 2.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 4.1 percent and Italian debt gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  