-- Sprint CEO Hesse May Buy More Strategic Clearwire Stakes
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-19T21:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/sprint-may-buy-more-strategic-clearwire-stakes-at-right-price.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chief Executive
 Dan Hesse  said he may seek to buy out corporate investors in
wireless venture  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  at the right price.  “Any time there’s an opportunity at the right price to
take out a strategic investor, we will,” Hesse, 59, said
yesterday in a joint interview with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  President
Masayoshi Son at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. Softbank
agreed to buy 70 percent of Sprint this week for about $20
billion.  Clearwire’s corporate investors include  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Sprint is already
acquiring a Clearwire stake from telecommunications pioneer
 Craig McCaw  to gain a majority stake in the carrier. Hesse, who
will stay on as Sprint’s CEO following the Softbank investment,
said he doesn’t need 100 percent of Clearwire because Sprint’s
current partnerships give it access to the spectrum it needs
until 2014.  “We just never made an offer to buy all of Clearwire,
that’s just not on the table,” Hesse said. “We don’t need to
do anything, we have a commercial arrangement with Clearwire, we
have a contract and they provide us with WiMax 4G service and
they are beginning to build out LTE 4G services.”  So-called fourth-generation networks are being developed to
offer higher speeds to smartphone customers.  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint dropped 2.2 percent to $5.65 at the close
today in New York, while Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire
dropped 8.9 percent to $1.85.  ‘Strategic’ Interest  Sprint will pay Eagle River Holdings LLC, the investment
firm owned by McCaw, about $100 million for 30.9 million of
Clearwire’s Class A shares, or 4.5 percent of the total, and
2.73 million of its Class B stock, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. The purchase brings Sprint’s  ownership  to a
little more than 50 percent from 48 percent.  The move improves Clearwire’s corporate governance because
Eagle River’s board seat goes to the company, increasing the
number of independent members to three from two, Hesse said.
Sprint will keep the right to appoint seven out of Clearwire’s
13 board members. One of Sprint’s appointees is independent.  Clearwire’s other corporate investors have lost their
interest in the company, Hesse said.  “The cable companies were thinking of a mobile strategy,
times have changed they don’t have an interest in that anymore.
Intel was interested in putting WiMax 4G chips in all sorts of
devices, they don’t have that interest anymore. We are really
the only strategic investor.”  Board Independence  If Sprint were to buy additional stakes in Clearwire, those
board seats also would revert back to the company, increasing
the independence of Clearwire’s board as designed by the
original corporate governance rules, Hesse said.  For the future of Clearwire “we want government structure
that is aligned for what is best for the public and for
Sprint.”  Thanks to those rules, which are laid out in a Dec. 8,
2008, corporate  filing , Sprint doesn’t gain operational control
of Clearwire even if it gains a majority stake, Hesse said.  That way it doesn’t need to consolidate Clearwire’s debt on
its balance sheet. Sprint has more than $4 billion of debt
coming due next year, while Clearwire has $2.9 billion of debt
coming due in 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We don’t have to consolidate it,” Hesse said. “We don’t
want to consolidate it.”  For the future, Hesse and Son didn’t rule out any
acquisitions and declined to elaborate on their strategy.  “Anything you can think of, I have thought about, don’t
rule out anything,” Son said. “If I didn’t have an interesting
strategy, I wouldn’t bet $20 billion” on Sprint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  