-- Steel Executive Buys Rothschild Mansion for $25 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-10-19T18:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/steel-executive-buys-rothschild-mansion-for-25-million.html
Leroy Schecter, a metalworks
executive who is seeking to sell an apartment at New York’s 15
Central Park West for $95 million, has purchased the Rothschild
Mansion on the Upper East Side.  Schecter paid $25 million for the 11,300-square-foot
(1,050-square-meter) property in a deal that closed yesterday,
according to his broker,  Emily Beare  of New York City-based
 CORE . The seller is the Century Foundation, which had been using
the building for office space since acquiring it in 1958.  Schecter, the chairman of steel-framing company Marino/Ware
Industries Inc., splits his time between Miami and New York and
collects trophy properties, according to Beare. He intends to
renovate the 83-year-old Rothschild Mansion and convert it back
to a residence, she said.  “He’s somebody that has an eye for premier properties,”
Beare said. “When he sees an opportunity he just goes for it.”  Schecter, 85, put his 35th-floor condo at 15 Central Park
West up for sale before deciding to buy the Rothschild Mansion,
said Beare, who is marketing the property. The five-bedroom home
is tied for the second-most-expensive listing in Manhattan right
now, according to StreetEasy.com. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and the musician Sting also
own apartments at the dual limestone towers.  The Rothschild Mansion, at 41 E. 70th St. between Park and
Madison avenues, is “a diamond in the rough in the perfect
location with the perfect garden,” according to the  sales
listing  by Paula Del Nunzio, a broker at New York-based Brown
Harris Stevens. She declined to comment on the sale.  Home Conversion  Schecter’s residential conversion would take about two
years, and will include configuring bedrooms, adding bathrooms
and a kitchen, as well as removing a second staircase that was
added for office use, Beare said.  The townhouse was  listed  for $25 million in November 2005,
according to StreetEasy. It was withdrawn then returned to the
market with an asking price of $35 million in July 2007, as
Manhattan apartment values were approaching their peak. The
mansion had been for sale since then, with the price decreasing
three times over two years to $25.5 million. In December 2010,
as values of luxury properties were climbing, the owners raised
the price to $30 million, according to StreetEasy.  The median price of Manhattan luxury properties, defined as
the top 10 percent of all deals by price, was $4.07 million in
the third quarter, a 2.6 percent drop from a year earlier, New
York appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate said in a report this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  