-- Swaps Rule Sends Wall Street Into Clearing Limbo: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-19T15:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/swaps-rule-sends-wall-street-into-clearing-limbo-credit-markets.html
The securities industry
misinterpreted rules it assumed allowed as many as nine months
to start moving swaps into clearinghouses that are meant to
limit risks to the financial system.  Firms dealing in $648 trillion of outstanding swaps
contracts expected that trading during a phase-in period
wouldn’t need to be processed by central clearinghouses,
according to an Oct. 5 e-mail sent to clients by  Davis Polk  &
Wardwell LLP, which represents the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. They were wrong, misreading one
sentence in 17,000 words of regulation.  Unless lobbyists convince the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to soften the deadlines, derivatives users that
speculate on or hedge against losses on everything from changes
in  interest rates  to corporate bankruptcies may need to find
cash and Treasuries to back the trades sooner than they
anticipated. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is requiring trades be
moved to the central counterparties to limit the kinds of risks
that fueled panic during the 2008 credit crisis.  “Customers are scrambling to get arrangements with
clearing brokers, so this is going to increase the operational
complexity and challenge,” said Craig Pirrong, a finance
professor at the  University of Houston . Customers will have to
find so-called margin that clearinghouses require to cushion
against losses on swaps “that are all of a sudden going to be
cleared,” he said, “so there’s the liquidity demand that’s
also going to be fairly acute.”  Curbing Risk  Clearinghouses, which will process trades that are
typically managed bilaterally between dealers and their
customers, may also face a flood of volume they didn’t
anticipate as each deadline kicks in, Pirrong said.  Clearing the trades sooner than expected may soak up as
much as $50 billion in additional collateral for swaps users,
according to Anshuman Jaswal, senior analyst at financial
research firm Celent in  New York .  The CFTC may clarify the rules before they are completed as
early as next month, though it’s too early to know what changes
may be made, Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a telephone
interview.  Confused Reaction  The swaps industry reacted with “confusion about what the
standard is,” he said. “I understand the staff is working on a
recommendation but I don’t know what form that will take.”  Liz Pierce, a Sifma spokeswoman, referred questions to
Davis Polk. Katie Harter, a Davis Polk spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Elsewhere in credit markets, bonds of New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, with 153 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:22 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The firm sold $2 billion of 4.875 percent, 10-year notes
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. The subordinated securities rose
0.9 cent from the issue price to 100.5 cents on the dollar to
yield 4.81 percent as of 11:18 a.m. in New York, Trace data
show.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 1.5 basis points to 10.84 basis points
as of 11:15 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Clearing Mix-Up  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. increased for a second day. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.7 basis
points to a mid-price of 92.6 basis points as of 11:08 a.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index
ended Oct. 17 at the lowest level in almost a month.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The mix-up surrounding when most swaps would need to be
cleared arose after the CFTC established two separate deadlines:
one setting an effective date in which the clearing mandate
begins and another by which market participants must be in
compliance.  ‘Mistaken Interpretation’  Three categories of swaps users were established, giving
them 90 days, 180 days, or 270 days after the effective date to
comply, according to a June 30 notice by the CFTC. The
regulator, along with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, is writing rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act to
limit risk and boost transparency in swaps after the market
exacerbated the credit crisis.  “Market participants have assumed that a trade entered
into before the applicable compliance date, but during this
phase-in period, did not need to be cleared,” Gabriel
Rosenberg, an associate in Davis Polk’s financial institutions
group, said in the Oct. 5 e-mail obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Delta Strategy Group, a lobbying firm that represents swaps
users, agreed.  “The mistaken interpretation was that the mandate applies
to swaps entered into after the respective phasing period
begins,” it wrote to clients in an Oct. 9 note. Delta Strategy
is confident the CFTC will amend the rule to not require
clearing during the phase-in periods, said Scott Parsons, a
managing principal in the Washington-based group.  ‘Monumental Task’  “This is something we’re sorting through,” CFTC ChairmanGary Gensler said in an Oct. 10 speech in  Washington  at George
Washington University, citing the Davis Polk e-mail. “We’re
trying to phase this in in a way that works, in a balanced
way.”  The swaps industry assumed it had been given the various
implementation times to complete documents between banks and
their clients for the clearing process, said Supurna VedBrat,
co-head of market structure and electronic trading at  BlackRock (BLK) 
Inc. BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager with $3.67
trillion of assets as of Sept. 30, has hundreds of accounts it
has to bring into compliance, “a monumental task,” she said.  “This is one of the biggest changes the financial markets
have seen in a very, very long time,” she said. “We’re going
from a world where there was a bilateral relationship between
the counterparty and the fund to a relationship between six or
seven entities to execute the same trade.”  Cost Gap  The majority of BlackRock’s swaps are in accounts that
wouldn’t have to be in compliance until 270 days after the
effective date, while some would need to be within 90 days,
VedBrat said.  The cost of executing swaps between two private parties
varies from those that will be backed by a clearinghouse because
they use different assumptions for risks related to the failure
of counterparties, the ease of finding trading partners and
whether margin will be required to back the trade.  “We will get some differentiation in prices,” said
VedBrat. “Because of that difference, it’s not that easy to
move the bilateral trades into a cleared environment because
they would have to be a price adjustment.”  The CFTC’s O’Malia said it would be too confusing for
market users to enter into swaps bilaterally that would then be
cleared at some point in the future. “There’s a lot of
ambiguity to how the practice would be in that interim period,
and that’s confused a lot of people,” he said. O’Malia said he
supports having the 90, 180 and 270 days be a grace period for
clearing with the mandate to start the next day.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  With clearing compliance still a work in progress, dealers
will “still enter new contracts, but it would impact the volume
of contracts they’d be comfortable with,” Jaswal said in a
telephone interview. Having to clear shifts the focus to
“optimize your resources and make sure you’re able to meet the
CFTC guidelines,” and may diminish trading volume by as much as
50 percent, he said.  The so-called notional value of contracts in the market
doesn’t represent actual money that has changed hands and is
used to calculate periodic contract payments.  If the CFTC rule isn’t softened, it will prove “expensive
and risky” for swaps users, Pirrong said.  “This is another example of the  unintended consequences  of
Dodd-Frank,” he said. “We have sorcerer’s apprentices waving
their wands to bring all these mandates into the effect, and now
we’re having to live with the consequences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  