-- Britain Seen Escaping Slump in Rebound Masking Economic Weakness
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-k-seen-exiting-recession-in-rebound-masking-economic-weakness.html
Britain probably escaped a recession
in the third quarter as  the economy  grew the most in two years
in a rebound after one-time disruptions, economists said.  Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent from the previous
three months, when an extra public holiday led to a 0.4 percent
drop, according to the median of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey . The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the
data on Oct. 25 in London.  The surge masks underlying weakness in the economy that may
still prompt more stimulus from the Bank of England. While
policy makers are split on the need for more bond purchases when
the current round ends next month, a number have said there is
“considerable scope” to add to so-called  quantitative easing .  “Even with some more positive signs of late, the economy
remains weak, while large downside risks, particularly around
the euro-area situation, persist,” said Nick Bate, an economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “A majority of BOE
members may still support at least some loosening in monetary
policy.”  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee said in the
minutes of its meeting this month that the outlook for the
economy is worse than it had expected in August, and business
surveys suggest “broadly flat output” for the rest of 2012. It
will have new projections at its meeting next month.  Still, it also said that officials have “differences of
view” on the need for more QE, with some of the nine MPC
members questioning its potential impact.  Positive Data  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimated on Oct. 9 that the economy grew 0.8 percent in the
third quarter. Stripping out distortions, it said the pace of
expansion is closer to between 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent.  Estimates in the  Bloomberg GDP survey  ranged from no change
to an increase of 0.8 percent.  Data this past week gave a boost to the outlook, with
 inflation easing , unemployment falling and retail sales rising
more than forecast. Consumer-price growth eased to 2.2 percent
in September, the slowest in almost three years, while retail
sales increased 0.6 percent.  The labor-market report showed that payrolls rose to a
record in the quarter through August, pushing the  unemployment
rate  down to 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent.  Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International Plc in
 London  said a “deluge of data this week brought a variety of
pleasant surprises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  