-- U.K. Regulator Plans Simpler Energy Bills After Cameron Vow
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-10-19T10:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-k-regulator-proposes-simpler-energy-bills-for-customers.html
The U.K.’s energy regulator proposed
limiting prices suppliers can offer and telling them to post the
cheapest rates on bills as the government backed off a pledge by
Prime Minister David Cameron to impose the lowest possible rate.  “Our plans will put an end to consumers being confused by
complex tariffs,” Alistair Buchanan, chief executive officer of
the watchdog, said today. It’s “the most far-reaching shakeup
of the retail energy market since competition was introduced.”  Under the regulator Ofgem’s plans, which would be enforced
with fines, suppliers would avoid complex “multi-tier” charges
and customers would default to the lowest available price at the
end of fixed-term contracts, it said today in a statement. More
detail on the proposals will be published on Oct. 26, followed
by a consultation period before the watchdog makes its decision.  Energy prices have dominated political debate this week
after Cameron said Oct. 17 that the government would legislate
to force energy companies to charge their lowest possible price.
The government backed away from the pledge yesterday, saying
companies may be forced to inform consumers of lower tariffs.
Some groups said the earlier plan might have curbed competition.  “These measures should go some way to help restore
confidence in the retail energy market and reduce political
pressure,” Dominic Nash and Guillaume Redgwell, analysts at
Liberium Capital Ltd., said of Ofgem’s plan. “We now expect the
start of the introduction of these reforms from next summer.”  Four Tariffs  Suppliers would be able to use only four tariffs for each
fuel and all would be set as a standing charge and single unit
price under the proposals. The plans also include the need to
provide vulnerable consumers and those who haven’t switched
suppliers for some time with information about the cheapest
tariffs available across the whole market, Ofgem said. Energy
and Climate Change Secretary Edward Davey welcomed the moves.  “Details will not be published until next Friday, leaving
most questions unanswered,” Martin Brough, an energy analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said today in a report to investors, citing a
lack of clarity over how new tariffs would work with government
policies on green energy and smart meters. “Perhaps next week’s
consultation will shed more light on these issues, but  energy
policy  for retail customers still looks to be in flux.”  Cameron had been responding to public anger after utilities
including  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and RWE Npower Plc increased prices.  “Utilities’ investors will need to be thick-skinned as
political rhetoric will match” the price gains, Liberum said.
“However, with much of these increases either inevitable or
linked to government policy, we see little wiggle room.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  