-- U.K. Stocks Drop as Rajoy Says No Pressure to Seek Aid
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-19T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-k-stocks-little-changed-lloyds-redrow-drop.html
U.K.  stocks  declined as Spain’s
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  he doesn’t face pressure to seek a
sovereign bailout for his nation.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  lost 3.3 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. downgraded the shares.  Redrow Plc (RDW)  slid 3.8 percent
after a group led by Chairman  Steve Morgan  ended takeover talks
with the company.  Spectris Plc (SXS)  jumped the most in almost 20
months after saying it will meet full-year forecasts.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index fell 20.90 points, or 0.4 percent, to
5,896.15 at the close in London, as European Union leaders
wrapped up a two-day summit in Brussels. The gauge gained 1.8
percent this week. The FTSE 100 has still climbed 12 percent
from this year’s low on June 1 as the European Central Bank
agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and the Federal Reserve
started a third round of quantitative easing.  “It’s the first summit in a long while -- they were not
under severe pressure from the financial markets so there was a
bit of complacency,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
Groep NV in Brussels told Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television. “If we really want to see politicians of the euro
zone moving on with political integration, we’ll have to see
more tension first.”  The broader FTSE All-Share lost 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.6 percent.  No Pressure  Rajoy said today “no one” is exerting pressure on Spain
to seek a bailout.  “I don’t see any European Union leader telling me I should
use the mechanism the ECB has put in place,” Rajoy told
reporters after the EU summit in Brussels.  French President  Francois Hollande  said leaders didn’t
discuss additional assistance for Spain.  EU leaders will seek to agree on a framework that makes the
ECB the main supervisor for the region’s banks by Jan. 1,
according to conclusions at the Brussels summit. The new system,
intended to break the link between banks and governments at the
root of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, will phase in over
the next year and could cover all 6,000 euro-area lenders by
Jan. 1, 2014.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters after the
summit it’s an open question whether policy makers can meet the
year-end deadline.  In the U.S.,  sales of previously owned houses  fell 1.7
percent in September from a month earlier, the National
Association of Realtors said in a report today. Economists had
forecast a 1.6 percent drop. Sales increased a revised 8.1
percent in August.  Banks Fall  Lloyds retreated 3.3 percent to 40.49 pence after JPMorgan
lowered its recommendation on the shares to underweight, the
equivalent of sell, from neutral.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 2.9 percent to 233.85 pence, while Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc declined 2.1 percent to 281 pence.  Redrow tumbled 3.8 percent to 156.4 pence. Bridgemere
Securities Ltd., led by Morgan, along with Toscafund Asset
Management LLP and Penta Capital LLP, said in a statement they
ended talks of a possible offer for the U.K. homebuilder.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  plunged 7.2 percent to 2,137 pence, the most
since August 2011, after saying currency fluctuations and an
increase in bad-debt provisions will reduce full-year profit by
2.5 percent.  Bunzl Plc (BNZL)  dropped 4.1 percent to 1,038 pence after the
company said underlying revenue growth rate slowed to 2 percent
in the third quarter of the year.  Spectris jumped 12 percent to 1,779 pence, the most since
February 2011, after its board said the company is “well-
positioned” to meet full-year estimates. Reported sales rose 12
percent in the last quarter, it said in an interim statement.  Burberry Plc advanced 0.7 percent to 1,188 pence after
Investec Plc asked investors to buy the shares, upgrading them
from hold.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  climbed 4.1 percent to 357.5 pence after
saying it’s confident of meeting its earnings expectations for
the full year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  