-- U.K. Budget Data Signal Smaller Overshoot for Osborne: Economy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-19T11:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-k-posts-smallest-september-budget-deficit-since-2008-1-.html
Britain posted its smallest
September  budget deficit  since 2008, providing a boost for
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  as he struggles to
meet his borrowing targets.  The shortfall excluding government support for banks
narrowed to 12.8 billion pounds ($20.5 billion) from 13.5
billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. The median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 13.5 billion pounds.
The fall was due to an improvement in the finances of local
government and publicly controlled companies. Central-government
 tax revenue  and spending both rose by 3.7 percent.  Britain’s public finances have been hit by a  double-dip
recession  that has depressed tax revenue and pushed up spending
on welfare. Today’s figures showed borrowing between April and
August was revised down by 6.7 billion pounds, meaning Osborne
may overshoot his full-year target by less than previously
estimated. He is scheduled to publish new forecasts in December.  “Borrowing is still likely to overshoot the Office for
Budget Responsibility’s Budget 2012 forecasts, but by much less
than expected,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “This will make for a much less
awkward Autumn Statement for the chancellor and should assuage
some of the recent concerns about the extent of the underlying
deterioration in the U.K. public finances.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar today and
was at $1.6052 as of 11:10 a.m. in London.  Government bonds 
rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt down 10 basis points
to 1.9 percent.  Spending Revisions  In the first six months of the fiscal year, the deficit
climbed to 65.1 billion pounds from 62.4 billion pounds a year
earlier. The OBR, the government’s fiscal watchdog, predicted in
March that the deficit would widen to 120 billion pounds in the
full fiscal year from 121.6 billion pounds in 2011-12.  The downward revision to the April-August deficit was split
between central government and public corporations, with
revisions to spending estimates across government departments.  A cash measure showed the public finances with a surplus of
623 million pounds, though this was due to the position of
publicly-controlled banks. The central government deficit was 22
billion pounds.  Autumn Statement  Osborne is due to make a statement on Dec. 5 after
receiving revised fiscal and economic forecasts from the OBR. In
the fiscal year to date, government income has risen just 0.8
percent, while spending has increased 2.1 percent.  The economy has fared far worse than the OBR predicted in
March, and Osborne may find it impossible to meet his target to
start reducing debt as a share of the economy by 2015 without
risking the recovery with further austerity measures. Despite
signs of a return to growth in the third quarter, the economy’s
underlying momentum remains weak.  The dilemma facing the chancellor was underscored when
 Fitch Ratings  said on Sept. 28 that the country faces an
increased risk of losing its AAA rating because government debt
will peak at a higher level and later than it previously
thought. Net debt climbed to 1.07 trillion pounds last month, or
67.9 percent of gross domestic product.  Britain’s economy is on course to shrink this year for the
first time since 2009, fueling accusations from the opposition
 Labour Party  that the government is trying to cut the deficit
too quickly. Osborne insists his plans are insulating Britain
from the euro-area debt crisis and holding down borrowing costs.  “We need tough decisions on tax, spending and pay but to
succeed in getting the deficit down we also need a plan for jobs
and growth,” said Rachel Reeves, a finance spokeswoman for
Labour. “Unless the chancellor takes urgent action to boost the
economy now he will end up borrowing billions more to pay for
economic failure.”  Global Pressure  In addition to the government’s fiscal squeeze, Britain’s
economy is at risk from the euro turmoil and cooling global
growth. The  Bank of England  said this week that “slowing
activity in the rest of the world had been a drag on U.K.
exports and had hampered the rebalancing process.”  China  yesterday reported that growth eased for a seventh
straight quarter.  Gross domestic product  rose 7.4 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, compared with 7.6 percent
expansion in the previous three months.  In  Europe  today, leaders committed to their goal of
establishing a euro-area bank supervisor by year-end, opening
the prospect of direct aid to  Spain ’s banks.  The European Union will seek to agree on a framework that
makes the  European Central Bank  the main supervisor by Jan. 1,
according to conclusions released early today after a summit in
Brussels. The new system, intended to break the link between
banks and governments at the root of the region’s financial
crisis, will phase in over the next year.  In the U.S.,  sales of existing homes  fell 1.7 percent in
September to a 4.74 million annual rate, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before a report today. The National
Association of Realtors will publish the data at 10 a.m. in
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  