-- U.K. Defense Agency Loses Appeal Over Iraq Death Negligence
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-19T11:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-k-defense-agency-loses-appeal-over-iraq-death-negligence-1-.html
The  U.K. Ministry of Defence  lost an
appeal to avoid a negligence lawsuit by the family of a soldier
killed when his lightly armored vehicle was struck by a roadside
bomb while he was on patrol in Iraq in 2006.  Private Lee Ellis’ sister and daughter may sue over claims
the Ministry breached its “duty of care” by assigning Ellis a
vehicle that was ill-equipped to withstand so-called improvised
explosive devices, the Court of Appeal ruled in London today.  The ruling “establishes a principle that the Ministry of
Defence -- like any other employer -- does owe soldiers a duty
of care and this duty extends to providing safe equipment,”
Jocelyn Cockburn, a lawyer for Ellis’s daughter Courtney and his
sister Karla, said in a statement handed out in court.  Nearly 180 British soldiers died during the country’s
eight-year involvement in the U.S.-led  Iraq  war before troops
were withdrawn in 2011. The claims in the case, some of which
involve a friendly fire incident during the first days of the
invasion, include claims that soldiers weren’t properly trained
or given equipment to protect from attacks.  “Our thoughts and concerns remain with those that were
injured and the families of those that sadly lost their lives,”
the Ministry of Defence said in an e-mailed statement. “As this
is likely to be subject to further legal action it would be
inappropriate for us to comment further.”  Roadside Bombs  The three-judge panel upheld a lower-court ruling that the
Ellis’s, and relatives of two other soldiers killed in identical
circumstances, can’t sue over claims the defense agency breached
European human-rights law, because the deaths occurred outside
its jurisdiction. The other human-rights claims were filed by
the families of Private Philip Hewett and Lance Corporal Kirk
Redpath, who were killed by roadside bombs in 2005 and 2007,
respectively.  In the negligence case, the Ministry argued the deaths were
covered by “combat immunity” and that it’s “not fair, just or
reasonable to impose a duty of care in the provision of suitable
equipment,” according to the judgment. The court rejected that
defense, saying the facts should be determined at trial.  The families argue the vehicle, a Snatch Land Rover, was
taken out of service after soldiers were killed by roadside
bombs in 2005 and “should not have been put back into such
use,” according to the judgment.  The negligence ruling also applies to another set of claims
in the case filed by the family of a soldier killed in a so-
called friendly fire incident in 2003, and two soldiers who were
injured with him. They claim the military should have provided
better vehicle-recognition training and technology that could
have prevented it, according to the judgment.  The ruling is a “landmark decision” showing the Ministry
can’t use the legal protection of the battlefield to avoid
providing adequate equipment, said Shubhaa Srinivasan, a lawyer
with Leigh Day & Co. who is representing the family of Stephen
Allbutt, who died in the friendly fire incident.  “It is a morally and legally indefensible position to
take,” Srinivasan said. “As a prudent employer, the MoD can
have no excuses now and must get on with the business of
ensuring that troops are properly equipped.”  Allbutt, along with Corporal Dan Twiddy and Trooper Andy
Julien were in a Challenger II tank when they came under fire
from another British tank on the fourth day of the Iraq war in
2003, Srinivasan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  