-- U.S. Enters Accord With Vermont on Absentee Voter Ballots
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-19T22:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-s-enters-accord-with-vermont-on-absentee-voter-ballots.html
Vermont  and the U.S. Justice
Department settled a lawsuit filed by the federal government
questioning the state’s compliance with rules for the timely
mailing of election ballots to military and overseas voters.  The U.S. Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting
Act requires those ballots be mailed to voters who request them
at least 45 days before an election for federal office.  A dispute over the Progressive Party’s gubernatorial
primary results on Aug. 28 delayed completion of the Nov. 6
election ballot until Sept. 20. The Justice Department sued Oct.
11 after learning that at least 191 of the 894 absentee ballots
-- requested by voters from 67 of the state’s 148 cities and
townships -- were mailed late.  “If approved by the court, the agreement will provide
additional time for receipt of absentee ballots to ensure
eligible military and overseas voters who requested ballots will
have sufficient time to vote in the general election,” the U.S.
said today in a statement announcing the accord.  The  Justice Department  had sought a federal court finding
that Vermont officials had violated the federal law and an order
requiring state officials to ensure that all absentee voters
would have the statutory time period to return their ballots and
that their votes for the Nov. 6 election would be counted.  Deadline Extension  Under the six-page accord filed with Chief U.S. District
Judge Christina Reiss in Rutland, Vermont, the state will
identify those voters whose ballots were sent late and extend
their ballot-receipt deadline by 10 days and include them in any
final election tally.  The state can certify election results as final as early as
Nov. 13 if the number of ballots still outstanding couldn’t
alter the outcome, according to settlement agreement.  Absentee voter ballots must be returned by Nov. 5,
according to the agreement. Those voters will be contacted
beforehand, if possible, and told of the mail-by date and
extended deadline for receipt.  Keith Aten, an attorney in the office of Vermont Attorney
General William H. Sorrell, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. State of Vermont, 12-cv-236, U.S.
District Court, District of Vermont (Rutland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  