-- U.S. Says It Will ‘Ratchet Up’ Sanctions Pressure on Iran
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-10-19T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-s-says-it-will-ratchet-up-sanctions-pressure-on-iran.html
The U.S. will “ratchet up the
pressure” on Iran to address international concerns about that
country’s nuclear program, the  Treasury Department ’s top
counterterrorism official said.  “We have things that we can do to continue to intensify
the sanctions,”  David Cohen , the  U.S. Treasury ’s undersecretary
for terrorism and financial intelligence, said in an interview
with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains”
show. “We will continue to ratchet up the pressure to make
clear to the Iranians that their only real choice here is to
address the concerns about their nuclear program.”  The U.S. has led a campaign to increase economic penalties
on Iran to drive its leaders into making  concessions  on its
nuclear activities. The U.S. says that Iran is advancing toward
the capability to produce a nuclear bomb while the leadership in
Tehran says its uranium enrichment activity is for civilian
nuclear power and medical purposes. Israel has threatened
military strikes to prevent  Iran  from being able to produce
nuclear weapons if sanctions and diplomacy fail.  “We have taken direct aim at Iran’s most significant
source of revenue, which is its oil sales,” Cohen said in the
interview airing Oct. 21. He said that international financial
restrictions have “multiplied” the impact of the curbs on oil
sales.  Oil Output  Oil output in Iran, previously the second-biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , sagged to 2.63 million barrels a day in September from
2.85 million barrels in August, the  International Energy Agency 
said in a report on Oct. 12.  The country’s crude exports  decreased to 860,000 barrels a
day in September, from 1.1 million a day in August and 2 million
barrels a day in early 2012, data from the Paris-based agency
showed.  Exports will remain “quite low for the next few years,”
according to  Antoine Halff , head of the agency’s oil industry
and markets division.  The European Union embargoed Iranian oil and banned EU
companies from insuring Iranian crude shipments effective July
1.  “The set of sanctions that we now have in place against
Iran are quite comprehensive, quite effective” Cohen said.
“They are clearly having a significant impact on the Iranian
economy.”  While Cohen said “we have applied sanctions to a number of
banks recently,” he didn’t specify further measures the U.S.
may take against Iran.  Falling Rial  Iran’s economy is suffering as a result of financial, trade
and energy sanctions imposed by the U.S. and the EU. The rial
has slumped as much as 40 percent against the dollar on the open
market since August, leading to spiraling inflation. Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  called for calm Oct. 2 after the
rial tumbled to a record low against the dollar.  Iran has increased production of 20-percent enriched
uranium and expanded its stockpile of low-enriched uranium, the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said on Aug. 30. The enriched
uranium is monitored by the IAEA to prevent it from being
diverted for further processing to be usable as bomb fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Cook in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  