-- U.S. Winter Seen Harsher Than Last Year, Boosting Demand
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-19T01:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/u-s-winter-seen-harsher-than-last-year-boosting-fuel-demand.html
The coming U.S. winter will probably
be cooler than a year ago, boosting demand for heating fuels
such as natural gas, a panel of forecasters said.  While December will be warmer than normal, temperatures
will drop through February, increasing natural gas use by 13
percent over the same period from last year, Commodity Weather
Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  said during a panel discussion
at Earth Networks Inc.’s seventh annual energy weather seminar
in  New York  yesterday.  The U.S. winter, measured by meteorologists from Dec. 1 to
Feb. 28, may be 21 percent cooler than last year in terms of
natural gas-weighted heating degree days, Rogers said.  “It looks colder than it is,” he said. “Twenty-one
percent colder than last year isn’t saying a whole lot because
last winter was so warm.”  In the winter of 2011 to 2012, warmer-than-normal
temperatures, particularly in the large cities of the U.S.
Northeast and Midwest, crimped demand for heating fuel, sending
natural gas futures to a 10 year low in April.  Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record in the
contiguous 48 states, with an average temperature of 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius), according to the  National
Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina .  Cooler Water  Weather patterns bringing warmer-than-normal temperatures
to much of the U.S. have dominated for the last 1 1/2 years,
Rogers said. In the last few weeks meteorologists have begun to
detect signs this pattern is beginning to dissipate, he said.
Among them is cooler water returning to the northern  Pacific
Ocean , which can influence weather patterns over the U.S.,
according to Rogers, whose offices are in Bethesda,  Maryland .  This may mean a harsher winter for the Midwest and
Northeast in December and January, said Violeta Toma, the lead
seasonal forecaster for  Climate Forecast Applications Network  in
Atlanta. The U.S. southwest and south central states have a
chance to be warmer than normal.  “We see a lot of warning signs for colder outbreaks and
winter storms over the Midwest and Northeast,” said Toma,
another of the panelists.  The best chance for above-normal temperatures in the
Northeast this year would be along coastal  New England , said
James Aman, a senior meteorologist at  Earth Networks  in
Germantown, Maryland.  El Nino  An El Nino weather system, which occurs when the central
Pacific Ocean warms, doesn’t appear to be developing,
potentially disrupting forecasts, according to the
meteorologists. For the last several months, government weather
experts in the U.S. and  Australia  have been calling for El Nino
to form. The system typically brings a more southerly storm
track across the U.S. and milder winter conditions in the
northern states.  The changes in the weather patterns across the northern
hemisphere and uncertainty about the El Nino has led to a lack
of confidence among forecasters, Aman said.  “So don’t be making a big bet on the forecast,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  