-- Ukraine Considers Limiting Wheat Exports on Demand Pace
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-19T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ukraine-may-reach-wheat-export-limits-by-nov-20-correct-.html
Ukraine may decide to restrict wheat
exports next month after demand accelerated faster than
available supplies, said Volodymyr Klymenko, head of the
country’s Grain Association.  Wheat shipments this season may reach 5.3 million metric
tons by Nov. 15-20, a point that threatens to exhaust the
country’s exportable surplus, First Deputy Agriculture Minister
Ivan Bisyuk said today. Shipments have already reached 3.6
million tons since the marketing year began July 1, he said. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  has estimated that Ukraine’s
total exports in the 2012-13 season would only reach 4 million
tons after drought curbed production.  Agriculture Ministry  and industry representatives met today
in Kiev, the capital, to discuss supplies, and the group may
hold a follow-up meeting Nov. 15, Klymenko said today in a phone
interview.  “Should the pace of wheat exports be the same as we have
now, the government may make the decision to limit them,”
Klymenko said.  Drought may cut combined wheat production in Ukraine,
Russia and  Kazakhstan  by 37 percent this year to 64 million
tons, the lowest in nine years, the USDA estimates. In 2010,
Ukraine set quotas on grain exports and  Russia  banned shipments
after drought slashed yields, helping send milling-wheat prices
on NYSE Liffe in Paris up 92 percent.  Prices Gain  Wheat prices on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, have jumped 34 percent this year, the best
performance among 24 commodities on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index. The December contract gained 1.2 percent to $8.7875 a
bushel at 9:24 a.m. local time. In Paris, milling wheat for
January delivery rose 1.2 percent to 261.50 euros ($340.71) a
ton, after earlier touching 262.25 euros, the highest in a week.  Traders should be “cautious” when signing wheat export
contracts, Bisyuk said in an e-mailed statement after today’s
meeting, stopping short of saying the government plans to
implement official restrictions. Ukraine had exported 7.1
million tons of grain this season, as of Oct. 16, he said.  “Ukraine just doesn’t have enough grain to continue the
pace for the rest of the season,” Matt Ammermann, a risk
management consultant with INTL FCStone Inc. in  London , said by
phone today. “It seems like the market has been talking about
this for a while. The government has been addressing the
situation over the past few months, so I don’t think it catches
the market too much by surprise.”  Global inventories of wheat, soybeans and corn may drop to
347.8 million tons by the end of the 2012-13 season, according
to the USDA, a five-year low, as dry weather cut crop yields
from the U.S. to  Europe  to  Australia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  