-- UN Envoy Arrives in Damascus Seeking Truce Over Islamic Holiday
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-19T11:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/un-envoy-arrives-in-damascus-seeking-truce-over-islamic-holiday.html
Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations
peace envoy, arrived in Damascus a day after Syrian warplanes
bombed a rebel-held northern town, killing at least 28 people.  Brahimi will meet Syrian officials and opposition leaders
over the next few days, his spokesman, Ahmad Fawzi, said in an
e-mail. He is expected to hold talks with Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem tomorrow, ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi said in
an e-mail.  Brahimi has proposed a halt in the fighting in  Syria  during
the days of the festival of Eid al-Adha, one of the holiest
periods of the Muslim calendar, which begins Oct. 26. Turkey and
 Iran  have expressed support for the idea.  At least 60 people have died across Syria today, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said. It reported protests in
several provinces after Friday prayers. More than 30,000 people
have lost their lives since the start of the uprising in March
2011 against President Bashar al-Assad.  Syrian planes bombed Maarat al-Numan in the northern
province of Idlib yesterday, killing 28 people including nine
children, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights,
a U.K.-based pro-opposition group. Footage on Al Arabiya
television showed civilians and rescue workers searching for
corpses and survivors. Clashes broke out between Syrian troops
and the rebels in the area this morning, the observatory said.  Turkey  fired artillery at Syrian positions today after two
shells from across the border landed in Turkish territory,
Turkey’s state-run TRT television said. The Syrian shells landed
in an empty field and didn’t cause casualties, and the Turkish
response targeted a similarly empty location, it said. Turkish
jets were also flying patrols along the border.  Turkey is backing the rebels fighting against Assad, and
allows them to operate from Turkish territory. Tensions have
escalated after a shell fired from Syria killed five Turkish
citizens earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  