-- Muni Bankruptcies Foreshadow ‘Disturbing’ Trend, Schotz Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-19T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/muni-bankruptcies-foreshadow-disturbing-trend-schotz-says.html
Bankruptcy filings from  California 
cities such as Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes are
“disturbing” and may foreshadow major changes in the $3.7
trillion tax-exempt market, said Jon Schotz, managing partner at
Saybrook Capital in  Santa Monica , California.  Schotz, whose company oversees $400 million of munis, also
discussed why investors aren’t getting compensated for the
increased risk for today’s Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market
newsletter.  Q: What does it say about the overall municipal market that
actual cities and counties are seeking Chapter 9 protection?  A: You have general municipal credit risk at a much higher
level than we’ve had before. I don’t mean like  Meredith Whitney 
-- light your hair on fire and the world is ending -- but I do
mean that you’ve got very significant stress on cities.  I don’t know exactly what’s going to happen, but previously
people wanted  market access , so they wouldn’t stiff their
bondholders. And the history of recoveries on general municipal
defaults is usually fairly good. But you’re in a zone right now
where there’s not a lot to recover in some of these situations.  We’re going to have a few bankruptcies and people are going
to watch the precedents get set and use them as a template.  Q: You invest in distressed and defaulted municipal bonds.
Do you buy land-secured deals?  A: We’ve bought land-secured financings. It’s been  real-
estate  oriented, just because that’s what the downturn gave us.  I don’t like the Florida land-secured deals. There have
been a couple cases that have gone the wrong way. When you have
a new law that hasn’t been adjudicated, or you haven’t had a set
of cases go to court to define the boundaries, you can have some
unintended consequences.  There’s a case there called Fiddler’s Creek, and in that
bankruptcy, the key was the court took the view that the
district was the creditor in the developer’s bankruptcy, not the
bondholders. So the bondholders didn’t get to vote on their
security interest.  Q: Are the problems faced by local governments in
California a disturbing trend or an investment opportunity?  A: It’s a very disturbing trend. Cities big and small are
very much at risk, because they have a very strained ability to
raise any source of money. You have San Jose, you have  San
Diego , and you have the bankruptcies.  In California, you can file for bankruptcy. You may have to
go through six months of mediation with your creditors that was
put into place by the unions when Vallejo filed, but that
doesn’t matter that much at the end of the day. It’s a lot of
posturing. Maybe things get worked out, maybe they don’t.  The bigger issue to me is the fact that the cities don’t
have ways to raise money and they have these huge pension costs
and health-care costs coming at them, with no way to pay for
them. It’s simply not sustainable. Look at the percent of the
budget that goes to those costs -- it’s absurd.  Q: What’s your strategy in this environment of  record-low
yields  and constant money flowing into muni mutual funds?  A: We’re in an environment where we’ve had record flows in,
and also something we’ve never had in the muni market, which is
a storm cloud for defaults in the general muni area.  When you start getting to general muni problems like the
city of  San Jose  or Stockton, not the idiosyncratic, out-of-
balance budgets that need to be adjusted, you’re going to see
wholesale change. There’s a lot more credit risk in the general
municipal world than there ever has been, because the ability to
raise revenue around the country is severely constrained.  Q: Are you joining other investors in moving down in
average  credit quality  to capture additional yield?  A: You’re not getting  paid  for the risk you’re taking on
some credits. I don’t know what’s going to change that. But
yields are so compressed and credit spreads are so compressed,
you’re not getting paid to take the risk on some of these
credits. I don’t know when that changes, but hold onto your hat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  