-- UPS Gets European Antitrust Objections Over TNT Review
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-19T17:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ups-gets-european-antitrust-objections-over-tnt-review.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s biggest package-delivery company, was sent antitrust
objections by European Union regulators reviewing its purchase
of  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   UPS and TNT will respond to the European Commission’s
concerns expressed in the EU complaint within a few weeks, the
companies said in a joint statement today. The companies said
they wouldn’t comment on the details of the EU’s objections.  UPS, based in Atlanta, agreed in March to buy TNT for 5.16
billion euros ($6.7 billion) or 9.5 euros a share in cash. The
deal will double its size in  Europe  and vault it to equal
footing there with Deutsche Post’s DHL, the market-share leader.  “UPS and TNT Express believe competition in Europe
continues to be significant, coming from multiple players who
offer similar services,” the companies said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said on Oct. 2
that the UPS deal may reduce from four to three the number of
companies that control pan-European parcel-transport networks.
Regulators would analyze whether the combined firm would be
“challenged enough” by DHL and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , he said.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the objections.  “This is still a document that needs to be studied by us,
which is what we will do,” Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for
Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT Express, said by telephone.  The companies said they still plan to complete the
transaction in early 2013.  The tie-up with money-losing TNT will immediately add to
earnings on an adjusted basis once the deal is done, UPS said at
the time.  A statement of objections from the European Commission
lists regulators’ concerns about a deal. UPS is likely to wait
until it receives the statement before offering concessions
designed to eliminate possible competition problems, two people
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 