-- Uralkali Cuts Potash Output Target as China, India Deals Delayed
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-10-19T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/uralkali-cuts-potash-output-target-as-china-india-deals-delayed.html
OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s largest
potash producer by output, cut its 2012 production target by 7
percent because the signing of agreements to supply the
fertilizer to  China  and  India  may be delayed.  Uralkali will reduce output by 700,000 metric tons from
planned volumes this quarter because of an “unfavorable
situation” in markets including China and India, it said in an
e-mailed statement today. Full-year production is expected at
9.3 million tons, down from 10 million tons projected earlier.  “We hope the contracts with China and India will be
concluded by the year end, at least with India, as consumption
there was better than we had expected and they will need new
potash supplies in January,” Oleg Petrov, Uralkali’s head of
sales, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Uralkali had
previously given guidance that agreements with China and India
may be signed in October or November.  Plentiful stockpiles of potash, a form of potassium used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought, are
undermining efforts by Uralkali, Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
and other producers to renew contracts with buyers in China and
India, Jason Miner, a Princeton, New Jersey-based chemicals
analyst for Bloomberg Industries said Oct. 17.  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  said earlier this month China may not sign a
supply agreement with North America’s largest producers until
next year as it holds out for a lower price than the one agreed
in the first half.  Petrov declined to elaborate on contract prices, saying
that Uralkali “will use the current contracts as a benchmark.”
China is “very determined” to pay less than the $470 ton it
negotiated for the first six months of 2012, Mosaic Chief
Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said Oct. 2.  “I believe that this is a temporary market slowdown and
starting from the end of first-quarter 2013 the market will
become robust again as soft commodities prices are very high
now, so the farmers’ profitability is healthy,” Petrov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  