-- Turkey Given Four Months to Fix Terror Finance Law
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-19T18:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/turkey-given-february-deadline-to-tighten-terror-financing-laws.html
Turkey  was given a February deadline
by the OECD’s  Financial Action Task Force  to tighten laws
blocking the financing of terrorist groups or face suspension
from the organization.  Turkey needs to adopt legislation “to remedy deficiencies
in its terrorist financing offense” and set up “a legal
framework for identifying and freezing terrorist assets,” the
Task Force, sponsored by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, said on its website today at the
end of a three-day meeting in Paris.  Failure to do so by Feb. 22 will result in Turkey’s
suspension, it said. The Task Force said it is “deeply
concerned by Turkey’s continued failure to take action.”  The group had  warned in June  it would “call upon its
members to apply countermeasures” against Turkey if rules
weren’t tightened by October. A terror financing bill drafted to
address them is still held up in Turkey’s parliament. Exclusion
by the Task Force could impede transactions with Western banks.  A suspension would hurt Turkey’s reputation and “alert the
international financial world, possibly causing some problems in
transactions,” Nihat Ali Ozcan, a terrorism analyst at the
Economic Policy Research Foundation in Ankara, said by telephone
today. “However, since nearly half of the Turkish economy is
not registered, tightening rules might also put the government
under domestic pressure from some circles, even including its
grassroots supporters.”  Busy Schedule  Turkish officials say the measure has been delayed by a
busy legislative schedule. Hakki Koylu, deputy chairman of
parliament’s Justice Committee, said in an interview this month
that Turkey is “already implementing measures against terrorist
financing” and can freeze assets where needed under existing
laws.  He also charged some Western countries with failing to take
enough action to prevent the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK,
from raising funds in their countries. Turkey has been fighting
the autonomy-seeking PKK, which is classified as a terrorist
group by the European Union and U.S., since the 1980s.  Koylu wasn’t immediately available to comment on today’s
decision.  Turkey was the only country threatened with suspension by
the Task Force, which has more than 30 members, after this
week’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 