-- VietJet to Be First Private Vietnam Carrier With Foreign Route
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-19T02:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/vietjet-to-be-first-private-vietnam-carrier-with-foreign-route.html
VietJet Aviation Joint-Stock Co. is
set to begin flights to Bangkok in December, becoming the first
privately owned Vietnamese carrier to fly abroad.  The airline will operate a daily service from its  Ho Chi
Minh City  hub, which will eventually rise to twice a day, Pritam
Singh, its vice president for business development, said in an
Oct. 12 interview in the Vietnamese city. The carrier intends to
fly across Southeast Asia by the end of 2015, when it expects to
have 20 planes, he said.  VietJet began flying less than a year ago as the government
moved away from protecting state-owned  Vietnam  Airlines Corp.
and allowing more competition. Emirates also started flights to
Ho Chi Minh City this year, and Etihad Airways PJSC and Air
Astana have announced plans to begin services, drawn by rising
tourism and an economy that is set to  grow  5 percent this year.  The new route “is symbolically important,” said  Peter Harbison , the Sydney-based executive chairman of CAPA Centre for
Aviation. “There’s always been a conservative approach to
regulation in Vietnam.”  VietJet is set to surpass Jetstar Pacific Airlines Joint-
Stock Aviation Co. as Vietnam’s second-biggest carrier on
domestic routes, according to CAPA. The airline may operate as
many as nine domestic routes by the end of year, which would
give it a 16 percent share of capacity, the research company
said in an Oct. 8  note .  Jetstar Pacific will have 13 percent and Vietnam Air 68
percent, it said. Jetstar Pacific is controlled by Vietnam Air,
and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  has a minority stake.  VietJet this month took delivery of its fourth leased
Airbus SAS A320. The airline plans to have 20 leased A320s by
2015, Singh said.  The carrier also eventually plans to fly beyond Southeast
Asia to markets such as Taiwan,  South Korea ,  Japan , and,
possibly, smaller cities in  China , Singh said. The airline is a
unit of Hanoi-based  Sovico Holdings , which also controls Ho Chi
Minh City Housing Development Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, known
as HD Bank.  Foreign arrivals to Vietnam rose 13 percent in the first
nine months of the year to 4.85 million, according to the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Neil Denslow,
 Garry Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  