-- Vietnam Coffee Discount Seen Narrowing on Lower Bean Supplies
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-19T11:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/vietnam-coffee-discount-seen-narrowing-on-lower-bean-supplies.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
world’s biggest producer of the robusta variety, are getting a
smaller discount for their beans due to reduced supplies and
lower futures prices, according to Volcafe Ltd.  Vietnamese beans for shipment in November and December were
trading at $10 a metric ton below the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange, Volcafe, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based coffee unit
of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., said in a report
e-mailed today. That compares with a discount of $30 a ton last
week, data from the trader showed.  Harvesting of Vietnam’s crop is set to start by the middle
of next month, leaving availability limited for now, Volcafe
said. Robusta coffee fell 1 percent this week through yesterday
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London . The futures for January
delivery rose 0.9 percent to $2,066 a ton at 12:23 p.m.  There is “good interest from all sides for Vietnam new
crop and first quarter 2013,” the trader said. “As the crop is
not yet available, the internal market lacks liquidity and
differentials remain firm also due to the lower Liffe market.”  The weather in Vietnam has been favorable for harvesting,
according to the report. Producers there may gather 26 million
bags of coffee in the 2012-13 season that started this month,
down from a record 27 million bags last season, Volcafe
estimates. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds.  Indonesian Premiums  In  Indonesia , the world’s third-biggest robusta grower,
buyers are paying a bigger premium as the 2012-13 crop
approaches an end, according to the report. Indonesian coffee
was $30 a ton above the exchange price, up from $10 a ton a week
earlier, data from the trader showed.  “Differentials increased as a result of less coffee
available and exporters paying higher prices,” Volcafe said,
referring to the discount or premium paid to obtain physical
coffee in relation to the price on the futures market.  Coffee deliveries from farms in Indonesia fell to 1,000
tons to 1,200 tons this week from 1,300 to 1,600 tons a week
earlier, data from the trader showed. Bean exports from the port
of Panjang were 53,190 tons last month, up from 10,216 tons a
year earlier, according to the report.  In  India ,  Asia ’s third-largest coffee grower, the new crop
will start in six weeks, earlier than usual, after rain
accelerated bean development, Volcafe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 