-- Virgin’s Iron Lung Sex; French Fonda; Blah Tyler Perry
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/virgin-s-iron-lung-sex-french-fonda-blah-tyler-perry.html
Confined to an iron lung for all but
a few hours a week, poet Mark O’Brien, as portrayed in “The
Sessions,” warns that his friendship can be demanding.  “But,” he says, “it’s worth the trouble.”  That’s an apt description for this festival-circuit crowd-
pleaser, written and directed by Ben Lewin.  Based on the real-life writer from Berkeley,  California ,
who died at 49 in 1999,  “The Sessions”  chronicles O’Brien’s
determination, at age 38, to lose his virginity.  With muscles left useless by childhood polio and a body
largely untouched by human hands, O’Brien craves emotional
connection and spiritual union.  Sex. He craves sex.  Graphically portrayed, candidly discussed, and unabashedly
celebrated, sex is the motivating force in this triumph of
spirit.  In a career-making performance that relies on facial
expressions and a compelling, reedy voice, John Hawkes
(“Winter’s Bone”) is a wonder, containing big-hearted optimism
and a doomed man’s unsparing eye.  A devout Catholic (“I’d find it absolutely intolerable not
to have somebody to blame for all of this”), O’Brien seeks the
blessing of his local priest (a shaggy-haired William H. Macy)
before embarking on his quest.  Standing beside a painting of Jesus, Macy’s understanding
Father Brendan tells the gurney-bound O’Brien, “In my heart, I
feel like he’d give you a free pass on this one. Go for it.”  Sex Surrogate  Hawkes finds Cheryl Cohen-Greene (Helen Hunt), a sex
surrogate with a clinician’s approach and a friend’s compassion.  The therapy is limited to six sessions -- the difference
between a prostitute and a surrogate, Greene tells O’Brien, is
that a hooker wants repeat business.  Unlike last summer’s blushing “Hope Springs,” “The
Sessions” squanders nothing on coy embarrassment. Hunt’s Cohen-
Greene, fully nude in much of the film, is bedside manner
idealized -- plain-spoken but tender, serious but relaxed.  Though writer-director Lewin (a polio survivor himself)
mostly avoids mawkishness, “The Sessions” is not without
patness or lily-gilding.  No fewer than three beautiful women, including the
surrogate, become almost instantly smitten with the acerbic
O’Brien (he himself seems to have eyes only for the pretty and
physically intact).  And as appealing as Macy is, his unshakable priest exists
mostly to assure us (repeatedly) of the moral rightness in
O’Brien’s sexual journey. The character rings Hollywood in a
film that mostly honors its hero by avoiding just that.  “The Sessions,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , is playing
in  New York  and  Los Angeles  (expands nationwide in November).
Rating: ***1/2 (Evans)  ‘All Together’  It must be a common fantasy, spending your dotage with a
group of close friends. The French comedy  “All Together,” 
written and directed by Stephane Robelin, pours syrup on it,
throws in cancer and then smiles bravely through the goo.  The film doesn’t need an hour of exposition. We understand
instinctively why the five old people move in together.  Once they do, instead of showing us what we’re interested
in -- which is how such an arrangement might work -- the script
cooks up ancient love affairs and detours into melodrama when
there’s a real drama waiting to play out.  The men are Guy Bedos, Claude Rich and the great comedian
Pierre Richard (“The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe”),
who’s not so amusing as an Alzheimer’s sufferer. Geraldine
Chaplin, as a former shrink who’s a bit of a shrew, isn’t much
fun, either.  Then why is this movie so pleasurable? In two words:  Jane
Fonda . She’s been given the plum role of a woman with a terminal
illness. Her voice, still low and rough, is even more seductive
in French, and she’s likely to convince many in the audience
that if this is what dying looks like, it can’t be so bad.  “All Together,” from  Kino Lorber , is playing in New York,
Los Angeles, Miami,  Boston  and  Portland ,  Maine . Rating: ***
(Seligman)  ‘Alex Cross’  Action heroes probably shouldn’t come off like office
drones.  “Health benefits,” says Tyler Perry as the title
character in the disposable thriller  “Alex Cross,” 
thoughtfully considering the pluses of a new job with the FBI.
“Great dental.”  Getting laughs where it shouldn’t, director Rob Cohen’s
tone-deaf take on author  James Patterson ’s books about a crime-
busting psychiatrist makes no case for Perry’s versatility.  The popular, granny-dressing star of the “Madea” comedies
is bland and affectless in his against-type action debut.  Cohen (“The Fast and the Furious”) reverts to his TV-
movie training with rote, stagnant direction. Bored supporting
performances from Edward Burns and John C. McGinley wouldn’t
stand out on a passable “CSI” episode.  Perry and Burns play detective partners and lifelong
buddies sleuthing for a sadistic serial killer (a gaunt, goggle-
eyed Matthew Fox, making faces to flesh out the villain).  The screenplay by Marc Moss and Kerry Williamson includes
some hokum about a wealthy industrialist, old grudges and off-
duty payback when the killer’s crimes get personal. A
preposterous coda ties up loose ends few might have noticed.  “Alex Cross,” from  Summit Entertainment , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: * (Evans)  Rating:  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books, Zinta
Lundborg on  New York Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 