-- Visa, MasterCard Merchant Fee Settlement Sent to Judge
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-20T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/visa-mastercard-merchant-fee-settlement-sent-to-judge.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s
settlement of a merchants’ lawsuit over  credit card  fees, a deal
that may  cost  the companies and banks as much as $7.25 billion,
was submitted for approval to a federal judge.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers today formally asked U.S. District
Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn,  New York , to sign off on the
agreement covering about 7 million retailers. The settlement
would resolve seven years of litigation over allegations that
 Foster City , California-based Visa and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard conspired with major banks to fix the fees merchants
pay when customers use a credit card.  “Today’s filing is an important milestone toward resolving
the long-running litigation between the nation’s retailers,
financial institutions and payment networks,” Josh Floum,
Visa’s general counsel, said in a statement. “When finalized,
this settlement will bring to an end nearly 10 years of repeated
legal challenges against the default interchange system.”  A hearing on preliminary approval of the settlement is
expected to be held in December or early next year, according to
attorneys involved in the case. Final approval of the deal may
take a year, said  Robert Stolebarger , a lawyer for the
Electronic Payments Coalition, a credit- and debit-card industry
group that has advised the defendants.  “I fully expect that this will go on for a while,” he
said in a phone interview. “I think everyone was prepared for
that.”  Retailer Opposition  Several merchant trade organizations and large retailers
oppose the settlement, arguing its terms, including releases
from future claims regarding so-called interchange fees, are too
generous.  Groups and companies that have spoken out against the deal
include the Retail Industry Leaders Association, the  National
Retail Federation , the National Restaurant Association, the
National Community Pharmacists Association and the National
Association of Convenience Stores, as well as retailers  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)   “We look forward to making our case to the courts that
this one-sided deal should be rejected,” the Retail Industry
Leaders Association president, Sandy Kennedy, said in a
statement. “The outrage within the retail community over this
flawed proposal and the harm that it will cause cannot be
understated.”  Formal Objection  A lawyer for some of the other groups, Jeffrey Shinder,
said he also plans to file a formal objection.  Since the settlement was made public in July, 10 of 19
retailers who were plaintiffs in the suit have dropped out of
the deal, according to K. Craig Wildfang, a lead lawyer for the
plaintiffs.  Wildfang said no material changes were made to the deal
since its release. The proposal includes cash payments of
$6.05 billion, an eight-month reduction in interchange rates for
merchants and rule changes that could potentially allow
retailers to impose surcharges on customers’ purchases,
according to court documents.  Plaintiffs who did sign on include Payless ShoeSource Inc.,
Photos Etc. Corp., Discount Optics Inc. and Leon’s Transmission
Service Inc., according to the court papers filed today.  “The agreement is very much in the interests of the
merchants and those who have objected are either misinformed or
have other agendas, or both,” Wildfang said in an interview.
“We are way over the bar for preliminary approval and we hope
and expect that Judge Gleeson will agree with us.”  Political Motives  Electronic Payments Coalition representatives said the
groups who oppose the deal may have political motives.  U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin  ’s office has told retailers
that they may lose out on future legislative opportunities to
rein in credit-card fees if they support the settlement. Durbin,
a Democrat from  Illinois , secured the inclusion of limits on
swipe fees for debit cards in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, trimming
revenue for the largest U.S. banks by about $8 billion.  Visa said today in a filing to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that its share of the settlement will be
about $4 billion. Other defendants include about a dozen banks,
including  Citigroup Inc., (C)   HSBC Bank Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  PNC Bank (PNC) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. , according to the
filing.  “As with any settlement, both sides had to give a little
or a lot here and there to reach a compromise, and as a result,
no one is entirely happy,” Stolebarger said in a statement.
“But in the end, in my view, this settlement represents the
very best and most realistic outcome possible for all
involved.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and
Merchant Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  