-- Wealthy Advised to Sell for Gains Before Unfriendly 2013
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-10-19T18:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/wealthy-advised-to-sell-for-gains-before-unfriendly-2013.html
Sell.  That’s the message from some financial advisers, who are
telling wealthy clients that the remainder of 2012 amounts to a
last-chance sale on federal tax rates. Taxes are set to rise in
January in the U.S., pushing the top rate on dividends to 43.4
percent from 15 percent and the top rate on capital gains to
23.8 percent from 15 percent.  Even if Congress averts the so-called fiscal cliff of tax
increases on investments, income and estates, pressure to reduce
budget  deficits  will mean higher taxes eventually, said Ron Florance of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  The answer is to take advantage of
historically low rates and move taxable income and investment
gains into this year, said Florance, managing director of
investment strategy at the company’s private bank.  “It’s the opposite of what people normally do,” said
Florance, whose clients usually have at least $1 million in
investable assets. “You’re paying taxes today in anticipation
of higher rates in the future.”  Advisers at companies including Wells Fargo,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  are discussing with
their wealthy clients such strategies as selling appreciated
securities, relocating assets to tax-deferred retirement
accounts, converting IRAs, exercising stock options and making
large gifts to heirs this year.  Tax Increases  Tax cuts first enacted during  George W. Bush ’s presidency
and extended in 2010 are set to expire Dec. 31. Unless Congress
acts, the tax increases along with automatic federal spending
cuts will combine to form the so-called fiscal cliff. Taxes on
the top 1 percent of U.S. households would increase by an
average $120,537, according to a study by the nonpartisan  Tax
Policy Center .  Federal taxes on ordinary income will rise to as much as
39.6 percent from 35 percent. Long-term capital gains rates will
increase to a maximum 20 percent from 15 percent, plus an
additional 3.8 percent for high-income earners as a result of
the 2010 health-care law.  The opportunity for individuals to transfer up to $5.12
million --- or $10.24 million for couples -- free of estate
taxes and gift taxes also is set to expire at the end of the
year and drop to $1 million. Legislation enacted in 2010 raised
the lifetime estate-and-gift-tax exclusion for 2011 and 2012.  With about 10 weeks left in the year, taxpayers waiting for
a decision from Congress before making investment moves may run
out of time. Lawmakers won’t address tax and spending issues
until they return to  Capitol Hill  after the Nov. 6 election.  ‘Knock-Down, Drag-Out’  “If it’s divided government, then I think it will be a
knock-down, drag-out to the end of the year,” said
Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican who has been
receiving a flow of questions from constituents about tax rates.
“Temporary  tax policy  in our country is harmful to a vibrant
economy, and we’ve tried as hard as we could in the House to
correct that.”  People may miss the opportunity to take gains while tax
rates are low and rebalance because they’re not considering how
well investments in riskier assets such as stocks, high-yield
bonds and real estate have performed this year, said Florance of
Wells Fargo, which is based in  San Francisco .  “Most investors are in a bad mood,” he said. That’s even
as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has returned 18 percent this
year as of Oct. 18 with dividends reinvested, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  $100 of Stock  An investor who sells $100 of stock with a cost basis of
$20 in 2012 would see proceeds -- after  capital gains  taxes --
of $88, said Robert Barbetti, managing director and executive
compensation specialist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank. Next year,
if Congress doesn’t act, earnings from the sale would drop to
$80.96 if rates rise to 23.8 percent. That means the stock price
would need to rise at least 9 percent for an investor to be
better off selling in 2013, said Barbetti, who is based in  New
York .  Assets that generate long-term capital gains aren’t
confined to stocks. Owners of real estate and  businesses 
organized as S corporations, partnerships and limited liability
companies can get capital gains treatment when they sell.  “We have a number of people contemplating selling their
businesses,” said Jere Doyle, senior wealth strategist at New
York-based BNY Mellon Wealth Management. “They’re trying to jam
it through before year-end to take advantage of the capital
gains rates.”  Capital Gains  The last time there was a significant increase in the
capital gains tax rate -- in 1986 -- positive realizations
spiked 91 percent to  $328 billion  from $172 billion a year
earlier, according to the Tax Policy Center. Most investors
 waited  until December to sell, according to a 1994 report in the
National Tax Journal.  Executives with  stock options  expiring between now and 2015
should analyze whether to exercise them this year, Barbetti
said. They should consider the stock’s dividend and  volatility ,
he said. Stock options generally are part of compensation and
treated as ordinary income for tax purposes.  People should look at how much the underlying security
would need to appreciate to “cut through the headwind of a
potentially higher tax,” when deciding whether to exercise
options this year, said Mitchell Drossman, national director of
wealth planning strategies at U.S. Trust, a unit of  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America.  Stock Options  An executive exercising 5,000 stock options with a strike
price of $30 and a fair market value of $42 would recognize
$60,000 in income and pay $21,000 at the top rate of 35 percent
this year, Drossman said. The underlying stock would need more
than a 3.5 percent rate of return in 2013 to make it more
favorable to wait and exercise the option next year, he said.  That assumes that the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts expire,
pushing the top rate to 39.6 percent, and the 0.9-percentage-
point rise in the Medicare tax on wages of high earners starts
as scheduled in 2013.  Investors with dividend-paying stocks should revisit where
they hold them with the potential jump in levies on that income,
said Doyle of BNY Mellon. One strategy is to sell the securities
this year if they are in a taxable brokerage account and move
them into a tax-deferred individual retirement account, he said.  People also should look at the types of accounts they are
using for their retirement savings, said Suzanne Shier, director
of wealth planning and tax strategist at Chicago-based Northern
Trust. “We’re asking people to take a hard look at Roth
conversions again,” she said.  Roth IRAs  Savers who switch their IRAs to Roth IRAs must pay taxes up
front in exchange for tax-free withdrawals in the future. In
2010 Congress lifted income restrictions and allowed taxpayers
earning more than $100,000 a year in adjusted income to convert
to Roth accounts, which led to many wealthy people to consider
it. Distributions from regular IRAs are required of those age
70½and older and taxed as ordinary income.  People with illiquid investments, such as private equity
and hedge funds, in their IRAs should consider moving them into
a Roth IRA and paying the ordinary income tax on the value this
year, said JPMorgan’s Barbetti. Those assets can then appreciate
tax-free and pass on to heirs as an estate-planning strategy, he
said.  Doyle and other advisers are telling clients not to panic
and to watch what Congress does between now and the end of the
year, as the laws may change.  Gift Rules  Wealthy families looking to take advantage of generous
estate-and-gift-tax rules shouldn’t wait, said Raymond Radigan,
managing director of trust for the East region of  U.S. Bank ’s
wealth management unit. The threshold for transferring assets
tax-free during one’s lifetime is set to drop from $5.12 million
this year to $1 million in 2013.  “If a client is in a position to make a gift, now is the
time to do it,” Radigan said.  President  Barack Obama  proposed in his most recent budget
to set the federal parameters at a $1 million gift-tax exemption
and $3.5 million estate-tax exclusion, as they were in 2009.
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has proposed
repealing the estate tax.  People are considering how much they can give and what
assets to transfer, Radigan said. Most are setting up trusts,
which help protect the beneficiary from spousal claims in a
divorce or from creditors, he said.  “Whoever wins this election, one outcome isn’t going to be
utopia and the other Armageddon,” said Wells Fargo’s Florance.
“You need to be tax-smart, not tax-paranoid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  