-- When Banks Were Able to Print Their Own Money, Literally
-- B y   J e s s i c a   L a u t i n   a n d   B . J .   L i l l i s
-- 2012-10-19T17:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/when-banks-were-able-to-print-their-own-money-literally.html
In 2012, it isn’t unusual to go days
without using actual money: Lunch goes on the debit card, a
clothing purchase goes on the  credit card  and in some cities
even parking meters take plastic. As the Internet and
instruments of credit continue to transform our relationship
with money, it is worth reflecting on the forms that money has
taken in the past.  Before the institution of federally backed paper currency
in 1862, the government didn’t see issuing  paper money  as its
responsibility. Although it coined gold and silver, there was
never enough in circulation to provide an effective medium of
exchange. Because the Constitution prohibited states from
printing money, banks became the primary suppliers of paper
money in the U.S.  From 1791 to 1811, and then again from 1817 to 1836, the
First Bank of the  United States  and the Second Bank of the
United States brought a degree of order to this system, both
regulating the issue of bank notes and issuing their own trusted
notes. But when  Andrew Jackson  failed to renew the second bank’s
charter in 1836, private bank notes proliferated unchecked. By
the 1850s, U.S. banks had issued more than 10,000 kinds of bank
notes, varying in size, denomination, design and value. (Many of
them are now on display at the Museum of the City of New York.)  Bank Notes  There were significant problems with this system, in which
money often wasn’t worth the paper it was printed on. In theory,
a bank note derived its value from its ability to be redeemed
for gold or silver at the issuing bank, but what banks could
live up to that promise? Those that were poorly capitalized went
to great lengths to ensure that their notes weren’t redeemed.
For example, the Union Bank of  Tennessee  issued notes only
redeemable in  New Orleans . In the small town of Versailles,
 Kentucky , an agent who came to redeem notes at the local bank
was hanged in effigy by local citizens. Banks also suspended
redemptions during financial panics, and when a bank failed, its
notes became worthless.  When banks couldn’t provide an adequate supply of money,
other institutions stepped in. In particular, there was demand
for small-denomination bank notes and coins. (In 1840, per-
capita annual income in the U.S. was about $65, so a $1 bank
note was a lot of money.) Hotels, restaurants and bars that
didn’t have enough coins and bank notes to make change issued
their own money in small denominations. A note issued by one
hotel promised “to pay on demand twenty five cents in current
funds when presented in sums of $1 & upwards.”  A note worth 25 cents in the hotel lobby would have changed
hands at a steep discount just a few blocks away. Meanwhile,
small towns issued bank notes of a few cents to support local
commerce. In  Virginia , people were reduced to cutting apart
large bank notes and circulating them in pieces.  In this unpredictable environment, spending a dollar
required some serious thinking. A wallet might have three, five
or a dozen different bank notes -- a bull’s head staring back at
you from a Bull’s Head Bank note, or a Marine Bank bill
illustrated with ships -- not to mention foreign coins from
around the world and personal checks, which also circulated as
money. Most bank notes traded at a discount based on the
reputation of the bank and how far the note was from where it
originated.  A shop owner had even more variables to consider. When a
consumer opened his wallet to pay, the proprietor turned to his
local edition of “Bicknell’s Counterfeit Detector and Bank Note
Reporter,” or to “Van Court’s Counterfeit Detector and Bank
Note List.”  Counterfeit Guides  These guides not only identified counterfeits, they also
reported the prices of bank notes on the local market. (As
professional note brokers traded and speculated, prices rose and
fell.) Thumbing through a counterfeit detector, the store owner
would try to assess the value of the bank notes at hand. He took
a hard look at the person handing over the bills, judging value
based on the person’s race, class, dress, comportment and
reputation.  Counterfeiters exploited this feature of the system, and
passed themselves in addition to their notes, dressing and
acting as proper ladies and gentlemen. And with so many bank
notes from so many banks, counterfeiters flourished. Some simply
invented whole banks. Others erased the name of a failed bank
and replaced it with that of a reputable one.  Of course, as 19th-century observers frequently noted, a
poorly capitalized bank that printed notes it couldn’t redeem
was, in the end, little different from a counterfeiting
operation.  (Jessica Lautin is the Andrew W. Mellon postdoctoral
curatorial fellow at the Museum of the City of  New York . B.J.
Lillis is a curatorial intern at the museum. The exhibit 
“Capital of Capital: New York’s Banks and the Creation of a
Global Economy” will be running at the museum through Oct. 21.
The opinions expressed are those of the authors.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writers of this article:
Jessica Lautin at  jlautin@mcny.org ;
B.J. Lillis at  blillis@mcny.org   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  