-- Woodside Plans to Join Daewoo in Myanmar Exploration Venture
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-19T05:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/woodside-plans-to-join-daewoo-in-myanmar-exploration-venture-1-.html
Woodside (WPL)  Petroleum Ltd.,  Australia ’s
second-largest oil and gas producer, will join  Daewoo
International Corp. (047050)  in an exploration venture off the coast of
Myanmar as it moves to expand overseas.  Woodside will acquire a 40 percent stake in the project in
the Rakhine Basin off western Myanmar, the Perth-based company
said today in a statement. Daewoo, the trading unit of South
Korean steelmaker  Posco (005490) , will remain the operator of the
production-sharing contract, Woodside said.  Woodside, seeking to broaden its portfolio of oil and gas
assets to meet growth targets, is studying expansion options in
the Eastern Mediterranean, Southeast Asia and the Americas, the
company said in August. The energy producer joined a group that
bid on gas exploration rights off the coast of Cyprus and has
said it expects to get the results before the end of 2012.  Woodside shares rose 2.2 percent to A$35.98 at the close in
Sydney, while the benchmark index gained 0.3 percent.  Myanmar is preparing to offer more oil exploration blocks
to help fuel an economy that the Asian Development Bank said may
grow as much as 8 percent a year for more than a decade.
President  Barack Obama  in July permitted U.S. companies to
invest in Myanmar for the first time in 15 years.  The Australian company, whose A$15 billion ($15.6 billion)
Pluto liquefied natural gas project started production in April,
is among LNG project developers in the country facing increasing
construction costs and rising supply competition. Woodside also
plans the Browse and Sunrise LNG ventures.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman, an Australian
citizen who joined Woodside in May 2011 after 27 years with
Exxon Mobil Corp., believes that Woodside can’t generate “top
quartile” returns based on its existing projects, James Bullen,
a Sydney-based analyst at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a
report in August.  The partnership with Daewoo is subject to completion of due
diligence and government and other approvals, Woodside said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  