-- World’s Richest Gain $12.7 Billion as Google Shares Drop
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2012-10-19T21:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/world-s-richest-gain-12-7-billion-as-google-shares-drop.html
The 100 richest people on the planet
added $12.7 billion to their collective net worth this week
after worse-than-forecast corporate earnings in the U.S. wiped
out most of the gains global stocks had posted earlier in the
week.  Mexican Carlos Slim, 72, increased his fortune $1.8 billion
after Telmex, the land-line unit of his Mexico City-based
telecommunications company  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, said on Wednesday
it will begin offering high-speed Internet service without
binding it with a phone line package. Slim remains the world’s
richest person with a $77.6 billion fortune, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “These disappointing earnings announcements are finally
weighing on investors,” Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at
BMO Harris Private Bank in Chicago, which oversees about $60
billion of assets, said in a phone interview.  U.S. stocks slid the most since June yesterday as  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  posted
results that missed estimates and euro-area leaders failed to
discuss aid for Spain at a European Union summit in Brussels.
The slide in equities was tempered by housing starts in the
U.S., which surged 15 percent in September to the highest level
in four years.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPY)  gained 0.32 percent during
the week to close at 1433.19 in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 1.73 percent, closing at 274.08.  Gates, Buffett  Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, 56, is the second-richest
person on Earth with $64 billion. The world’s largest software
maker announced on Thursday that net income was 53 cents a share
in the first fiscal quarter, missing the 56-cent average
estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg. The Redmond,
Washington-based company cited declining sales of Windows, its
flagship operating system, as the main reason for the shortfall.  Europe’s richest man, Amancio Ortega, is No. 3 on the index
with a net worth of $52.4 billion, $4.6 billion ahead of  Warren
Buffett . The 76-year-old founder of  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s
largest clothing retailer and owner of the Zara clothing chain,
has gained more than $17 billion this year.  The fortunes of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  founders  Sergey Brin , 39, and
 Larry Page , 39, plummeted a combined $3.2 billion after the
Mountain View, California-based company’s third-quarter results
were prematurely released Thursday. The blunder triggered an 11
percent drop in Google shares and erased more than $22 billion
from its market capitalization in the minutes before trading was
halted.  Under Pressure  “It’s a human error. It’s not something I blame the
company for necessarily, but it undermines investor confidence a
little bit,” said Ablin.  Google’s profit and sales are under pressure as the
operator of the world’s largest search engine struggles to wring
advertising dollars from the growing number of people who surf
the Web on tablets and smartphones.  Page and Brin rank 26th and 27th in the world with net
worths of almost $21 billion.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  