-- Yahoo to Shut S. Korea Unit as CEO Mayer Focuses on Strengths
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-10-19T10:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/yahoo-to-shut-s-korea-unit-as-ceo-mayer-focuses-on-strengths.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  will shut its South
Korea operations at the end of this year as Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer  focuses the company’s resources on
stronger units globally.  The Seoul-based operations “faced challenges” that had
held back the company worldwide, Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo said today in a Korean-language statement e-mailed by a
public relations agency hired by the company to represent it in
the Asian country.  Mayer became the company’s fifth CEO in four years in July
to take on the challenge of luring back users that have switched
to Google Inc.’s search site and social services offered by
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. In South Korea, Yahoo faced local
rivals led by  NHN Corp. (035420)  in the market for online advertising
sales.  “It makes sense for them to pull out of  Korea ,” Kim Jin Gu, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.,
said by phone. “People don’t use Yahoo much here and it’s not
generating much traffic. There’s no reason for them to stay in
this Far East Asian market.”  Yahoo, which opened its Seoul office in 1997, has less than
one percent market share in South Korea, where more than 90
percent of Web-search queries are handled by search engines run
by NHN and Daum Communications Corp., according to Kim.  Daum said today it will stop using an online search-
advertising service offered by Yahoo’s Overture Services Inc.
after its contract expires next year. NHN has said it will cut
the U.S. company off in 2010.  Former Google executive Mayer named Henrique de Castro,
formerly with Google, as operating chief this week after
appointing  Ken Goldman , formerly of Fortinet Inc., as chief
financial officer in September. Mayer herself has been in the
role three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  