-- Yankees’ Year Ends in Sweep as Benched Rodriguez Plans to Stay
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/yankees-year-ends-in-sweep-as-benched-rodriguez-plans-to-stay.html
The New York Yankees’ 2012 season
will be remembered for one of the most dismal offensive
performances in the postseason history of a franchise that’s won
27 World Series titles.  The Yankees collectively batted .188 in the playoffs and
failed to score more than four runs in any of their last eight
playoff games, including yesterday’s 8-1 loss to the  Detroit 
Tigers in which they were held to two hits.  The loss capped a season that started with injuries to
pitchers Mariano Rivera and Michael Pineda, and ended with Derek Jeter’s broken ankle, the postseason benching of Alex Rodriguez
-- baseball’s highest-paid player -- and ultimately, the
franchise’s first playoff sweep in 32 years.  “It’s a terrible way for the season to end,” Rodriguez
told reporters yesterday at Comerica Field in Detroit. “You’re
crushed. You work eight months to get to this point.”  For just the second time in a Major League Baseball playoff
series, the Yankees never held a lead in losing all four ALCS
games against the Tigers, who return to the World Series for the
first time since 2006.  Detroit will play the winner of the National League
Championship Series between the defending World Series champion
St. Louis Cardinals and the San Francisco Giants. The Cardinals
won 8-3 last night to take a three-games-to-one lead in the
best-of-seven series.  “If somebody told me we’d sweep the Yankees I would have
told you they’re crazy,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said.
“Sometimes you get on a roll.”  The Yankees set a club record this season with 245 home
runs, yet almost blew a 10-game division lead before holding on
to finish with 95 wins and the best record in the American
League for the ninth time since 1998.  Collective Slump  While many of the questions entering this season were about
how the Yankees’ pitching staff would hold up, the postseason
brought a collective hitting slump.  After taking all five games to get past the Baltimore
Orioles in their AL division series, the Yankees were shut out
for eight innings in their opening game against the Tigers
before rallying for four runs in the ninth inning to force extra
innings.  The momentum swung back in favor of Detroit in the 12th
inning, when Jeter went down with a broken bone in his left
ankle and the Tigers pushed across two runs for the Game 1 win.  Without their All-Star shortstop in the postseason lineup
for the first time since 1996, the Yankees were shut out by the
Tigers’ pitching staff for the next 17 innings. They were
outscored by Detroit 19-6 overall in getting swept out of the
playoffs for the first time since 1980.  Hitting Woes  While Robinson Cano, Curtis Granderson and Nick Swisher all
struggled -- hitting a combined .110, with 11 hits and 32
strikeouts in 100 postseason at-bats -- it was Rodriguez who
became the overpaid symbol of the Yankees’ shortcomings. The
team’s $198 million opening day payroll was the highest in the
major leagues, while Detroit was fifth at $132 million.  Rodriguez, a three-time AL Most Valuable Player who ranks
fifth in MLB history with  647 home runs , went 3-for-25 in the
postseason with 12 strikeouts. He was 0-for-19 against right-
handed pitchers and was left out of the starting lineup the
final two games in favor of Eric Chavez, who last year had
considered retiring from baseball and ended up going hitless in
16 at-bats this postseason.  “I don’t want to focus on Alex, it wasn’t just him that
didn’t hit,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. “If the other
guys hit, one guy’s struggles isn’t going to show as much. When
you have so many guys struggling and you’re Alex Rodriguez, he’s
going to be the one people talk about the most. There were a lot
of guys who struggled mightily.”  Rodriguez’s future in New York may now be the biggest
question facing the Yankees this offseason.  A-Rod’s Future  “The fundamental question the Yankees have to ask is
whether the damage has been done in the clubhouse and whether
he’s a detriment to morale,” Wayne McDonnell, an associate
professor of sports management at New York University, said in a
telephone interview.  Rodriguez, 37, has five years remaining on the 10-year,
$275 million contract he signed in December 2007, a deal that
included incentives tied to his chase of the career home run
record. The contract came after Rodriguez opted out of the final
three years of his previous deal.  Although the Yankees maintained they wouldn’t negotiate
with Rodriguez as a free agent, Hank Steinbrenner, the oldest
son of former Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, said at the
time that the team had a change of heart when Rodriguez made it
clear he wanted to stay in New York. Hank has since been
eclipsed as the visible head of the franchise by his younger
brother, Hal.  Rodriguez said he isn’t thinking about playing for any team
except the Yankees.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “I love New York City and everything about being a
Yankee,” Rodriguez said after going 0-for-2 off the bench
yesterday. “The highs are very high and the lows are extremely
low. There’s no question the last few weeks were extremely
difficult, not just on me but all my teammates.”  Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman and Girardi both said
Rodriguez isn’t being phased out of the team’s long-term plans,
and Cashman said there was no truth to an ESPN report two days
ago that Yankees President Randy Levine and Marlins owner
Jeffrey Loria talked about Rodriguez playing in Miami. Rodriguez
is a Miami native.  While the Yankees would probably have to pay a large
portion of Rodriguez’s contract if he was traded, they’ve done
it before to rid themselves of an underachieving player.  Trading Burnett  In February, the Yankees dealt pitcher A.J. Burnett to the
Pittsburgh Pirates for a pair of minor leaguers and paid about
$18 million of the remaining $31.1 million on his deal. Burnett
went 16-10 with a 3.51 earned run average in Pittsburgh this
season, a year after logging a 5.15 ERA for the Yankees while
giving up a career-high 31 homers.  “He can still be a productive ballplayer, but the biggest
issue here is do the Yankees just cut their losses, try to work
out a trade and eat 75 to 80 percent of the contract,”
McDonnell said about Rodriguez. “But that conversation
shouldn’t be had for a couple of weeks because it’s just too
emotional right now.”  Rodriguez isn’t the only decision facing Cashman and the
Yankees. Rivera, Swisher, Andy Pettitte, Russell Martin, Raul Ibanez, Ichiro Suzuki,  Hiroki Kuroda  and Chavez are among the
players who will become free agents.  “We have a lot of players who are free agents and almost
every one of them have contributed in a big way here,” Cashman
told reporters. “We always have tough decisions every winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  