-- Zloty Weakens as Polish Central Bankers Discuss Rate Cut Needs
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-10-19T15:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/zloty-weakens-as-polish-central-bankers-discuss-rate-cut-needs.html
The zloty weakened and two-year bond
yields fell to a record low as Jan Winiecki became the fourth
Polish central banker this week to signal a cut in interest
rates on mounting evidence of an economic slowdown.  The zloty depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.1020 per euro as of
5:15 p.m. in Warsaw, the fifth-steepest loss among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on two-
year government notes fell to a record 3.91 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  There is a greater chance of Polish interest rate cut in
November as the 10-member panel receives inflation and economic
growth projection, Winiecki was quoted as saying by Dziennik
Gazeta Prawna today.  “The comments from the Monetary Policy Council confirm
that rate cuts are coming,” Cezary Chrapek, a fixed-income and
currency market analyst at Citigroup Inc.’s unit in  Poland ,
wrote in an e-mailed note.  Poland’s industrial output shrank the most in more than
three years in September while corporate job growth stagnated,
adding to signs of economic slowdown and piling pressure on
policy makers to cut rates. A “more decisive” rate cut is
needed next month, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of the
Monetary Policy Council, told reporters in Warsaw yesterday.  A rate reduction in November may start a “short cycle,”
PAP newswire cited policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka as
saying yesterday. Speaking separately in an Oct. 18 interview
with PAP, her fellow rate setter  Adam Glapinski  said he “won’t
rule out” voting in favor of easing at the Nov. 6-7 meeting.  Zielinska-Glebocka, Glapinski and Winiecki were among six
of the eight council members present at the meeting in September
to vote against trimming rates, records released by the central
bank  showed  yesterday. Chojna-Duch sought cuts of 50 and 25
basis points in Poland’s reference rate, now at 4.75 percent.  The central bank, the only one in the European Union to
raise borrowing costs this year, has kept its main rate at the
highest since 2009 even as policy makers around the world ease
conditions to avert a global slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  