-- H&M on Longest Winning Streak in Three Months: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-09-17T09:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/h-m-on-longest-winning-streak-in-three-months-stockholm-mover.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest clothing retailer, advanced to a record high in
Stockholm trading as  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  upgraded its rating.  H&M gained  as much as 2.5 percent to 265.7 kronor, reaching
a new high after rising to a record yesterday. Today’s advance
marks the fourth day of gains and the shares’ longest winning
streak since June 19. The stock rose 2.2 percent to 264.9 kronor
as of 11:37 a.m. local time, with trading volumes at 78 percent
of the daily average in the past three months.  Swedbank raised its rating on H&M to buy from neutral
following “impressive” August sales, Christian Anderson, an
analyst at Swedbank in Stockholm, said in a note to clients
today. The clothing retailer yesterday reported revenue figures
for August and the third quarter that beat analysts’ estimates  “In our view, this indicates that the company is gaining
market share and that the autumn collection is strong, which
bode well for sales and margins in the short-term,” Anderson
said. “We believe improved earnings momentum, large European
exposure, the recent launch of online sales in the U.S. and the
favorable long-term growth outlook is likely to support the
share price going forward.”  After Swedbank’s upgrade, H&M is now rated buy by 30
percent of the 37 analysts that cover the stock and who share
their ratings with Bloomberg, with 32 percent having  hold
ratings  and 38 percent advising clients to sell the shares.  Revenue at stores and operations open at least a year rose
4 percent in August compared with the same month last year, H&M
said yesterday. The average estimate in a SME Direkt survey was
for a 2.5 percent increase. H&M’s total sales in August climbed
14 percent, beating an estimate for 12.6 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in  Stockholm  at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  