-- Birder, Volunteer Among Those Who Perish at Navy Yard
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/a-birder-and-former-trooper-among-victims-of-navy-yard-tragedy.html
Richard Ridgell, a former state
trooper, Kathy Gaarde, a bird-watcher, and Frank Kohler, a
community volunteer, went to work at the  Washington  Navy Yard.
Like nine other victims, they never came home.  They were among those killed on Sept. 16 by Aaron Alexis, a
Navy contractor whose shooting spree at the facility a little
more than a mile from the U.S. Capitol prompted fresh scrutiny
of how the military reviews security clearances.  Alexis, 34, died in an exchange of gunfire with police
after fatally shooting 12 people whose identities were released
by Washington police.  Those dead ranged in age from 46 to 73 years old, according
to the police, and their jobs included furniture installation,
financial analysis and naval architecture, according to media
and police reports yesterday.  Ridgell, 52, of Westminster,  Maryland , worked in security
and was a former Maryland state trooper, according to his
father-in-law, Thomas C. Lyons, and the Maryland state police.  “He was very familiar with weapons,” Lyons said in a
telephone interview. Ridgell had been employed by a number of
security firms and his work had taken him to the  Middle East ,
Lyons said. He was unsure if Ridgell was guarding the Navy Yard
when he was shot.  Ridgell started with the Maryland State Police in 1983 and
resigned in 2000 with the rank of corporal, said Sargent Marc
Black, a spokesman for the force.  Softball Coach  Ridgell coached softball for his daughters, Lyons said.
And, like a true Marylander, he ate seafood.  “He loved his crabs,” Lyons said. “His steamed crabs.”  “I think everyone is in extreme shock,” Lyons said.
“It’s been very traumatic.”  The mass killing prompted the Navy yesterday to begin a
review of security clearances, which Alexis received in 2008 and
held as an information-technology employee for a subcontractor
of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  The murders also prompted Congress to
press the Pentagon to make public a report showing lapses in the
way private contractors receive permission to work on bases.  Alexis entered the Navy Yard using a valid identification
card tied to his work.  Gaarde, 62, of Woodbridge, Virginia, worked as a financial
management analyst and “was a caring daughter, fantastic
mother, wife (of 38 years) and best friend for 43 years,” her
husband, Doug, said in an e-mailed statement that was
distributed yesterday on behalf of the family.  ‘Love My Husband’  She counted blue birds for a wildlife refuge near the
couple’s home about 23 miles south of the Navy Yard, according
to the statement. She held season tickets to the Washington
Capitals hockey team for 25 years, according to the statement.
She was a graduate of  Florida State University .  The wife of another victim talked to a Washington
television station about her husband of 30 years, Arthur
Daniels, 51.  “All he did was went to work, that’s all,” Priscilla
Daniels told WTTG television, according  to a video  posted by the
Fox network station. “That man didn’t have to shoot my husband.
I love my husband.”  Daniels worked as a handyman and reported to the Navy Yard
on and off for 17 years, according to his widow. The Daniels
family had five children and nine grandchildren, according to
WTTG.  Oyster King  Kohler, 50, of Tall Timbers, Maryland, was past president
of the Rotary Club in Lexington Park, Maryland, Jack Pappas, the
current president, said in an interview.  To help the club raise money, he served several years ago
as the Oyster King at a fall festival, Pappas said.  “I want to make sure Frank’s recognized for the good human
being that he was,” Pappas said. Kohler was “a good Rotarian,
is what everyone’s saying. That’s a lot. It means you do what
you’re asked to, and you help out when you see that it needs to
be done.”  Martin Bodrog, of Annandale,  Virginia , 54, graduated from
the U.S Naval Academy in 1981 and worked in the military for 22
years, according to an obituary e-mailed by a family friend,
Jeffrey Prowse.  Bodrog taught Sunday school, helped shovel snow for his
elderly neighbors and cheered for the Boston Bruins ice hockey
team, according to the e-mailed statement.  “Marty was source of great inspiration to his family and
friends,” and those who knew him “are better people for it,”
according to the statement.  Bodrog leaves behind his wife, Melanie, of 25 years and
three daughters: Isabel, 23; Sophie, 17; and Rita, 16.  Police identified the other victims as:  -- Michael Arnold, 59, of Lorton, Virginia;  -- Sylvia Frasier, 53, of Waldorf, Maryland;  -- John  Roger Johnson , 73, of Derwood, Maryland;  -- Mary Francis Knight, 51, of Reston, Virginia  -- Vishnu Shalchendia Pandit, 61, of North Potomac,
Maryland;  -- Kenneth Bernard Proctor, 46, of Waldorf, Maryland; and  -- Gerald L. Read, 58, of Alexandria, Virginia.  Three wounded people, including a police officer taken to
MedStar Washington Hospital Center were “doing well”
yesterday, with two in fair condition and one in good condition,
So Young Pak, a spokeswoman for the facility in Washington, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  