-- A Troubling Future for China’s Once-Raucous Internet
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-09-17T22:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/a-troubling-future-for-china-s-once-raucous-internet.html
At some point after his  Aug. 23
arrest  for allegedly  soliciting a prostitute , Chinese Internet
 celebrity Charles Xue  began losing his  12 million followers  on
Sina Weibo, the country’s most popular microblogging site. The
abandonment of Xue, a billionaire investor and online activist,
has been  subtle but unmistakable : At 12:36 p.m. on Monday in
 China , he had 12,054,441 followers; 10 seconds later, he had
12,054,435; after another 10 seconds, he was down to 12,054,430.
In five minutes, 50 followers had cut their online ties.  In the drip-by-drip desertion of a man once (and possibly
still) counted among the most influential voices on China’s
microblogs, we can also see the vibrant life draining out of the
Chinese Internet, and Sina Weibo in particular. Since its 2009
launch, the service has acquired  more than 500 million 
registered accounts and become the nation’s virtual town square,
fostering discussion, driving change and  relentlessly pursuing
transparency  -- all while unnerving a government accustomed to
holding a monopoly on the business of shaping public opinion.  At the time of his arrest, few believed Charles Xue was
targeted for his sexual interests. This has become even more
apparent in the last few days, as Chinese television has
broadcast, over and over, an interview and confession in which
Xue does not speak of his bedroom behavior but rather denounces
his Internet activities in favor of  new online rules  --
including specific guidelines to reign in rumor-mongering (and
perhaps a great deal more) -- that could land bloggers like him
in jail for up to  three years . As viewers, and followers, seem
to understand, these days it’s probably safer not to even be
virtually linked to Xue.  The  recent crackdown , which has brought with it  other 
suspicious  detainments  and humiliating  televised interviews , has
specifically targeted  Big V’s , an influential group of a few
hundred extremely prominent microblogging accounts. Like Xue,
many Big V’s are highly successful businessmen who, in money-obsessed China, enjoy credibility that the scandal-tainted
Communist Party lost long ago. For the average Web user, these
events leave a clear message: In contemporary China, nothing,
not even wealth, can protect you from the consequences of your
words. It’s a troubling notion for the future of the once-raucous, and ever-expanding, Chinese Internet.  While regulating speech isn’t popular in China (or anywhere
else, for that matter), regulating rumor potentially holds some
appeal,  particularly  on China’s  gossipy Internet . So the
government has cleverly justified its crackdown under the guise
of rumor control. On Sept. 13, the prolific commentator Li
Zhonghua, writing for the website of the  Guangming Daily , a
state-owned newspaper with deep connections to China’s top
leadership circles, showed how this works rhetorically: “Faced
with sudden access to online speech, some netizens transgress
the boundaries of free speech. Rumors, personal attack and
blackmailing are common occurrences. Therefore, regulating
behaviors online is a consensus of the majority of citizens.”  A blunter explanation was offered in an undated photo --
 posted by  the Tea Leaf Nation blog -- of what one presumes is a
banner hung by the government. It reads: “Don’t believe rumors,
don’t spread rumors. The government’s opinion is the only basis
for proof.”  Truth in China has always been the prerogative of the
Communist Party. The Internet may have made the enforcement of
that prerogative more difficult, but the will to enforce it has
never been steadier, especially in the face of figures like
Charles Xue. Using his online persona, Xue Manzi, he not only
heightened his own profile, but he also raised awareness for
several causes, most notably  child trafficking.  In doing so, he
tacitly embarrassed a Chinese government that did not, or was
not able to, similarly rally public opinion. More seriously, he
 highlighted public corruption . Rarely does a day go by that
China’s state-owned news media doesn’t do the same, but as a
high-profile investor with no connection to the party, Xue’s
often-mocking tone constituted a rhetorical threat to a
government historically unaccustomed to domestic critics it
couldn’t control.  Insofar as Xue’s arrest on charges of prostitution was a
ruse, it gave way this weekend. Though he was jailed on charges
of solicitation,  recent reports  indicate he’s also under
investigation for his alleged behavior online. And on Sunday,
China’s Central Television first broadcast an  astonishing
interview  with Xue, which, in form at least, looked like a
Cultural Revolution-era public confession. Appearing in prison
garb and handcuffs, the microblogger took the opportunity to
testify that his popularity on Sina Weibo made him feel like an
“emperor.” Meanwhile, in keeping with his new reputation as an
illicit-rumor-monger, he conceded that he often did not verify
the facts that he tweeted. “I overlooked the social
responsibility that comes with being a ‘Big V’ and harmed
society,” he testified. Xue went out of his way to praise the
government’s campaign. “The internet is a virtual reality, but
it needs order,” he said,  according  to the South China Morning
Post’s translation. “A mature cyberspace needs law to keep it in
check.”  CCTV provides no explanation for Xue’s sudden enthusiasm
for government-regulated speech (an enthusiasm shared by real-estate mogul  Pan Shiyi  in another  awkward state-conducted 
interview). But any doubt of his commitment is dispelled near
the end of the interview, when Xue volunteers himself for public
service. As reported by Xinhua, China’s state-owned newswire:
“He offered to appear handcuffed as a negative example to
publicize the online rumors crackdown.”  That is, of course, what he is already doing in the video.
It’s turnabout as dramatic and perverse as when, at the end of
George Orwell’s “ Nineteen Eighty-Four ,” Winston Smith concedes
under torture that the four fingers held in front of him are
actually five. In both cases, acceptance of the party’s truth is
defeat and humiliation. For Xue, though, there’s an added
embarrassment: the slow and steady evaporation of his followers,
those same people who once made him feel like an emperor. In
China, there’s only one emperor, and he’s a jealous one.  That jealousy has already begun to result in a less
interesting Chinese Internet, where -- just as in nonvirtual
Chinese life -- people withhold speech for fear of its possible
costs. In recent days, other Big V’s have tweeted ominous,
though nonspecific, messages. “A dark night,”  wrote  Ren Zhiqiang, a Big V real-estate tycoon with more than 15 million
Sina Weibo followers, on Saturday. “And a gust of wind blew out
the candle that brought light.” An equally somber, if more
direct,  tweet from  Pan Shiyi on Friday night, days after his
awkward interview: “Bad news today.” The reason, widely agreed
upon, was the  detainment  of Wang Gongquan, another Big V, whose
microblogging account  had been suspended  last year.  But one could also apply their words to the future of
Chinese discourse online. For all of the recent trouble faced by
China’s Internet celebrities, the biggest loser in the current
crackdown is the average microblogger who relied upon the
representative command of these wealthier, more powerful voices.
If China’s most prominent are now muzzled, then there’s little
hope for its middle classes to speak up in their place.  Meanwhile, Charles Xue continues to lose followers. For
President Xi Jinping’s government, this must feel like a
victory. Yet it’s a Pyrrhic one at best: Who, after all, is
going to follow the man and the party that’s censoring them?  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  