-- AB InBev Sells Bonds as Yields Fall to Three-Week Low in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-17T14:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ab-inbev-sells-bonds-as-yields-fall-to-three-week-low-in-europe.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
world’s biggest brewer, sold $1.8 billion of bonds denominated
in euros and pounds after corporate borrowing costs fell to the
lowest in three weeks in Europe.  The average yield demanded to hold investment-grade
securities dropped five basis points to 2.02 percent, the lowest
since Aug. 27, Bloomberg  index data  show. The cost of insuring
the debt against losses held at a 16-week low, with the Markit
iTraxx Europe index of credit-default swaps falling 0.6 basis
point to 93 basis points.  Borrowers are concerned the strengthening global economy
will trigger higher benchmark rates. The U.K. sold a stake in
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in the first step toward returning
Britain’s largest mortgage lender to private ownership, while
Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting today
where they will probably reduce monthly bond purchases by $10
billion to $75 billion, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “There’s demand from corporates in the expectation that
this could be the last of the easy days of funding at cheap
rates,” said  Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint Partners Ltd. in
London. “Companies are also looking at global economies growing
stronger as the time to invest and expand their businesses.”  AB InBev priced 750 million euros ($1 billion) of seven-year notes to yield 48 basis points more than the mid-swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.The brewer also sold 500
million pounds ($795 million) of 12-year notes yielding 105
basis points more than U.K. government debt. It’s the company’s
first sale in the currency since June 2009, the data show.  Karen Couck, a spokeswoman for AB InBev in Leuven, Belgium
confirmed the company was selling bonds without providing any
further information.  Korea Gas  Also in credit markets today, Finnish telecommunications
company  Elisa Corporation (ELI1V)  sold 300 million euros of securities
maturing in January 2021, Bloomberg data show. The notes yield
95 basis points more than swaps.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, raised 1.25 billion
euros from bonds due January 2019 that yield 225 basis points
more than swaps.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s largest liquefied natural gas
buyer, has hired banks to arrange investor meetings in Europe
starting Sept. 23 for a potential euro-denominated bond sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  