-- Adobe Sales, Profit Miss Estimates as Subscriptions Grow
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-17T23:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/adobe-sales-profit-miss-estimates-as-subscriptions-grow.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  shares rose
after the largest maker of graphic-design tools said it amassed
more than 1 million customers for its online services amid a
shift away from software installed on personal computers.  A 47 percent jump in the number of Web subscribers, which
exceeded some analysts’ estimates, coincided with a drop in
sales and profit. Revenue for the period through August declined
7.9 percent to $995.1 million, the company said in a statement
today, missing the $1.01 billion average of analysts’
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The results are validating Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen’s strategy of pushing the maker of Photoshop and
Illustrator software deeper into Internet services. While that’s
crimping near-term revenue and profit, the transition to a suite
of online tools called Creative Cloud positions Adobe for more
predictable growth in the future, according to Josh Olson, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co.  “All eyes are really on this shift to the subscription
pricing model and that’s ahead of schedule,” said Olson, who
has a hold  rating  on the shares. “The sales miss is a
reflection of a successful transition to the cloud.”  Adobe, based in  San Jose ,  California , rose as much as 6.7
percent to $51.40 in extended  trading . The shares were unchanged
at $48.14 at the close in  New York , leaving them up 28 percent
this year, compared with a 12 percent  increase  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index. The stock closed at a
record $48.39 on July 12.  Subscription Shift  Earnings excluding some items were 32 cents a share in the
fiscal third quarter, compared with analysts’ average prediction
for 34 cents. Net income was $83 million, compared with $201.4
million a year earlier.  “The overwhelming majority of customers are moving away
from perpetual licenses towards term-based licenses,
demonstrating acceptance of the new offering,” Narayen said on
a conference call with analysts.  Part of Adobe’s push to sell more design tools as
subscriptions is aimed at reducing its reliance on programs for
the declining PC market. Adobe said it now has 1.03 million
Creative Cloud users -- which includes online versions of its
popular Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver tools -- up from
700,000 at the end of the previous quarter.  The subscription growth of 331,000 in the latest quarter
exceeded the projected 255,000-subscriber rise predicted by
 Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco.  Online Software  “It’s all subscriber related,” Thill said of the rise in
the company’s shares. “The near-term revenue is taking the co-pilot seat. It’s all about the value of those subscribers over
time.”  Adobe said deferred revenue, which reflects sales from
subscriptions that will be recognized over time, grew by $42.7
million during the quarter to $734 million, the highest in the
company’s history.  Marketing-software sales also rose 25 percent, excluding
the company’s  acquisition  of Neolane Inc., which closed in July.
Adobe is squaring off against competitors including
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  for sales of tools used by companies and
advertising agencies to propagate their messages on the Web and
through mobile devices, said Thill.  For the fiscal fourth quarter ending in November, revenue
will be $1 billion to $1.05 billion, Narayen said on the call.
Analysts are predicting $1.08 billion on average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Adobe is on track to exceed its target of 1.25 million
Creative Cloud subscribers by the end of the year, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Garrett said.  “We will clearly beat that,” Garrett said in an
interview. The company is expanding its market by targeting
customers who could be better served by Adobe’s tools than
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s PowerPoint, he said. Adobe today also unveiled
an offering for photographers that combines Photoshop and its
Lightroom editing software at a promotional price of $9.99 a
month, Garrett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  