-- Aeropostale Shares Climb as Sycamore Announces 8% Stake
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-17T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/aeropostale-shares-climb-as-sycamore-announces-8-stake.html
Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the operator of
more than 1,000 teen and children’s apparel stores in  North
America , rose the most in almost two years after private-equity
firm Sycamore Partners took an 8 percent stake in the company.  The shares  advanced  18 percent to $10.17 at the close in
New York for the biggest gain since Nov. 3, 2011. Shares of the
New York-based company have declined 22 percent this year
through the close of regular trading, compared with a 20 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sycamore, through its Hummingbird LLC unit, bought about
6.3 million shares of Aeropostale, according to a filing today
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That would
make it the retailer’s fourth-largest shareholder, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In June, Sycamore purchased teen
retailer Hot Topic for about $533.5 million and also was in
talks to buy  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  before talks ended.  “Given Sycamore Partners’ track record, we believe
Hummingbird will ultimately attempt to take Aeropostale
private,”  Richard Jaffe , an analyst with Stifel Financial Corp.
in New York, wrote today in a note to clients. Jaffe has a hold
rating on the shares.  Sycamore, which was started in 2011 by two executives from
buyout firm Golden Gate Capital Corp., previously acquired
stakes in Talbots Inc., Mast Global Fashions and consumer-retail
lender Pathlight Capital. The firm has more than $1 billion in
capital under management.  Jessica Adams, a spokeswoman for Aeropostale who works for
FTI Consulting, declined to comment.  Michael Freitag , a
spokesman for Sycamore who works for Joele Frank Wilkinson
Brimmer & Katcher, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  