-- AIG Hires Goldman’s May to Boost Image After U.S. Repaid
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-17T17:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/aig-hires-goldman-s-may-to-boost-image-after-u-s-repaid.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the company that repaid a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout last year,
hired David May from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help revive the
insurer’s brand.  May, 54, was named to the newly created post of chief
marketing officer and reports to Christina Pretto, senior vice
president of corporate communications, according to a note she
sent to colleagues. May’s team at AIG includes Mark Clowes, who
oversees corporate advertising, and Danny Glantz, who handles
sponsorships, Pretto wrote in the memo, which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  AIG restored the use of its name in U.S. television ads in
2011 and struck a deal last year to sponsor six New Zealand
 rugby teams  including the All Blacks. The branding revival was a
reversal for the New York-based insurer, which focused on the
identities of subsidiaries after then-Chief Executive Officer
 Edward Liddy  dismissed the AIG name in 2009 as “wounded and
disgraced” by the bailout a year earlier.  “With the financial crisis well behind us, our businesses
seek to employ best practices and the power of our global scale
as they leverage the AIG brand,” Pretto wrote. The effort will
involve “marketing activities aimed at growing sales, expanding
distribution channels, and deepening the trust our clients hold
in us.”  Robert Benmosche , who took over as CEO in 2009, finished
repaying the rescue in 2012 after selling units to help raise
funds. This year AIG restored a  dividend , the company’s first
since 2008 when the insurer was hobbled by losses on bets tied
to subprime mortgages.  Gupta, Siewert  May worked for 17 years at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
posts including director of global brand marketing, according to
the memo. He has an MBA from  Harvard University  and a bachelor’s
degree from  Princeton University , according to AIG.  Insurers including Allstate Corp., the largest publicly
traded provider of U.S. auto coverage, have been recruiting
marketing executives from outside the industry. Northbrook,
Illinois-based Allstate last year filled the chief marketing
officer post with Sanjay Gupta, who had led rebranding at Ally
Financial Inc.’s bank.  Goldman Sachs has also worked to burnish its brand after
fending off accusations that the bank’s actions contributed to
the financial crisis. The company last year hired former U.S.
Treasury Department aide and presidential spokesman Jake Siewert
as global head of corporate communications.  David Wells , a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs, didn’t immediately return a message
seeking comment.  AIG climbed 0.6 percent to $50.01 at 1:20 p.m. in  New York .
The insurer has rallied 42 percent this year, beating the 31
percent advance at Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 Mjacobs63@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  