-- Risk of Flight Delays Returns as FAA Weighs Furloughs
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/air-controller-furloughs-halted-by-congress-may-return.html
Flight delays caused by air-traffic
controller furloughs are at risk of recurring as the Federal
Aviation Administration considers sending workers home without
pay during the next fiscal year amid a funding shortfall.  FAA officials have told aviation industry officials and
lawmakers that a new round of furloughs will be needed to close
a budget gap of as much as $700 million in the fiscal year
starting Oct. 1, four people briefed by agency leaders said.
They asked not to be named because the meetings were private.  The furloughs raise the prospect of a repeat of the flight
delays caused in April by traffic-control staffing shortages at
U.S. airports. Airline-industry groups have urged the FAA to
avoid disruptions to commercial flights as groups such as
airports and private pilots lobby to protect their interests.  “We’re in for some pretty tough times,” Melissa Rudinger,
senior vice president for government affairs at the Aircraft
Owners and Pilots Association, a Frederick, Maryland-based group
for private aviators, said in an interview.  A new round of automatic across-the-board cuts known as
sequestration takes effect in the new  federal budget  year and
may have more impact this time, officials including FAA
Administrator Michael Huerta and Transportation Secretary
Anthony Foxx have said in briefings, according to the people.
Huerta and Foxx said the agency already has cut nonessential
travel and training, the people said.  Furloughs of controllers and other FAA employees that began
April 21 caused delays to about 3 to 4 percent of flights,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  Congressional Action  Within six days, the House and Senate passed legislation
ending the furloughs and preventing the FAA from cutting funding
for 149 small-airport control towers operated by contractors.  Lawmakers gave the agency authority to transfer $253
million from airport construction grant funds to pay for
employee salaries and the towers. The FAA’s annual budget is
about $16 billion.  That legal authority applied only to the 2013 budget, so
Congress must act again in the next budget year to prevent
furloughs or save specific programs.  Under sequestration, automatic spending cuts enacted as
part of the 2011 deal to raise the  debt limit , non-defense
budgets must be reduced by 7.3 percent starting Oct. 1,
according to a CRS report.  The cuts at the FAA are smaller than that because some
agency accounts, such as the airport-construction grants, are
exempt. The agency hasn’t said what it expects to cut in the
next budget cycle.  Uncertain Outcome  The FAA is also considering eliminating the contract towers
again, one of the people said.  Uncertainly remains over how much FAA must cut, and that
lack of clarity could drive deeper cuts later in the year, the
people said.  The House and Senate haven’t agreed on budgets for
government agencies so funding will expire on Sept. 30 without
action, threatening a government shutdown.  A  measure  was introduced Sept. 10 by House Appropriations
Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, to
continue current funding levels until Dec. 15. It includes a
provision giving government agencies more authority to move
money between accounts “to avoid furloughs.”  Even with that authority, FAA officials have said that they
would have to furlough some employees, including controllers, to
reach budget goals, the people said.  Controller Salaries  Seventy-one percent of the FAA’s operations budget -- a $9
billion pot that pays for air-traffic control, safety
inspections and aircraft certification -- goes to salaries,
according to CRS. Air-traffic controllers are among the highest
paid government employees, earning an average of $108,000 per
year, according to 2010 data from the U.S.  Bureau of Labor 
Statistics.  Huerta has told Congress it will be difficult to reach
spending goals without furloughs. The FAA employs about 45,000.  FAA officials don’t think they would have the authority to
furlough employees immediately under a short-term solution like
the Rogers bill, the people said. That would force the agency to
postpone cuts until later in the budget year, when it must cram
a year’s worth of trims into a shorter period.  That may cause more severe flight disruptions, they said.  The prospect of a new round of cuts is pitting various
aviation interest groups against each other.  ‘Front-Line Safety’  “We expect that Congress and the White House will ensure
that the traveling and shipping public are not impacted by
sequester, as they were in April, and believe that air-traffic
controllers, who are front-line safety professionals should not
face furloughs,” Victoria Day, a spokeswoman for the Washington
trade group representing the largest air carriers,  Airlines for
America , said in an e-mail.  “The importance of aviation, particularly of keeping the
schedule and keeping people connected, is just as important
today as it was six months ago,” said Roger Cohen, president of
the Regional Airline Association, a Washington-based trade
association, in an interview.  Airport groups such as the Washington-based Airports
Council International-North America and the Alexandria,
Virginia-based American Association of Airport Executives have
objected to Congress using FAA’s airport-grant pool of more than
$3 billion to pay controller salaries and operate towers.  Private-pilot groups such as AOPA are urging the agency to
minimize cuts to programs its members use, such as the stations
that give aviators weather information, Rudinger said.  The group is girding for painful cuts, she said.  “Certainly we anticipate something similar to earlier this
year,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  