-- Taiwan Ruling Party Appeals Decision Barring Wang Expulsion
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-09-17T02:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/taiwan-ruling-party-appeals-decision-barring-wang-expulsion-1-.html
Taiwan’s Kuomintang party appealed
a court ruling that blocked it from expelling the parliament
speaker, as President Ma Ying-jeou seeks to overcome setbacks
including the resignations of 10 cabinet-level officials.  The Taipei District Court, which issued the freeze, had no
jurisdiction over Wang Jin-pyng’s expulsion, which was an
internal party matter, Kuomintang lawyer Chen Ming said
yesterday in remarks on cable network TVBS. The lawyers lodged
the appeal yesterday, said Lai Chien-yi, divisional chief judge.  The Kuomintang appeal came on the eve of the legislature’s
first meeting in its new session. Ma is looking for support for
policy priorities that include lowering trade barriers with
 China , and is trying to revive a popularity rating that the Era
TV television network said fell to 9.2 percent.  “The dispute may further weaken President Ma’s political
power base, as well as support within KMT and outside,” George
Tsai, a political scientist at Chinese Cultural University in
Taipei, said by phone. “As Ma’s leadership and power base
weaken, it will be more difficult for his government to execute
his policies.”  Taiwan stocks were little changed this morning, with the
benchmark Taiex Index dropping 0.3 percent as of 10:17 a.m.
Kuomintang lawyer Chen Ming said the party’s appeal may be heard
next week.  Detailed Review  Wang, 72, earlier agreed to demands by opposition lawmakers
for a detailed review of the government’s trade pact with China,
after cross-strait negotiators had signed it. The agreement
would lower barriers for services industries such as banking and
brokerages.  Ten cabinet-level ministers have departed Ma’s government
this year. They include former Premier Sean Chen, who resigned
for family reasons following opposition demands that he be held
accountable for slow economic growth. The defense minister left
office after the death of an army conscript and his successor
resigned soon after amid plagiarism allegations.  “One thing for sure is the parliament without Wang will be
even worse and more slow-moving than with Wang,” said Ting Jen-Fang, a professor of politics at National Cheng Kung University.
“Wang has the ability to negotiate and he is held in high
regard.”  The opposition Democratic Progressive Party said it would
seek Ma’s impeachment for violating the constitution in his
handling of Wang’s case, Wang Min-sheng, a party spokesman, said
in a phone interview without giving details of the claims.  The DPP has 40 of 113 seats in the legislature to the
Kuomintang’s 65 and any impeachment proposal needs support from
half of lawmakers to be considered. Two-thirds of lawmakers are
required for passage.  A Kuomintang disciplinary committee revoked parliamentary
speaker Wang’s membership last week after ruling that he damaged
the party’s reputation when he tried to halt the prosecution of
a fellow lawmaker. Wang, whom Ma beat out for the party
chairmanship in 2005, denied the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  