-- Malaysia Keeps Palm Oil Export Tax Unchanged to Spur Shipments
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-17T04:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/malaysia-keeps-palm-oil-export-tax-unchanged-to-spur-shipments.html
Malaysia , the world’s second-largest producer, left the tax on exports of crude palm oil
unchanged for an eighth month to encourage shipments and prevent
a build-up in stockpiles during the peak output season.  Cargoes will be taxed at 4.5 percent in October after the
reference price was set at 2,306.11 ringgit ($709) a metric ton,
according to a Customs Department statement. The tariff was zero
in January and February before rising to 4.5 percent in March.  Exports from Malaysia climbed for a third month in August
as a weaker ringgit and a rally in soybeans, which can be
crushed to yield an alternative, boosted demand from importers.
Prices of the oil used in everything from candy to detergents
will extend declines as supply from  Indonesia  and Malaysia
increases and biodiesel demand peaks, according to Dorab Mistry,
director at Godrej International Ltd.  “‘Malaysian crude palm oil is more competitive than
Indonesia’s,” said Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Exports will be smooth because people
are not holding back in anticipation of any changes.”  Malaysia said in October it would cut the tax to between
4.5 percent and 8.5 percent from about 23 percent to trim
stockpiles and compete with Indonesia, the biggest producer.
Indonesia cut its export tax on crude palm oil to 9 percent this
month.  Production in Malaysia rose 3.6 percent to 1.74 million
tons last month, according to the palm oil board. Trees are in a
more productive cycle which will last at least until April,
Mistry said Sept. 12. Shipments rose 14 percent to 732,412 tons
in the first 15 days of September from 644,589 tons in the same
period in August, Intertek said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  