-- Malaysia Cites Muslim Peace-Broking Record in UN Council Push
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-09-17T03:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/malaysia-cites-muslim-peace-broking-record-in-un-council-push.html
Malaysia  said its track-record as a
moderate Muslim nation and peace facilitator makes it well-suited to be chosen as a non-permanent member of the  United
Nations Security Council .  The Southeast Asian nation is lobbying to hold the rotating
seat for a year from 2015, Malaysia’s foreign ministry said in a
statement today. A decision isn’t expected until the UN General
Assembly in October 2014.  Malaysia hosted the first round of formal peace talks
between the Thai government and Muslim separatists this year in
a bid to stem violence that has killed more than 5,000 people in
the past decade. It’s also mediating with some Islamic rebel
groups seeking autonomy in the southern  Philippines .  “If Malaysia is chosen as a non-permanent member of the UN
Security Council, we will show our unanimous support with other
member countries in finding a peaceful and lasting solution in
world conflicts,” Anifah Aman, Malaysia’s foreign minister,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The acceptance will allow
Malaysia to share its experience in resolving conflicts.”  The Philippines launched air strikes against Muslim rebels
yesterday as President  Benigno Aquino  sought to bring an end to
a standoff that has killed 87 people and complicated efforts to
bring peace to the south. Seventy-one Moro National Liberation
Front fighters have died in recent clashes, and 64 have
surrendered or been captured, military spokesman Major Angelo
Guzman said in a mobile-phone message.  The violence complicates peace talks the Philippine
government is holding in Malaysia with another rebel group, the
Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which signed a wealth-sharing
agreement in July.  Malaysia,  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy, has held
a UN Security Council seat three times previously, most recently
in 1999-2000. It submitted an application to resume the position
in 2015 back in 2001, the foreign ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  