-- Hammerson Plans Homes, Stores Near London’s Emerging Tech Hub
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-17T11:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/hammerson-plans-homes-stores-near-london-s-emerging-tech-hub.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and Ballymore
Properties Ltd. plan to seek permission to build homes, stores
and offices on a 10.5-acre (4.2-hectare) site near London’s Old
Street Roundabout technology hub within 12 months.  Hammerson and Dublin-based Ballymore are working on a
280,000 square-meter (3.3 million square-foot) development
proposal for the Bishopsgate Goods Yard, according to a filing
to  Companies House  in December. The companies together bought an
option to acquire the site in 2002.  “Where can you find 10 acres of vacant land, a stone’s
throw from the  City of London , at the heart of the emerging tech
belt and with Brick Lane and Shoreditch on your high street?”
Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said in a Sept. 6
interview. “This is something we’ve committed to.”  As many as 2,000 homes, office buildings, stores and
leisure facilities may be developed on the site, the boroughs of
 Tower Hamlets  and Hackney said in a 2010 planning document.
Residential property values in the City of London and its
fringes, including the Goods Yard, rose 14 percent in the year
through July, double the average growth rate in the best parts
of central London, according to data compiled by broker Knight
Frank LLP.  Retail will be “a very large component” of the project,
which will include residential and commercial space, Atkins said
without being more specific. Hammerson, Britain’s third-largest
real estate investment trust, has sold London office buildings
to focus on retail investment.  “It’s quite a complex site,” Atkins said. “You’ve got
railway lines, underground lines, arches. Nobody’s managed to
crack it over the years. We think we have a plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  