-- Mexico Storms Leave 47 Dead, Strand Tourists in Acapulco
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-09-18T15:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/another-storm-may-grow-in-bay-of-campeche-to-threaten-mexico-1-.html
Storms that lashed both of  Mexico ’s
coasts last weekend have left at least 47 people dead and
trapped thousands of tourists in the resort city of Acapulco,
Interior Minister Miguel Osorio Chong said.  Mexico’s two biggest airlines offered to rescue 40,000
stranded Acapulco tourists today after Hurricane Ingrid moved in
from the Bay of Campeche and  Tropical Storm Manuel  hit from the
Pacific. One hundred rivers and streams overflowed and 91
highways were waterlogged nationwide, Osorio Chong said in a
radio interview yesterday. Milenio newspaper today reported 57
dead, citing Osorio Chong.  Manuel, which had degenerated to a remnant low, regained
strength and became a tropical storm in the Pacific today,
threatening more rain on Mexico’s west coast. A disturbance now
over the Yucatan Peninsula may follow Hurricane Ingrid’s
footprint and bring another round of flooding to the eastern
coast, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said.  “It’s still raining in many cities and in large portions
of the country,” Osorio Chong said in his interview with Radio
Formula yesterday. The government is working to “protect the
lives of people who live in towns where rains are most
intense.”  Grupo Aeromexico SAB and Interjet said today they’ll fly
all stranded  Acapulco  tourists for free to Mexico City as
airport conditions improve.  Thousands Evacuated  Close to 40,000 people have been evacuated nationwide and
it will take days to completely clear highways out of Acapulco,
the minister said. The army rescued 500 people trapped in
Acapulco yesterday after the city’s airport and highways were
affected by heavy rains, he said.  Manuel strengthened into a tropical storm in the Pacific
about 90 miles (145 kilometers) west of Mazatlan, Mexico with
top winds of 40 miles per hour, according to U.S. National
Hurricane Center advisory at 11 a.m. new York time. It was
moving north-northwest at 3 mph.  A tropical storm warning is in place from Mazatlan to
Topolobampo and a watch has been issued from Cabo San Lucas to
San Evaristo, the Miami-based center said.  Manuel may drop 5 to 10 inches (13 to 25 centimeters) of
rain over Sinaloa, with as much as 15 inches possible in some
isolated areas, according to the center. In Nayarit and southern
Baja California from 3 to 5 inches of rain is expected.  Additional Strength  The storm may gain some additional strength in the next two
days, after that interaction with the land should cause it to
weaken, according to a forecast by Daniel Brown, a hurricane
center warning coordination meteorologist.  A large area of thunderstorms and low pressure drifting
across the Yucatan Peninsula has an 80 percent chance of
becoming a tropical system within five days, the center said.  “It’s actually eerily similar to the whole Ingrid
evolution,” said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000
Inc. in New York. “Ingrid went in just north of Tampico and
that is the kind of scenario here.”  Ingrid and Manuel drenched Mexico starting late last week.  The new system “will likely spread heavy rains over
eastern Mexico,” the center said. “These rains could cause
life-threatening floods and mud slides over areas already
impacted by torrential rains associated with Ingrid and
Manuel.”  Oil Fields  The system, like Ingrid, may cross the Bay of Campeche,
where Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil company
known as Pemex, has its two largest oil fields, which produce
about 1.25 million barrels a day.  A U.S. Air Force Reserve reconnaissance flight is scheduled
to investigate the disturbance, according to the hurricane
center in Miami.  Water temperature in the Bay of Campeche is about 84 to 86
degrees Fahrenheit (29 to 30 Celsius) and there is low wind
shear there, meaning conditions are conducive for strengthening,
said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in
State College,  Pennsylvania .  “It looks to me that it has a pretty good chance to
develop,” Kottlowski said by telephone.  So far this season, the eastern coast of Mexico has been
struck by a tropical depression, two tropical storms and a
hurricane. Weather patterns that kept the southern U.S. warmer
than normal through the summer have helped steer storms on an
east-to-west path through the Caribbean and southern Gulf of
Mexico, Schlacter said.  “It goes hand-in-hand with our ridge and heat regimes
across the U.S.,” Schlacter said.  In the Atlantic, forecasters are also tracking Tropical
Storm Humberto, currently 1,060 miles west-southwest of the
Azores with top sustained winds of 40 mph. It isn’t an immediate
threat to land.  A system becomes a tropical storm when its winds reach 39
mph and a hurricane when winds hit 74 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  