-- AT&T Said to Seek Sale of Cell Towers Valued at $5 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-17T20:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/at-t-said-to-seek-sale-of-wireless-towers-valued-at-5-billion.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, is seeking buyers for its wireless towers and working
with  TAP Advisors LLC  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on the sale,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The assets could fetch about $5 billion and possible buyers
include  Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI) ,  SBA Communications
Corp. (SBAC)  and  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the process isn’t public.
AT&T said in March that it is open to the sale of the wireless
towers and other peripheral assets.  A sale would bolster AT&T’s balance sheet as it undertakes
a $14 billion network upgrade, plans a stock buyback that may
top $11 billion, and considers acquisitions in  Europe . The tower
industry is consolidating, with fewer companies controlling
bigger swaths of the equipment needed to transmit wireless
signals amid booming demand for mobile communications.  American Tower, the biggest operator of cellular towers in
the U.S., agreed to buy the parent company of Global Tower
Partners for $4.8 billion, including debt, earlier this month.
The company and rival Crown Castle are increasing their role in
the wireless industry, with many carriers selling their cell
sites to the companies and leasing space back.  AT&T shares rose less than 1 percent to $34.75 at the close
in  New York  today.  Profit Focus  The tower sales let carriers focus on more profitable parts
of their businesses -- similar to the movement to offload office
buildings and lease them back from real estate companies. Tower
operators can lease space on their sites to multiple carriers,
enabling them to squeeze more profit out of the assets.  In addition to this month’s Global Tower deal, American
Tower agreed last month to buy almost 4,500 wireless sites from
 NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  in Brazil and Mexico for a total of $811
million.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA agreed to sell the
rights to operate 7,200 cellular towers to Crown Castle for $2.4
billion last September.  TAP Advisors was an adviser to T-Mobile on that deal, along
with Deutsche Bank AG.  Spokesmen for AT&T, JPMorgan, and American Tower declined
to comment. Representatives of Crown Castle, SBA Communications
and TAP Advisors didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Annual Sales  AT&T has about 10,000 towers, which generate about $326
million in annual revenue as other companies pay to lease space
on the facilities, according to JPMorgan research analyst Phil Cusick. The towers may generate cash flow of about $216 million
a year, and a sale at 17-times that figure would fetch about
$3.7 billion, he said in a note last month.  The company has explored acquisitions in Europe this year
and would look at  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  assets after the U.K.
company sells its stake in a wireless venture with Verizon
Communications Inc., people with knowledge of the matter said.  Last November, AT&T said it will invest $14 billion over
three years to improve the networks that deliver wireless
communications, high-speed Internet access and television
services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  