-- Audi Resumes Brazil Car Output in Expansion Bid to Beat BMW
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-17T22:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/audi-resumes-brazil-car-output-in-expansion-bid-to-beat-bmw.html
Audi AG (NSU)  will revive vehicle
production in Brazil next year as it looks to unseat  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as the global leader in luxury-car sales and to
strengthen its position in  Latin America .  The Ingolstadt, Germany-based unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans
to invest 500 million reais ($221.8 million) in Latin America’s
biggest economy by 2016, Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler
said yesterday after meeting with President  Dilma Rousseff  in
Brasilia. Audi expects to sell 30,000 cars in Brazil by 2018
including imported units.  “We expect the Brazilian luxury car market to grow 170% in
the next few years,” Stadler told reporters. “In addition to
Asia and Europe, with Brazil and Mexico we are now consistently
strengthening our position in the American continent.”  Audi, the world’s second-largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
is following BMW to Brazil a year after the Munich-based
manufacturer announced plans to invest 200 million euros ($267
million) on a new plant in the country. BMW plans to produce as
many as 30,000 vehicles annually starting next year at the
factory as it looks to maintain a lead over Audi and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, which have both vowed to become No. 1.  Audi’s plant in Sao Jose dos Pinhais, Brazil, will produce
models A3 sedan, expected to reach markets in September 2015,
and the Q3 SUV, expected to be introduced in January 2016.  Mercedes, the world’s third-largest luxury-carmaker, is
considering assembling cars in Brazil and will make a decision
by the end of the year, Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said last week at the Frankfurt auto show.  Global Expansion  Audi’s plans in Brazil are part of an effort to broaden its
production network outside Germany to pursue its growth goals
and reduce exposure to currency fluctuations. The car maker
produced 75 percent of its vehicles at its two German plants in
2009. That share is forecast to fall to 45 percent by 2017,
according to data from IHS Automotive. Audi plans next year to
build more cars outside Germany for the first time.  Audi started assembling the A3 compact at VW’s plant in Sao
Jose dos Pinhais in the Curitiba region in 1999. Production was
ceased in 2006 due to poor sales and will now be resumed.  The VW unit is building its second Chinese plant in Foshan
to foster growth in its largest single market. It also invested
more than 900 million euros to expand its factory in Gyor,
Hungary. The project more than triples the site’s annual car
production to 125,000 vehicles.  Audi in May broke ground on a $1.3 billion factory in San
Jose Chiapa, Mexico, to produce some 150,000 sport-utility
vehicles from 2016 on and narrow the gap to BMW and Mercedes in
North America.  Audi’s global sales gains in recent years were mainly
driven by growth in China, where it outsells its peers thanks to
an early market entry by Volkswagen.  Sales and profits from Audi are vital for Volkswagen’s goal
of overtaking  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to
become the world’s biggest automaker by 2018. As part of the
plan, Audi aims to dethrone BMW as the world’s bestselling
luxury car maker by the end of the decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  