-- Aussie Snaps Gain Versus Kiwi After RBA Repeats Rate-Cut Option
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-17T06:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/aussie-snaps-gain-versus-kiwi-dollar-before-rba-releases-minutes.html
Australia’s dollar snapped the
steepest advance versus its  New Zealand  counterpart in two weeks
after the bigger nation’s central bank reiterated that weakness
in the currency would aid the economy.  The nation’s two-year swap rate was near the lowest in 4
1/2 years relative to its New Zealand equivalent on speculation
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut borrowing costs already
at a record low. New Zealand’s central bank has signaled it will
raise its benchmark  interest rate  next year. The kiwi was near a
four-month high against the greenback as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said chart analysis showed the currency may extend gains.  “A soft  exchange rate  is what the RBA wants,” said Lee Sue Ann, a treasury economist at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in
 Singapore . “Given the recent recovery in the Aussie dollar, I
think the RBA is very careful not to close the door for rate
cuts ahead.”  The Aussie was little changed at NZ$1.14 as of 4:45 p.m. in
Sydney after rising 0.3 percent yesterday, the most since Sept.
3 on a closing basis. It weakened 0.1 percent to 93.11 U.S.
cents, trimming its gain this quarter to 1.9 percent. The kiwi
was little changed at 81.69 U.S. cents.  The  yield  on  Australia ’s three-year note added five basis
points to 2.90 percent, while the rate on the 10-year security
climbed five basis points to 4.05 percent.  Australia’s two-year swap rate was 67 basis points lower
than New Zealand’s after the spread touched 84 basis points last
month, the widest since December 2008.  The RBA kept its benchmark interest rate on hold at a
record-low 2.5 percent this month and omitted a reference to
scope for further stimulus.  RBA Minutes  “Members agreed that the bank should again neither close
off the possibility of reducing rates further nor signal an
imminent intention to reduce them,” the RBA said in minutes of
the meeting released in Sydney today. “Some further decline in
the exchange rate would be helpful.”  Traders see about a 39 percent chance that RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  and his policy board will reduce rates by April,
overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
likelihood for the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  to raise the
benchmark rate from 2.5 percent by that month was estimated at
89 percent.  “I’m bearish on the Aussie and bullish on the kiwi from
the standpoint of monetary policy,” said Takuya Kawabata, an
analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit
of  Japan ’s largest currency-margin company. “We can’t rule out
the possibility that the RBA will have an easing bias again,
given weakness in Australia’s economy is getting visible.”  Chart Patterns  The RBNZ said on Sept. 12 that interest-rate increases will
likely be required next year from the all-time low of 2.5
percent as inflation picks up.  The kiwi reached 82.30 U.S. cents yesterday, the strongest
since May 16, surpassing the 200-day moving average of 81.83 and
the 50 percent retracement of 81.80 from an April 11 high to a
June 24 low.  Exceeding a resistance zone that includes these levels
“raises the risk that a deeper extension can develop,”  Niall
O’Connor , a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote
in a research note yesterday. A resistance zone refers to an
area where sell orders cluster.  New Zealand’s Treasury expects the economy shrank 0.2
percent in the second quarter, Associate Finance Minister Steven
Joyce said in parliament before the release of the data on Sept.
19. Gross domestic product is  estimated  to have grown 0.2
percent during the period, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  