-- Wallabies Recall Robinson, Add Teenager for Rugby Championship
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-17T02:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/australia-names-28-man-squad-for-rugby-championship-away-matches.html
Australia recalled prop  Benn
Robinson  and picked teenage back Chris Feauai-Sautia for its
two-match Rugby Championship tour of South Africa and Argentina.  Second-rower  James Horwill  was selected as captain of the
28-man squad after overcoming a hamstring strain, while front-rower Albert Anae was added as cover for hooker and prop, and
winger Joe Tomane returns following a shoulder injury.  Prop Scott Sio and flanker Liam Gill were dropped after the
Wallabies’ 1-3 start to the southern hemisphere championship
left them out of the title running. Australia faces the
Springboks in Cape Town on Sept. 28 before closing the
tournament against Argentina a week later in Rosario.  “I don’t think anyone is going to back us to win these
next two games, but there is a terrific opportunity to continue
to improve and surprise a few people,” Wallabies coach Ewen McKenzie said in a statement. “ South Africa  and Argentina are
always brutal games, so you need to give an edge to physicality
in your selections.”  Robinson, who’s played 59 Tests, was brought back to help
bolster a scrum that’s so far struggled in the competition after
impressing for his Sydney club. Horwill’s return also adds size
and experience to the forward pack, McKenzie added.  “The scrums have been inconsistent across all the Tests so
far and we are now about to embark on a tough two-game road
tour,” he said. “We want to improve this area of our game.”  Like Robinson, Tomane is in line to play his first Test
since the 2-1 home series loss to the British and Irish Lions in
July after injuries ruled out Nick Cummins and Jesse Mogg, who
needs shoulder reconstruction. Feauai-Sautia, a 19-year-old who
can play wing or center, earned his first call-up after 16 Super
Rugby games for the Queensland Reds.  Forwards: Ben Alexander, Sekope Kepu, Benn Robinson, James
Slipper, Saia Fainga’a, Stephen Moore, Albert Anae, Kane Douglas,
James Horwill (captain),  Rob Simmons , Sitaleki Timani,  Dave
Dennis , Scott Fardy, Michael Hooper, Ben McCalman, Ben Mowen.  Backs: Will Genia, Nic White,  Quade Cooper , Bernard Foley,
Matt Toomua, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Tevita Kuridrani, Christian
Leali’ifano,  James O’Connor , Chris Feauai-Sautia, Joe Tomane,
Israel Folau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  