-- Lawyers Ejected From China Court in Case of Party Custody Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-17T09:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/lawyers-ejected-from-china-court-in-case-of-party-custody-death.html
Lawyers for the family of a
businessman who died while in Communist Party custody were
kicked out of court during the trial of the interrogators
accused in his death, one of the lawyers said.  The court in the eastern Chinese city of Wenzhou told the
two lawyers to leave at midday and didn’t let them in for the
afternoon session, family lawyer Pu Zhiqiang said by telephone.
He and the other lawyer, Wu Pengbin, had challenged the court
because it didn’t let them question the defendants, Pu said.  Prosecutors charged the six defendants, including five
people from the Communist Party’s Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection, with intention to inflict harm in the
April 9 death of Wenzhou Industry Investment Group Co. chief
engineer Yu Qiyi. The case has brought attention to the party’s
internal discipline body, which has the power to hold party
members under extra-legal detention during investigations.  “Having no chance to speak this morning, we can see
basically the reality of this situation and how scared they
are,” Pu said. Court officials told him that the defendants’
lawyers had already engaged in thorough questioning and the
court was clear on the case, Pu said.  A phone call to the Wenzhou court where the trial is taking
place rang unanswered today. Pu said that Chinese law allows
victims’ lawyers to question defendants with court permission.  Yu, 41, was also a member of Wenzhou Industry Investment’s
party committee, according to a June bond prospectus filed by
the state-owned company. The bond prospectus said his death
“will not have a significant impact on the company’s governance
structure or business activities.”  Strip Naked  The investigators forced Yu to strip naked and dunked his
head under water for more than an hour, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing court documents shown to the newspaper by Yu’s
family. They stopped after realizing he wasn’t struggling
anymore, the newspaper said.  Cadres who are investigated can be placed under
“shuanggui” -- a phrase that literally means to report at a
specific time at a specific place -- which is the party’s form
of extra-judicial custody.  Wang Qishan , a member of the ruling Politburo Standing
Committee who heads the party’s discipline body, has vowed to
crack down on corruption through the commission, which set up a
website this month to allow people to report violations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  