-- Axa CEO Invites Taper as End of ‘Financial Repression’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/axa-ceo-invites-taper-as-end-of-financial-repression-.html
Axa SA (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries said  France ’s largest insurer would welcome steps by
the U.S. Federal Reserve to scale back monthly asset purchases 
that have depressed bond yields.  “One of the reasons for which, not only me, but we as
insurers, are comfortable with the fact that the Fed would start
to taper is very, very simple: The long-term interest rates are
too low,” de Castries said in a Sept. 13 interview in New York.  Fed policy makers, led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, are
meeting this week and will weigh whether to slow $85 billion in
monthly bond buying that was meant to stimulate the economy. The
program has pressured investment income at insurers that hold
fixed-income securities to back obligations, while rewarding
borrowers with near record-low costs.  “The game which has been played over the last three years,
it’s financial repression,” said de Castries, 59. “It’s the
savers paying for the rescue of the banking system.”  Bond yields  have jumped  since Bernanke said May 22 that the
central bank could “take a step down in our pace of purchases.”
The rising rates have led to a rally in insurance stocks. A
Standard & Poor’s  index of life insurers  has jumped 16 percent
from May 21 through yesterday, compared with the 1.7 percent gain
in the S&P 500. Paris-based Axa, which sells life insurance in
the U.S., has  surged  20 percent.  De Castries’s comments echo remarks from other insurers.
Executives at MetLife Inc.,  Alleghany Corp. (Y)  and the General
Reinsurance unit at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  have all said low
rates are a burden for their businesses.  Medieval Bloodletting  “Central bankers continue to force liquidity in the banking
system without any objective proof that it is helping,”
Alleghany CEO Weston Hicks said in a letter to shareholders
earlier this year that compared monetary easing to medieval
bloodletting.  Axa has been increasing bets on corporate bonds and
infrastructure debt, helping hold the company’s portfolio yield
steady, de Castries said. About 45 percent of Axa’s 476 billion
euro ($635 billion) general account was in government debt as of
June 30. Corporate bonds made up 31 percent of the holdings,
which back insurance liabilities, according to a  presentation  on
the insurer’s website.  De Castries said investments in bridges, toll roads and
airports offer reliable long-term cash flow that match the
duration of his company’s liabilities. They also can protect
against inflation.  “There is a huge need for infrastructure everywhere in the
world, even in the mature-market countries where state budgets
are so tight,” he said. “Infrastructure is clearly a category
where all the insurance companies and long-term investors
throughout the world are looking.”  Principal, MetLife  The Fed has kept its  benchmark rate  near zero since December
2008 and has embarked on three rounds of quantitative easing to
bolster the economy. In the third, the central bank has been
buying $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage-backed bonds each month.  Terry Lillis, chief financial officer at  Principal Financial
Group Inc. (PFG) , said in an interview last week that he’s looking
forward to the Fed scaling back purchases because the economy
runs better when yields are higher, especially for long-term
savers. A reduction in bond buying would be a sign that the
economy is improving, he said.  Steve Kandarian, CEO of MetLife, the largest U.S. life
insurer, said in March that low interest rates penalize savers
and harm the ability of life insurers to offer some guarantees.  ‘Social Cost’  “This social cost should be considered more explicitly in
debates over monetary stimulus,” Kandarian said in his annual
letter to shareholders.  Bernanke has said savers will benefit from an improving
economy spurred by the central bank’s stimulus efforts.
Individuals with fixed-income holdings may also own homes, run
businesses, have jobs or hold stocks, meaning they benefit from a
strong economy, he said.  “I know that people who rely on investments that pay a
fixed interest rate, such as certificates of deposit, are
receiving very low returns, a situation that has involved
significant hardship for some,” Bernanke  said last year . “Only
a strong economy can create higher asset values and sustainably
good returns for savers.”  De Castries spoke while he was in New York meeting with
investors and the board of Axa’s U.S. subsidiary. The insurer is
looking to expand in the country as baby boomers exit the
workforce and individuals take more financial responsibility for
their retirements. That need has become more pronounced five
years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
threatened to bring down the financial system, hurting
individuals’ savings, de Castries said.  ‘Unexploited Resource’  “The prospects of the U.S. market are great for players
like us, because the need for savings and the need for protection
have not diminished with the crisis,” he said. “They have
increased.”  One of Axa’s challenges in the U.S. is name recognition. The
company, which operates in the nation through businesses
including Axa Equitable, competes against firms such as  MetLife (MET) 
and Prudential Financial Inc., which have a larger market share
in products like variable annuities. Prudential, based in  Newark ,
New Jersey, has its name on an arena in the city. MetLife
promotes its brand on the side of a blimp, on a stadium and
through mascots including comic-strip beagle Snoopy.  One of the “unexploited resources we have is the brand,”
de Castries said. “This is something which we will have to
gradually change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  