-- Bangladesh War Criminal’s Death Sentence Sparks Renewed Clashes
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-09-17T08:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/bangladesh-war-criminal-s-death-sentence-sparks-renewed-clashes.html
Bangladesh’s top court sentenced a
leader in the country’s biggest Islamic party to death over  war
crimes  in 1971, risking a renewal of violence that killed more
than 150 people this year as his supporters clashed with police.  Abdul Quader Mollah, assistant secretary-general of Jamaat-e-Islami, received the harsher punishment after prosecutors
appealed a life sentence given in February, Attorney General
Mahbubey Alam told reporters in Dhaka today. After the verdict,
police said they arrested eight Jamaat backers who attacked a
patrol car in Chittagong, Bangladesh’s second-biggest city.  “As this is the final verdict, activists of Jamaat and its
affiliate may scale up street violence in parts of the city,”
Shafiqul Islam, commissioner of Chittagong Metropolitan Police,
said in a phone interview. About 500 of the party’s supporters
hit the streets after the ruling, he said.  Violence has erupted across  Bangladesh  this year as a war
tribunal reopened wounds that led to the founding of the country
in 1971, a time when Jamaat sided with  Pakistan ’s army in a bid
to prevent the country from forming. A court last month banned
the party from standing in next year’s election in response to a
2009 petition claiming that Jamaat doesn’t believe in democracy
or Bangladesh’s sovereignty.  The tribunal found Mollah guilty of murder, rape and
torture during the nation’s independence struggle four decades
ago. While Alam said the death sentence would deter
“conspirators against the nation,” Mollah’s legal team decried
the ruling.  ‘Unprecedented’ Decision  “It is unprecedented that the sentence has been changed to
death from  life imprisonment ,” Tajul Islam, a defense lawyer,
told reporters in comments broadcast on television.  As British colonial rule ended in  South Asia  in 1947, East
and West Pakistan were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) of Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted
to quell a nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered
by the jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami
League to victory in elections.  The war ended nine months later with the creation of
Bangladesh after Indian forces helped defeat Pakistan’s army.
Jamaat-e-Islami supported staying with Pakistan during the war,
and several of its leaders are among 10 people being tried by
the tribunal on charges they collaborated with Pakistani forces.  More than 150 people were killed, including seven children,
and at least 2,000 others were injured in clashes between
security forces and supporters of Jamaat and another Islamic
group from February to early May amid protests over the
tribunal’s rulings,  Human Rights Watch   said . It interviewed 95
victims, witnesses, journalists, lawyers and human rights
workers. Police officers were among those who died, it found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  