-- Banks in Denmark Win Government Support on S&P Bond Warning
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-18T12:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/banks-in-denmark-win-government-support-over-s-p-bond-warning.html
Denmark’s government said it has no
intention to ask banks to adjust a mortgage refinancing model
that  Standard & Poor’s  says exposes the industry to a liquidity
shock.  One-year mortgage bonds used to finance loans as long as 30
years pose no risk to Denmark’s $340 billion economy and banks
shouldn’t be forced to stop selling them, Business Minister
Henrik Sass Larsen said.  “We don’t consider the one-year adjustable-rate mortgage
bonds a problem or a risk,” Sass Larsen said yesterday in a
phone interview from Copenhagen.  S&P said this month banks in Denmark’s $500 billion
mortgage bond market are putting themselves at risk by relying
on a model that requires them to return to market every year.
Industry efforts to mitigate those risks by spreading annual
auctions over quarterly refinancings aren’t enough, S&P analyst
Per Tornqvist said this week. He warns that banks are unlikely
to adjust their funding model without government guidance.  According to Sass Larsen, the industry has already done
enough to address any funding mismatch.  “The refinancing risk has been distributed throughout the
year, which makes it improbable they should carry a risk,” he
said. “Besides, they’ve performed very well during the
financial crisis.”  Bond Returns  Nykredit Realkredit A/S’s  index of the most-traded Danish
mortgage bonds  has  returned  35 percent since the end of
September 2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. sent global financial markets into a tailspin. U.S.
Treasuries longer than one year have returned 20 percent over
the same period.  Nykredit is Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank and  Europe ’s
largest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds. Denmark’s
biggest bank,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , is the parent of Realkredit
Danmark A/S, the nation’s second-largest mortgage lender.  According to S&P, “Danish banks score comparatively poorly
to their peer group of banks globally” in a ranking of how well
lenders can withstand a liquidity drought. Danish banks have
questioned the models used by rating companies, arguing they
fail to take into account their track record in withstanding
liquidity shocks. In a separate issue, Danske Bank said today it
will call a 2037 bond at above par after a change of methodology
at S&P wiped out the note’s equity content. The bank said it
doesn’t expect its A- rating to be affected by the buyback.  ‘Volatile’ Approach  Danish banks, including Nykredit and Realkredit Danmark,
fired Moody’s Investors Service after criticizing the rating
company’s methodology. Realkredit Danmark terminated its
dealings with the rating company in June 2011, while Nykredit
fired Moody’s in April last year after criticizing its
“volatile” approach to ratings.  Since the 1990s,  Denmark ’s mortgage-bond market -- the
world’s largest per capita -- has moved away from traditional
fixed-rate, callable-at-par securities into more varied debt
instruments. S&P’s doubts as to the sustainability of the
development are echoed by Moody’s and Denmark’s central bank.  Adjustable-rate mortgages were introduced in 1996.
Interest-only loans, which the central bank has criticized for
exacerbating volatility in the country’s property market, were
first sold in 2003.  A commission appointed by the government to investigate the
causes of Denmark’s housing bubble and subsequent economic slump
found that the increased use by mortgage banks of adjustable-rate and interest-only bonds “added to institutes’ refinancing
and credit risk,” according to a report published today.  No Ban  “Mortgage lenders made adjustments to their products on
their own initiative, and that suits us well,” Sass Larsen
said. “You won’t see this government coming forward with a ban
on these bonds.”  About 50 percent of Danish borrowers refinance their
mortgages each year, resulting in bond sales as high as $228
billion annually, the Financial Supervisory Authority in
Copenhagen estimates. That’s an amount equal to about 66 percent
of Denmark’s economy.  Denmark’s mortgage banks agreed to move to quarterly
auctions of adjustable rate mortgages in 2009, a year after the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers  froze short-term funding markets.
They have since largely based new loans on bonds maturing in
April, July and October, reducing the amount needed to be
refinanced in December to about half.  “Banks, mortgage lenders are on top of these issues
themselves, so there’s really no reason for me to step in,”
Sass Larsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  