-- Bayer Talking With Plastics Workers on Costs, CEO Says
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-17T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/bayer-talking-with-plastics-workers-on-costs-ceo-says.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  has begun talks on cost
cuts with workers at the MaterialScience unit in a bid to
improve the plastics division’s profitability, Chief Executive
Officer Marijn Dekkers said.  Bayer is looking at saving measures that will be in effect
over the next three to four years, Dekkers said at a dinner with
journalists last night at the company’s headquarters in
Leverkusen, Germany. He declined to comment on whether job cuts
are being discussed.  “We must continue to lower costs,” Dekkers, 55, said. He
characterized the measures as “small adjustments” to improve
margins in the unit, which makes materials for products from car
parts to cosmetics, as Bayer waits for demand to increase in the
next two to three years.  MaterialScience has been the laggard among Bayer’s three
 units , facing sinking prices, high raw materials costs and
slowing market growth, especially in  China . Analysts have long
speculated the company will sell or spin off the division. He’s
said he sees no pressing need for such a deal.  By contrast, Bayer’s pharmaceutical unit has had a
successful run of new drugs, including blood thinner Xarelto and
eye treatment Eylea, and new products introduced from 2011 to
2016 by the CropScience agriculture unit may add at least 4
billion euros ($5.3 billion) in revenue, Dekkers said.  The German company is “on the right path” as it pursues
organic growth, research collaborations and small- and mid-sized
acquisitions, the executive said. While Bayer looks at
acquisition opportunities as they emerge, it doesn’t need to
spend a lot on new medicines to strengthen its pipeline, he
said.  “We are in a very good position now, where we’ve had very
good products come out of our own research for organic growth,”
Dekkers said.  Bayer has returned 21 percent including reinvested
dividends  this year , compared with a 13 percent return for
 Germany ’s DAX Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  