-- Berlusconi Ally Motion to Halt Senate Ouster Probably Will Fail
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/berlusconi-ally-motion-to-halt-senate-ouster-probably-will-fail.html
A motion to halt expulsion
proceedings against  Silvio Berlusconi  in the Italian Senate
probably won’t pass today in a committee vote.  Fourteen of the 23 members on the Senate Committee for
Parliamentary Immunities belong to parties that have opposed the
request, filed by Senator Andrea Augello of Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty. If the motion is defeated in a closed-door meeting
at 8:30 p.m., the committee will continue its deliberations for
another 10 days before deciding whether to put the matter before
the full chamber for a final vote.  Augello’s proposal “is likely to be rejected,”  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst with Teneo Intelligence in  London , said in a
Sept. 16 research report. “There is still no agreement
concerning Berlusconi’s future in politics.”  The career of 76-year-old Berlusconi, a three-time ex-prime
minister, was placed in doubt last month when  Italy ’s top
criminal court upheld his conviction for tax fraud. An eventual
vote in the chamber to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat may
come before Oct. 15, Senator Stefania Pezzopane, vice chairman
of the committee, said last week.  Letta’s Alliance  The wrangling over Berlusconi has threatened Prime Minister
Enrico Letta’s government by splitting the ruling parliamentary
coalition in two. Lawmakers in People of Liberty, the second-biggest party in Letta’s alliance, have threatened to resign if
Berlusconi loses his seat. Letta’s  Democratic Party , the largest
group in parliament, has said the expulsion is required by law.  Italian 10-year yields rose above those of  Spain  for the
first time in 18 months last week amid speculation a vote to
expel Berlusconi would destabilize the coalition government.  Italy’s 10-year yield declined five basis points to 4.40
percent yesterday, dropping more than the rate on similar-maturity Spanish debt, which fell one basis point to 4.40
percent.  Berlusconi is preparing a re-organization of his party and
will probably refrain from withdrawing his support from Letta if
the vote goes against him today,  Corriere Della Sera  reported
yesterday. The billionaire ex-premier is reluctant to unseat
Letta because he could lose in a new election, said Matteo
Renzi, the Florence mayor and a candidate for leadership of the
Democratic Party.  Prison Sentence  “Berlusconi isn’t going to bring on a vote because he
knows we’d pave the road with him,” Renzi said yesterday at a
book presentation in Rome.  Berlusconi is unlikely to spend a day jail for the  tax
fraud  verdict. His four-year prison sentence will probably be
reduced to one year of house arrest or community service, due in
part to leniency guidelines. Berlusconi is appealing separate
criminal convictions for illegal use of wiretaps, abuse of
office and paying a minor for sex. He has denied all charges,
saying the trials amount to political persecution.  The Democratic Party, or PD, is seeking to apply a 2012
anti-corruption law that imposes a six-year ban from public
office on people sentenced to more than two years of prison.
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the biggest opposition party,
has also said the law should be applied to Berlusconi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  