-- Blackstone Seeks IPOs as Hotel Sales Climb: Real Estate
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-09-17T14:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/blackstone-seeks-ipos-as-sales-of-hotels-accelerate.html
Private-equity firms are
accelerating sales of hotels to take advantage of a recovery in
U.S. lodging demand and stock prices close to record highs.  Hotel-property transactions jumped 47 percent to $14.1
billion this year through July in the U.S., according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc. Sales by institutional investors,
including private-equity funds, more than doubled in the first
half, as the growth of revenue per available room slowed.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest buyout firm, has decided now’s
the time to sell shares as it prepares initial public offerings
of Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and Extended Stay America Inc.  A recovery in travel after the last recession has led to
hotel real estate values almost doubling since 2009’s low, based
on an index from research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.
Companies including  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and
 Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  have climbed to their highest prices
since 2007, when Blackstone bought Hilton Hotels Corp. for $26
billion at the tail end of the biggest buyout boom in history.
With some firms cashing in on their investments, further
property-price gains may be muted.  “Fundamentals are still pretty strong but, in general,
revpar is increasing at a declining rate,” said Keith Gelb, a
managing member of Rockpoint Group LLC, a Boston-based private-equity real estate firm that has been selling hotel assets.
“The  capital markets  have been quite strong and we’ve executed
our business plans sooner than anticipated.”  Outpacing Purchases  Institutional investors, after snapping up hotels at
distressed prices at the real estate market’s bottom in 2009 and
2010, have made sales totaling $3.44 billion in the first half,
compared with $1.68 billion a year earlier, according to New
York-based Real Capital, a property-research firm. Purchases
rose at a slower pace, climbing 21 percent to $3.43 billion.  Growth in revpar, the lodging industry’s measure of average
daily room rates and occupancies, is slowing after three years
of gains. It rose 5.6 percent in the first half, compared with
6.8 percent growth for all of last year and 8.2 percent in 2011,
according to STR, a Hendersonville, Tennessee-based data
provider. The firm forecasts revpar will increase 5.7 percent
this year and 6 percent in 2014.  “We still have two to three years of pretty good growth
and below-average supply increases,” said Scott D. Smith,
senior vice president in the Atlanta office of PKF Consulting
USA LLC, a San Francisco-based research and advisory firm for
the hotel industry. “But if demand declines, then hoteliers
will start to lose occupancy and discount their room rates, and
obviously that will have a great impact on net operating
income.”  Cap Rates  Some investors are attracted to hotels because they offer
investment yields, as measured by capitalization rates, of about
7.8 percent, or about 2 percentage points higher than the
average of the other major commercial-property types -- office,
industrial, retail and apartments, said Lukas Hartwich, a
lodging analyst at Green Street in  Newport Beach ,  California .
Cap rates are net operating income divided by purchase price.  If  interest rates  rise further, that would boost borrowing
costs and may reduce the prices that buyers who rely on debt
financing are willing to pay for hotel assets, Hartwich said.  “Some buyers are looking for a certain return on equity so
if the cost of debt goes up, that hurts their return,” he said.  Rockpoint Deals  Rockpoint has sold or recapitalized more than $1.5 billion
of hotel properties in the past 12 months, including  New York ’s
Milford Plaza,  Boston ’s Park Plaza Hotel,  Hawaii ’s Waikiki
Courtyard and Bacara Resort & Spa in  Santa Barbara , California.  “We’ve monetized a significant percentage of our hotel
assets in the past year,” Gelb said.  Private-equity firms continue to make new hotel bets as
they sell or start to exit older investments. Blackstone bought
about $4 billion of hotel assets during the past year, including
the Motel 6 budget chain and a leasehold in a Hyatt resort in
Waikiki.  Hilton, the world’s largest hotel chain, filed to raise as
much as $1.25 billion when it goes public, a placeholder amount
that may change. New York-based Blackstone also filed for an IPO
of Extended Stay, a mid-priced lodging chain, in July, and is
exploring a stock sale of La Quinta Inns & Suites. The firm is
seeking to take advantage of surging stocks while holding on to
a stake in Hilton in a bet travel will remain robust.  Hyatt Shares  The last large chain to go public,  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , has
risen 82 percent since its November 2009 share sale. Marriott,
the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, is up 16 percent
this year, while Starwood has gained 19 percent. The Bloomberg
Hotel Real Estate Investment Trust Index reached a five-year
high in May before slipping 4 percent through yesterday on the
prospect that rising  interest rates  will limit property demand.  Planned IPOs may curb gains in lodging stocks in the next
few months, said James Corl, a managing director overseeing
distressed real estate investments at New York-based Siguler
Guff & Co. and former head of real estate securities fund
management at Cohen & Steers Inc.  “New supply is always going to compete with the existing
companies for the incremental dollar,” Corl said. “One of the
reasons the REIT market’s been off the last couple of months is
there’s a pretty significant backlog of new public companies”
preparing to sell stock.  A successful IPO of Hilton would mark a major turnaround
for Blackstone’s biggest investment ever and a victory for the
firm’s real estate chief,  Jonathan Gray . The firm’s real estate
and private equity funds put $5.7 billion of equity in the
October 2007 buyout, betting on the company’s international
growth potential. The deal looked like a money loser when the
credit crisis severely curtailed travel.  Debt Restructure  Instead of walking away, Blackstone invested $800 million
of equity to buy back some debt, convert other loans and push
out maturities in a 2010 debt restructuring that cut Hilton’s
borrowings by $4 billion.  Hilton President and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Nassetta has moved the company headquarters to the Washington
suburb of McLean,  Virginia , from  Beverly Hills , California, and
expanded the hotel count by more than 30 percent to over 4,000
properties. The majority of that growth is overseas and in
franchised and managed hotels, which require almost no  capital
investment  by the company.  Hilton, with brands including Hampton Inns and Embassy
Suites, had a 3 percent increase in revenue in the first half,
to $4.64 billion from $4.52 billion a year earlier, following
5.6 percent growth last year, according to the IPO filing. The
company has more than $13.5 billion of debt that it expects to
refinance before the end of the year.  Waldorf Astoria  The majority of Hilton’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization comes from the 3,843 hotels,
resorts and timeshare properties it franchises or manages. The
company also owns or leases stakes in 157 hotels with about
62,500 rooms, including icons such as the Waldorf Astoria in New
York, the Hilton Hawaiian Village and the London Hilton on  Park
Lane , according to its IPO filing.  Hilton could be valued at about $30 billion, based on
multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at comparable companies such as  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Starwood and Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott, a person with knowledge of Blackstone’s plans has
said.  When Blackstone agreed in July 2007 to pay $47.50 a share
for Hilton, the price was 40 percent more than the stock’s
closing price the day before the acquisition was announced. The
deal ignited a round of high-fives in Corl’s office at Cohen &
Steers, a Hilton shareholder, at the time.  Potential ‘Heroes’  “The valuation they paid was extraordinary,” Corl said.
“If they’re able to get out of that with any sort of decent
returns, they are indeed heroes.”  Asset sales by investors reflect strength in the hotel
market, said Smith of PKF.  “In a nine-inning game, we’re probably in the sixth
inning,” said Greg Duff, chairman of the hospitality, travel
and tourism practice of Seattle-based law firm Garvey Schubert
Barer. “On many levels and in many different markets in terms
of occupancy, we have met or exceeded where we were pre-recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  