-- BofA Names Brazil Chief Bettamio to Head Latin America
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-17T20:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/bofa-names-brazil-chief-bettamio-to-head-latin-america.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. bank, named  Brazil  Chief Executive Officer
Alexandre Bettamio head of its  Latin America  business.  Bettamio will be based in  New York , according to Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America. No replacement to lead Brazil has been named, McHugh
said.  Bettamio became head of Brazilian investment banking for
Merrill Lynch & Co. in March 2008 and has been CEO of the
business since September 2008, the same month Bank of America
agreed to buy Merrill Lynch. The company has since expanded the
Brazil subsidiary into corporate banking. Bettamio was
previously co-head of investment banking in Brazil for UBS-Pactual.  Bank of America was the top equity underwriter for Latin
America last year. The bank plans to boost hiring in Brazil and
increase a $10 billion loan portfolio there by 40 percent after
it tripled in the past three years, Bettamio said in an
interview on April 23.  Corporate and  investment-banking  coverage will jump to 150
companies from 100 and hiring in Brazil will continue to rise
during the next two years after the staff doubled since 2009,
Bettamio said.  Bank of America had 471 workers in Brazil as of December,
according to central bank data. The company doesn’t disclose how
much of its revenue comes from Brazil.  State Loans  Bank of America helped finance Brazilian state government
loans after Brazil authorized 21 of them in August to borrow a
total of 60 billion reais ($26.6 billion) through 2014 with
federal guarantees. The deals allow the governments to raise
funds for investment and to refinance debt tied to a 1997
federal bailout.  The state of Mato Grosso agreed in November to borrow $478
million from Bank of America at a 5 percent interest rate to
redeem some of its 4.6 billion reais of Treasury debt, which has
an interest rate of about 14 percent. The bank did a $726
million financing for Santa Catarina and is negotiating with  Rio
de Janeiro  for a $750 million loan, winning the business over a
competing bid from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banco Santander
SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  