-- Bombardier Signals CSeries Gain as Flight Delays End
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/bombardier-signals-cseries-gain-as-flight-delays-end.html
Proving the CSeries jet could fly
was the first step in  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s quest to prove that its
biggest aircraft ever can challenge models from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS.  Bombardier will follow up yesterday’s 2 1/2-hour aerial
debut for the CSeries with 2,400 hours of trials, Rob Dewar, the
program’s vice president, told reporters after the initial test
at Mirabel, Quebec. The goal is to show that the CSeries will
meet its noise-reduction and fuel-economy targets.  With only 177 firm orders over five years, Montreal-based
Bombardier has struggled to find more buyers for a jet intended
to crack the Boeing-Airbus duopoly. The first flight was delayed
more than eight months while program costs rose to $3.9 billion,
15 percent more than projected.  “There are airlines that are sitting on the fence,” said
John Stephenson, a fund manager with First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, whose C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion)
in assets includes shares of Bombardier. “Here’s something that
hasn’t really been able to prove itself, and now with this test
flight it has. Over 150 minutes has put those doubts to rest.”  With the twin-engine CSeries, Bombardier is targeting the
smaller end of the single-aisle jetliner market, seating 100 to
160 people. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin is counting
on the jet as a catalyst for almost doubling annual revenue
toward the end of the decade. Sales were $16.8 billion in 2012.  Pivotal Model  “Sentiment on Bombardier is still ruled by the success or
failure of the CSeries,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in Toronto who recommends investors buy the
stock, said yesterday in a note to clients. “Over the next six
months, we do see positive news coming out of the program by way
of first flight data and new orders.”  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B shares slipped 0.6
percent to C$4.96 at the close in Toronto, reversing an earlier
advance of as much as 2.4 percent. That pared the stock’s year-to-date gain to 32 percent.  “The flight was so hyped, and there was so much coverage,
that expectations were just too high,” Stephenson said
yesterday in an interview. “The market is saying today they
still have to keep building the order backlog.”  Beaudoin reaffirmed a goal of having the CSeries enter
service about 12 months after first flight. He also repeated a
pledge to reach 300 firm orders by then, saying yesterday’s
trial will help dispel skepticism among would-be buyers.  CEO View  “Obviously there are some airlines that want to see first
flight, and want to see the data rather than just our
analysis,” Beaudoin told reporters in Mirabel. Getting the
plane airborne “will permit us to start giving them the data.”  The smaller CS100 model, with about 100 to 125 seats, sells
for a list price of $62 million, while the CS300, which will
carry 135 to 160 people, sells for $71 million, though airlines
typically negotiate discounts.  Bombardier has said it expects industrywide deliveries of
6,900 planes in the 100- to 149-seat range in a 20-year period
ending in 2031, with half of that market captured for itself.  That share probably will be closer to 30 percent,  Fadi Chamoun , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in Toronto with an
outperform rating on the stock, predicted on Sept. 5. He is
among 14 analysts who recommend buying the shares, while nine
say hold and one says sell, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Competitor Comparison  Firm CSeries orders have typically been for handfuls of
planes, while Boeing and Toulouse, France-based Airbus often
sign deals for scores or hundreds of jets. The 177-plane backlog
compares with 3,445 of Boeing’s 737 model on order through June,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bombardier stirred concern in November with a six-month
delay to the test flight caused by unspecified “issues” with
unidentified suppliers, surprising investors and sending the
stock to the biggest drop since June. Then it postponed the
event twice more this year.  “Many airlines are adopting a ‘show me’ approach prior to
placing orders for the CSeries,” Benoit Poirier, an analyst at
Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal , said yesterday in a note
to clients. He rates the stock as buy.  Bombardier has said the CSeries, which features the new
geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney, will cost about 15 percent less to operate, cut fuel
burn by about 20 percent and produce less noise.  ‘Very Quiet’  “It was very quiet, which is great,” Nico Buchholz,
executive vice president at Cologne, Germany-based  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , said in an interview after hearing the CSeries at
Mirabel. “We have a lot of data and we feel pretty confident
that it will be good.”  Lufthansa, whose 2009 order for at least 30 of the jets
made it among the earliest buyers, will consider the CSeries
when shopping for new narrow-bodies, perhaps in three to five
years, Buchholz said.  The CSeries also is part of fleet-upgrade discussions at
Air Canada, along with Boeing, Airbus and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , Chief
Financial Officer Michael Rousseau said on an Aug. 7 conference
call. Those comments still stand, Isabelle Arthur, an Air Canada
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Interest in the CSeries is “nicely spread out” across all
continents, said Mike Arcamone, president of Bombardier’s
commercial aircraft unit. Talks are under way with potential
buyers in Latin American countries such as  Mexico , said
Arcamone, who declined to identify specific carriers.  As many as 35 current and potential customers attended the
event at Mirabel, Arcamone said, and first flight may prove to
be just the catalyst that Bombardier needed.  “Seeing is believing,” Arcamone said in an interview.
“To me, that’s the best PowerPoint presentation we can give to
customers. This plane is really going to be a game-changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Mirabel,  Quebec  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  