-- BP Wants Spill Settlement Rejected, Victims Claim
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-09-17T19:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/bp-wants-spill-settlement-rejected-victims-claim.html
Victims appealing  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
$9.6 billion settlement of most economic-damage claims from the
2010  Gulf of Mexico  spill said the company also wants approval
of the agreement reversed.  The victims’ lawyers said in a filing in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in New Orleans that BP agreed with them that the accord
didn’t meet the legal requirements for class action, or group,
settlements. BP contends that the initial approval by a lower
court has been “undermined” by the claims administrator’s
interpretation of the settlement, the victims said.  “It was reversible error for the district court to approve
a settlement that was susceptible to an interpretation that
undermines commonality and typicality, and permits the payment
of settlement benefits to persons clearly outside of the class
definition of intended beneficiaries,” John Pentz, a lawyer for
a group of spill victims appealing the settlement as unfair,
said in today’s filing.  BP reached the agreement last year with most private-party
plaintiffs. London-based BP has been fighting what it contends
is a “misinterpretation” of deal terms by Patrick Juneau, its
court-supervised claims administrator, that has swollen the
estimated cost of the accord by almost $2 billion in the past
year.  Scott Dean , BP’s spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
phone and e-mail requests for comment on today’s filing.  Company’s Favor  BP told the appeals court last month that the settlement
can’t be approved if the dispute over claim payments isn’t
resolved in the company’s favor. BP said it will be forced to
pay billions of dollars in compensation to businesses that
suffered no losses as a result of the worst offshore spill in
U.S. history.  Lawyers leading litigation over spill damages have said BP
has “buyer’s remorse” and shouldn’t be allowed to renegotiate
a deal that’s proving more costly than expected.  The case is In Re Deepwater Horizon, 13-30095, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ). The lower-court
case is In Re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the
Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   lcalkins@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 