-- Rousseff Calls Off U.S. Visit Over NSA Surveillance
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-09-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/brazil-said-to-call-off-state-visit-in-retaliation-for-spying.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
yesterday called off her state visit to Washington as
allegations of U.S. espionage damage relations between the two
biggest economies in the Americas.  Rousseff canceled the October meeting less than a day after
President  Barack Obama  called her in an attempt to keep Brazil’s
first  state visit  to the U.S. in almost two decades on track.
Obama also held an unscheduled meeting with his Brazilian
counterpart this month at the Group of 20 meeting in  St.
Petersburg  as part of the U.S. effort to smooth relations.  The diplomatic setback is the latest fallout from
revelations about U.S. interception of Internet and telephone
traffic that was expanded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Rousseff said Sept. 6 she was outraged by allegations that the
U.S. National Security Agency monitored her e-mail and telephone
communications with top aides. The NSA also spied on state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA, according to accusations
presented by U.S. journalist Glenn Greenwald based on documents
leaked by fugitive security analyst Edward Snowden.  “It’s a giant step back for U.S.-Brazil relations,” Carl Meacham, director of the Americas Program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a  Washington  policy center.  With no bilateral free-trade agreement or  tax treaty , “a
lot of what we were trying to do with this visit was build the
necessary trust to do substantive things in the short term and
the mid-term,” he said. “That’s now on hold.”  Tough Stance  Taking a tough stance on U.S. surveillance activities may
boost Rousseff’s popularity, which sank to a record low after
more than 1 million people protested in June against government
corruption, inflation and shortcomings in public services, said
Rafael Cortez, a political analyst with consulting firm
Tendencias.  “It’s a position that will work in her favor
domestically,” Cortez said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “It takes the focus off negative issues, such as a slow
economy.”  Approval of Rousseff’s government fell to 30 percent on
June 27-28 from a high of 65 percent in March, according to a
survey by Datafolha published in the Folha de Sao Paulo
newspaper. The government’s approval rating rose to 36 percent
in an Aug. 7-9 Datafolha survey of 2,615 people that has a
margin of error of two percentage points.  Rousseff’s decision marks the second head of state meeting
with Obama that has been canceled because of documents leaked by
Snowden.  ‘Options Open’  The Russian government’s decision to grant temporary asylum
to Snowden, along with several other points of friction,
prompted Obama to cancel a scheduled one-on-one summit in Moscow
with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  before the G-20 meetings.
The two leaders eventually did sit for direct talks at the G-20
as the confrontation with  Syria  was heating up.  “It’s embarrassing for the U.S. and frustrating for Brazil
but not all is lost,” Paulo Sotero, director of the Brazil
Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in
Washington, said in a phone interview. “They’ve made an effort
to keep their options open -- the visit was postponed not
canceled.”  Brazil’s  trade deficit  with the U.S. widened 161 percent in
the first half of the year to $6 billion from a year earlier,
compared with a surplus of $5.4 billion with  China . Brazil also
wants to attract U.S. investment for infrastructure and oil and
gas projects.  ‘Cold Water’  Brazil  has more to lose than the U.S. by canceling the
trip, Gabrielle Trebat, a director at strategic advisory firm
McLarty Associates in Washington, said.  “It throws a bucket of cold water on the bilateral trade
relationship,” she said by phone before the announcement was
made. “It jeopardizes numerous commercial interests, especially
private sector investment in sensitive sectors that require good
political cooperation.”  Opportunities that could stall include the opening of both
countries’ beef markets, a bid by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  to
sell jet fighters, as well as technology cooperation, and
nascent discussions to launch industry-specific trade
negotiations, said Trebat, also a former executive director of
the Brazil-U.S. Business Council.  Meacham said the impact may be felt by U.S. energy and
technology companies.  “Will they be willing to buy American technology if they
believe that the tech industry is in cahoots with the U.S.
government?” he said. Companies in energy development may face
similar suspicions, he said.  ‘Assertive Reassurances’  Rousseff is demanding a full explanation for allegations
that the NSA monitored her communications. The lack of a clear
commitment by the U.S. to stop intercepting phone calls and e-mails led to the cancellation of the October meeting, according
to a statement e-mailed yesterday by the presidency.  Obama regrets concerns generated by the allegations and
will work to improve relations with Brazil, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said in a statement.  While calling off the trip, the first Brazil state visit to
Washington since 1995, further sours bilateral ties, much of the
damage had already been done by the surveillance allegations,
said Luiz Augusto de Castro Neves, head of Cebri, a Rio de
Janeiro-based foreign relations research institute.  “Without a doubt canceling the trip carries a cost,”
Castro Neves said in a phone interview from Rio de Janeiro
yesterday. “More assertive reassurances from the U.S. would
have been in order.”  The alleged spying on Petrobras and Rousseff had nothing to
do with anti-terrorist intelligence and required a more
accommodating stance by Washington, said Castro Neves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  