-- Brazil May Require Google, Facebook to Store Data Locally
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-09-17T01:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/brazil-may-require-google-facebook-to-store-data-locally.html
Brazil  may require Internet service
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to set up local
data storage centers, a senior government official said today.  Internet service companies would have to follow Brazilian
privacy laws and the government may also decide to store
sensitive data such as tax information within the country,
Internet Policy Secretary Virgilio Almeida told reporters in
Brasilia after a meeting between industry representatives and
President  Dilma Rousseff .  “Brazil has one of the largest IT markets in the world,”
Almeida said. “It’s natural that companies have part of their
infrastructure in the country.”  The measures designed to protect information privacy come
in response to allegations that the U.S. National Security
Agency used software to access communications between Rousseff
and staff members. Rousseff will decide tomorrow whether she
will cancel a state visit to Washington next month in response
to the spy allegations. If the political conditions weren’t met,
she would not go, Rousseff said Sept.6.  Brazil is also studying measures to attract investment in
Internet equipment, Almeida said. Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said Sept. 12 the government is considering developing
locally made  network equipment  that phone companies would be
required to use as a defense against foreign spies.  Brazil, where Congress is preparing to discuss new Internet
legislation, follows Germany in calling for a homegrown industry
to avoid U.S. surveillance.  The spying allegations were made earlier this month on
Brazil’s most-watched TV news magazine, “Fantastico,” by U.S.
journalist Glenn Greenwald.  Telecommunications regulator Anatel said this month it’s
investigating contracts between Brazilian operators and foreign
companies. The focus is on the “main companies with the largest
client bases,” the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  