-- Cabraal Says Modest Fed Tapering Expected, Signals U.S. Recovery
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-17T04:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/cabraal-says-modest-fed-tapering-expected-signals-u-s-recovery.html
Sri Lanka Central Bank Governor
Ajith Nivard Cabraal spoke to Bloomberg Television’s John Dawson
about the prospect of a tapering in bond purchases by the U.S.
Federal Reserve and candidates to take over as Fed chairman.  On Fed tapering:  “I think a modest tapering is on the cards. We should not
be too concerned about the tapering, particularly because
tapering would mean, John, that the U.S. economy is doing
better. So we’ve got to understand it in that context.  ‘‘The tapering off is an indicator that the U.S. is getting
better economically, and that’s good for the entire world. I
think if you take that approach, we wouldn’t get too nervous
about this, and we would be able to manage the situation on a
more long-term basis.”  When asked about Fed succession and Stanley Fischer:  “Stanley Fischer brings with him an enormous amount of
experience as well as economic sense. I think he would be a very
interesting candidate. At the same time, we’ve got to understand
a person who understands the U.S. economy best would be the most
suitable person, because the U.S. economy is an important
economy -- the most important economy in the world right now.  ‘‘In that sense, a person who has the political
understanding of the way that the U.S. also works is extremely
important, because any central bank governor has to be conscious
of the country’s political situation as well when they take
economic decisions. So in that context I think Stanley Fischer
would need to understand the U.S. political system very closely,
and if he can acquire that knowledge as well as have the
necessary context to be able to deal across different facets of
the political spectrum, he would be a very interesting
candidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  