-- Canadian Stocks Rise a 3rd Day Before U.S. Fed Policy Statement
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-09-17T20:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/canada-stocks-rise-a-3rd-day-as-factory-sales-gain-fed-meets.html
Canadian  stocks  rose a third day,
after gaining the most in two weeks yesterday, as rising
technology shares offset a slump in oil producers before a U.S.
 Federal Reserve  policy statement tomorrow.  Wi-Lan Inc. rose 3.6 percent to lead technology stocks
higher. Rockwell Diamonds Inc. soared the most in four years
after the company found four rough diamonds of at least 100
carats. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and Agrium Inc. fell
more than 1.5 percent after a rival producer cut its quarterly
forecast for fertilizer sales and prices.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 17.23
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,834.11 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge has added 1.4 percent in
September. Trading volume was in line with the 30-day average.  “There’s a lot of wait-and-see attitude in front of the
Fed meetings tomorrow, there’s not a ton of conviction,” said
 Bob Decker , a  fund manager  with Aurion Capital Management, in an
interview from Toronto. His firm manages about C$6 billion ($5.8
billion). “There’s a large amount of cash on the sidelines that
could be convinced to move once the uncertainty surrounding
tapering is removed.”  The Fed began a two-day meeting to weigh potential
reductions in the rate of its monthly bond buying. The stimulus
has helped fuel a global rally in equities.  Economic Data  Factory sales rose 1.7 percent to C$49.5 billion in July,
the fastest in five months, on gains for commodities producers
from crude to lumber and fabricated metals. The increase
exceeded all 18 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  In  China , foreign-direct investment grew 0.6 percent last
month, compared with the Bloomberg estimate of 12.5 percent
growth.  Eight of 10 main groups in the benchmark gauge advanced
today, led by a 1.5 percent gain among technology stocks. Energy
stocks fell the most, sliding 0.3 percent.  Element Financial Corp., the top-performing company in the
S&P/TSX Financials Index this year with a 91 percent gain, added
1 percent to a record C$13.55.  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, rose 0.6
percent to C$66.32 and Toronto-Dominion Bank added 0.5 percent
to C$91.43. Financial stocks added 0.3 percent as a group.  Wi-Lan increased 3.6 percent to C$3.75, extending a three-day rally to 12 percent. BlackBerry Ltd., the Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker, rose 2 percent to C$10.88.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  climbed 1.3
percent to C$105.83, the highest close in a month, after  Gary Nachman  with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. initiated coverage of the
drugmaker with a buy rating.  Energy producers slid, halting a three-day winning streak.
Crude fell to the lowest level in almost four weeks as a U.S.
agreement with Russia to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons
reduced supply risk and on speculation that the Federal Reserve
will start tapering stimulus measures.  Niko Resources Ltd., an oil and gas exploration company,
dropped 5.3 percent to C$3.91. Bankers Petroleum Ltd. lost 2.4
percent to C$3.74.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan fell 2 percent to C$33.39 and
Agrium retreated 1.5 percent to C$93.46. Mosaic Co.,  North
America ’s second-largest fertilizer producer, cut its quarterly
forecast for potash and phosphate sales and prices because crop-nutrient markets have “softened.”  Fertilizer Markets  Global fertilizer markets have weakened, in part, because
of fertilizer distributors’ cautiousness related to the breakup
of Belarusian Potash Co., Mosaic said in a statement. On July
30, OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, quit
Belarusian Potash, the largest trader of the crop nutrient,
because of a dispute with its partner Belaruskali.  “Dealers are cautious and are deferring purchases,” Jim
Prokopanko, Mosaic’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Rockwell Diamonds (RDI)  jumped 45 percent to 42 Canadian cents,
the most since June 2009, after announcing it has recovered four
rough diamonds, one as large as 169 carats, from its operations
in the Middle Orange River region in  South Africa . The stones
will be sold into a joint venture with Steinmetz Diamonds at
market value, the company said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  