-- Canadian Dollar Gains as Factory Sales Climb to Five-Month High
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-17T21:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/canadian-dollar-advances-amid-fed-tapering-wagers-post-summers.html
The Canadian dollar gained to a
more than six-week high as factory sales rose at the fastest
pace in five months in July, adding to signs economic growth is
picking up.  The currency advanced a second day versus its U.S. peer as
the cost of living in America rose less than forecast in August,
a sign it will take time for inflation to reach the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s goal. The  Federal Open Market Committee  completes a
two-day meeting tomorrow after which policy makers will announce
whether they will slow monthly asset purchases, which are aimed
to stimulate the economy and may also devalue the U.S. currency.  “Stronger-than-expected Canadian manufacturing sales,
combined with some weaker U.S. data, has pushed the U.S. dollar
down a little bit,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. The sales number “does
enhance the outlook for July gross domestic product to some
degree -- obviously, a much better-than-expected result.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent to
C$1.0296 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0275 per U.S. dollar, the highest since Aug. 1. One loonie
buys 97.13 U.S. cents.  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
yields down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, at 2.77
percent. The 1.4 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 7
cents to cost C$89.28.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 1
percent to $105.52 per barrel in  New York  after touching its
lowest point in two weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. stocks gained 0.4 percent.  Loonie Gains  The Canadian dollar may be due for further gains tomorrow
even if the Fed says it will reduce asset purchases by as much
as $10 billion per month, as long as the central bank
accompanies the move with a statement stressing a longer time
frame before  interest rates  rise,  Adam Cole , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said.  “Ten billion initial tapering seems to be comprehensively
expected and so in itself should have little impact, but we are
if anything concerned the commentary that goes with it, at the
press conference in particular, may talk down the significance
of the tapering,” he said by phone from  London . “The more
aggressive the language to do that the more negative for the
dollar. That would include dollar/Canada, I suspect.”  Economists predict a $5 billion reduction in the Fed’s
monthly $85 billion in asset purchases, according to a Bloomberg
survey with 63 responses.  Factory Sales  Factory sales  climbed 1.7 percent to C$49.5 billion ($48
billion),  Statistics Canada  reported from Ottawa, with the total
boosted by upward revisions to the prior two months. The gain
exceeded all 18 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey with a
median of 0.5 percent.  The U.S. dollar fell versus all but three of its 16 most-traded peers as the consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent,
the least in three months, after a 0.2 percent gain in July,
Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 0.2
percent gain.  Fed policy makers, who have set a 2 percent inflation
target, have said they are watching prices to ensure the U.S.
doesn’t slip into a prolonged period of disinflation that
threatens the expansion.  ‘Small Tapering’  “A little softer than expected, so in theory that would
strengthen the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar,”
said  Robert Kavcic , senior economist at Bank of Montreal, by
phone from Toronto. “Inflation is still very benign and well
behaved, so I don’t think the Fed is going to read too much into
this one release. We’re expecting a small tapering announcement
tomorrow.”  The loonie touched a one-month high against the greenback
yesterday after former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers ’s
withdrawal from the race to head the Fed boosted bets for slower
tapering. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who has helped create
the central bank’s stimulative policies in recent years, is
President  Barack Obama ’s top candidate to lead the central bank,
according to people familiar with the process.  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart fell to 6.7 percent, near the
6.6 percent level reached Sept. 11 that was the lowest point in
four months. The average for this year is 6.8 percent. The
measure is used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace
of currency swings.  The Canadian dollar has dropped 2.8 percent in the last
year against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. That’s the third worst
performance in the index, behind only the Australian dollar’s
8.6 percent decline and the yen’s 20 percent drop. The  U.S.
dollar  added 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  