-- Canada Planning New Penalties for Retailers Hiding Sales: Taxes
-- B y   P e t e r   M e n y a s z
-- 2013-09-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/canada-planning-new-penalties-for-retailers-hiding-sales-taxes.html
Canadian officials are seeking new
penalties to deter retailers from using “zapper” software to
hide electronic transactions and avoid paying their full tax
bill.  The push targeting so-called electronic suppression of
sales software, known as ESS, follows a pilot program that
focused on the underground economy in the hospitality industry,
Bloomberg BNA reported. That effort led to the successful
prosecution this year of two Manitoba corporations that operated
restaurants and their directors for  tax evasion .  While officials can’t gauge the extend of “zapper”
software usage in  Canada , even if it accounted for just 0.5
percent of the C$65 billion ($62.9 billion) generated each year
by the nation’s restaurant industry, that would represent
millions of dollars, said Garth Whyte, president of Canadian
Restaurant and Foodservices Association.  The software selectively deletes or modifies data in point-of-sale systems such as electronic cash registers, eliminating
all trace of the original transaction. Businesses with systems
that accept cash are particularly susceptible to sales
suppression, said Mylene Croteau, a spokeswoman for the Canadian
Revenue Agency.  Helping Chains  The proposed penalties, which must be approved by the
Canadian Parliament, are designed to keep ESS software usage
from providing a competitive disadvantage to major  restaurant
chains  such as  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , Wendy’s International Inc. and
McDonald’s Corp., as well as mass retailers including Wal-Mart
Canada Corp. and  Target Corp. (TGT) , which is scheduled to start
retail operations in Canada Sept. 17.  The crackdown sought by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government includes adding to the Income Tax Act and the Excise
Tax Act monetary penalties that officials can assess, as well
creating new criminal offenses for ESS software use.  A first infraction for the use, possession or acquisition
of the software would result in an administrative fine of
C$5,000 ($4,850), with subsequent violations costing C$50,000.  Individuals who manufacture, sell or offer for sale the
software would face a first penalty of C$10,000 and fines of
C$100,000 for additional offenses.  Criminal Penalties  Under the proposed changes to the criminal code, those
found guilty of using or manufacturing the software would face
larger fines and jail terms of up to five years.  Legislation to establish these sanctions will be introduced
“in the near future” said Kathleen Perchaluk, a spokesman for
federal Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  “While Parliament determines when legislation is passed,
we hope for timely passage,” Perchaluk said.  Revenue agency officials are publicizing the measures to
make businesses more aware of proactive steps they can take to
prepare for them, Croteau said.  The agency is encouraging businesses that have ESS software
to delete it and to correct their records to undo previous
deletions of sales, she said. Businesses purchasing a new point-of-sale system also are being urged to obtain assurances from
their software provider that it doesn’t contain ESS programming,
she said.  Voluntary Program  Under the agency’s Voluntary Disclosure Program, businesses
that fully disclose inaccurate tax returns before any
investigation into their software use may only have to pay the
owed taxes plus interest, rather than also face penalties and
possible prosecution, Croteau said.  The agency detected evidence of ESS software use among
restaurants during a two-year pilot project. The two Manitoba
restaurants prosecuted as part to the project pleaded guilty to
evading federal income taxes and goods and services taxes. Fines
levied in the case totaled C$731,986, the agency announced on
May 1.  The restaurant and foodservices group welcomes the new
enforcement initiative. “We’re very pleased the government
listened to our concerns and is targeting the underground
economy rather than the above-ground economy,” Whyte said.
“The vast majority of restaurant owners operate in full
compliance of the law.”  He praised the penalty proposals for focusing on
manufacturers and sellers of the software as well as users.  “I like that precedent,” he said, adding that the
association will encourage its members to report approaches by
ESS software suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Menyasz in Ottawa at  correspondents@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  