-- Car-Charger Maker Ecotality Seeks Sale in Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-09-17T19:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/car-battery-maker-ecotality-seeks-auction-in-bankruptcy.html
Ecotality Inc. (ECTY) , a maker of charging
stations for electric cars, filed for bankruptcy with plans to
sell itself at a court-supervised auction to pay off debt.  A unit of the company, Electric Transportation Engineering,
listed assets valued at as much as $50 million and debt of as
much as $500 million in a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Phoenix. The company operates a network of electric-vehicle charging stations under the Blink brand name.  “While today’s bankruptcy filing is regrettable, it is a
necessary step to ensure that we continue meet the needs of
Blink customers and continue to operate the Blink network,”
Chief Executive Officer Ravi Brar said in a statement.  In August, the company warned investors that it might be
forced into bankruptcy, partly because of weaker-than-anticipated  sales  and a failure to release a new version of its
Minit Charger this year.  The biggest unsecured creditor listed is the U.S. Energy
Department, owed $6.5 million under a government contract that
Ecotality is disputing. The San Francisco-based company also
said it has two cost-sharing grants with the agency totaling
$126.6 million.  Asset Sale  The company plans to put all of its assets up for sale at
an auction overseen by the court. Before it filed, eight
potential bidders signed confidentiality agreements giving them
access to Ecotality financial data so they could decide whether
to submit an offer.  “There is great value in the Blink network of over 4,000
commercial charging stations,” Brar said. The company said it
also has installed more than 8,000 charging stations in the
homes of electric vehicle owners.  Because of a cash shortage, the company decided to file for
bankruptcy before the auction process began, according to court
papers.  “Significant liquidity constraints and the difficulty of
obtaining long-term financing” led Ecotality to pursue an asset
sale rather than a reorganization, the company said.  Nissan North American Inc. agreed to lend the company $1.25
million to help fund the bankruptcy, according to court records.
The loan and any rules governing the auction must be approved by
the court.  The case is Electric Transportation Engineering Corp., 13-bk-16126,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of  Arizona  (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  