-- CBO Says Short-Term Deficit Cut Won’t Avert Fiscal Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/cbo-says-short-term-deficit-cut-won-t-avert-fiscal-crisis.html
The $2.1 trillion in spending cuts
passed by Congress in 2011 won’t curb the growth of entitlements
that poses a fiscal-crisis risk in the next 25 years, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said in an annual report on long-term budget projections.  The almost 60 percent reduction in annual budget deficits
since 2009 won’t avert the ballooning of  publicly held debt  as
an aging population strains the resources of Medicare and Social
Security, according to the report, released yesterday. Failure
to curb the long-term growth of debt raises the risk of a
financial crisis when investors demand “very high  interest
rates ” on  government bonds , the nonpartisan agency said.  Congress would need to pass $4 trillion in spending cuts or
tax increases over the next decade to reduce government
indebtedness from its current level of 73 percent of gross
domestic product to less than its 40-year average of 38 percent,
the CBO said. That’s on top of the $2.1 trillion that Congress
mandated in the 2011 deal that raised the government’s borrowing
authority.  “Unless substantial changes are made to the major health-care programs and  Social Security , those programs will absorb a
much larger share of the economy’s total output in future than
they have in the past,” the CBO said in the report.  Under current law, federal spending will rise from 22
percent of GDP in 2012 to 26 percent in 2038, the CBO said. The
deficit would be 6.5 percent of GDP in 2038, greater than any
year between 1947 and 2008, it said in the report.  Alternate Scenario  CBO analysts used an alternate economic scenario that
assumes current policies remain in place to project that
publicly held debt would make up 190 percent of GDP by 2038.
That scenario also assumes that Congress will end the $1.2
trillion in automatic spending reductions known as sequestration
that began this year. President  Barack Obama  and Democrats are
pressing for an end to those cuts, which are also unpopular with
some Republicans.  To lower deficits, the president has called for different
spending cuts plus limits on  tax deductions  for those with the
highest incomes. Republicans in Congress have said that they
won’t agree to any more tax increases, citing the January rise
in the rate to 39.6 percent on earnings of more than $400,000
for individuals and more than $450,000 for married couples.  The CBO said that “a large and continually growing federal
debt” would “increase the probability of a fiscal crisis” as
investors “become unwilling to finance” continued borrowing
“unless they are compensated with very high interest rates.”
Congress would then be left with “only limited -- and
unattractive options for responding to it,” the agency said.  ‘Fundamental Changes’  CBO Director  Douglas Elmendorf  told reporters yesterday
that “the  federal budget  is on a course that cannot be
sustained indefinitely” and that lawmakers haven’t made the
“fundamental changes” to entitlement programs and taxation
that are needed to end the imbalance of spending and revenue.  “We as a society have a fundamental choice of whether to
cut back on those programs or to raise taxes to pay for them,”
he said. “So far, we’ve chosen to do very little of either.”  Republicans and Democrats seized on different parts of the
report as political ammunition for the debate in Congress about
the terms of financing the government’s continued operation
after the Oct. 1 start of the 2014 federal fiscal year.  Debt, Revenue  “CBO has posed an important question: Are we going to get
control of the debt before it reaches a breaking point?” House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
said in a statement. “The president and congressional Democrats
want to wish the problem away. But that’s simply
irresponsible.”  House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said
in a statement that the enactment in early January of a measure
to extend most of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, except for those
applying to the highest earners, “will cause our debt to grow
as a share of the economy.” The report shows that “revenue
must have a place in any successful solution to bring our
deficits down in the long term,” Hoyer said.  Even though tax receipts would grow from 15 percent of the
economy last year to 19.5 percent by 2038, the revenue increase
wouldn’t be “large enough to keep federal debt” from “growing
faster than the economy starting in the next several years,”
according to the CBO report.  Ryan said the analysis shows that “ government spending ,
especially on health care, is driving our debt.” The 2010
health-care law, he added, “was a costly mistake.”  Health-Care Costs  Still, CBO lowered its 2012 projection for how much the
government would spend on major health-care programs in 2038 by
0.7 percent in this year’s forecast.  That spending includes Medicare, Medicaid, children’s
health-care programs and subsidies for people buying coverage on
state insurance exchanges being set up under the 2010 law.  By 2038, the expansion of Medicare, the insurance program
for older Americans, and the subsidies for coverage through the
exchanges would account for 26 percent of the growth in health-care spending, the CBO said.  Population aging would account for 35 percent of that
growth. The rise in health-care spending that exceeds economic
expansion would amount to 40 percent of the total increase.  “The insurance-coverage provisions of the Affordable Care
Act explain about one-quarter of the increase in federal health
spending relative to GDP over the next 25 years,” Elmendorf
said. Even with a significant expansion of support for lower-income Americans, “the great majority of growth in federal
health-care spending is not related” to the law, he said.  Partisan Divide  The CBO report comes as a politically divided Congress
faces the risk of a government shutdown on differences over
legislation to finance operations in fiscal 2014.  Many  House Republicans  want to condition any new spending
with a provision to defund or delay the implementation of the
health-care law. Also in coming weeks, the government’s
borrowing authority is set to expire as it reaches a limit on
debt, which may become the focus of the same policy fight.  Elmendorf told reporters that if Congress failed to raise
the  debt ceiling , “Treasury would be unable to meet its
obligation sometime between the end of October and mid-November.”  Writing on Aug. 26 to House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said that the
government will reach that debt limit by mid-October.  Debt Default  In a speech yesterday to the Economic Club of  Washington ,
Lew said lawmakers shouldn’t risk default on government debt by
waging policy fights over extending the government’s borrowing
authority.  “The time to make policy is before, not after, we have
made commitments,” he said in his prepared text. “Elected
leaders have a responsibility to make our economy stronger, not
to create manufactured crises that inflict damage.”  CBO left virtually unchanged its May projection that the
government would end fiscal 2013 with a deficit of $642 billion.  The agency forecast that the annual deficit would decline
to 2 percent of economic output in 2015. By 2018, the total
publicly held debt would drop to 68 percent of GDP from the
current level of more than 70 percent before rising again.  Elmendorf said that since CBO’s May projection of the 2013
deficit, tax collections have been “a little less” while
spending will be “a little larger.” That means the deficit
will be closer to $700 billion, or about 4 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  