-- CEO-to-Worker Pay-Ratio Disclosure Proposed by Divided SEC
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-09-18T18:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ceo-to-worker-pay-ratio-disclosure-proposal-to-be-issued-by-sec.html
A divided U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission proposed that public companies disclose how
much more their chief executives earn than rank-and-file
workers.  SEC commissioners voted 3 to 2 at a meeting in  Washington 
today to seek comment on a requirement vilified by the agency’s
two Republican members, who called it a political sop for left-leaning interest groups. The disclosure rule, championed by
unions and some congressional Democrats, is mandated under the
2010 Dodd-Frank law.  In an attempt to make compliance less costly for companies,
the SEC proposed that businesses can use sampling and other
estimation methods to determine the median pay of workers, the
figure to which CEO pay is to be compared. The agency also
offered a shortcut that allows companies to estimate median
compensation without having to conduct complicated pension-benefit calculations for every worker.  “It’s great to know the new regime has worked together to
come up with something that is far less onerous than it could
have been, based on what we were hearing in public statements
before,” said Steve Seelig, a senior technical adviser at
compensation consultant  Towers Watson & Co. (TW)   The plan doesn’t allow companies to exclude part-time
workers or employees based in foreign countries from the
calculation. Business groups had complained that it’s
technically challenging to reconcile pay practices in other
countries with U.S. disclosure rules.  ‘All’ Employees  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat who wrote
the Dodd-Frank provision requiring the disclosure, had warned
the SEC against exempting non-U.S. employees and part-time
workers. “When I wrote ‘all’ employees of an issuer, I really
did mean all employees of an issuer,” Menendez wrote in a
letter to the SEC shortly after the law was passed and lobbying
began to shape the rule.  The law requires public companies to disclose their CEO’s
total compensation as a multiple of median total worker pay. The
law says total compensation includes salary, bonus, stock and
option awards, long-term incentive pay, and change in pension
value.  “We have middle class Americans who have gone years
without seeing a pay raise, while CEO pay is soaring,” Menendez
said today in a statement. “This simple benchmark will help
investors monitor both how a company treats its average workers
and whether its executive pay is reasonable.”  Multiple Climbing  Across the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of companies, the
average multiple of CEO compensation to that of rank-and-file
workers is 204, up 20 percent since 2009, according to data
 compiled  by Bloomberg.  CEOs at eight companies,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ,  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF) ,  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , were paid
more than 1,000 times the average worker pay in their
industries, according to the data. The ratios were based on
company disclosures for CEOs and data for rank-and-file workers
wages and benefits by industry gathered by the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  and the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  “When the CEO receives the lion’s share of compensation,
employee productivity, morale and loyalty suffer,”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO labor federation, said in a
statement. “In contrast, reasonable CEO-to-worker pay ratios
send a positive message to the workforce that the contributions
of all employees are important to running a successful
company.”  Sampling Process  The use of sampling could make the process of gathering
payroll data less costly and ease resistance from some business
groups to the rule.  “Given this flexibility, we believe that even a registrant
with a large number of employees will be able to provide the
disclosure in a relatively cost-efficient manner,” said Keith F. Higgins, the director of the SEC’s corporation Finance
division.  The SEC’s two Republican commissioners blasted the proposal
and said the five-member commission should not have voted to
propose it. Daniel M. Gallagher and Michael Piwowar, said the
pay-ratio disclosure is designed to “shame” CEOs and public
companies.  “The shame of this rule should not be put upon CEOs but
upon the five of us for putting special interests ahead of
investors,” Piwowar said. “Shame on us for letting special
interests detract from our core mission.”  Shareholders’ Interests  Democratic SEC commissioner, Luis A. Aguilar, said at
today’s meeting that disclosure is in the best interest of
shareholders, who can use the data to judge whether a CEO’s pay
is commensurate with a company’s performance.  “If comparing CEO compensation solely to the compensation
of other CEOs can lead to an inefficient upward spiral, then
comparing CEO compensation to the compensation of an average
worker may help offset that trend,” Aguilar said.  The proposal has attracted considerable lobbying in the
three years since Dodd-Frank became law, and today’s vote opens
a 60-day comment period that will solicit more views. SEC
officials have met with a range of interest groups including the
AFL-CIO,  Public Citizen , Americans for Financial Reform, the
Center on Executive Compensation,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  IBM Corp. (IBM) ,
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “When you think about how many thousands of pages the
Dodd-Frank law is compared to this tiny provision and the amount
of outcry and noise and hand-wringing and whining, this tells
you just how important this provision is to investors and how
desperately companies want to do anything to not disclose it,”
said Vineeta Anand, chief research analyst for the AFL-CIO’s
office of investment.  Not ‘Useful’  The  Center on Executive Compensation , whose members include
chief human-resource officers, has said sampling won’t solve all
of the challenges posed by the directive. The center says it
will continue to lobby Congress to repeal the provision.  “We don’t believe it would provide any useful information
given that there is a plethora of  executive compensation 
information out there already,” said Timothy Bartl, the
center’s president.  The SEC also voted unanimously today to impose new rules on
companies that provide financial advice to municipalities. The
regulation, also required under Dodd-Frank, will require
previously unregulated firms to register with the SEC as
municipal advisers and comply with rules issued by the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board.  The final rule exempts appointed board members of municipal
governments from having to register with the SEC, according to a
summary provided by the SEC. Only advice pertaining to the
investment of proceeds from an issuance of securities is covered
by the rule, the summary states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  