-- Chevrolet Silverado Rated Top Pickup by Consumer Reports
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/chevrolet-silverado-rated-top-pickup-by-consumer-reports.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s redesigned
 Chevrolet  Silverado has received the highest rating from
Consumer Reports among all pickups, edging out Chrysler Group
LLC’s Ram 1500.  The victory marks Chevrolet’s second top-rating from
Consumer Reports in the past two months after the Yonkers, New
York-based magazine gave the Impala the highest marks among all
sedans, the first time in at least 20 years that a U.S.
automaker has outscored all Japanese and European competitor in
that segment.  GM, based in  Detroit , is bringing out 18 new or refreshed
vehicles in the U.S. this year, among the largest waves of new
products in the company’s history, that will transform the
automaker’s lineup into one of the newest in the industry from
one of the oldest. The 2014 Silverado began arriving in
showrooms earlier this year.  “For years the Silverado has scored well in our tests, and
the redesigned 2014 model is the best yet,” the magazine wrote
in the November issue hitting stands Oct. 5 and going online
today. “Handling is more carlike than in most trucks, the cabin
is very quiet, and it provides impressive towing and payload
capabilities.”  The Silverado scored 81, beating the Ram “in several areas
important to many pickup owners,” such as has having a
significantly larger bed, better fuel efficiency and more
payload and towing capacity, Consumer Reports said.  The updated Ram 1500 received a score of 78 and received
praise from the magazine as well.  “If you use your truck more for day-to-day driving, the
Ram is a nicer place to spend your time” than the Silverado,
the magazine wrote. “It rides better and has more comfortable
seats, a nicer rear seat, and a slightly friendlier control
layout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  