-- China Expands Short-Selling Program by Admitting More Brokerages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-17T12:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/china-expands-short-selling-program-by-admitting-more-brokerages.html
China  is expanding a program that
facilitates the ability of  brokerages  to lend stocks to clients
for short-selling, as regulators seek to promote new services on
the country’s financial markets.  Changjiang Securities Co.,  Founder Securities Co. (601901)  and  Hong
Yuan Securities Co. (000562)  are among 19 securities companies that will
be allowed from tomorrow to borrow shares from  China Securities
Finance Corp.  and re-lend them to clients, the state-backed
agency said in a  statement  on its website today. They’ll join 11
brokerages, including  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and  Haitong
Securities Co. (600837) , already able to borrow from the agency.  Gaining the right to borrow shares from China Securities
Finance expands a revenue stream for the brokerages, which have
seen income from underwriting share sales dry up amid a
crackdown on misconduct that’s halted initial public offerings
since mid-October. Short selling is one of the measures that
will support development of the country’s financial markets, the
the nation’s securities regulator said last month.  Short sellers borrow shares that they then sell, betting
they can buy back the stock later at a lower price and profit
from the difference.  China Securities Finance also expanded the list of shares
it allows brokerages to borrow from 87 to 287, according to a
separate  statement . The agency was established in 2011 to lend
money and securities to brokerages to facilitate margin trading
and short selling.  The Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges this month
expanded the overall list of stocks investors can short to 700.  Earnings Driver  The outstanding value of margin and short-selling trade on
domestic stock markets grew 2.5 times in the first half to 222.2
billion  yuan  ($36.3 billion) at the end of June, according to
Tebon Securities Co. That helped drive net income at publicly
traded brokerages up 11 percent in the first six months, while
profit from stock and bond underwriting dropped 37 percent,
according to Tebon.  China’s brokerages in 2009-2011 got about 70 percent of
their investment banking revenue from underwriting new stock
offerings, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. The
China Securities Regulatory Commission has halted new listings
as it drafts new rules to combat fraud.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  