-- China Renews Electric Vehicle Subsidies Excluding Hybrids
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T03:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/china-renews-electric-vehicle-subsidies-without-adding-hybrids.html
China , under pressure to reduce air
pollution, renewed a subsidy program for alternative-energy
vehicles such as electric cars. One notable exception: hybrids.  The central government will provide as much as 60,000  yuan 
($9,800) toward the purchase of an all-electric passenger
vehicle and as much as 500,000 yuan for an electric bus,
according to a  joint statement  by the National Development and
Reform Commission and finance, science and industry ministries.
Fuel-cell vehicles, which are powered by hydrogen, were included
for the first time in the plan and will qualify for as much as
500,000 yuan in rebates.  China has lagged behind its own target to have 5 million
electric automobiles by 2020 because of high prices of battery-powered models, concerns over safety and a lack of charging
stations. By the end of last year, when the previous round of
subsidies lapsed, there were only 27,800 EVs in use, prompting
Industry Minister Miao Wei to suggest in March the government
should consider stepping up its promotion of hybrids and other
fuel-efficient vehicles.  “The new policy is basically the same as the  previous  one
and doesn’t really address the underlying problems,” Han Weiqi,
an analyst with CSC International Holdings Ltd. in  Shanghai ,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “Unless there are follow-up measures to step up support for hybrids, today’s policy is
not expected to spur the EV market.”  Vehicle Subsidies  BYD Co. (1211) , the maker of electric vehicles that counts  Warren
Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  as a shareholder, fell as much
as 3 percent as of 11:12 a.m. in Hong Kong trading.  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104) , which began offering its Roewe E50 electric car in
November, slid as much as 1.4 percent in Shanghai.  Hybrid models, which run primarily on a gasoline engine
with a backup battery, have lower incentives of 3,000 yuan under
a different plan for fuel-efficient vehicles.  Under the new program, the central government will focus on
promoting the use of new-energy vehicles in the three regions
anchored by Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou using subsidies
through 2015, according to the statement, which was posted on
the finance ministry’s website.  The central government also set targets for local
authorities to have at least 30 percent of new-energy vehicles
made by automakers based outside of their jurisdictions. It also
directed public agencies to take the lead in using alternative-energy autos.  The subsidies for electric passenger vehicles, including
plug-in hybrids, will be lowered by 10 percent next year and by
20 percent from this year’s level in 2015, to encourage
automakers to lower the costs of such cars, according to Han at
CSC International.  “A new subsidy plan has been long awaited,” Ole Hui, Hong
Kong-based analyst at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , wrote in a
report today. “This new plans seems less aggressive than
earlier targets.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  