-- China’s Choking Cities Means Job Cuts at Steel Town: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T07:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/china-s-choking-cities-means-job-cuts-at-steel-town-commodities.html
Zhang Fei sums up one of the
headaches for  China ’s Premier  Li Keqiang  in his efforts to
refocus the country’s economy.  The 40 year-old contractor, who’d just earned 160 yuan
($26) for four hours work at a local steel mill, is leaning on
his red motorcycle in grimy army fatigues and battered running
shoes on Galaxy Street. That’s a 10-mile strip lined with
forges, welders, tire repair and auto-painting shops, as well as
restaurants, a school and a hospital.  After a decade of failed efforts to cut outdated commodity
capacity in China, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says Li is getting
serious, driven by the need to reduce severe pollution. Zhang
and thousands like him on Galaxy Street live off servicing mills
in Tangshan, the largest steel city in China that alone has
almost five times as many blast furnaces as  North America .  “If you shut these plants, we’ll all lose our jobs,” said
Zhang. “If there’s no  steel industry , we would have a hard time
finding other work.”  Li’s push is mirrored in heavy industries across China, the
world’s top steel producer and exporter, with the government in
July ordering more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to
reduce capacity, targeting steel, ferro-alloys, aluminum and
copper smelting.  Job Losses  Cities like Tangshan, about 98 miles southeast of Beijing
in Hebei province, are marked for cuts. The U.S.,  Canada  and
 Mexico  combined have 32 operating blast furnaces for making
steel, according to the  Association for Iron & Steel Technology .
Tangshan alone has 156.  Eliminating capacity means winning over regional
governments reluctant to crack down on industries that provide
tax income. Mass unemployment brings other concerns.  “That’s always been one of the biggest hurdles of China
taking curtailment actions, it’s the job losses and potential
social unrest,” said Vanessa Lau, a senior analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . “For local governments, unless
you really force them, they’d rather not.”  Previous attempts to streamline China’s steel industry have
stumbled. In 2009, the government scrapped the takeover of
Linzhou Iron & Steel Co. after workers held an official hostage
for four days. The same year, workers at Tonghua Iron & Steel
Group killed an executive who demanded job cuts as part of a
takeover of the company. The buyout was abandoned.  More Steel  Meantime, steelmakers boosted capacity and hired more
staff, employing about 3.2 million workers in 2011, about 10
percent more than in 2006, according to a Bernstein report that
cited the National Bureau of Statistics, among others.  China added 440 million metric tons of capacity in the six
years to 2012, bringing the total to 976 million tons, UOB Kay
Hian Ltd. said last month in a report, citing data from the
China Iron and Steel Association. Another 130 million tons will
be added in the three years through 2015.  As the industry expands, the state is taking out the
scalpel. The five-year plan through 2015 orders the shutdown of
blast furnaces smaller than 400 cubic meters (14,000 cubic
feet). Steelmakers are also required to cut carbon dioxide
emissions and energy use by 18 percent and to consolidate the
top 10 producers.  “The local government and the central government is really
stepping up efforts to shut down all this less efficient, highly
polluting capacity,” Goldman Sachs analyst Julian Zhu told
reporters Sept. 12 in  Singapore . “Over the next three years, we
believe the overall capacity to be closed is going to be much
bigger compared to the last ten years.”  Hebei Steel  Tangshan, home to about 7 million people, produces half the
steel from  Hebei province , China’s biggest steel producing
region that accounts for about 20 percent of capacity. Policy
makers plan to cut 60 million tons of capacity there by 2017.  “Every company will need to improve to comply with the
government’s requirement, otherwise it won’t be able to exist,”
Shi Shaohui, director of company culture and media relations at
Tangshan Iron & Steel Group, said at a plant near Galaxy Street.  The 70 year-old company -- which has 37,000 employees and
is the main unit of  Hebei Iron & Steel Group (000709) , China’s biggest
mill -- has been told to shut three  iron ore  processing
machines.  “We will no longer add more capacity but will instead seek
to produce higher-valued products,” Shi, wearing the short-sleeve, gray factory uniform with the initials of Hebei Iron,
said at the plant. “China’s emphasis on the environment is also
improving.”  Smog Cities  Seven of the ten cities with the worst air pollution in
China in the first half were located in Hebei, including
Tangshan, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
Pollution in the largest cities was three-times worse than
levels advised by the  World Health Organization , the agency said
in July.  “The main problem is dust,” said Chen Junsheng, 60, a
retired porcelain factory worker, who lives in Jiaanzi village
community, near a steel plant in Tangshan. Large trucks carrying
steel slag and sand under tarpaulins rumble up and down the
black-grime covered streets. “You can’t leave the windows open
at night.”  By 2014, a year earlier than planned, the government will
complete its capacity reduction plan for the five years through
2015, and will seek further cuts, according to Industry Minister
Miao Wei last month.  On Galaxy Street, Zhang sees a challenge for Premier Li.  “I don’t think much difference can be made without the
government making a firmer determination,” Zhang said. “These
local officials won’t do anything ordered by the central
government.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  