-- China’s Limit on New Solar Factories Seen Driving M&A
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-18T08:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/china-to-strictly-limit-building-of-more-photovoltaic-capacity.html
China, the world’s biggest maker of
solar panels, will limit construction of new photovoltaic
manufacturing plants to curb excess capacity, a move that may
spur consolidation within the industry.  New solar plants that “purely” expand capacity will be
strictly banned, the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology  said  in a statement  on its website yesterday. Annual
spending by companies for research and development and upgrading
equipment must total at least 3 percent of revenue and must
exceed 10 million  yuan  ($1.6 million).  Chinese authorities have pledged to cut overcapacity in
industries from steel to paper as policy makers seek to reduce
the economy’s reliance on investments and exports. A global
oversupply of solar panels led to a 20 percent plunge in  prices 
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The policy will slow efforts to expand production capacity
in favor of mergers and acquisition as a growth strategy for the
biggest companies, Angelo Zino, an analyst with S&P Capital IQ
in  New York , said in an interview.  “They may be able to add capacity without actually
building it,” Zino said. “The Chinese government would be more
than OK with companies if they joined forces or capacity
gravitated toward the tier-one manufacturers.”  Taiwan Share Gains  In  Taiwan ,  Neo Solar Power Corp. (3576) , a manufacturer of solar
cells, surged almost 7 percent to NT$27.65 at the close, its
biggest one-day gain since June 6, 2012.  Green Energy Technology
Inc. (3519)  also rose, gaining 4.7 percent.  Taiwan accounts for about 10 gigawatts of annual global
solar cell capacity, or about 14 percent of the world’s 69.8
gigawatts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The intention of this policy is to limit the expansion of
low-efficiency PV products,” Wang Minnan, a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analyst, said by e-mail. “It’s likely to ease
the current serious over-capacity situation, which will
indirectly benefit Taiwanese manufacturers.”  Chinese solar companies have the capacity to supply the
entire industry, with plenty left over. Were they to run at full
speed,  China ’s factories could produce 49 gigawatts of solar
panels a year, 10 times more than in 2008 and 61 percent more
than installed globally last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A gigawatt is about as much as what a new nuclear
reactor can supply.  Capacity Use  “You still have so much capacity out there that is just
not being used,” he said. “It will help stabilize the whole
pricing environment.”  Panel prices are about 84 cents a watt, compared with $2 at
the end of 2010. The slump forced dozens of producers into
bankruptcy, including the main unit of Suntech Power Holdings
Co., once the industry’s biggest supplier.  The government’s support for the solar industry has
resulted in at least one factory producing photovoltaic products
in half of China’s 600 cities, according to the China Renewable
Energy Society in Beijing.  China’s solar industry now accounts for seven out of every
10 solar panels produced worldwide, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  