-- China Swap Rate Rises From One-Month Low on Holiday Cash Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-17T03:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/china-swap-rate-rises-from-one-month-low-on-holiday-cash-demand.html
China ’s one-year interest rate
swaps rose from the lowest level in a month as demand for cash
increased ahead of local holidays.  The cost to lock in borrowing costs climbed even as the
central bank injected 8 billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) into the
financial system via seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts
today. Chinese markets will close on Sept. 19 and 20 for the
mid-Autumn festival and Oct. 1 to 7 for National Day holidays.  “The seasonality factors will still likely result in
tighter liquidity conditions going into the second half of
September,” said Becky Liu, a China rates strategist in Hong
Kong at Standard Chartered Plc. “Banks are more prepared now
and liquidity will remain adequate but at a higher cost.”  The cost of one-year swaps, the fixed payment to receive
the floating seven-day repo rate, increased five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.06 percent as of 10:54 a.m. in
 Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached
4.01 percent yesterday, the least since Aug. 14.  The seven-day  repurchase  rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, climbed eight basis points
to 3.58 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The People’s Bank of China auctioned seven-day reverse
repos today at 3.9 percent, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions.  Government bonds  fell for the first time in four days. The
yield on the 4.08 percent sovereign debt due August 2023 rose
three basis points to 4.15 percent, according to prices from the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  