-- CIMB Seen Pursuing PNB for Asian Banking Growth: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-09-17T08:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/cimb-seen-pursuing-pnb-for-asian-banking-growth-real-m-a.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  may be
able to revive its attempted entry into Asia’s fastest-growing
banking market by targeting Philippine National Bank.  Malaysia’s second-largest lender by assets scrapped a
takeover of Manila-based Bank of Commerce in June after
disagreeing on terms with the sellers. With a market value of
$18 billion, CIMB said last month it’s still seeking assets in
the Philippines, where bank profits grew faster in the past five
years than anywhere else in Asia, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  PNB, the fourth-largest bank in the Philippines based on
its $2 billion market value, is the most likely target after its
own merger talks with a local rival failed last year, said
Wealth Securities Inc. Government-controlled  United Coconut
Planters Bank , which posted record profit in 2012, may also
appeal to CIMB as it attempts to fill the last major hole in its
Southeast Asian  network , according to Malayan Banking Bhd.  In the  Philippines , “the banking industry is in its
infancy, so the potential is quite big,” Charles Ang, an
analyst at COL Financial Group Inc. in Pasig City, the
Philippines, said in a phone interview. “Penetration of banking
services is still very low compared to other regional countries.
There’s a lot of room for growth.”  PNB  rose  as much as 5 percent before closing up 3.8 percent
at 83.05 pesos in  Manila . CIMB advanced 0.3 percent to 7.59
ringgit at 3:47 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Borneo Roots  From its 1924  roots  as a financier to businesses on the
island of  Borneo , CIMB has completed 23 takeovers worth a
combined $4.3 billion in the past decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Kuala Lumpur-based bank’s network, which
stretches from the U.S. to  Australia , now includes 13 Asian
nations, according to its website.  In June, CIMB dropped its plans to buy 60 percent -- the
maximum  permitted  for overseas banks under Philippine law -- of
Bank of Commerce from San Miguel Corp. and others for about $280
million. “Land issues” undermined the deal, San Miguel
President Ramon Ang said at the time.  CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak , brother of
Malaysian Premier Najib Razak, said three weeks ago he still
wants a business in the Philippines.  “It’s the last major economy in the region in which they
do not yet have a presence,” Matthew Smith, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in Singapore, said by e-mail. “The
Philippines is really the missing piece.”  Josandi Thor, a representative for CIMB in Kuala Lumpur,
had no comment and said CEO Nazir was traveling.  Growth Prospects  The $250 billion economy in the Philippines expanded 7.5
percent in the second quarter, equaling  China  as Asia’s fastest
growing. In the past five years, banks in the Philippines valued
at more than $1 billion notched up average annual earnings-per-share growth of 35 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That beat the average in other Asian countries.  Lending by Philippine banks will jump 20 percent this year,
16 percent in 2014 and 15 percent the following year as rural
branches tap population growth outside cities, Gilbert Lopez, a
Macquarie analyst, wrote in an Aug. 27 report. Relative to the
size of the economy, no other country in Asia has fewer mortgage
holders, according to Lopez. Allied with economic expansion,
that’s an indicator of the market’s growth prospects, he wrote.  Profit Jump  PNB (PNB) , which is based in Pasay City, the Philippines, has
about 650 branches nationwide. Its net income will jump 35
percent from 2012 to $156 million in 2014, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’re the best target,” ND Fernandez, an Pasig City-based analyst at Wealth Securities, said in a phone interview.
“That would give an acquirer a really strong foothold in the
Philippine banking market.”  Merger talks between PNB, which is backed by billionaire
Lucio Tan, and  Bank of the Philippine Islands , the country’s
largest lender by market value, collapsed in December. PNB in
February merged with Allied Banking Corp., another bank in which
Tan was invested.  “The sign is still on that it’s for sale,” Katherine Tan,
an analyst at Maybank in Makati City, the Philippines, said in a
phone interview. In an Aug. 27 report, she said PNB was a
“prime acquisition target” and “ripe for the picking” after
a stock price decline.  Shares of PNB have  fallen  31 percent as of yesterday since
reaching a 13-year high on May 6, leaving the bank trading at
just 1.1 times  book value . That’s  lower  than all its publicly
traded local peers, which are valued at an average multiple of
1.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Deserved Premium’  According to Raul P. Ruiz, an analyst at RCBC Securities
Inc., PNB owner Tan has indicated he’d only sell the bank for
1.8 to 2 times its book value.  “A premium is deserved because CIMB’s position in the
Philippines would right away be very strong once it buys PNB,”
Ruiz, who is based in Makati City, said in a phone interview.  PNB President and CEO Omar Mier said the bank is not in
talks regarding a sale.  “Our strategy is to improve the bank’s profitability and
strengthen its balance sheet in the next four years,” he said
in a text message. “We have no plans of merging the bank with
any other bank in the next four years.”  United Coconut  PNB may be too large for CIMB, Ruta Cereskeviciute, a
London-based senior economist at IHS Global Insight’s banking
risk service, said in an e-mail. The collapsed Bank of Commerce
purchase also shows CIMB is prepared to walk away from deals,
said Macquarie analyst Smith.  United Coconut Planters Bank , a 50-year-old commercial bank
that still serves the coconut industry, is an alternative target
for CIMB, said Tan at Maybank. Known as UCPB, the bank has less
than half the  assets  of PNB. The government would prefer a
commercial owner to run UCPB, said Fernandez at Wealth
Securities.  The government is weighing the sale of a stake in UCPB, the
bank’s president and CEO, Jeronimo Kilayko, said in July. With
188 branches at the end of 2012, the bank may be valued at more
than 20 billion pesos ($459 million), he said.  Kilayko didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Makati City-based UCPB was seized by the government in 1986
on suspicion its shares formed part of the ill-gotten wealth of
former dictator Ferdinand Marcos and his associates. Net income
in 2012 climbed 28 percent to a record 3.92 billion pesos,
according to UCPB’s annual report.  All the same, CIMB may not have a choice of targets if it
pursues its Philippine ambitions, said Ruiz at RCBC Securities.  PNB is “the only bank that’s openly for sale,” he said.
It’s “a good choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  