-- Clegg Announces Free School Meals for All Infants in England
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/clegg-announces-free-school-meals-for-all-infants-in-england.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg announced all children between four and seven years old
will be entitled to a taxpayer-funded school lunch from next
year, a bid to boost attainment through proper nutrition and
help parents squeezed by inflation.  The free meal for children in  England  will save the average
family 437 pounds ($695) a year per child, compensating in part
for the coalition’s government’s withdrawal this year of
universal child benefit for higher earners. The measure will
cost 600 million pounds a year, with details due to be set out
in the fall.  “I’m announcing now that we are going to provide free
school meals to all youngsters in infant school -- the first
three years at primary school,” Clegg told Channel 5 News today
at his Liberal Democrat party’s annual conference in Glasgow,
Scotland. “That’s really good for all families with small
children. It means that they will make a saving, if they are
paying for those school meals, of around 400 pounds per child
per year.”  Clegg told Sky News television that he would use the policy
to highlight the differences between his Liberal Democrats and
Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservatives.  “The Conservatives are very attached to the idea of a so-called married tax break,” he said. “Our approach is to help
all families with small children, so you can see quite a
contrast there. The Conservatives want to single out certain
families, we want to help all families with young children.”  The Liberal Democrat leader also criticized the Tories for
their unwillingness to go along with his party’s plan for a so-called mansion tax on houses valued at more than 2 million
pounds.  “The question for the Conservatives is if they are not
prepared to ask people in socking great mansions to pay a bit
extra, which public services are going to suffer because they
are going to have to find those 2 billion pounds from spending
cuts instead?” he told Channel 4 television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Glasgow,  Scotland , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Glasgow, Scotland, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  