-- Clegg Will Make Case for Future U.K. Coalition Governments
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/clegg-will-make-case-for-future-u-k-coalition-governments.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
will seek to persuade voters his Liberal Democrat party should
have a permanent place in government by arguing that coalitions
are better for Britain than single-party rule.  Three and a half years after the U.K. got its first two-party administration since World War II, Clegg will say today
that it’s been stable and delivered better policies than the
Conservatives or Labour would have done if they’d taken power
alone. The  Liberal Democrat  leader will make the comments as he
closes the party conference in Glasgow, Scotland.  After a week in which Clegg has sought to distance the
Liberal Democrats from the two bigger parties, he’ll say he’s
willing to govern with either. If the 2015 election results in
another hung Parliament in which no single party has a majority,
he’ll open negotiations with whichever has won the most votes
and seats, rather than based on any personal preference.  “The absolute single worst thing to do would be to give
the keys to No. 10 to a single-party government -- Labour or the
Conservatives,” Clegg will say, according to remarks released
by his office. “We’re not here to prop up the two-party system.
We’re here to bring it down.”  The Liberal Democrats have been criticized by Labour Party
lawmakers for putting Conservative leader  David Cameron  into the
prime minister’s office at 10 Downing Street, and by Tory
lawmakers for blocking policies they advocate such as making it
easier for businesses to fire workers.  Internal Tensions  Internally, Clegg’s party has shown signs of tension since
it became the junior coalition partner, putting Liberals into
government for the first time in the postwar period.  Clegg, who began his career as a member of staff at the
European Commission for a former Conservative minister, Leon Brittan, spent much of the early part of the government’s five-year term emphasizing how well he worked with Cameron.  Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat business secretary, is a
former Labour local lawmaker who devoted much of his own
conference speech two days ago to attacking the Conservatives,
whom he labeled “Tea-Party Tories.”  “I’m endlessly asked who I feel more comfortable with,”
Clegg will say. “As if I was buying a new sofa. The best thing
would be to put all of the predictions and personalities to one
side: whether or not we have another coalition is determined by
the British people. Only their votes can tell us what
combination of parties carried the greatest legitimacy.”  ‘Absolutely Not’  In a series of interviews yesterday, Clegg said he could
see himself as a deputy prime minister to Labour leader  Ed Miliband  after 2015. “I’m not saying I should be deputy prime
minister for ever and a day, absolutely not,” he told the  BBC .  Labour is ahead of the Tories in national opinion polls,
though its lead has narrowed in recent weeks, increasing the
possibility that the Liberal Democrats may again hold the
balance of power after 2015.  Tory lawmakers are skeptical about the merits of
coalitions. Graham Brady, the chairman of the 1922 Committee of
Conservative rank-and-file members of the House of Commons,
backbenchers, said they mean the party is forced to drop parts
of its electoral platform.  “Notwithstanding that coalition can do good things,
coalitions tend to be less democratic and less transparent,” he
said in an interview. “If you look at the way in which this
coalition was formed, you have party manifestos that are then
superseded by coalition agreements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Glasgow,  Scotland , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Glasgow, Scotland, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  