-- Codere Default Swaps Ruling Sought on Day of Bond Payment
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-17T12:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/codere-failure-to-pay-credit-event-ruling-requested-from-isda.html
The  International Swaps &
Derivatives Association  said it will rule whether Codere SA’s
delayed bond payment has triggered credit-default swaps on the
same day the Spanish gaming company honors its commitments.  “If ISDA says it’s a default, I throw my hands up,” said
Aengus McMahon, a credit analyst at ING Groep NV in  London .
“It’s not intuitive that there’s no default on the underlying
instrument and CDS gets triggered anyway.”  Codere said Sept. 13 it would pay a coupon on $300 million
of 9.25 percent bonds today, two days after the end of a 30-day
grace period, as it negotiated with lenders to refinance the
 business . It changed the terms of a 99 million-euro ($132
million) loan from private-equity firms Canyon Partners LLC and
Blackstone Group LP’s GSO Capital Partners that would have
blocked the coupon by also requiring the facility to be repaid.  The delayed payment allows buyers to claim compensation on
a net $444 million of debt. ISDA said today that its
 determination committee  of dealers and investors will consider
whether there has been a failure-to-pay  credit event .  “The whole thing strikes me as bizarre and shows that
people need to be careful with the CDS market,” McMahon said.  Confidence Threat  It’s the latest threat to confidence in the credit
derivatives market, which is undergoing the biggest overhaul
since 2003 after  Greece ’s debt restructuring last year and the
nationalization of Dutch lender SNS Reaal NV raised concerns
about potential flaws in the contracts.  ISDA’s determinations committees are divided into five
regions and include 12 dealer banks and six asset managers.
After a  credit event ruling , an auction is held to determine the
price of underlying bonds. Sellers of credit swaps tied to that
debt then pay the buyer the face value of the contract, less the
price set at the auction.  The banks with voting power on the European committee are
Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup
Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG,
ISDA said. Nomura Holdings Inc. and Societe Generale SA act as
consultants to the group and don’t have voting power.  Asset Managers  The asset managers with  voting rights  are BlueMountain
Capital Management LLC, Citadel LLC, D.E. Shaw & Co., Elliot
Management Corp. and Pacific Investment Management Co., while
Saba Capital Management LP acts as a consultant. ICE Clear
Europe Ltd. and LCH.Clearnet SA are also members.  There are a total of 3,192 contracts covering Codere’s
debt, Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. data show. The company
is also included in the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index, though it
is set to be removed when the benchmark changes this week.  Codere shares have risen about 15 percent since the debt
agreement and were at 1.36 euros, the highest since July 10, at
1:30 p.m. in London.  It cost 5.15 million euros in advance and 500,000 euros
annually to insure 10 million euros of the company’s debt for
five years, according to data provider CMA’s quotes for credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  