-- Colombia Swap Rates Surge on Santos Growth Outlook: Bogota Mover
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-09-17T20:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/colombia-swap-rates-surge-on-santos-growth-outlook-bogota-mover.html
Colombia ’s swap rates jumped a day
after President  Juan Manuel Santos  projected faster economic
growth than analysts forecast, spurring speculation the central
bank will avoid cutting borrowing costs.  Three-month swap rates rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.09 percent at 3:16 p.m. in Bogota,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The increase was the
biggest since June 21. The peso gained 0.2 percent to 1,915.54
per dollar, the strongest close since Aug. 19, after advancing
the same amount yesterday.  The economy will grow at least 4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, Santos said yesterday in an
interview at his office in Bogota. Gross domestic product
expanded at an  annual rate  of 3.4 percent, according to the
median forecast of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the
Sept. 19 report from the national statistics agency.  Santos’s comments reduce the chance of a “negative
surprise” in the GDP report this week that would cause policy
makers to cut rates, Juan Pablo Espinosa, the head analyst at
 Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , the country’s biggest bank.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told Javeriana Radio
today that public works, construction and coffee and oil
production indicate the economy probably exceeded expectations.  Policy makers held the  target lending rate  at 3.25 percent
for a fifth straight month on Aug. 30, citing in minutes
evidence that demand will grow. The central bank lowered
borrowing costs by 2 percentage points from July 2012 to March
2013 as industrial output contracted and inflation slowed to a
six-decade low.  The peso rose yesterday as Santos said in the interview
that Colombia’s central bank should stop its program of daily
dollar purchases at the end of the month as the peso weakens
toward a level the Andean nation “can live with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  