-- Colts’ Luck Gets in NFL Sponsorship Game With Body Armor Equity
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-17T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/colts-luck-gets-in-nfl-sponsorship-game-with-body-armor-equity.html
Andrew Luck  said he wanted to prove
himself on the field in the National Football League before
pursuing sponsorship opportunities off it.  After leading the Indianapolis Colts into the playoffs as a
rookie in 2012 and orchestrating eight game-winning drives in
his first 17 regular-season games, Luck said he is now looking
to “reap the benefits” from an endorsement standpoint. The
Colts’ 24-year-old quarterback has agreed to an equity stake in
Body Armor’s SuperDrink, with a multiyear brand partnership in
which he’ll appear in national and regional advertising.  “There’s always a risk in any equity, but I feel like
there’s a great market for a sports drink that’s good and good
for you,” Luck said in a telephone interview.  Luck joined Nike Inc.’s stable of endorsers in March 2012,
a month before the Colts made him the first pick in last year’s
NFL draft. While fellow quarterback and No. 2 pick Robert Griffin III of the Washington Redskins signed a series of
sponsorships with companies such as Subway restaurants,  Adidas
AG (ADS) ,  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , Castrol Motor Oil and EvoShield, Luck
said he wanted to take it slower.  “After I got drafted, I was still in school, finishing up
at Stanford, so didn’t have time to partake in some of the time
commitment that the endorsements involve,” Luck said. “I
didn’t get as fast off the ground. I wanted to prove it on the
field first and if I had a decent year, reap the benefits off of
that. This offseason has been a little busier.”  Luck joins  Baltimore Ravens  running back  Ray Rice , New
England Patriots tight end  Rob Gronkowski , Philadelphia Eagles
running back LeSean McCoy, Los Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout and San Francisco Giants catcher  Buster Posey  as sponsors
for  Body Armor , whose chairman is former Vitaminwater co-founder
 Mike Repole . Coca-Cola Co. bought the parent company of Glaceau
Vitaminwater for $4.1 billion in 2007.  Liked Taste  “Him being selective about brands speaks volumes about
what Body Armor SuperDrink is,” Repole said by e-mail. “When
we first heard he was a fan of the brand, we were excited. After
meeting each other, we both recognized a ton of similarities
between what Andrew intends to do on the field and what we
intend to do as a brand.”  Luck was part of a group of NFL rookies who promoted
PepsiCo’s Gatorade sports drink, though he said he wouldn’t term
the partnership an endorsement. Luck said he discovered Body
Armor’s SuperDrink while working out during the offseason at
Stanford University, liked its taste and claims that it has 2
1/2 times the electrolytes of other sports drinks and twice as
many vitamins as enhanced waters.  “I used it a lot and then understood that with the
position of a quarterback and some of the off-the-field things,
maybe there’s a chance to contact these guys and get some free
drinks out of it,” Luck said with a laugh. “My agent called
them up and we’re here now.”  Luck sought to become a shareholder in Body Armor, a path
also taken by athletes such as Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady 
with  Under Armour Inc. (UA) , golfer  Tiger Woods  with Fuse Science and
New York Mets third baseman  David Wright  with Vitaminwater.  $20 Million  Luck and Body Armor didn’t disclose the size of his equity
stake.  “When Vitaminwater first started, we didn’t have the
financial resources that we have now with a brand like Body
Armor, so the investment with athletes like David Wright was
more out of necessity,” Repole said. “It is great to see
athletes like Andrew coming to us asking about an equity stake.
It shows how passionate he is about Body Armor and how he
believes in us being a mega brand.”  Luck said while he hasn’t talked with other athletes who
have taken equity stakes in a company, he’s seen and read  media
reports  that Wright pocketed $20 million for his half a percent
stake in Vitaminwater when the company was bought by Coca-Cola a
year after he started appearing in advertisements.  “The hope when things like this happen is the Vitaminwater
story,” Luck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  