-- Cost of Living in U.S. Increases Less Than Forecast: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-09-17T20:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rose-less-than-forecast-in-august.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in August, a sign it will take time for
inflation to reach the goal of Federal Reserve policy makers as
they consider trimming stimulus designed to bolster the economy.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent, the least
in three months, after a 0.2 percent gain in July, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The core measure,
which strips out food and fuel, also rose 0.1 percent. Another
report showed homebuilder  confidence  held this month at the
highest level since 2005.  Fed policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will debate
whether the economy, fueled in part by resilient demand for
homes and autos, is strong enough to warrant a slowdown in the
pace of monthly bond purchases. Central bankers have said they
are also watching prices to ensure the U.S. doesn’t slip into a
prolonged period of disinflation that threatens the expansion.  Prices are “still pretty benign, but I think from the
Fed’s point of view they’re moving in the right direction,”
said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , who correctly projected the CPI gain.
“There’s still plenty of slack in the labor market, we don’t
have very much in terms of wage inflation, so it’s not
surprising that you’re seeing very little pricing power.”  Fed policy makers tomorrow will probably announce they’re
lowering the monthly pace of bond purchases by $10 billion, to
$75 billion, according to the median response of 34 economists
in a Bloomberg survey on Sept. 6. That’s down from expectations
of a $20 billion reduction in a July survey.  Stocks Advance  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index toward
a record high, as Microsoft Corp. announced a $40 billion
buyback and raised its quarterly dividend. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed
0.4 percent to 1,704.76 at the close in  New York . The benchmark
index is less than five points below its all-time high of
1,709.67 reached on Aug. 2.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of homebuilder sentiment held at 58 this month, matching
August’s reading as the strongest since November 2005, a report
from the Washington-based group showed. Readings greater than 50
mean more builders view conditions as good than poor.  Companies including Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. have said
the recent rise in  mortgage rates  will temporarily restrain the
housing recovery rather than end it. While work orders from the
past few months will probably sustain construction gains, faster
growth in hiring and wages are needed to spur bigger increases
in demand. A measure of  buyer traffic  increased to the highest
since October 2005.  Europe’s Economy  As the strength in housing helps propel the  U.S. economy ,
overseas markets are on the mend. German investor confidence
climbed this month to the highest level since April 2010, a
report from the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim showed today.  The increase in U.S. consumer prices last month was led by
medical care,  prescription drugs , rents and tobacco. Declines in
gas utility service, gasoline and airfares limited the advance.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 87 economists
called for a 0.2 percent gain in the August CPI. Estimates
ranged from no change to a gain of 0.3 percent.  Consumer prices increased 1.5 percent in the 12 months
ended in August after a 2 percent year-over-year gain the prior
month.  Core CPI  The core CPI climbed 1.8 percent from August 2012,
following a 1.7 percent advance in the prior 12-month period and
a 1.6 percent increase in June. Year-over-year gains had been
slowing since April 2012, when prices climbed 2.3 percent.  For some companies, higher raw materials costs will keep
inflation from slowing further.  “You’re seeing cost-push inflation work its way through
the supply chain in apparel,” Richard Noll, chief executive
officer of  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) , the Winston Salem, North Carolina-based maker of Hanes underwear and Playtex bras, said at a
conference on Sept. 11. “We’re going to be in a moderately
inflationary environment.”  Fed policy makers have warned of the risks of prolonged
inflation below their 2 percent target. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  has said low inflation could cause the recovery to bog
down by inhibiting  capital investment  and increasing the risk of
“outright deflation,” a broad-based decline in prices.  ‘Poses Risks’  “Very low inflation poses risks to economic performance,”
he told lawmakers July 17. “We will monitor this situation
closely.”  Today’s report showed medical care services climbed in
August by the most since September 2010. Owners’ equivalent rent
of primary residences, a measure of what homeowners would charge
tenants if they decided to rent their properties, posted the
biggest gain since November 2008.  At the same time, the increase in the consumer-price gauge
was held back by the biggest decline in airfares since November
2008. The cost of gas services provided by utilities decreased
2.3 percent, while gasoline prices fell 0.1 percent.  With inflation under control, paychecks are barely rising.
Hourly earnings adjusted for inflation increased 0.1 percent in
August, and were up 0.7 percent over the past 12 months,
separate figures from the Labor Department showed today.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  is among companies limiting price
increases as it strives to lure customers. The world’s largest
restaurant chain, based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , is also working
to draw cash-strapped Americans with new products after its U.S.
same-store sales climbed less than analysts projected.  “It is critical to maintain our value proposition by
keeping price increases at or below key inflation indices,”
Peter Bensen, chief financial officer, said on a Sept. 10
earnings call. “With projected 2013 food away from home
inflation of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent, we want to maintain
pricing flexibility as we balance future price increases with
our desire to continue to grow traffic and market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  