-- Corzine Operated ‘Scheme’ at MF Global, Trustee Alleges
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-09-17T16:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/corzine-operated-scheme-at-mf-global-trustee-alleges.html
Jon Corzine , the former head of MF
Global Holdings Ltd., masterminded a scheme to inflate earnings
that led to the eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history,
according to an updated lawsuit filed by a trustee for the
failed futures broker.  Corzine, a former Democratic governor and senator from  New
Jersey  and once a co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
implemented the trading scheme to prop up profits and get “in
the money” on his  stock options , according to an amended
complaint filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court yesterday.  The new complaint intensifies the lawsuit brought in April
by former trustee Louis J. Freeh against Corzine and senior
executives Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp. Freeh had said
only that the executives dramatically changed MF Global’s
business plan without addressing weaknesses. According to the
new complaint, their actions rose to the level of a “scheme.”  “This is certainly throwing fuel on the fire,” said
 Michael Weinstein , chairman of Cole, Schotz, Meisel, Forman &
Leonard PA’s white-collar practice in Hackensack, New Jersey.
“You get into a whole new area,” possibly putting MF Global on
par with financial frauds such as Enron Corp. and Adelphia
Communications Corp., the former Justice Department trial
attorney said in a phone interview.  Greater Damages  The new allegations may allow the holding company’s current
trustee, Nader Tavakoli, to try and recoup greater damages from
the estate, potentially going after money Corzine made from his
bonus or options, Weinstein said. Both lawsuits seek damages to
be determined at trial.  The word “fraud” doesn’t appear in the complaint,
Weinstein said. If it did, that might void Corzine’s directors’
and officers’ insurance policy, leaving less money to try and
recoup through the lawsuit, he said.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail for comment on the suit.
Corzine has said there is no basis for the claim that he
breached his fiduciary duties or was negligent.  MF Global’s bankruptcy can be “traced to a scheme” that
Corzine, Abelow and Steenkamp “designed and implemented to
prop-up the company’s apparent profitability through highly
leveraged transactions in foreign debt,” Tavakoli said.  Shortly after the three took control of the company, they
put it on a high-risk path that devastated its liquidity,
depleted customer funds and ultimately caused its failure,
Tavakoli said.  Sovereign Debt  The scheme involved making highly leveraged investments in
European sovereign debt using repurchase-to-maturity financing
transactions, Tavakoli said. These allowed the company to
inflate earnings by immediately booking income even while it
took on future liabilities from the instruments, according to
the complaint.  Each such transaction put the company in further peril, and
the executives increased the number of transactions near the end
of financial quarters to inflate earnings and boost the
company’s stock price, according to the complaint.  MF Global’s repurchase transactions rose from $400 million
in September 2010 to close to $8.3 billion in August 2011. When
the underlying European sovereign bonds were downgraded
beginning in 2011, margin calls put more and more stress on the
company.  “When the inevitable liquidity crises occurred as a result
of these transactions, defendants, recklessly and with gross
negligence, violated the law by using segregated customer funds
to cover the company’s resulting liabilities,” Tavakoli said in
the complaint. “Corzine was instrumental in misusing these
customer funds.”  Going ‘Negative’  At one point, according to the complaint, Corzine told an
employee of MF Global’s Treasury Department to take certain
positions even if it meant going “negative” in customer
accounts. Corzine also directed a subordinate to violate company
policy and draw cash from the regulatory buffer established to
ensure the safety of customer funds if cash was needed in
October 2011, according to the complaint.  The parent company of brokerage MF Global Inc. filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, listing assets of $41 billion and
debts of $39.7 billion. Customers, who saw billions of their
funds go missing, have been repaid about 89 percent of
what they are owed. A separate trustee for the wind-down of
the brokerage unit seeks to repay them 100 percent.  The adversary case is 13-01333; the holding company’s
Chapter 11 case, In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059; and
the liquidation of the broker, In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  