-- Coty Warns of Possible Israel Boycott Violations
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-09-17T21:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/coty-warns-of-possible-israel-boycott-violations.html
Coty Inc. (COTY)  said it may face
penalties that result in a material loss after its United Arab
Emirates unit possibly violated U.S. laws that prohibit
participating in a boycott of Israeli products.  The subsidiary may have certified on some invoices that its
shipments didn’t contain any materials of Israeli origin, the
New York-based cosmetics company said today in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Such certifications are
part of the  Arab League ’s boycott of  Israel  and may violate U.S.
laws against participating in unsanctioned boycotts, Coty said.  “A penalty or penalties that would result in a material
loss are reasonably possible” because of the potential
infractions, Coty said in the filing, adding that no reserve to
cover those charges has been created. The company said it will
incur costs to improve its compliance procedures as well.  The maker of Chloe and Marc Jacobs perfume also said its
UAE unit reshipped some products to Syria and  Iran , possibly
violating U.S. export laws. Coty said it doesn’t believe those
incidents violated trade sanctions and that it voluntarily
reported them to U.S. government authorities. The company also
provided the government with the results of an internal
investigation into goods sold in a more than four-year period
through March 2012. It disclosed the probes in earlier filings.  Company Cooperating  “These investigations relate to a very small portion of
our sales, Catherine Walsh, a Coty spokeswoman, said today in an
e-mail. ‘‘The investigations are in an early phase and we are
cooperating with the authorities in the ordinary course.  As
noted in our filings, we cannot predict when the investigations
will conclude, whether fines will be assessed or the order of
magnitude if assessed.’’  Coty, which also reported fourth-quarter results today,
 fell  3.8 percent to $15.64 at the close in New York. The shares
have slid 11 percent since opening at $17.50 on June 13, their
first day of trading. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained
5.7 percent since its opening that day.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding some items was 3 cents a
share, the company said. Analysts  projected  1 cent, the average
of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Michele Scannavini said today on a
conference call that growth in Coty’s global markets is slowing
down and some retailers are postponing shipments for the holiday
season to see how sales fared during the back-to-school shopping
period.  Coty also declared a dividend of 20 cents a share, payable
Oct. 31 to holders of record as of Oct. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  