-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Hilton to Sell $3.25 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-17T20:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-hilton-to-sell-3-25-billion-of-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell for the third straight day as Federal Reserve policymakers
begin a two-day meeting. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. plans to
sell $3.25 billion of bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.6
basis point to a mid-price of 73 basis points as of 4:22 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates.  Investors are waiting for the  Federal Open Market Committee 
to decide in its meeting if the central bank will cut back its
$85 billion monthly bond-buying program that’s boosted credit
markets. A decision on tapering may come as soon as tomorrow,
according to Brian Reynolds, chief market strategist for New
York-based brokerage firm Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  “Prices have improved in the last few days, but there’s
not a lot of price action today,” Reynolds said in a telephone
interview. “People are on hold waiting for the Fed.”  The Fed will scale back its bond purchases to $80 billion
following its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to the median
estimate of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central
bank will keep purchases of mortgage-backed securities at the
current monthly pace of $40 billion, while cutting Treasury bond
purchases to $40 billion per month from $45 billion.  Hilton Worldwide  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Hilton will issue $1.25 billion in eight-year senior
secured notes and $2 billion of senior unsecured notes due in
2021 and 2023, according to a statement from  Standard & Poor’s .  Proceeds will be used to repay debt, according to a Sept.
12 regulatory filing. The world’s largest hotel chain, which
filed for an IPO last week, was purchased by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
in 2007 for $26 billion, including debt.  Series 21 of the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index will begin trading Sept. 20, according to a Markit Group
Ltd.  statement  dated Sept. 11. Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
Weatherford International Ltd.,  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  and Genworth
Holdings Inc. will be added to the index and SLM Corp., H.J.
Heinz Co., Dell Inc. and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  will be
removed.  Index Roll  New versions of Markit’s indexes are created every six
months. Companies in the index are replaced if they no longer
hold appropriate grades, aren’t among the most actively traded
borrowers or fail to meet other criteria.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 6.8 basis points to 354.6, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.9 basis point to 133 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt fell 0.2 basis point to 599.8.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  