-- Cyprus to End Capital Controls in January, President Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-09-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/cyprus-plans-to-end-capital-controls-in-january-president-says.html
Cyprus plans to lift all
restrictions on the movement of money in January, almost a year
after becoming the first euro member to seize  bank deposits  and
impose capital controls to avert a financial collapse.  President Nicos Anastasiades said in an interview in
Nicosia yesterday that his country will be “the best” at
implementing its agreement with international creditors as it
tries to claw back to growth after forcing losses on uninsured
depositors in the Mediterranean island’s two largest banks.  “The goal right now is to create the conditions for growth
and tackle the serious problem of unemployment, to stabilize the
financial system,” Anastasiades said. “The controls are being
lifted. They will end within a timeframe of January 2014.”  The third-smallest economy in the 17-nation euro area,
Cyprus was approved for a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) payout
by euro-region finance ministers on Sept. 13. It was the second
disbursement under a 10 billion-euro rescue program following
the country’s financial meltdown mainly as a result of banking
losses on Greek  government bonds .  Anastasiades, 66, won elections in February and was charged
with following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in securing a full
sovereign bailout. He also had to win the backing of the
population for austerity measures.  Good Behavior  “What’s important too and a good sign is the behavior of
Cypriots, a responsible stance, without reactions, without
strikes, labor peace,” he said. “I believe that sooner than
expected we will again be in a position to go to markets, but
also to create encouraging prospects for the country.”  The  International Monetary Fund  also this week approved its
84.7 million-euro contribution to the payment, with Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  saying the country had made
“commendable” progress in stabilizing its finances.  “Risks to the program remain substantial, leaving no room
for implementation slippages,” Lagarde said in a statement
issued on the Washington-based fund’s website. “Continued
strong ownership, including steadfast policy implementation, is
critical for the program’s success.”  Anastasiades, who said in April that his country had been
used as a guinea pig for  Europe  to test the effect on enforcing
losses on unsecured deposits, said Lagarde’s message was proof
Cypriot “discipline” had been acknowledged.  Shrinking Economy  The Cypriot economy contracted an annual 5.9 percent in the
second quarter of the year, following a 5 percent drop in the
first quarter. Gross domestic product is set to shrink a
cumulative 13 percent in 2013 and 2014 under the weight of the
austerity measures and as the country’s financial industry
shrinks, international creditors said on July 31.  Capital controls  also sparked fears among tourists that
they would be unable to withdraw cash, contributing to a decline
of 5.3 percent in  2013 arrivals  to the end of August. German
tourism arrivals were down 36 percent in August.  While Russian investors, primarily in the two biggest
banks, suffered losses, Russian tourist arrivals marked a 25
percent increase in August. In a nod to cash concerns, Russian
banks are advertising at Larnaca airport, the country’s main
gateway, pitching credit cards that give “immediate access to
money wherever you are” in Greek and Russian.  Russian Trust  Anastasiades says it’s an indication of trust that while
some Russian capital moved out of the country, Russian
businessmen continue to base their headquarters on the island.  “ Germany , and other European Union nations, are partners
and friends, but we need to say this for the Russians as well,”
said Anastasiades. “The Cypriot economy was supported by
Russian capital, investments, financial services.”  Cyprus and  Russia  last week signed the terms of an
agreement to cut the annual interest rate of a 2.5 billion-euro
loan and extend the payment schedule. The revision will be a
direct financial benefit of 160 million euros for Cyprus,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  Alongside dismantling capital controls, Anastasiades said
his priority is to give fresh impetus to failed attempts to
unify his island, the last divided country in Europe.  One of the few local politicians to support a 2004 UN-brokered reunification plan rejected by Greek Cypriots,
Anastasiades said the economic crisis is a catalyst to a new
attempt to solve the 39-year-old division.  1974 Invasion  Turkey  invaded Cyprus in 1974 after a coup by supporters of
union with  Greece . It keeps about 30,000 troops in the north and
is the only country to recognize a Turkish Cypriot state. Greek
Cypriots rejected the UN plan in a referendum on the eve of
joining the EU, while the Turks voted in favor.  Belgium , he said, could provide a model for a future
federal state while a first step could be the handover of the
abandoned former resort town of Famagusta to its legal
residents. Rebuilding the town could send a strong signal of
cooperation between the two communities.  “It’s up to us to make the crisis an opportunity,”
Anastasiades said. “An acceptable solution will contribute
greatly to growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  