-- Daiichi Sankyo Plunges After FDA Restricts Ranbaxy Exports
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-09-17T07:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/daiichi-sankyo-plunges-after-u-s-fda-restricts-ranbaxy-exports.html
Daiichi Sankyo Co. fell the most in
more than 2 1/2 years in Tokyo trading after U.S. regulators
restricted imports from a production plant of its Indian unit
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)   Daiichi Sankyo declined 6.8 percent, the most since March
2011, to 1,772 yen at the close in Tokyo trading. It was the
 second-biggest drop  among the 225 companies in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average, which fell 0.7 percent. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  issued an  import alert  dated Sept. 13 on a
Ranbaxy facility in Mohali, Punjab state, causing shares of the
Indian company to plunge 30 percent yesterday.  The plant would have been used to make a majority of
generic drugs that Ranbaxy was filing for U.S. approval,
including Diovan, according to Cantor Fitzgerald LP, referring
to a blood-pressure pill that generated $4.4 billion in sales
for  Novartis AG (NOVN)  last year. The Mohali factory is the third
Ranbaxy facility to face U.S. limitations after regulators
blocked products from its Dewas and Paonta Sahib plants in 2008.  “It is clear that Daiichi suffers from the continuing
risks associated with the generic manufacturer,” Emilia Falcetti, an equities analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The company will likely suffer a
big reputational hit and concerns over management credibility
will increase.”  Falcetti cut the rating on Daiichi Sankyo, which owns 64
percent of Ranbaxy, to sell from hold and reduced the stock
price estimate by 5.9 percent to 1,600 yen. The brokerage
trimmed its estimate for Ranbaxy’s earnings per share over the
next three years by as much as 6 percent.  At least four brokerages, including HSBC Holdings Plc, cut
their ratings on Ranbaxy after the import alert.  In September 2008, three months after Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo agreed to buy a controlling stake in Ranbaxy, the FDA
barred imports of more than 30 generic drugs made at the Indian
drugmaker’s Paonta Sahib and Dewas plants. FDA inspections of
the two facilities found incomplete record-keeping and testing
failures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  