-- Daley Exits Illinois Governor Race Citing Change of Heart
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-17T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/daley-exits-illinois-governor-race-citing-change-of-heart.html
William M. Daley has witnessed the
rigors of political campaigns since he was a boy, watching his
father, two brothers and even presidents run -- up close. Three
months into his first electoral bid, he decided he didn’t like
the view from the candidate’s side of the lectern.  The former chief of staff to President  Barack Obama  and
past  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive exited the Democratic
primary race for  Illinois  governor, citing the challenges of
being a first-time candidate.  While Daley, 65, said today that he could have beaten
Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  in next year’s primary and gone on
to be elected in November to lead the nation’s fifth-most-populous state, he said his decision to drop out wasn’t based on
victory or defeat.  “I cannot commit to what the voters may need,” Daley said
at a private downtown  Chicago  club, four blocks from the City
Hall office where his father and brother ruled as mayor for more
than four decades.  “It’s really not about a campaign of six months or 14
months. It really is about a minimum of five to nine years to
begin to straighten out this state,” said Daley, who was both
reflective and testy during a 20-minute news briefing.  ‘Better Tailor’  Quinn’s failure to broker a solution for the state’s almost
$100 billion in unfunded  pension  liabilities was the top reason
Daley cited for challenging him. Daley’s decision leaves Quinn,
for now, with a clear shot at the nomination in the March
primary.  Quinn, 64, highlighted Daley’s multimillion-dollar net
worth and contrasted himself as someone who isn’t a “champion
of millionaires.”  “I fight hard for folks who don’t have lobbyists, who
don’t have political-action committees, who aren’t in high
places,” Quinn told reporters July 16. “I’m quite a bit
different from Bill Daley. He has a better  tailor  than I do.”  A bitter primary battle threatened to weaken the Democratic
nominee ahead of the general election. Democrats now control the
governor’s office and the legislature.  The Quinn campaign responded to Daley’s decision, saying
“a divisive primary would have only helped Republicans who want
to take this state backwards and undo the important progress we
have made.”  Quinn avoided another challenge when Attorney General Lisa Madigan decided not to enter the primary. Daley declined to
speculate on other potential candidates and repeated his claim
that Quinn wouldn’t win in 2014.  Daunting Prospect  While Daley’s resume includes stints as a lawyer, banker,
political operative, U.S. commerce secretary, presidential
campaign chairman, company president and top White House aide,
he’d never been a candidate. He said he didn’t like Quinn’s
attacking his “Democratic values,”  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  endorsed Daley on July 2,
citing his support for tougher gun laws. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The Daley legacy spurs nostalgia, fear and respect in
Chicago. It’s sometimes loathed elsewhere in Illinois, where the
city’s dominance can grate.  Long Service  Daley’s brother, Richard, left the mayor’s office in 2011
after more than two decades. Another brother, John, is a Cook
County commissioner. Their father,  Richard J. Daley , was the
city’s mayor from 1955 to 1976.  In 2000,  William Daley  managed Vice President  Al Gore ’s
presidential campaign, announcing in the wee hours after
Election Day that declarations of  George W. Bush ’s Florida
victory were premature, that a recount was required and that
“our campaign continues.” Daley also was a chairman for
Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign.  When asked whether his claims that Quinn cannot win
undermine his self-professed status as a loyal Democrat, Daley
said, “One of my many failings in life is that I’m awfully
honest.”  --. Editors: Stephen Merelman, Mark Schoifet  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  