-- Danone, Novartis Units Probe Claims Staff Paid China’s Doctors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-17T11:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/danone-novartis-units-probe-claims-staff-paid-china-s-doctors.html
Alcon, the eye-care division of
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , and  Danone (BN) ’s baby formula unit Dumex are probing
reports that their  China  employees paid doctors to boost sales,
amid a government crackdown on corruption in health care.  Alcon’s China unit diverted funds meant for post-marketing
clinical studies on its lens implants to bribe doctors at more
than 200 hospitals, the 21st Century Business Herald reported
today, citing a whistle-blower nicknamed “Zorro.” Dumex said
yesterday it would immediately start an investigation after a
China Central Television report that the business made payments
to doctors and nurses in Tianjin to help sell its products.  Concerns that illegal payments to health-care workers are
stoking medical costs in China prompted the government to
intensify a crackdown on kickbacks two months ago. Authorities
said July 15 they’re probing GlaxoSmithKline Plc, which they
have accused of using money and sexual favors to bribe doctors
and health officials to boost the sale of its drugs.  “Corrupt practices among doctors, hospitals and drug
companies in China have unnecessarily increased the burden on
people trying to get medical services, so this is a very basic
livelihood issue,” said  Joseph Cheng , a political science
professor at the  City University  of  Hong Kong . Hitting out at
the medical sector “can also help make the new leadership more
popular,” he said in a telephone interview.  Inappropriate Activities  Alcon was meant to do research on six products in China,
including  Restor  and Toric, implants that treat astigmatism, and
spent more than 1.4 million yuan ($229,000) on the studies last
year, the Business Herald cited “Zorro” as saying. One doctor
received 45,000 yuan for recruiting 150 patients, according to
the report, citing material from the whistle-blower.  “Alcon does not tolerate activities that are not in
compliance with the laws and regulations in the markets where we
operate,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
“When any inappropriate activities are identified, we take
swift remedial action.”  Dumex made payments ranging from several hundred  yuan  to
about 10,000 yuan in various forms of “sponsorship fees” to
hospital staff for product sales, according to the report by
state-owned CCTV, which cited interviews and documents provided
by an unnamed former sales manager from the Danone unit.  The baby formula maker said yesterday it was “extremely
shocked by the CCTV report” and would start an immediate
investigation, according to a Dumex statement forwarded by
Danone spokeswoman  Charlotte  Pasternak.  China Difficulties  Both the parent companies are also facing other
difficulties in China. On Aug. 13, a woman identified by the
pseudonym Li Li claimed in a report in the Business Herald that
she was asked by Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis to give
doctors kickbacks in return for sales of a cancer drug.  Novartis is investigating the allegations by the former
employee, who had made a compensation claim against the company,
 Eric Althoff , a company spokesman, said at the time.  Separately, Danone’s Dumex was fined 172 million yuan in
August by the nation’s top economic planning body for fixing
prices of milk powder. The French maker of Activia Yogurt and
Evian water also issued a precautionary recall of its milk
formula products last month after Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. warned of contamination in a whey protein ingredient.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  