-- De Blasio Faces Attacks From Lhota on NYC ‘Two Cities’ Theme
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-09-17T14:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/de-blasio-facing-attacks-from-lhota-on-nyc-two-cities-theme.html
New York mayoral candidate Bill de Blasio’s campaign theme of wealth inequality came under attack
from Republican Joseph Lhota hours after he won the Democratic
nomination and avoided a primary runoff with  William Thompson .  Thompson, 60, dropped out of the race yesterday, saying he
wouldn’t wait to see whether the official vote count gave de
Blasio the 40 percent needed to win the Sept. 10 primary
outright. City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, who finished
third, said today she also intends to endorse de Blasio.  Both she and Thompson cited the need for party unity as
Democrats, who hold a 6-to-1 registration edge, say they have a
good chance to control  City Hall  for the first time in 20 years.
For de Blasio, 52, that may mean modifying his populist theme in
the most populous U.S. city, said political analysts including
George Arzt, a Democratic consultant not involved in the race.  “The problem with a ‘Tale of Two Cities’ is it makes you
vulnerable to charges of economic warfare and polarization,”
Arzt said. “De Blasio has to talk about a united city where no
one gets left behind.”  In the primary, de Blasio received the most votes among
whites, men, women and Hispanic voters in a seven-candidate
field. He tied Thompson, the only black candidate, among black
voters, and won about 260,000 of 650,000 Democrats who
participated. That’s only about 9 percent of New York’s 2.97
million registered Democrats.  First Task  “De Blasio’s first task has to be getting the three-quarters of Democrats who didn’t vote in the primary to rally
around him,” said  William Cunningham , who has served as a top
political adviser to former New York Governor Hugh Carey and
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . “De Blasio has to be careful that when
he talks about tax increases he doesn’t scare these not-so-liberal Democrats away.”  De Blasio, elected to the watchdog post of public advocate
in 2009, has called for raising taxes on the wealthy to pay for
universal, all-day pre-kindergarten classes.  In Lhota, 58, he faces an adversary who was a top aide to
former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  and until last year, chairman of
the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs the
biggest U.S. transit system.  ‘Class Warfare’  Lhota has already attacked de Blasio, saying a Democratic
mayor will mark a return to the era of high crime, weak economic
growth and fiscal decay that plagued the city in the 1970s and
1980s -- a period most of today’s  New Yorkers  didn’t experience.  “The ‘Tale of Two Cities’ is a divisive device that he’s
using,” Lhota told reporters yesterday outside  Central Park , a
few hours after Thompson dropped out. “It’s a divide-and-conquer strategy. It’s class warfare.”  Lhota added, “I won’t stand for it, and I won’t let him
get away with it.”  After two decades of Republican rule under Giuliani and
Bloomberg, who ran twice as a Republican and in 2009 as an
independent on the Republican ballot, “the city is returning to
its normative Democratic roots,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a
Democratic consultant who worked for Thompson.  “People forget that in the decades between 1969 to 1989,
including the 12 years of the Koch administration, the city was
so predominantly Democratic we barely had contested two-party
elections,” Sheinkopf said.  Mayor Edward Koch, who led the city from the brink of
bankruptcy, died this year at 88.  Solidifying Support  One of de Blasio’s priorities will be to solidify his
support among traditional Democratic constituencies, such as
Jewish, black, Caribbean and Hispanic voters, and winning over
homeowners in boroughs outside  Manhattan , Sheinkopf said.  The “Two Cities” theme, focusing on the 46 percent who he
says are poor or struggling in a city where the top 1 percent
earn 39 percent of all income, may resonate with those groups,
Sheinkopf said.  The prospect of a Democratic victory was enhanced yesterday
today as Thompson, a former city comptroller and 2009 mayoral
candidate, bowed out under mounting pressure, and Quinn, 47,
announced her intention to back de Blasio.  Both candidates had attacked de Blasio for changing his
positions on  term limits  for local officials.  After a Sept. 4 debate, Quinn, an early front-runner who
lost her lead late in the campaign, said de Blasio had a record
of “changing positions based on where he is getting campaign
contributions from.”  Rivalry’s End  Thompson’s campaign created a campaign website called
www.BilldeBliar,” which provided examples of what Thompson
spokesman  John Collins  said were inconsistencies between de
Blasio’s statements and actions.  The end of the rivalry has brought expressions of support
for de Blasio as he takes on Lhota in the general election.  “Bill de Blasio and I want to move the city forward in the
same direction,” Thompson said at a news briefing on the steps
of City Hall, where he was joined by de Blasio and Governor
 Andrew Cuomo . “The best way to guarantee that we improve our
schools, save our hospitals, create good jobs and protect our
people and their rights is to come together.”  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, praised Thompson’s decision,
which he called difficult.  “It can be much harder to step back than step forward,”
the governor said.  Uncounted Votes  Thompson quit after more than 50 Democratic officials and
union leaders joined de Blasio on Sept. 12 at a Brooklyn rally,
declaring his victory decisive. Many had backed other candidates
or remained neutral. Thompson’s decision came after he consulted
with supporters including U.S. Representative Charles Rangel,
state Board of Regents Chancellor Merryl Tisch and former Bronx
Borough President Fernando Ferrer.  As Thompson spoke, city Board of Elections officials said
it could take days -- or even weeks -- before returns from
voting machines were recounted, along with more than 78,000
paper absentee and affidavit ballots.  “Under those circumstances, it is impossible to campaign,
let alone offer a meaningful choice,” Thompson said. “It would
be a disservice to Democrats and most of all to the people of
 New York City  who are desperate for new direction after 12 long
years” to continue the campaign, Thompson said.  De Blasio led Thompson 40.3 percent to 26.2 percent in a
seven-candidate race, according to unofficial returns from 99
percent of the city’s voting machines, as reported by the
 Associated Press . De Blasio needed more than 40 percent to avoid
a runoff. Thompson faced slim odds that de Blasio would fall
below 40 percent.  Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, was barred from running for a fourth four-year term.  To contact the reporters on this story: Henry Goldman in New
York at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  