-- De Blasio Tops Lhota 65% to 22% as NYC Mayor Race Begins
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/de-blasio-leads-lhota-65-to-22-in-nyc-mayoral-race-poll-says.html
New York  Democratic mayoral
candidate Bill de Blasio begins his general-election campaign
leading Republican Joseph Lhota 65 percent to 22 percent,
according to a poll released yesterday.  “The numbers show a wide gap, with Democrats very
united,” said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Poughkeepsie, New
York-based Marist Institute for  Public Opinion , which conducted
the survey for the NBC 4 New York television station and the
Wall Street Journal. “While many weeks remain before the Nov. 5
general election, Lhota must play catch-up in a big way.”  The two-day survey began Sept. 15, when de Blasio still
faced the prospect of a runoff with former city Comptroller
 William Thompson , the Democrats’ second-place finisher in the
Sept. 10 primary. It ended the next day, when Thompson withdrew.  De Blasio, 52, prevailed in a seven-candidate field,
raising the issue of  income inequality  in a city where 1 percent
take home 39 percent of total income and where housing and the
cost of living have become increasingly expensive. Lhota, 58, a
top City Hall aide to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , said he had
the experience to keep New York safe and well-managed.  When pollsters asked voters whether Giuliani’s endorsement
would persuade them to vote for Lhota, 51 percent said his
backing would make them less likely to support the Republican.  No Help  “The Giuliani-Lhota connection is not the answer for Lhota
in terms of making up the ground among Democratic voters that he
needs to close this wide lead,” Miringoff said.  Lhota’s campaign, in a statement about the poll, turned the
focus on de Blasio’s ideas. “Once  New Yorkers  learn more about
Bill’s radical policies, they will be looking for a practical
alternative,” the campaign said in the statement.  The Marist survey, based on 930 interviews with registered
voters, including 632 who said they were likely to vote, had a
3.2 percentage-point margin of error for registered voters.  While Democrats outnumber Republicans by more than 6-to-1
in the most populous U.S. city, New Yorkers haven’t elected a
Democrat as mayor since 1989, when David Dinkins beat Giuliani
to become the city’s first and only black mayor. Four years
later Giuliani, a former U.S. attorney for Manhattan, defeated
Dinkins in a rematch.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred from seeking a
fourth term this year. He ran twice as a Republican and once as
an independent who also appeared on the Republican line.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  