-- Debenhams Shares Advance After Online Sales Jump: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-17T16:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/debenhams-shares-advance-after-online-sales-jump-london-mover.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB)  shares rose 1.7
percent after the U.K.’s second-largest department-store chain
reported increased sales and a jump in online revenue.  Revenue at stores open at least a year climbed 1.9 percent
in the 10 weeks to the end of the fiscal year on Aug. 31, the
London-based company said in a statement today. That compared
with unchanged sales in the previous 16 weeks. Online revenue
advanced 46 percent for the year, taking Debenhams’ share of
this market to 3.7 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp is expanding Web
offerings and modernizing shops to lure shoppers. The 12 stores
that were modernized in the year are performing well and the
transformation of the flagship Oxford Street site in  London  is
on time and on budget, according to the statement.  “Robust trading over the last quarter should go some way
to reassuring investors that the Debenhams proposition continues
to appeal to customers,” Eithne O’Leary, an analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd. who has a  buy recommendation  on the stock, said
in a note to clients. “This is a business that has a clear
strategy for product, stores, online and international growth.”
O’Leary has a 150 pence price target for the shares.  The stock advanced 1.8 pence to 105 pence in London. The
volume of shares traded was more than twice the three-month
daily average.  The gross margin is set to be unchanged for the full year,
after a fall of 20 basis points in the first half, compared with
the previous year, Debenhams said. One basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Full-year pretax profit will be in line with
analysts’ estimates, it said.  Full-year sales at stores open at least a year climbed 2
percent.  “The shares continue to trade on a notable sector
discount,” Peel Hunt analyst  John Stevenson  said in a note to
clients. Until profit margins “start to build, this is likely
to persist in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  dlytle@bloomberg.net  